K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains about the service that she received from Bank of Scotland plc, trading as 
Halifax, in connection  with removing her ex-husband from their joint account.
background
Mrs G and her husband had a joint account  with Halifax.  They  separated and Mrs G wanted 
her ex-husband removed  from the joint account.  She contacted Halifax and was told that 
they both needed to attend a branch for that to happen.  Mrs G arranged  an appointment in a 
branch in February 2018 which she and her husband attended and provided the information 
requested by Halifax. But in May 2018 she discovered that her ex-husband hadnt been 
removed from the joint account. She complained to Halifax and it wrote-off the overdraft of 
about £75 on the account so that it could be closed. Mrs G then complained  to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that Halifax 
hadnt removed  Mrs Gs ex-husband from the account and he didnt think that she was made 
aware of all of the options available to her to remove her ex-husband from the account. So 
he recommended  that Halifax  should  pay her an additional £75 to recognise the errors that it 
had made.
Both Mrs G and Halifax have asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  
Mrs G says that the compensation offered to her isnt enough  for the amount of time that 
shes had to put in to trying to resolve  this matter and the physical and mental  stress  that it 
has caused her and that she should  receive £500.  She says that this couldve been resolved 
two years ago if Halifax had followed its own procedures and it couldve been resolved 
without her having to attend a meeting with her ex-husband.
Halifax says that:
Mrs G accepted the resolution to her complaint over the phone when she initially 
raised it;
the redress already  paid to her is adequate compensation and her account  wasnt  
accessed by her ex-husband during the time that it remained joint;  and
it didnt make an error in requesting both parties  to attend the branch to close the 
account as theres no evidence  that it was aware that Mrs G was unwilling or unable 
to attend the branch with her ex-husband.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs G was told that she and her ex-husband needed to attend a branch to remove  him from 
the joint account. Halifax says that that was its normal procedure as set out in its guidance 
but there was an option that could  be used if the customers couldnt go to a branch. It says 
that it wasnt aware that Mrs G was unwilling to attend the branch with her ex-husband.
Mrs G has described  the effect that having to attend  the branch in February  2018  with her 
ex-husband has caused her  and she has my sympathy for that. Although  Ive not seen any 
evidence to show that Halifax was aware  that she was unwilling to attend the branch with 
him, I cant see that it did anything to check that she was happy  to do so. And its guidance  
makes clear  that one party to a joint account  can be removed without both parties needing to 
Ref: DRN64238652attend together. I consider  that it wouldve been fair and reasonable for Halifax  to have 
checked that Mrs G was happy to attend a branch  with her ex-husband and if, as wouldve 
been the case, she said she wasnt to have offered her the alternatives. Its failure  to do that 
will have caused her some distress and inconvenience.
Mrs G and her ex-husband provided Halifax with the information that it had requested  but he 
wasnt removed from the joint account  which was the purpose of the meeting. That is a 
failing by Halifax. Mrs G became aware in May 2018 that it was still a joint account but her 
husband hadnt used the account since the February 2018 meeting so she hasnt suffered a 
financial loss as a result of Halifaxs failing. 
She complained to Halifax and it agreed  to write-off the overdraft of about £75 on the 
account so that it could  be closed.  But its failure to remove Mrs Gs ex-husband from the 
account will have caused her further  distress  and inconvenience. In addition  to the write-off 
of about £75 that Mrs G has already accepted from Halifax,  I find that it would be fair and 
reasonable for Halifax to pay her a further £75 to compensate her for that distress and 
inconvenience.
Mrs G says that she should £500 compensation   but Im not persuaded that £500 
compensation is justified in these circumstances. And other  than the payment of £75 
compensation, I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to require Halifax to take 
any action in response to Mrs Gs complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mrs Gs complaint in part. And I order Bank  
of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax, to pay a further £75 compensation to Mrs G.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019. 
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6423865