K820x#14complaint
Ms As complained that Aioi Nissay  Dowa Insurance Company of Europe  SE incorrectly  
settled a claim she made on her motor  insurance policy. 
Reference to Aioi includes its agent.
background
Ms A reported a claim to Aioi after she said her neighbour had hit her parked car with theirs. 
Ms A said Aioi told her it would be able to pursue her neighbour for the costs.
Aioi looked  into recovering the costs from the neighbours insurer but Ms As neighbour 
denied being  involved in an incident. The neighbours  insurer said there was no damage to 
the neighbours car.
Aioi told Ms A it would look to pass the claim to solicitors  to deal with but before that 
happened it decided  it was unlikely it could prove Ms As neighbour was involved if the case  
went to court. It said it had received further  information and on reviewing the damage its 
engineer didnt think the damage on the cars was consistent with what Ms A said had 
happened. As Aioi couldnt  recover any costs  it dealt with the claim as a fault claim against 
Ms As policy. 
Ms A didnt think this was fair. She was unhappy that she had a fault claim when she hadnt 
been in the car at the time. She also said Aioi hadnt fully explained  what  might happen 
when she reported  the claim. She also said it had told her it would be passing  the file to 
solicitors but then didnt.  
Aioi said Ms A could  buy back the claim which would mean that her no claims discount 
wouldnt be affected. Ms A remained unhappy  and brought her complaint to us. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend Ms As complaint be upheld. She thought Aioi had acted 
reasonably in not pursuing Ms As neighbour for the costs. And she thought its actions were 
in line with the terms and conditions of the policy. She thought  Aioi had made a fair and 
reasonable offer that Ms A could buy back the claim if she didnt want  it recorded as a fault 
claim. 
Ms A didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision. Aioi let us know  that since 
bringing her complaint to us Ms A had submitted a successful  claim to the Motor Insurers  
Bureau (MIB). As a result of this shes had her excess refunded  and her no-claims  discount 
(NCD) has been reinstated. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
Our service doesnt decide whos at fault for a claim,  as thats the role of the courts.  Instead 
we look to see that the insurer (in this case Aioi) has made a fair and reasonable decision 
thats in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
Ref: DRN65860142Like most policies we see the terms and conditions of Ms As policy  give Aioi the right to take 
over claims on Ms As behalf. This might mean  it makes a decision Ms A disagrees with but 
the policy allows it to. My role is to see that its done so fairly and reasonably.
I can see that Aioi tried to hold Ms As neighbour at fault for hitting her car. However her 
neighbour denied being involved  and their insurer provided photographs showing no 
damage to their car. Aioi also asked an engineer to consider  the damage.  The engineer 
didnt think the damage on the cars was consistent  with what  Ms A said had happened.
For those reasons Aioi didnt think it could successfully pursue  a case against  Ms As 
neighbour in court. And having considered its reasons carefully  I think  Aiois view is 
reasonable. I also dont think its in Aiois  interests  to settle  a claim that it could have 
successfully pursued  as it cant recover the money its paid out. 
The use of the term fault doesnt necessarily mean Aioi thinks  Ms A is to blame  for causing 
the damage. It just means that it cant recover the money its paid out for her claim. As Aioi 
couldnt recover the money it needed to record the incident as a fault claim.  I can see Aioi 
gave Ms A the option  of buying back the claim  by returning the money Aiois paid out. This 
would mean  that it recorded the claim as non-fault and her NCD wouldnt be affected. I think 
this was a fair and reasonable offer to sort things out. However Ms A doesnt need to do this 
as shes made a successful claim through MIB.
MIB is able to pay compensation  through its Untraced Drivers Agreements.  And just 
because Ms A was able to make a successful claim through this I dont think  it means  Aioi 
was wrong not to pursue  her neighbour in court. Thats because Aioi would have needed  to 
be able to show it was most likely her neighbour was to blame for the accident. 
Ms A doesnt think Aioi did enough  to explain what might happen  when she first reported the 
claim. Shes also unhappy Aioi said it would look to pass the claim to a solicitor but then told 
her it wasnt  going to. Ms A said the information Aioi gave her meant  she had to delay in 
selling the car. 
Ms A said Aioi didnt  give her enough  information  when  she reported the claim. I havent 
listened to that call and I dont think I need to. Thats because even if I accepted Aioi didnt 
give enough information Im not persuaded Ms A would have done anything  differently if Aioi 
told her it might not be able to recover the money.  I think its most likely Ms A would still have 
chosen to claim rather than pay for the repairs herself. And even if she hadnt she still had 
the option to sell her car after it was repaired so I cant see that theres been a financial loss.  
Aioi accepted it told Ms A it would look to pass  the claim  to a solicitor  but changed its mind 
once it received further information from her neighbours  insurer.  While I accept it must have 
been frustrating  for Ms A to think a solicitor was going to consider her claim I think  Aioi gave 
her information that was correct at the time.  But I dont think  it was then obliged to pass the 
claim to a solicitor after receiving further information  that changed its mind. And I cant  see 
that this information put Ms A in a worse  position  other than by causing  some 
disappointment. 
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Ms A was hoping for but Im satisfied Aioi made a fair and 
reasonable decision that was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.  And in any 
Ref: DRN65860143event Ms A has been able to recover her excess  and her NCD has been reinstated  after her 
claim to MIB. So I dont  think shes  lost out.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6586014