K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out alongside a secured loan in 2006.  Mr and Mrs B say NRAM Plc mis-sold  them  the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs B say that due to the way the PPI was set out on the application  form, they 
thought the PPI was a part of the mortgage.  NRAM have shown that Mr and Mrs B 
actually applied for the loan and PPI over the telephone. It has provided me with a 
telephone script that it used at the time, this includes the information  Mr and Mrs B gave 
during the call. This shows PPI was discussed and looking at this, PPI wasnt  set out as 
a compulsory product.  
NRAM also provided a copy  of the insurance schedule for PPI. This said Payment 
Protection is optional  cover.  and it also set out the monthly cost of the PPI. After 
taking everything available into account,  I think that on balance, NRAM made it clear that 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it out.
NRAM didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs B so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. But it did have  to make sure Mr and Mrs B got the information  they needed to 
decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information NRAM gave Mr and Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as 
it shouldve been. But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this 
type of cover. Mr B says he was self-employed at the time of the sale and Mrs B says 
she was only working part time  so they dont  think the policy was suitable  for them.  
Looking at the information Mr and Mrs B gave during the phone call, they were  asked 
about their employment details. They  both confirmed they worked full time and that they 
werent self-employed. I appreciate theyre  now saying something different. But I also 
note that some time has passed since the sale and memories  can fade; I think its more 
likely that what they told NRAM  at the time of the sale is correct. 
Mr B has continued to maintain he was self-employed at the time of the sale and has 
provided some evidence of this. Though I note the Inland Revenue registration  card he 
provided doesnt have a date on it, so it isnt clear  when he received this. Having looked 
at the most relevant  policy  document, I cant see it wouldve  been  any more  difficult for 
him to make  a claim even if he was self-employed. So I think  its more  likely the policy  
would have been useful for both Mr and Mrs B if something went wrong. It also looks  like 
the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better information about the policy  would have 
put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs B paid on their PPI  and whether 
NRAM treated them  unfairly.  
Ref: DRN62135912NRAM has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Bs PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NRAM  has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Bs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NRAM treated them  unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay 
Mr and Mrs B back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6213591