K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that HSBC Life (UK) Limited  (HSBC) has ceased making payments under
his employers group  income protection policy. That they showed  a lack of empathy in
communicating their decision to him and that they ended his benefits  payments without
giving him notice.
background
Mr F had the benefit of income protection insurance that his employer holds with HSBC.
Mr F has been  off work since  January 2016.  He submitted a claim to HSBC in June 2016,
which was accepted in September 2016,  and payment of his benefit  was backdated to
8 July 2016, the end of the 26 week  deferred period and when his sick pay ended.  The claim
was accepted on the basis that Mr F was unable  to perform his own occupation as he was
suffering from depression  and anxiety. This was how Mr Fs claim was assessed  for the first
24 months.
The change in the policy definition of incapacity  came into effect in July 2018. And to
continue to be eligible  for benefit Mr F had to be unable due to illness  to perform his own or
a suited occupation. This meant  that in addition to being unable  to carry out his own job,
Mr F had to be unable to carry out any role he was suited to do by way of training, education
and experience.
When HSBC acknowledged receipt of Mr Fs claim in July 2016  their letter advised him that
the criteria for assessing his eligibility  for benefit would change after 24 months.
In assessing Mr Fs claim in 2016  HSBC had access to his medical and occupational health
records and a report from a psychologist. The occupational health records show  that hed
been struggling at work, and suffered from anxiety and depression  for some time.
The psychologist prepared his report in August 2016. Although the psychologist  expressed
concerns about  the validity of some on Mr Fs test results, he didnt consider him fit for work.
Mr Fs condition continued to be monitored by HSBC  after his claim was accepted  and they
requested ongoing updates on his condition from his GP.
In September  2016 HSBC advised  Mr Fs GP that a psychiatrist had reviewed Mr Fs case
and felt he was suffering,  not only from severe mixed anxiety and a depressive illness, but
also had a longstanding problem with his mood  and interpersonal relationships which  was
thought to be consistent with Aspergers Syndrome.  They asked the GP if he would consider
referring Mr F for an assessment.
On 6 July 2017 HSBC  wrote to Mr F reminding him that the policy  definition  of incapacity
would change after 24 months. And HSBC  contacted Mr F by telephone in January 2018 to
advise him that his claim was under review. This was confirmed  by letter  on 24 January
2018.
In March 2018 Mr Fs GP provided an update on his condition to HSBC. The GP confirmed
that Mr Fs medication hadnt  changed  since May 2017. He was suffering from agoraphobic
type anxiety which prevented him leaving the house, and hed also been  diagnosed with
sleep apnoea  which had caused  insomnia  and early morning wakening,  so he was very tired
Ref: DRN62990022during the day. Hed recently been seen for an initial autism  assessment  and a referral and
any associated diagnosis  was expected  within three to six months.
In view of his Mr Fs symptoms his GP didnt think he would  be fit for work in the near future.
He suggested  that a diagnosis of autism with management  to improve insight, with coaching
and therapy might be of benefit in helping  to get Mr F back to work. But he said this wasnt
available locally on the NHS. He also stated  that Mr F believed  his condition  to be unique
and not amenable to any current therapies.
The report  prepared after Mr Fs Autism Assessment is dated 14 May 2018. Mr Fs initial
screening assessment  had indicated his presentation was likely to be explained by autism.
So an assessment was carried out by a psychologist on 14 March 2018.  The report  confirms
that based on the information obtained  during the assessment Mr F meets  the criteria for an
Autism Spectrum Disorder. The report recommends  in-depth psychological therapy to help
Mr F make sense  of his difficult childhood  experiences and to learn  to manage his stress,
anxiety and mood.
In order to assess Mr Fs entitlement  to continue to receive  benefit  HSBC arranged  for him to
be assessed by a psychiatrist in July 2018. She hadnt seen the Autism Assessment report
but says that in her opinion Mr F suffers from Aspergers syndrome. She considered  his
symptoms of depression  and anxiety, in isolation, to be mild. But said his reaction to these
and the degree  of suffering experienced is disproportionate and is related  to both his
Aspergers syndrome and aspects of his personality.  It is these latter  factors  that make  the
symptoms appear more severe  and prevent, in my opinion, any prospect of a return  to work.
Based on the psychiatrists report, Mr F GP report and records and the psychologists report
dated July 2016 (HSBC  say August 2016), HSBC decided that Mr F no longer met the policy
criteria and his benefit would no longer be paid. Mr F was initially  advised of this by phone,
and during the conversation he was told hed received his last payment.  HSBC then
confirmed their decision in writing.
Mr F raised  a complaint with HSBC about  their decision and how this was communicated to
him. HSBC  didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint as they said his claim had been  accepted  on the
basis that he was unfit for work due to anxiety and depression and, based on the psychiatric
report, it appeared that his medication was controlling his symptoms, which were now
limited. And the psychiatrist said it was Mr Fs Aspergers Syndrome which  was giving the
appearance of more  severe symptomology and preventing him returning to work.
HSBC said they were satisfied that Mr F was no longer medically unable to perform  the
material and substantial duties of his occupation. In relation to his Aspergers  they said that
theyd considered his symptoms, but it was likely they had been present from childhood and
had not been a barrier to him working in the past.  They said the main barrier to him returning
to work was his negative  perceptions of his employers and his angry effect which  they didnt
consider to be a medically valid reason for incapacity.
So HSBC  said Mr F no longer satisfied the Own Occupation definition of incapacity. And
while they understood that he might not wish to return  to his existing role, due to his poor
relationship with his employers,  they didnt feel his current  condition  would prevent him from
working for another  employer, so he also didnt meet the Suited Occupation criteria.  And
they werent prepared  to reconsider  their decision.
HSBC initially told Mr F his claim closed on 8 July 2018, 24 months after his claim was
Ref: DRN62990023accepted, but would be paid up to 31 July 2018.  But they later agreed  to pay his claim up to
November 2018.
Mr Fs employment  was terminated  on 9 February 2019.
Mr F remained unhappy with HSBCs  decision and complained to our service.
Our investigator considered the psychiatric  report which she felt confirmed Mr F remained
unable to carry out his own occupation. But as the report wasnt clear about whether  he was
able to perform a suited  occupation, she asked the psychiatrist  to provide her opinion  on
this.
Our investigator then provided her opinion on the case but didnt recommend Mr Fs
complaint be upheld. She said she could understand why Mr F was upset by the calls HSBC
made, to advise him of their decision. But having listened to the calls she didnt think the way
HSBC had spoken to him was unreasonable.
She didnt  accept that HSBC had ended paying Mr Fs benefit without notice. She said theyd
written to him in July 2017, to let him know that his claim  would be reviewed in July 2018
when the definition of incapacity  changed  from own to suited and that his benefits  would
be reviewed. And as theyd agreed to pay him some  additional benefits after initially ending
his claim,  she thought  theyd treated him fairly.
Looking at the medical evidence she was satisfied, based on the psychiatric opinion, that Mr
F would be able to carry out a suited occupation. And she didnt think  HSBC had done
anything wrong  in ending his benefit  payments.
Mr F didnt  accept our investigators opinion  as he believes he remains unfit to work. So the 
case came  to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 13 February  2020. In it I said: -
In reaching a decision on Mr Fs complaint I need  to consider the following:  -
Whether HSBC gave him reasonable notice that his benefit payments would be
ending
Whether HSBC showed  consideration in communicating this decision  to him.
Whether it was fair and reasonable for HSBC  to end Mr Fs benefit  payments.
Did HSBC give Mr F reasonable notice that his benefits payments would be ending?
HSBC wrote to Mr F on 15 September 2016 advising him that his claim had been  accepted
and his benefits would be paid and backdated  to 8 July 2018. The letter clearly states that
After 24 months, benefit will continue to be paid I you are unable to perform  your own
occupation and any other occupation  to which you are suited by reason of training,
education and experience. So at the start of his claim they set out clearly the basis on his
benefit would continue after 24 months.  And Mr F was made aware  that his medical
condition and fitness to work would be kept under  regular review.
On 6 July 2017 HSBC  wrote to Mr F reminding him that the definition of incapacity  on which
his claim was assessed would change from Own to Suited occupation on 8 July 2018. This
letter also says that they anticipate reaching  a decision at the eighteen month point  following
liability commencement. This would have been in January  2018.
HSBC wrote to Mr F on 24 January 2018 to confirm his continuing eligibility  for benefits was
Ref: DRN62990024under review. With this letter he was sent a medical authority which he completed and
returned. Mr F also attended the psychiatric  assessment  HSBC  arranged for him in relation
to his ongoing claim.
So I think HSBC had made Mr F aware that they were assessing his ongoing  eligibility for
benefits. The psychiatrists report obtained by HSBC was sent to them on 23 July 2018,
some six months after the date by which Mr F was told HSBC  would have reached a
decision about his ongoing entitlement to benefit.  And some  weeks after the criteria  for
assessing his eligibility  to benefits changed.  HSBC called Mr F and told him theyd decided
he could work so hed received his last benefit payment. I dont think  this gave him
reasonable notice that payment of his benefits  was coming to an end.
Did HSBC show consideration in communicating their decision to Mr F?
HSBC communicated  their decision to Mr F by telephone  in the late afternoon a week after
the psychiatrists report was received. Ive listened to the call. Mr F was clearly  angry  and
upset and swore repeatedly at the person who called him. He wanted to speak to a manager
and became angrier when  told this wasnt possible
But even though HSBC hadnt  seen the report confirming Mr F had been diagnosed with
Autism when they called him, they had the psychiatric report which  suggested he had
Aspergers. And, in September  2016, theyd  contacted Mr Fs GP asking him to arrange  a
referral for an Autism assessment. In these  circumstances I think more consideration should
have been given to how and when  they communicated their decision to Mr F. They shouldnt
have called him to advise  him that hed received his last benefit payment, without
considering the impact  this was likely to have on him, given  what  they knew  about his
condition.
So I dont  think HSBC  gave Mr F sufficient notice that his benefit  payments would be
stopping, or that they communicated  their decision to him in an appropriate  way. I have
noted that HSBC  later agreed to pay Mr Fs benefit  until November 2018. But I dont think
this was enough to compensate Mr F for the trouble and upset he suffered, and to put things
right I require HSBC to pay him £500.
Was it fair and reasonable for HSBC to end Mr Fs benefit payments?
Mr Fs claim was accepted on the basis that due to anxiety and depression he was unable  to
undertake his usual  role. The evidence shows that Mr F has experienced many  difficulties in
his life and struggled  at work for some years. He was experiencing problems at work  before
he was signed  off with anxiety and depression  in early 2016.
Ive reviewed the evidence HSBC considered in July 2018 when reaching  their decision that
Mr F didnt  satisfy the new policy criteria, as in their opinion he was fit to carry out a Suited
occupation with another  employer, and also fit for his Own  occupation.
The psychologist in July 2016 didnt consider that Mr F was fit to work. His report says test
results suggested Mr F was in the clinically extremely severe range for depression and
stress, and the severe range for anxiety.  And that there was evidence  of significant
emotional, somatic, interpersonal, thought and behavioural dysfunction. There  is self-critical
rumination that can be overwhelming, and he is likely to be struggling to function  at times.
Mr Fs prognosis  was considered uncertain. He was said to require extensive psychological
Ref: DRN62990025support and further investigation and there is a need for a substantive and sustainable
improvement in clinical and cognitive functioning before he would  be able to return to work.
Although the psychologist  questioned  the validity of some of Mr Fs test scores his
conclusion was based on assessment, self-report  and presentation.
Throughout Mr Fs absence from work  his GP provided certificates  confirming Mr F was unfit
to work, and his employers occupational  health department were also involved.
In March 2018 Mr Fs GP said he didnt consider Mr F would be fit for work in the near future,
partly due to ongoing anxiety.  And in response  to questions about  recommendations to get
Mr F back to work, the GP mentions that Mr F considers his condition  to be unique  and not
amenable to treatment.
HSBC didnt have  Mr Fs Autism Assessment Report dated May 2018 when they made their
decision. But they did later consider this at the request of Mr Fs employers and said this
didnt change their decision. So I also need to consider what this report  said.
The report  confirmed a diagnosis  of Autism and made recommendations including treatment
to help Mr F manage his stress, anxiety and mood.  In the conclusion the report says There
is clear evidence of restricted and repetitive interests, resistance to change,  and cognitive
and behavioural rigidity.  This is coupled with difficulties with social-emotional  reciprocity and
social communication. And He also appears  to struggle with stress,  anxiety  and low mood,
which mean that he has been  unable to work in the past few years.
So while his problems at work may be explained  by his diagnosis,  according to the report  the
reason hed been unable  to work was his stress, anxiety and low mood.
The psychiatrist hadnt seen this report but in her summary and assessment she comments
that Given his presentation, although  he says he has struggled  significantly  at work for many
years, to the extent that he was anxious  before going to work and unable  to switch off from
it, constantly believing he had done  something  wrong, it is to his credit and the credit of his
employers that he has managed to function so long within the organisational  structures.
In response to HSBCs request for a current diagnosis  and confirmation of the severity of his
condition she said In my opinion Mr F suffers from Aspergers syndrome with the added
disadvantages of emotional/psychological  problems that are a consequence of his family
and developmental experience. As a result he has suffered from anxiety  and depression for
the majority of his life and it was the culmination of an increase in these  symptoms  in
interaction with behavioural problems at work that led to the suggested sickness absence.
The psychiatrist recommended Mr F have  specialist intervention for his Aspergers and
related difficulties on a weekly  basis for at least six months. In respect of his diagnosis  she
said that Mr F is grateful  that finally the difficulties that he feels he has struggled  with for
many years have been recognised and has put a considerable amount of thought himself
into how he has got to this point in his life.
She said that Mr F didnt  feel he could  return to work  for his employer as he sees in
retrospect how he has struggled  over many years  to perform his position despite his
difficulties. He does  not wish to return to this way of life. And now he is no longer working,
he can look back and see how difficult it was for him on a day to day basis over many  years;
continuing to work  despite high levels of anxiety in the workplace as a result of his
relationship difficulties that are an inherent  part of his Aspergers syndrome.
Ref: DRN62990026When asked if Mr F had symptoms that would  prevent him from commencing a graded
return to work, the psychiatrist said In isolation any psychiatric symptoms of depression and
anxiety present are of a mild degree. However, his reaction to these and the degree  of
suffering experienced is disproportionate  and is related  to both his Aspergers syndrome and
aspects of his personality. It is these  latter  factors  that make the symptoms appear more
severe and prevent, in my opinion, any prospect of a return  to work.
Considering the medical evidence, I dont think its possible to simply say that in July 2018
Mr Fs anxiety and depression were  mild.  I have  to consider how he perceived these
conditions and based on the psychiatrists  report Im persuaded that Mr F wasnt fit to carry
out his own occupation.
The psychiatrist simply said Mr Fs symptoms prevented him returning  to work. She didnt
initially consider  whether  he was fit for a suited role with another  employer. To clarify her
opinion, she was asked  a number of questions  and replied to these in April 2019. There are
inconsistences between  the opinion given in this reply and what she said in her July 2018
report. Although  when  asked about  this the psychiatrist told us her opinion  hadnt changed.
Having said in July 2018 that Mr F required specialist  intervention,  for at least six months,
and that his symptoms  prevented any prospect of a return work, in April 2019,  having
acknowledged she hadnt seen Mr F again,  she says both his anxiety and depression,  and
his Aspergers are mild. And what prevents  him returning to work was his own conclusion
that he had a mental health that justified he should not return.
The July 2018  report set out in some detail the problems Mr F describes  as struggling with at
work. The psychiatrist acknowledged then that Mr F didnt see how he could return to work.
And she said a return to work would be difficult to implement particularly so now he is no
longer working,  as he can look back and see how difficult it was for him on a day to day
basis over many years; continuing to work despite  high levels of anxiety in the workplace as
a result of his relationship difficulties that are an inherent part of his Aspergers syndrome.
But in April 2019  she said Mr F doesnt lack capacity to return  to either  the same or a suited
role as a result of any mental disorder, and its his personal belief system that acts as an
impediment. And she said his anxiety and depression are an integral part of Aspergers
syndrome and it is my opinion that neither  of these conditions in isolation or in sum,
preclude a return to work.
Having considered all the medical evidence I think on balance it suggests that in July 2018,
when his benefit claim was reassessed, Mr F continued  to suffer  from anxiety and
depression and his perception of these  conditions, due to his Aspergers syndrome, meant
that he wasnt fit to carry out either his own or a suited occupation. So I dont think it was
fair and reasonable for HSBC to cease payment of his benefit.
And to put things  right I require HSBC to do the following: -
to pay Mr F his policy benefit from July 2018, subject to deduction of any payments
made after this date, for as long as he remains eligible  to receive  such  benefits under
the terms and conditions of the policy.
To pay interest on each monthly  benefit payment  at 8% simple from the date the
payment was due until payment.
To pay Mr F £500  compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered as a result  of
their late notification of their decision and the way in which the decision was
Ref: DRN62990027communicated to him.
So my provisional decision was that I upheld Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F has indicated that he accepts my provisional  decision. But he has asked whether the 
payment he receives,  to bring his benefits up to date, will be classed as compensation and 
so wont be subject to tax and national insurance.  Hes also asked whether HSBC  will be 
expected to continue his monthly benefit  payments  until he decides to formally  retire.
HSBC have said that the way in which their original  decision  was communicated  to 
Mr F wasnt ideal.  So they accept the award  of £500 for trouble and upset Ive said they 
should make.
But they dont  agree that Mr Fs claim should  be reinstated from July 2018.  
 
In summary  theyve said: -
They accepted Mr Fs claim based on his severe  anxiety and depression which  had 
worsened before his absence commenced.  When the claim was reviewed in March  2018 for 
suited occupation  his GP didnt comment on any such ongoing symptoms. He did say that 
Mr F had problems  with interpersonal  relationships, but HBSC say these have been  present 
all his life, and dont  prevent him working.  They believe that in his discussions with his GP, 
about possible treatment,  Mr F showed a lack of motivation to engage in any rehabilitation 
which would have allowed him to return to work. 
They believe  Dr L simply records  Mr Fs reporting of his condition, in her May 2018 report, 
rather than giving her opinion or an accurate  clinical picture of his condition. And they say his 
anxiety and depression has improved over the years,  and his residual problems  are largely 
due to his ongoing emotional/behavioural  issues and his belief that his personality  isnt 
conducive to work. Such problems, they say have been present all Mr Fs life and theres  no 
medical reason  he cant work simply because he has a medical diagnosis to explain his 
longstanding symptoms.
They believe  the fact that Mr F was able to work for so many  years before his Aspergers 
diagnosis, should  mean that now he has a diagnosis, with the additional  support that should 
now be available to him, he should be able to return to work.  But hes simply decided, 
because of his Aspergers  that he cant work, which they say isnt supported by his long work  
history. And they say his diagnosis doesnt  support a valid claim under the group policy.
They say Mr Fs symptoms which  triggered  his absence are now mild, he is back  in the 
position he was in before his absence, and should be considered fit for work. They say it was 
clear from they outset that Mr F felt he would never be able to return to work with his 
employers. But this was due to a mismatch  of values and his perception  of his employers 
rather than his condition.  They  think his diagnosis should support him in reengaging with the 
workplace, with better insight for himself and his employers with appropriate resources, 
adjustments and support available.
In respect of the psychiatrists opinion that In isolation  any psychiatric symptoms of 
depression and anxiety present are of a mild degree. However, his reaction to these and the 
degree of suffering experienced  is disproportionate and is related to both his Aspergers 
syndrome and aspects  of his personality.  It is these latter factors that make  the symptoms  
appear more severe and prevent, in my opinion, any prospect of a return  to work. They say 
Ref: DRN62990028they dont argue that Mr Fs Aspergers was at this point the main barrier to him returning to 
work. But they say this wasnt  a valid reason to remain  off work. 
They say that although they appreciate  how I reached my conclusion  that Mr F wasnt  fit to 
carry out his occupation. They believe the influence of his Aspergers will have been the 
same throughout his life and the main barrier to his return to work is his feelings about his 
employers. And they dont  accept that his perception  of his psychiatric  symptoms,  which  they 
think will have  the same throughout his life, should prevent him from working now. Nor do 
they agree  that Mr F met the own occupation definition  of disability in July 2018, when they 
made the decision 
They also say the psychiatrist was asked  questions to clarify her opinion  on whether Mr F 
was fit for a suited occupation, which she answered in April 2019 . And they say her 
response confirms their view that there is no valid medical reason why Mr F cant work, and 
what prevents him from returning is his own perception that he cannot work.
They disagree that the psychiatrists 2018 report supported Mr F being unable to work, or 
that there  are any inconsistences between her opinion in that report, and those expressed in 
her further  comments in April 2019.  Whilst they say they see how I may have reached  this 
conclusion, and accept  the opinion expressed  in 2019 isnt specifically mentioned in the 
2018 report, they think it can be interpreted  from her comments. And they think the 2018  
psychiatric report clearly indicates the main issue is Mr Fs perception  of his condition,  so its 
inaccurate to say there are inconsistences between  the 2018 report and the psychiatrists 
later comments.
Finally they believe  Ive said Mr Fs claim should  be reinstated  despite the psychiatrist  they 
instructed saying he is medically capable of working  in either his own or a suited role.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I reached my provisional decision  having  considered the medical evidence in this case  as a 
whole. My view of the medical  evidence is set out clearly  in that decision. 
While Ive considered  what  HSBC have said I remain of the view that in July 2018 the 
psychiatrist believed  that Mr F wasnt medically  fit to work. She said Mr Fs Aspergers was 
making his symptoms of anxiety and depression appear more  severe and prevent, in my 
opinion, any prospect of a return to work.  I think her opinion is quite clear. As HSBC  have 
said many  times Mr Fs Aspergers is part of who he is, and has always  been,  regardless of 
his diagnosis. So how he perceives the world, including his mental health, is impacted by his 
condition. So I dont  accept that the psychiatric report  can be interpreted  as saying anything  
other than Mr F was medically unfit to work  in July 2018. HSBC  have acknowledged that 
they appreciate  how I reached this conclusion. And I havent been persuaded by anything  
theyve said to change  that opinion.
HSBC dismiss  the autism assessment report. I explained in my provisional decision why I 
considered it and set out what the report stated.  Both this report  and the psychiatric report 
set out a similar history of his problems.  And the psychiatrist reached  her opinion that Mr F 
was unfit to work, totally independent of the autism assessment,  as she hadnt seen it.
Ref: DRN62990029When HSBC received the psychiatric  report they based their decision about  ending Mr Fs 
benefit on their understanding that the report said his anxiety and depression were mild, 
ignoring what the report said about his perception  of his symptoms.   They  dont accept that 
his perception of his symptoms impacts his ability to work as it will have been the same 
throughout his life. But this isnt what the psychiatrist said in July 2018, and thats when she 
prepared her report.
I said in my provisional decision that there  were discrepancies between  the psychiatrists  
July 2018 report  and the questions she answered in April 2019.  HSBC dont accept that 
there were, and suggest Ive reached my decision ignoring her later comments.  I set out in 
my provisional decision what I thought those discrepancies were, and acknowledged that 
when questioned, the psychiatrist stated she hadnt changed her opinion.
But I havent changed my view that the psychiatrist  has changed her opinion  without 
acknowledging or explaining her reasoning  for doing  this. HSBC have suggested that the 
opinion set out in her April 2019  letter, while not mentioned in the 2018 report can be 
interpreted from her comments, and that report says the main issue  is Mr Fs perception of 
his condition. I disagree, what the 2018  report says is that his condition  makes his 
perception of his symptoms more severe. The fact that Mr F perceives his symptoms  
differently because of his Aspergers, doesnt  make those symptoms any less real.
I have to consider  this case based  on the evidence, including  the medical evidence as a 
whole. I accept that Mr F has his own view of his condition  and his ability  to work. But for the 
reasons Ive explained Im persuaded that hes medically unfit for either his own or a suited 
occupation. And so I dont  think it was fair and reasonable  for HSBC to cease  paying  
Mr Fs benefit.
Mr F has asked me to comment on whether any backdated benefit payments he receives  will 
be regarded as compensation,  and therefore  not be subject  to tax and National Insurance. I 
dont think that these payments can be regarded as compensation. HSBC are being asked 
to pay Mr F and outstanding payments that hes due under the policy, and theyll  be subject 
to the usual deductions for tax and National  Insurance. 
my final decision
For  the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  my final decision is that I 
uphold Mr Fs complaint against HSBC Life (UK) Limited.
And to put things  right I require HSBC to do the following: -
to pay Mr F his policy benefit from July 2018, subject to deduction of any payments
made after this date, for as long as he remains eligible  to receive  such  benefits under
the terms and conditions of the policy.
To pay interest on each monthly  benefit payment  at 8% simple from the date the
payment was due until payment.
To pay Mr F £500  compensation for the trouble and upset he suffered as a result  of
their late notification of their decision and the way in which the decision was
communicated to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Ref: DRN629900210Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6299002