K820x#14complaint
Mrs T (Mr Cs widow)  complained, on behalf  of the estate  of Mr C, that Aviva  Life & Pensions  
UK Limited  wrongly restricted a critical illness claim after the late Mr C was diagnosed with 
metastatic pancreas cancer  in August 2017.
background
An investigator at this service did not feel the complaint  should  be upheld.
She noted that Mr C requested to increase his critical illness  benefit from £100,000  to
£125,000 in April 2017. Aviva explained that as the policy  is a group policy  via an employer, 
the insured members are not medically underwritten. So when an application is made or a 
benefit is increased, the policy includes  an 'associated conditions' clause.
As Mr C's diagnosis fell within two years of the increased benefit,  Aviva looked at his 
medical history to see if the clause applied to the increased amount. It accepted the claim for 
the previous sum assured of £100,000 but refused to pay the increased benefit  of £25,000 
because it said that, prior to increasing  the benefit,  he experienced symptoms linked to his 
subsequent diagnosis of cancer.
The investigator felt Aviva had acted  fairly  and reasonably in applying  the associated  
condition clause when  declining  to pay the additional benefit. This states:
Associated Conditions are defined in the policy  Terms and Conditions as: Any medical 
condition, which is either; In the reasonable opinion of Friends  Life's chief  medical officer 
directly or indirectly linked with, or is likely  to have led to the occurrence of a critical illness  or 
operation
The Terms and Conditions say: Friends Life will not be liable for any claim for member 
benefit for any member,  or child benefit for any child,  for any critical illness or operation  in 
respect of which any associated condition existed (whether diagnosed or not) at any time 
prior to the cover start date.
Given this, she was satisfied that the policy's definition of 'cover  start date' makes it clear 
that, for the increased  benefit of £25,000,  the start date is when the increase occurred
(1 April 2017). She noted that the symptoms  prior to the increase  on 1 April 2017, which  
Aviva said were linked  to the subsequent  diagnosis of cancer, were:
24 December 2016 - Mr C attended a walk-in centre with Left-sided abdominal pain
6 January 2017 - He consulted his GP about left-sided abdominal pain, bloating, 
reduced appetite  and occasional dysuria
24 January 2017 - He underwent an ultrasound  scan which was deemed abnormal 
due a fatty infiltration  on his liver.  It was also noted that the left lobe of the liver and 
pancreas were poorly visualised
11 February 2017 - He attended  a walk-in  centre  with continued abdominal pain, 
feeling bloated  and a metallic taste in his mouth
When seeing his consultant on 7 June 2017, he mentioned suffering with continued 
left-sided abdominal  pain for a six month  period
Mr C provided  Aviva  with a letter from his oncologist dated  19 September  2017  which  
said the symptoms  of left-sided abdominal pain, bloating and fatigue were highly 
generic and not particularly suggestive of metastatic pancreatic cancer. He also said 
Ref: DRN65429442the issue just prior to the cancer diagnosis in August 2017  was secondary to 
worsening pain and night sweats with increased fatigue
In his opinion,  the earlier symptoms weren't  in any way suggestive of metastatic  
pancreas cancer and didn't consider that that they could be reasonably  associated  
with the condition, especially given Mr C's generally  good health status
Following this, Aviva provided Mr C with comments  from its chief medical officer  
(CMO) who said that bloating and loss of appetite were classic symptoms  of 
pancreatic cancer and that fatigue is very common in people with cancer.  He referred  
to the Pancreatic  Cancer UK and Cancer Research UK websites to highlight  common 
symptoms
 Mr C provided  a letter from his gastroenterologist dated  18 January 2018  which  said 
that the symptoms  of bloating and abdominal discomfort which  first developed in 
January 2017  were  mild and in-keeping with the criteria  for IBS. He said these initial  
symptoms are unlikely to be related to Mr C's more recent presentation with 
metastatic pancreatic cancer,  where  he presented  symptoms of severe abdominal  
pain, fevers, fatigue and night sweats. Given the difference in his presentation 
between the initial  symptoms and metastatic  cancer he didn't think the two conditions 
are linked
He also said that the earlier symptoms were  diagnosed as IBS and no further 
investigations were  planned. But it was when  Mr C presented  a new set of symptoms 
that further tests  were  undertaken
The investigator said shed taken on board the comments from the two consultants and it 
was clear that neither Mr C nor his treating doctors  knew at the time the symptoms  would  
lead to the diagnosis of cancer. But I've also considered what the CMO has said regarding 
the symptoms being  common of pancreatic  cancer and I've looked at the websites he's 
referred to.
Having done so, she noted  that that the symptoms of abdominal pain, bloating and reduced 
appetite are common symptoms of pancreatic  cancer. And taking into consideration the 
relatively short amount  of time between the presentation of these symptoms  and the cancer 
diagnosis I think,  on balance, it's most likely they were linked.
Therefore, she didn't  think it was unreasonable for Aviva  to apply the associated conditions 
clause in this case.
Mrs T did not agree, and said:
The reasons  for the complaint have not been  addressed despite being  clearly 
outlined. This includes  the factual errors Aviva made in its original response letter
It said: "In our opinion the symptoms  you experienced in December,  January  and 
February are linked to your subsequent  diagnosis of cancer".  This is an absurd 
position to hold, in light of the fact that Mr C had sought specialist care for those 
symptoms, and no diagnosis of pancreatic cancer  was then reached;  and the clear 
statements from both consultants, denying that such symptoms  implied  pancreatic  
cancer
Aviva's position can only be justified by applying "after the event"  knowledge given 
tests and specialists  did not detect her husband's cancer  - apparently it was only 
necessary to consult  a couple of websites  in order to reach that conclusion
The rather obvious fact that those symptoms  were potentially due to a number of 
other conditions has been overlooked
Ref: DRN65429443 Aviva  wrote "As your diagnosis falls within 2 years of you increasing your benefit, we 
must look at your medical history for the 2 years prior to the increase to establish 
whether the associated  conditions clause applies to the increased amount" 
It is clear therefore that the insurer must only consider  the events before 1 April 2017, 
the date when her husband increased his cover,  as the ones that should be 
considered an associated condition
It would  instead  appear that Aviva took into account events posterior to that date, 
which are simply  not relevant. The symptoms that led to the cancer diagnosis - night 
sweats and increased fatigue - started  months later (June/July  2017)  and should  not 
be considered  in assessing this claim
The investigator made the same factual mistake in her letter, saying "the symptoms  
of abdominal pain,  bloating  and reduced  appetite are common  symptoms of 
pancreatic cancer"
She also mentioned  how Aviva  provided her husband with comments from its chief 
medical officer (CMO) who said that "bloating and loss of appetite were classic  
symptoms of pancreatic cancer  and that fatigue  is very common in people with 
cancer"
Her husband did not complain of fatigue  at all until later in 2017,  and only once he 
mentioned his appetite. His symptoms since January 2017 were identified  as 
suggestive of a diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome. The severity of his symptoms 
was also assessed  as mild
Both Aviva and the investigator overlooked this point. The attached relevant portions 
of her husband's medical record, already of course available, needs  re-iterating
The Aviva  letter and the investigators  decision expressly mentions visits between  
December 2016 and February 2017, so she is concentrating on these to show the 
factual errors undermining Aviva's  decision
Annex  1 shows how in the 24 December 2016  walk-in visit her husband complained  
of "vague and mild pain", and was "diagnosed  with mild musculoskeletal  abdo pain", 
"probably as abdo muscle strain" - the outcome was a "routine GP appointment"
 Annex  2 shows how in the following visit to his GP, on the 6 January 2017, he was 
diagnosed with "most  likely IBS" - the record also shows  how all test results  
performed as a result  of such visit were normal. This is the only instance  of her 
husband mentioning reduced  appetite, which  was attributed  to anxiety - which  her 
husband was clearly suffering from, as Annex 4 clearly shows
 Annex  3 related to the 11 February 2017 visit, where the only symptoms mentioned 
were bloating  and abdominal pain,  and the diagnosis was dyspepsia, and the 
outcome was an advice to make a routine GP appointment
The investigator mentioned loss of appetite  and fatigue as classic symptoms  of 
pancreatic cancer - yet the medical  records show no evidence  of her husband 
complaining of fatigue at that time, and mentioning appetite only once . I will also 
refer to Annex 4, that shows how my husband  had suffered  from work-related stress  
and was taking  medication for insomnia since January 2016 - which would have  
affected his appetite- and that notwithstanding that all test results  proved normal.  
Apart from his stress,  he was in good health, as all lab results demonstrated
All these documents have been  available to Aviva at any time have been ignored, in 
order to defend a decision that can only be justified with the benefit of hindsight
She therefore wants Aviva to pay the claim in full  (£125,000) plus additional 
damages (that are quantifiable  as £20,000) for the immense  stress, pain and 
suffering caused  by their unfair and incorrect decision
Ref: DRN65429444my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with Mrs T that the sole consideration is the symptoms which  Mr C experienced, and 
were assessed by doctors,  in the two years prior to the increase in cover  in April 2017. I 
have therefore  solely considered this issue.
I also agree  with Mrs T that the symptoms  Mr C experienced before this date were not 
judged by doctors to be likely to suggest he had pancreatic cancer;  indeed  they variously  
believed these indicated  differing non life-threatening conditions including psychological 
causes. In my view, there is no serious  dispute  about this.
However, this is not the criteria by which Aviva judges such  claims. It does not ask for 
medical assessments before agreeing to cover  increases for those who are insured via 
group policies, but instead applies a retrospective  judgment if a claim is made. So Mrs T is 
right to some degree in saying Aviva has applied after  the event knowledge. But I am 
satisfied it is entitled  to do this.
In effect, the relevant terms and conditions  allows it to assess  a claim by considering: Any 
medical condition  which is In the reasonable opinion of Friends  Life's chief  medical officer 
directly or indirectly linked with, or is likely  to have led to the occurrence of a critical illness  or 
operation  in the two years prior to the level of cover having been  approved.  So while  Mr C 
was not diagnosed with pancreatic cancer  until after he increased the cover, and the medical 
experts gave no indication that he thought this might  be the cause of any of his symptoms, 
this is not the test which Aviva applied, or needed  to apply.
It applied, instead,  the test of whether the combination of symptoms Mr C experienced, and 
which were assessed  by doctors (prior to April 2017), were directly or indirectly linked with, 
or is likely to have led to the occurrence of Mr Cs pancreatic cancer. Given  Mr C was told 
he had stage four pancreatic cancer just four months after he extended his cover,  I am 
satisfied that it is more likely than not that a number of these symptoms were  directly or 
indirectly linked to this condition. Crucially, the key wording in Avivas  terms and conditions  
refer to conditions and not symptoms.  But in any event these symptoms  were said to be 
attributable to a number  of diagnosed  conditions and Aviva reasonably concluded that these  
are likely linked.   
I fully understand  why Mrs T feels so strongly  about this issue, and that she may well feel my 
decision is unfair , but I am satisfied that I have applied  the correct  test when assessing 
whether Aviva adhered to the appropriate terms and conditions. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T as the 
representative of the estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65429445
Ref: DRN6542944