K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains how HSBC UK Bank  Plc applied payments towards her credit card 
balance. It forced her to cancel her holiday.
background
Mrs B had a credit  card with HSBC. She made  a balance  transfer  to the account.  And she 
made some purchases on her card. But when Mrs B made a payment HSBC applied  it 
towards her balance transfers. And she was charged interest. When Mrs B complained 
HSBC withdrew the interest charges. But Mrs B had to chase the bank a number of times  for 
a response. Because  HSBC couldnt say when  it would sort things out Mrs B had to cancel 
her holiday  and lost her deposit.
Because the payments  were applied to her balance transfer it was paid off before  the end of 
the interest-free  period. So Mrs B wants  the 2.9% fee repaying. And shed like HSBC to 
refund her holiday deposit.  Mrs B would also like the bank to apply the loyalty points she 
wouldve got if shed  been able to use her credit card properly.
HSBC explained  itd applied the payments  in the correct order  as detailed on Mrs Bs 
account statements. Mrs B had made payments  for transactions that hadnt appeared on 
that months statement. Thats why some  of the payments had been applied against  her 
balance transfer.  HSBC said it hadnt  made any errors. But as a gesture of goodwill itd 
waived £127.29  interest that was due to be charged. And itd refunded  a further  £122.32 
interest already  charged.
Mrs B wasnt  satisfied  with HSBCs response. So she contacted our service  and our 
adjudicator looked into the matter. He could see HSBC had responded within  the normal 
eight week period. And he didnt think HSBC had done anything wrong. Mrs B had made 
payments before the statements were issued.  And HSBC had followed its procedures  
correctly.
Mrs B didnt agree. She didnt receive HSBCs letters and was given the wrong  information  
about payments  over the telephone. So shes asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mrs Bs frustration. She was using her credit  card for balance  transfers  at a 
promotional rate and also for regular activity. And she thought her payments had been 
wrongly applied.  So Ive looked  carefully to see whats  happened.
 
The terms and conditions  of Mrs Bs credit card say payments will be allocated  first against 
the amounts which have  the highest interest rate. So Id expect HSBC  to apply the payments 
against any purchases before the transferred balances at the 0% rate.
But Mrs B was also making payments for transactions  that hadnt  yet appeared on her 
statements. So once her payments had covered any transactions that month  the balance 
was used to reduce the balance transfer.  
Ref: DRN63297372I realise Mrs B thought  she was just paying  for her normal expenditure. But unfortunately 
some of the spending  hadnt appeared on that months statement. And HSBC  followed its 
procedures correctly and applied her payments against the balance transfer. 
Ive looked at the statements Mrs B received from HSBC. And it does show the order in 
which payments are processed. This was confirmed to Mrs B during a call to HSBC. I realise 
Mrs B thought she was doing the right thing making  payments towards recent purchases. 
But unfortunately she paid too quickly for transactions that hadnt appeared on that months 
statement. 
Mrs B said she didnt  receive any acknowledge of her complaint. And she had to chase for a 
response. But HSBCs  records  show an acknowledge letter  was send  within a week  of her 
complaint being  raised. The bank had eight weeks to respond formally  to Mrs Bs complaint. 
And it sent its final response within this period. So I cant say HSBC has done  anything 
wrong in how it handled  the complaint.
Mrs B used her credit card to pay for a holiday.  And she was concerned what would happen 
about her complaint. So she looked at the cancellation terms. Mrs B said she would lose 
more money if she cancelled the holiday  nearer  the actual date. She felt she couldnt wait 
any longer for HSBC  to respond  and cancelled her holiday. Although  the merchant refunded  
over £6000 she still lost her deposit of £1239. 
I realise how upsetting  this mustve been. And I know she wanted the bank  to sort things out 
quickly. But the bank  had eight weeks to respond  formally to Mrs Bs complaint. And while  I 
sympathise with the situation Mrs B found  herself in, I cant  really hold the bank responsible 
for her decision to cancel  the holiday. That wouldnt be fair. 
Mrs B is also unhappy she lost out on reward  points  when  she wasnt able to use her card as 
intended. I can understand her frustration. But I cant  ask HSBC to offer reward points for 
something that didnt  happen.
I do appreciate the impact  this has had on Mrs B. She hasnt been able to use her 
promotional balance transfer as intended.  And she felt under pressure to cancel her holiday 
because of the time it was taking to sort things out. But, based on everything  Ive seen, I 
dont think HSBC made any mistakes when  it applied  Mrs Bs payments.  And it was Mrs Bs 
decision to cancel her holiday. Ive not seen anything to suggest HSBC did anything to make 
Mrs B take that action.
HSBC did recognise  Mrs B had being trying to pay for her transactions  rather than reduce 
her balance transfer. So it refunded just under £250  of interest  as a gesture of goodwill. I 
think thats a fair response.  And I wont be asking the bank  to do anything  more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Andrew Mason
Ref: DRN63297373ombudsman
Ref: DRN6329737