K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a credit card. Mrs W says Barclays Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, mis-
sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the policy 
was mis-sold.
I completed a provisional decision on 20 May 2019,  which is attached  and forms part of this 
decision, setting  out why I didnt think the policy was mis-sold. Neither party responded with 
any evidence or comments for me to consider. So based on my previous findings, and in the 
absence of any new information, I see no reason to change my mind about this.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  think  the 
policy was mis-sold  so Barclays  Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs W.
But as stated in my provisional decision,  Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay back  to Mrs W any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the premium. I understand it 
has already done  this so I dont award any further  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DEICISON
complaint
This complaint is about  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken  out in 2002 alongside  a 
credit card. Mrs W says Barclays  Bank UK Plc, trading  as Barclaycard,  mis-sold  her the PPI.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN69881652Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, I dont  currently think the policy was mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs W says she recalls the PPI being sold to her via a postal application.  But Barclays says it was 
sold in a branch. And its provided a copy of her credit card application which  was printed with 
personal details about her personal circumstances and employment details at the time. It also 
includes a staff number written at the top. This suggests that Mrs W and a Barclays staff member  
were both present  and they discussed the application form before it was printed  and then signed by 
Mrs W. So I think this is more likely  to have been a branch sale.
Mrs W says she was not aware the PPI was an optional product and that it could be refused. She also 
says she was pressured into taking it out as it was implied that without it there would be no finance. 
Ive thought about what shes said and Ive also looked closely at the credit card application form.  This 
included a section for PPI with both a yes and no option for the cover.  The yes box was ticked, but I 
think Mrs W wouldve known that there was also the option to tick the no box to decline  the cover.  
Mrs W signed this application form  agreeing to its contents.
Ive also though about  what Mrs W has said about feeling pressured into taking out the policy. But 
pressure is a serious  allegation of mis-conduct  which  has a high burden of proof - and Mrs W hasnt 
given us much more  detail about what happened at that time that made  her feel pressured. So without 
any evidence to support  what shes said, I cant fairly and reasonably uphold the complaint on this 
point.
Mrs W says she wasnt given any advice or recommendation to take out this policy. Barclays said that 
they dont know if advice was given but theyre willing treat this as an advised  sale.  However, it is not 
necessary for me make a conclusive determination on this point. This is because I have not found that 
the policy  was unsuitable for Mrs W for the reasons  set out below. So, even if I assume advice was 
given, it does  not affect the outcome of this complaint.
As an advised sale Barclays wouldve had to check that the PPI was right for her. Mrs W says she 
was suffering from a medical condition  at the time of sale. Having reviewed the terms of the policy, 
Mrs W wouldnt have been able to claim on the policy  for this condition.  But thinking about what shes 
told us about her condition and how it is managed, I think its unlikely Mrs W would have thought  this 
would be the main  reason she might have needed to claim on the policy. Especially  since she told us 
she had never  had time off for this condition  in the past,  and shed had this condition  for many years 
at the time the PPI was sold. So I dont think Barclays was wrong to recommend that the policy was 
suitable for her.
Based on the above, and everything  Ive seen, I think the policy was suitable for Mrs W. I say this 
because she wasnt affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover.  Ive also 
though about what Mrs W said about her sick pay entitlement. But the PPI policy  wouldve paid out on 
top of these  means  and for longer. So these funds  couldve been used for other expenses  in the event 
she was suddenly unable to work  and so I think she had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  
But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W. But Barclays has 
paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:
Barclays got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so 
it should  have told Mrs W about that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN69881653To put that right, Barclays has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont currently think the PPI was mis-sold. But I do think  Mrs W is due 
a refund of the commission  and profit share she paid that was above 50% of the PPI premium.  I 
understand Barclays has already paid this, so I dont intend to tell them to do anything further.
I now invite  both parties to respond  with their comments by 3 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6988165