K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont pay his insurance claim for water  damage 
to a flat he lets to tenants.
background
In March 2018 Mr P made a claim for water damage  to his flat. His tenants had complained  
to the council about damp and mould  in the living room  and the council had served Mr P with 
a notice to carry out repairs.
Mr P said that an external  overflow  pipe from an upstairs  flat had been leaking and that this 
had caused damage to the internal walls and floor of his flat below.
AXA appointed a loss adjuster to inspect the property. The loss adjuster reported  that the 
overflow pipe was running constantly  and that the internal damage appeared to have been  
caused by water penetration over a long period of time. It said it had been told by the tenant  
that the problem had been going on for over three years and that it had been  reported 
several times to the managing agent.
In the light of what the loss adjuster said AXA decided not to pay the claim. It said the damp 
and mould must have  been getting worse for some time for it to be bad enough to be a 
concern to the council. So it didnt think it was the result of a recent event. It also said that 
emails from the managing  agent showed that the tenant had reported the damp as long ago 
as 2015 and that Mr P hadnt  provided  any evidence to show  that action had been taken to 
mitigate the problem.  It said that if Mr P could provide invoices to show that the earlier  
damage had been  repaired it would look at his claim again.
Mr P wasnt  happy with that and brought his complaint  to us. He said there had been a 
miscommunication with his tenant. He provided  a letter  from the tenant confirming that the 
tenant hadnt noticed the leak until early 2018 and that the leak mentioned to the loss 
adjuster had been fixed when it was first mentioned. Mr P also provided an invoice showing 
that work  had been done in 2016 to adjust  an overflow valve  at the upstairs flat.
Our investigator looked at Mr Ps complaint but didnt  uphold it. She thought,  on balance, 
that AXA had handled the claim fairly.
Mr P remained unhappy  and the matter  has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reached the same  overall conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
The insurance policy Mr P claims under is designed to provide cover  in the event of a 
number of one-off  fortuitous events. It doesnt  cover all things that can happen to a property. 
Its not a maintenance contract and doesnt provide cover for repairs that are required due to 
normal wear and tear or age related deterioration  of a property. 
Ref: DRN66577922The policy covers damage  caused by the escape  of water. But, like many policies, it doesnt 
cover damage that has happened gradually,  that could have been prevented.
Mr P claimed for water damage  to interior walls  and floor. He says the damage was caused 
by a leaking overflow pipe and that the leak wasnt noticed until early 2018. AXA says it 
thinks the leak occurred  much earlier than that and that no action had been taken to mitigate  
the situation, in other words to stop it getting worse.
The loss adjuster reported that the overflow  pipe was running constantly onto the external 
brickwork and that the internal damage was caused  by penetrating damp over a long period 
of time. The council, in its report of 19 March 2018,  also identified a leaking overflow  pipe as 
the cause of the problem.
Having looked  at the reports from the loss adjuster and the local council it seems likely  that 
the damage inside  Mr Ps flat was caused  by a leaking overflow pipe from an upstairs  
property.
So what  I have to decide is whether it was fair for AXA to say that the damage had 
happened over time and that, in effect,  Mr P should  have known about  it and stopped  it 
happening or at least  getting worse.
On 18 March 2018 the local council  issued Mr P with an informal  improvement notice. It said 
it had identified health and safety issues at the flat which were a risk to the occupants. One 
of the issues was damp and mould growth and the council described the deficiency giving 
rise to the hazard  as being an overflow pipe leaking outside the building.
Im inclined  to agree with AXA,  and with our investigator,  that damp and mould  sufficient to 
give rise to a health and safety  issue is likely to have occurred over a period of time and is 
unlikely to be the result of a recent,  one-off, event.  I think the photographs  provided by the 
loss adjuster support that view.
The loss adjuster said the tenant  had told him the problem had been going on for over three 
years and had been  reported to the managing  agent  several  times. File notes recorded by 
the managing  agent seem  to support that.
Theres a note dated 21 January 2015 which says the tenant reported water penetrating the 
flat and another dated 26 May 2015  which  says the tenant reported a leak by the guttering 
and water coming into the living room.
It should be noted that the policy didnt start until 17 May 2015  and doesnt  cover pre-
existing damage.  So its arguable that the damage might  not be covered by the policy  
anyway. 
Of course its possible that the 2015  leak was repaired  and that the internal water damage 
was caused by something that happened  more  recently. Mr P has sent us a copy  invoice 
showing that an adjustment  was made  to an overflow valve  at an upstairs flat in December 
2016. That might  suggest that there  was a further  problem, or new leak,  at that time and that 
it too was resolved.
I cant be sure when  the leak which caused  damage  to Mr Ps living  room  happened.  So I 
have to decide whats more likely than not to have been the case.
Ref: DRN66577923Having considered everything  very carefully  I think its more  likely that the damage occurred 
gradually over a period of time rather than as the result of a one-off and recent event. There 
seems to have been a number of problems relating to water leaks  and I think  its likely that 
water has gradually penetrated the brickwork over time causing  the damp and mould on the 
internal walls and floor.
Ive considered whether Mr P should reasonably have  been aware of the problem. It might 
not be reasonable for AXA to decline the claim if Mr P couldnt have known about the 
problem and so couldnt have prevented the damage. 
But given the history of the reported leaks and the likely length of time over which the 
damage occurred  I think Mr P should  reasonably  have known there was a problem  and that 
damage was likely to result or get worse  if it wasnt dealt with. Im also satisfied that the 
discharge from the overflow  pipe would have been  clearly visible on inspection of the 
exterior of the building. I think Mr P could  have done  more,  sooner, to mitigate the damage.
So, in the circumstances, I dont think AXA acted unfairly or unreasonably in refusing to pay 
the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6657792