K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase  agreement with 
FirstRand Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr M under a hire purchase agreement with MotoNovo Finance 
that he electronically signed in January 2019.  The car was nearly  six years  old and had been 
driven for more than 65,000 miles. There were some  issues  with the car and Mr M contacted 
the dealer about those issues. Mr M complained to MotoNovo Finance within two weeks of 
the car being  supplied to him and said that he wanted to reject  the car but it said that it 
required a diagnostic test. 
Mr M arranged for the car to be inspected  in February 2019   for which he paid £50. The test 
report identified a knocking noise  which the tester said was possibly  due to the gear box 
mount or the dual mass fly wheel - and an oil leak from the gearbox.  MotoNovo Finance then 
arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent expert. And on the basis  of the 
inspection report,  it said that it upheld his complaint  and that any necessary repairs  would be 
completed at no cost to him. Mr M wasnt satisfied with its response so complained  to this 
service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He thought  that Mr M 
was entitled to reject the car as he reported  faults with the car within 30 days. And he 
recommended that MotoNovo Finance should: end the agreement; collect  the car; refund  
Mr Ms deposit with interest; pay him £100  for the distress and inconvenience caused; refund  
any diagnostics that Mr M paid for; refund any monthly payments  made  by Mr M after the 
date of the independent inspection; and remove all information relating to the agreement 
from Mr Ms credit file.
MotoNovo Finance has asked for this complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. It has 
provided a detailed response from the dealer which says, in summary,  that:
Mr M didnt provide the dealer with evidence to show that the car wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality so he had no right to reject it;
he said that he didnt  want  to incur the cost of an inspection  and never  returned  the 
car to the dealer;
the diagnostic  test wasnt sufficient as it said that the noise could be coming  from a 
number of places;
there are inconsistencies in the independent  experts report and the mass  fly wheel 
wasnt stripped;
Mr M was able to drive the car for more than 1,600 miles before the independent  
experts inspection  took place and its unclear whether hes continued to use it; and
it doesnt believe that Mr M has sufficient grounds to reject  the car due to a worn  dual 
mass fly wheel.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MotoNovo Finance, as the supplier  of the car, was responsible  for ensuring that the car was 
of satisfactory quality. That will depend on a number of factors,  including  the age, and 
Ref: DRN69630262mileage of the car and the price  that was paid for it. The car that was supplied  to Mr M was 
nearly six years old, had been  driven  for more than 65,000  miles and had a cash price of 
£7,990. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability which means  that the components  within 
the car must  be durable and last a reasonable amount of time  but exactly  how long that 
time is will depend on a number of factors. 
Mr M complained to the dealer  about  issues with the car in January 2019 - only a few days  
after it was supplied to him. The dealer says that Mr M didnt wish to incur  the cost of having  
an independent inspection completed at that time. Mr M then complained to MotoNovo 
Finance about  those  issues  less than two weeks after the car had been  supplied  to him  
and he said that he wanted to reject  the car.
It said that it required Mr M to provide the results  of diagnostic test to show that there were 
issues with the car. Mr M arranged a diagnostic test in February 2019 - less than 30 days  
after the car had been supplied to him. The test report identified a knocking noise - which  it 
said was possibly due to the gear box mount or the dual mass fly wheel - and an oil leak 
from the gearbox. Mr M paid £50 for that test. 
MotoNovo Finance then arranged for the car to be inspected by an independent  expert. The 
inspection report concluded  that there was a: 
 whining  noise from the clutch upon  drive  take up and also a knocking noise, 
which was intermittent, consistent with dual mass flywheel wear.  We would 
recommend that the gearbox is removed  and also the clutch components removed to 
check the dual mass  flywheel and replace the flywheel and clutch components 
including the release  bearing, as required. On the balance  of probability, these 
conditions would have  been developing at finance inception.
So Mr M had complained about issues  with the car and had asked to reject it within  30 days 
of the car being supplied to him, the diagnostic  test confirmed that there  was a knocking 
noise coming from the car and that was also confirmed by the independent expert  who said 
that on a balance of probabilities the issues  that were identified  wouldve been present when 
the car was supplied  to Mr M.
On the basis of that evidence I consider it to be more likely  than not that there were issues 
with the car when  it was supplied to Mr M and that those issues  caused the car not to be of 
satisfactory quality at that time. Mr M asked  to reject the car because of the issues with it 
within 30 days of the car being supplied to him  and I consider that he was entitled to reject 
the car. I dont consider that Mr M is required to accept a repair  of the car 
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  for Mr M to reject  the car in these 
circumstances. And I consider that MotoNovo Finance should end the agreement  and collect  
the car from Mr M. Mr M has provided  evidence to show that he made card payments of 
£100 and £400 for the car and the agreement shows that he paid a cash  deposit of £500. 
Mr M also paid £50 for the diagnostic test. I consider that MotoNovo Finance should  refund 
the £500 deposit and the £50 payment to Mr M, with interest.
Mr M asked  to reject the car in January 2019.  He provided the diagnostic test result to 
MotoNovo Finance in February 2019  and it arranged for the car to be inspected by an 
independent expert  in March 2019.  Mr M had used the car to drive more  than 1,600  at that 
time. But hes provided evidence to show  that the cars mileage in September  2019 was 
66,430 miles  only 1,164 miles more than it was when the car was inspected in March  
Ref: DRN696302632019. And I consider that MotoNovo Finance shouldve accepted his rejection of the car no 
later than when the independent expert confirmed that it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality. So I 
consider that MotoNovo Finance should  refund  to Mr M the monthly payments that hes 
made under the agreement since the date of the independent inspection, with interest.  It can 
keep the payments that he made before that as payment for the use that hes had from the 
car.
These events will have  caused Mr M avoidable distress and inconvenience. I find that it 
would also be fair and reasonable for MotoNovo  Finance to pay him £100  to compensate 
him for that distress and inconvenience. It should also remove any information  about the 
agreement from Mr Ms credit file. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. And I order  FirstRand 
Bank Limited, trading as MotoNovo Finance, to:
1.End the hire purchase agreement and arrange  for the car to be collected from 
Mr M  both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr M the £500 deposit  that he paid for the car.
3.Refund to Mr M the £50 that he paid for the diagnostic test.
4.Refund to Mr M the monthly payments that hes made under the agreement  since 
the date of the independent inspection.
5.Pay interest on the amounts at 2, 3, and 4 above at an annual rate of 8% simple 
from the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
6.Remove any information about the agreement from Mr Ms credit  file.
7.Pay £100 to Mr M to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that 
hes been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires MotoNovo Finance to deduct tax from the interest  
payment referred  to at 5 above. MotoNovo Finance  must  give Mr M a certificate  showing  
how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 November 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6963026