K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Santander  UK plc mis-sold a payment protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about PPI policy taken out by Mr and Mrs M in connection with a mortgage  
they arranged  in 1990. Santander cant say for sure when the policy  was sold. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of
probabilities  that is, what I think is most  likely to have happened  in light of the available
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Santander gave  any advice or recommendation, did it make sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ms needs?
- Did Santander give Mr and Mrs M the information they needed to decide  whether to 
take out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
and Mrs M are worse off as a result. That is, would they have done something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms case  and Ive set out my reasons below.
Santander cant say for sure when the PPI was sold, but Ive seen nothing to suggest that it 
wasnt sold when they arranged their mortgage  in 1990. On balance, I think its likely that it 
was sold at that time.
Mr and Mrs M say they were put under pressure to buy the policy,  and they werent given  a 
proper choice. Ive noted everything  Mr and Mrs M have said.
Santander hasnt  provided much  documentation  from the point of sale. Thats not surprising, 
as these events  happened many years  ago, and its similar to other cases Ive seen.  Im also 
mindful that exact recollections of what happened  at the time can fade.
Without anything  else to support what Mr and Mrs M have  told me, I havent been  able to 
safely conclude that Santander didnt make  them aware that the policy was optional.  I think  
Ref: DRN61652802its unlikely that Santander wouldve added the cover to Mr and Mrs Ms account  if they 
hadnt agreed to buy it.
Santander accepts  that it probably  advised Mr and Mrs M to take out the policy and it doesnt 
look like it was unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time. I say this because:
- Mr and Mrs M were eligible for cover, given the policy  terms and conditions.  
- Mr and Mrs M say they would have received some work-related benefits if they 
couldnt work due to sickness  or accident.  But the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to their occupational  benefits  and would  do so, it seems, for longer. Having 
the policy would mean Mr and Mrs M could  use their occupational benefits to pay for 
other expenses.  So I think Mr and Mrs M would have had some use for the policy  
despite their existing arrangements.
- Mr and Mrs M werent  affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policys main 
benefits, such as those affecting  self-employed  people or people  with pre-existing 
medical conditions. As they could have benefited  from the full extent of the cover I 
think it unlikely they needed better advice or information about the policys  exclusions 
and limitations.
- I cant be sure that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated  to Mr and Mrs M 
before they agreed to buy it. But Mr and Mrs M took out the policy  knowing they 
would have  to pay something for it. It seems the policy was competitively priced and 
had a reasonable benefit. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs M would have made a 
different decision if better  information about  the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it should have  been. But as Ive already  said, Mr and Mrs M werent affected by any of the 
exclusions or limitations and the policy was competitively priced.  So I think  it unlikely Mr and 
Mrs M would  have  made a different decision if better information had been  provided  
overall, I think they would  still have taken out the policy.
Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give Mr and Mrs M some of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and 
Mrs Ms mortgage became a regulated  mortgage before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So 
Santander doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs M paid for the PPI they 
had with that mortgage.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6165280