K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr M says Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital  One) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr M took out a credit card over the internet in 2004.  
The policy would have cost him £0.79  per £100  of the outstanding  balance on his card.  It 
would have paid out on a successful claim up to 10% of the outstanding balance on his card 
if he was off work because of an accident, sickness or if he lost his job.
Mr M says he didnt  need the card as he had sickness benefits from work and good 
redundancy cover as hed worked  in his job for a long time.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mr M disagreed with this view 
and asked for his complaint to be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Mr M would  have had to tick a box to show he wanted  the policy at the time he 
applied for his credit card and the PPI over the internet. And I think he would have seen 
the PPI on his credit card statements,  so if he wanted to question  the cover  he could 
have done so at any time. I havent seen  that he did so. Overall, I think  Capital One 
made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  
although I can understand why he cant remember this.
As Mr M applied for his PPI over the internet, I dont think  he spoke to anyone . So I dont 
think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mr M. That meant it didnt have to check  if it 
was suitable for his circumstances. But it did have to make  sure Mr M got the information 
he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Ref: DRN66644062Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mr M, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what hes said about his sick pay - so 
it was unlikely hed ever have had to make a claim. He also says he wasnt  told he could get 
the policy cheaper elsewhere.  But these  points dont change my decision.
Mr Ms told us he would have received six months  full sick pay followed by six months  half 
sick pay from his employer. He also says he would have received redundancy pay as hed 
worked in his job for a long time. Ive thought about what hes told us but this policy  would 
have covered him if he lost his job or couldnt  work because of an accident or sickness  for up 
to 12 months per successful claim. So it would have paid out in addition  to and likely for 
longer than any full sick pay he got. And if he lost his job he could  have used his redundancy 
pay for any other important living expenses. And Capital  One also didnt have to inform him 
about other policies  that might have been cheaper. So I still think the PPI would have  been  
useful for him.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6664406