K821x#15the complaint
Mr E says TSB Bank plc didnt report up to date and accurate  information to credit reference  
agencies about  his TSB loan.
what happened
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. For several months after this, it 
stopped reporting information about  Mr Es TSB loan to credit reference agencies  (CRAs).  
Mr E complained about this to TSB. He said the failure to report  up to date information about 
his loan had caused him material inconvenience  and stress,  and affected  his credit rating. 
He also said hed been unable to apply for a mortgage and had been turned down for credit  
by other  lenders. 
After looking into the complaint  our adjudicator didnt think  the delay updating the loan 
information would have had any adverse impact on Mr Es credit  file  and the adjudicator 
concluded that there was no direct evidence it had caused any financial loss. So he didnt 
uphold Mr Es complaint.
As Mr E wasnt happy with this, the complaint  was referred to me. And after considering it I 
issued a provisional decision upholding it. Briefly, I concluded that:
TSBs  IT issues meant it held back on reporting  information about Mr Es loan to the 
CRAs, because it wanted to avoid the risk that the information might  not be accurate. 
Whilst that was understandable, it meant TSB didnt report up to date and accurate 
information about Mr Es loan for several months. So the loan balance on Mr Es credit 
report didnt reduce.
I wasnt persuaded that this had more than a minimal impact  on Mr Es overall credit 
picture, or caused him any direct  financial loss. But it was clear it had caused him 
frustration and concern and had taken up his time,  chasing up TSB and lodging  a dispute 
with one of the CRAs. So I provisionally  concluded that TSB should pay Mr E £300 for 
the impact this had on him. 
Mr E accepted my provisional decision. TSB hasnt replied in the time given. 
what Ive decided and why
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I didnt think TSB should pay Mr E £47.50  for call 
costs as hed asked  because it appeared that hed based that cost on his time spent rather  
than any actual cost to make the calls. I invited Mr E to send me evidence to show hed 
incurred actual call costs.  As he hasnt sent me anything else to consider, I wont  make any 
further award for that.  
Similarly, TSB had shown me that it is now reporting  up to date and accurate information  
about Mr Es loan. I invited Mr E to let me know if he had any ongoing concerns about this. 
As he hasnt  mentioned any, Ive assumed his credit file in now up to date. 
Ref: DRN68488722I previously concluded  that TSB should pay Mr E £300 to compensate  him for the 
inconvenience and frustration this issue had caused. After considering everything again,  I 
still think this is a fair amount to reflect the impact this issue had on Mr E. So thats what  Ill 
now direct  TSB to pay to put things right. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint and I direct  TSB Bank  plc to pay him £300 
for the impact the IT issues  had on him, if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Dawn Griffiths
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6848872