K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R have complained about the way Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook) has 
dealt with a claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (s.75).
background
In December 2013 Mr and Mrs R entered an agreement with a company called Genius 
Energy Limited (Genius)  for the supply and installation of a solar panel system.  The cost of 
the system was £12,698 and Mr and Mrs R paid using a fixed  term loan that Genius 
arranged with Shawbrook.  The loan was to be repaid over a term of 15 years with interest.  
Genius had cold-called Mr and Mrs R and the salesperson  gave them a presentation which 
suggested that the financial  benefits  provided by the system would cover the cost of the loan 
 effectively making it self-funding.  Those financial  benefits would  come  from the energy  bill 
savings and from Feed-in  Tariff  (FiT)  payments from selling excess  energy back to the grid. 
But it soon  became apparent to Mr and Mrs R that the income the solar panels was 
producing was not enough to meet the loan payments.  
Under s.75 a finance provider can be held responsible for misrepresentations and breaches 
of contract  to the same extent as the supplier of goods or services.  So, Mr and Mrs R made 
a claim to Shawbrook claiming that the full costs and benefits of the system had been  
misrepresented to them.
Shawbrook initially responded saying that it needed  further information to review the claim, 
so Mr and Mrs R referred a complaint to our Service.  Upon being provided with further  
information Shawbrook  upheld the claim and made  an offer of compensation.  It noted Mr 
and Mrs R had made  31 monthly  payments and then settled the loan in full and based  its 
loss calculation on that.  The offer it made  was for £2,702.81 plus an additional  £200  to 
reflect the time had taken  to respond to the claim.
The solicitor  representing  Mr and Mrs R didnt  accept  the offer.  It explained that Mr and Mrs 
R had in fact refinanced  the loan by adding the debt to their mortgage borrowing in August 
2016. As a result, the solicitor claimed the offer didnt reflect their full losses.
One of our investigators  reviewed everything  and noted that having refinanced  the debt in 
August 2016,  Mr and Mrs R have since re-mortgaged to another provider in August 2020.   
She recommended that Shawbrook recalculate  its offer to account for the refinancing.   In 
summary, the investigator said Shawbrooks aim should be to make  sure that taking account 
of the re-mortgages,  Mr and Mrs R pay no more than the benefits the system would likely 
generate over 15 years.
The investigator provided a breakdown of how Shawbrook should  carry out its calculation  
and provided it with further documentation  about the refinancing  of the debt.
Mr and Mrs Rs solicitor said that it needed  a calculation for the revised offer of settlement 
before it could confirm  acceptance.  Shawbrook didnt respond  to the investigators view.
The investigator explained to Mr and Mrs R that Shawbrook hadnt responded and so she 
couldnt provide  the revised compensation amount.  But  she confirmed she was upholding 
the complaint  as Shawbrooks original offer hadnt  taken account of the cost of refinancing 
the loan.  She explained that it was not necessary to provide Mr and Mrs R the revised 
Ref: DRN67183312settlement amount, as her view was based  upon the principle  or methodology of what  
Shawbrook should  do to calculate losses.  So that should be sufficient for Mr and Mrs R to 
decide whether  to accept the recommendation.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has now been passed to me to review  
everything afresh and decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, Ive reached much the 
same conclusion as the investigator.
For there to be a valid claim under s.75, there  must be an appropriate debtor-creditor-
supplier relationship. Im satisfied that exists here and, as Shawbrook  has accepted the 
claim, I wont  expand further.
Shawbrook has accepted that the salesman from Genius misrepresented  the benefits  of the 
solar panel  system, and so the key issue for me to decide is what  it needs to do to 
compensate Mr and Mrs R in a fair and reasonable manner.
Given that Mr and Mrs R purchased the system  on the understanding  that it would cover  the 
cost of the loan and be self-funding,  Ive considered the options available to put things right.   
Although not performing as expected, the solar panels are generating power and income,  so 
I dont think it would  be proportionate to ask Shawbrook to arrange  for the panels to be 
removed and unwind the agreement.
So, I think its necessary  for Shawbrook  to calculate  compensation  to ensure that Mr and 
Mrs R dont pay more for the system than the benefits it will likely produce  over the original  
15-year loan term.  That will mean  they dont suffer any financial  loss and continue to receive  
any benefits generated by the system after 15 years.
I understand the basis of Shawbrooks original offer, as it was based upon  Mr and Mrs Rs 
total costs having settled  the loan with Shawbrook  in August 2016.  However, the offer didnt 
take account of the fact that Mr and Mrs R still had the debt but had re-financed  it into their 
mortgage borrowing.
We now know that the loan with Shawbrook  was settled in 2016 when they refinanced  and 
added the debt to their mortgage with Halifax, and they subsequently  re-mortgaged again 
with Nationwide  in August  2020.   By refinancing,  Mr and Mrs R have essentially mitigated 
their losses  by taking advantage  of a lower interest rate.
fair compensation
Its preferable to keep  redress calculations as straightforward as possible, but the fact Mr 
and Mrs R have refinanced twice does make  things more complex.  In her assessment, our 
investigator set out how Shawbrook  could  calculate  whats needed to compensate Mr and 
Mrs R to make the system  self-funding.   It also included refunding  any overpayments with 
8% simple  interest.
Ref: DRN67183313Im satisfied that in principle the methodology set out by the investigator is fair and 
reasonable, and consider that Shawbrook should  account for the re-mortgages when 
determining the cost to Mr and Mrs R.
In summary,  once Shawbrook has recalculated the costs and benefits, it should:
Refund the extra sums Mr and Mrs R paid to service the original loan with 
Shawbrook (above the benefits  generated),  and add simple interest of 8% per annum 
from the date of each  payment until the date of settlement.
Refund the extra sums Mrs and Mrs R have paid to service the proportion  of the 
mortgage that reflects the refinance  amount from the Shawbrook  loan, and add 
simple interest of 8% simple interest per annum from the date of each payment to the 
date of settlement.
Pay to Mr and Mrs R the difference  between the remaining  outstanding  balance from 
the purchase of the solar system, and what they would  now owe if the system  had 
been self-funding.
Im aware that Shawbrook  also offered  Mr and Mrs R a payment of £200 for the delays in 
dealing with their s.75 claim.  That is separate to the self-funding complaint, but I consider it 
a fair and reasonable offer in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint against Shawbrook Bank Limited.  
To put things right, it should calculate and pay to Mr and Mrs R the fair compensation set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2021.
Ross Hammond
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6718331