K820x#14complaint
Ms V complains  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  acted unfairly in terminating  
her hire agreement and seeking repossession  of the vehicle. She wants the agreement to be 
honoured and the default recorded on her credit file to be removed.
background
Ms V tells us she took out the hire agreement  in June 2018.  She says she noticed  direct 
debit payments had not been taken  from her account so she contacted VWFS in early 
August. Ms V says that - despite her maintaining contact with it, providing  her bank details 
and asking the agreement broker, who Ill call J, to assist with arranging payments - VWFS 
cancelled her agreement  and told her it was going  to repossess the vehicle.
Ms V insists that shes tried to pay and does not think its fair that VWFS has defaulted her 
credit agreement and noted this on her credit file. She feels the way in which VWFS has 
handled her complaint is disorganised and that shes  been  given contradictory  information.
She tells us she needs the vehicle to maintain  her employment and the default would make it 
impossible to obtain another vehicle on credit. She says the circumstances have had a 
detrimental effect on her health and shes suffering severe stress.
VWFS told us it was Ms Vs responsibility  to ensure the details provided  for the direct  debit 
mandate were  correct  and that she was responsible  for ensuring  payments were made. It 
said errors on the mandate form were  the cause of the payments  not being  taken.  It said it 
had not received an amended direct  debit form and as payments hadnt  been made it 
terminated the agreement. It felt Ms V had been given plenty of opportunities to pay the 
arrears - which would  have avoided the termination of the agreement.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 1 May 2019. I said I was minded to 
uphold the complaint - but only in part. I found  that VWFS had not sufficiently reviewed the 
information it possessed  and had acted prematurely in terminating the agreement.  But I also 
found Ms V bore some responsibility as shed insisted on the direct debit being set up before 
the payment of the arrears.  
I expressed surprise that it had not been  possible to resolve  the complaint and I emphasised 
that it was still open  to the parties to reach a resolution which  differed from my provisional 
view. And that this could include making arrangements for the future hire of the vehicle by 
Ms V. But I did not think I should force either  party to maintain a business relationship 
against their wishes. I proposed that payments would be calculated for the period of hire up 
to the date of the vehicle being  collected  or handed  back. I said this should be done without 
the addition of any charges and/or interest in relation to late payments. And that once 
payment of the sum due had been  made VWFS should arrange to have any record  of default 
or late payment  markers removed from Ms Vs file.
Both parties  have replied  to my provisional  view and I thank  them for their responses.  VWFS 
says it accepts my provisional  view.  Ms V did not agree with my provisional view.  She didnt 
think there was any justification  for requiring the vehicle to be returned when she could pay 
the arrears and make all future payments. She thought the agreement  should be able to 
continue as was originally intended. And she expressed disappointment that Id not awarded 
compensation as she felt shed been  badly treated by VWFS.
Ref: DRN67962542Ive considered what the parties have said but as theres no fresh  evidence  Im not minded to 
change my provisional view - which is largely  repeated in my final decision which is set out 
below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear Ms V has experienced a great  deal of worry and stress about the circumstances 
surrounding this complaint. Im sorry to see that shes suffered some  health issues  of late 
and I hope it wont  be long before she is making  a recovery.
Having looked  at the evidence provided, my immediate  reaction was one of immense  
surprise and disappointment that this complaint situation had deteriorated to its current  state.  
Theres no obvious reason why the issue was not capable  of an early  resolution. VWFS had 
the necessary  bank  details and Ms V had the required funds in her account.
Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is I have to decide what  I think is the 
most probable explanation for whats happened.
From what  I can see the root cause of the problem is that the agreement form - which was 
probably completed by J - gave incorrect details regarding Ms Vs bank account. This led to 
VWFS being  unable to collect  the direct debit payments  when using those details. Ms V 
accepts she should  have checked the entry - but as shed given J the correct information I 
can understand why she would  not have been expecting  any issue  to arise. And its the 
responsibility of VWFS  and/or its agent  to record correctly information its been  given  by a 
customer.
When Ms V noticed that payments had not been  taken she contacted  VWFS. But a series  of 
misunderstandings then followed  - which eventually resulted in the agreement  being 
terminated.
VWFS originally  told us the reason it was unable to access funds from Ms Vs bank is that 
the account details were  wrong on the direct debit mandate. But it now accepts that it had 
the accurate details  from an earlier  agreement and - under normal  circumstances - it would 
have been able to accept  a verbal  declaration. So it seems to me it should  have been a 
relatively straightforward matter when  Ms V contacted VWFS on 17 September - to confirm  
her bank details - for the matter to have been  resolved at that point.
Instead, on 21 September VWFS simply wrote to Ms V - pointing out (what she already 
knew) that there was an error on the mandate form and asking her to pay the arrears.  In 
obvious exasperation, Ms V replied by email the same day emphasising her previous efforts 
to pay, including having completed a second  direct debit mandate  (which  VWFS  has no 
record of receiving) and asking VWFS to address  these issues.
Ref: DRN67962543Upon receipt of that reply Id have expected VWFS  to fully review  the information it had. If it 
had done so it seems  to me it would have  discovered a series of relevant  facts. It had the 
necessary bank details  from which to collect  payments;  Ms V had been pro-active in making  
contact and trying to settle the arrears; shed recently completed a previous  agreement 
without apparent difficulty and she was engaging with the current attempts  to resolve the 
matter.
But in this case, without further  communication in the interim,  VWFS  terminated  the account  
on 11 October and sought to repossess  the vehicle. I think it was premature to do so.
Terminating an agreement and defaulting  a customers  account is a serious action - which  
can have profound consequences  for the consumer in the future. Its not a step to be taken 
lightly and until other reasonable  options have been fully explored.  Its generally seen as 
being the culmination of deterioration  in the relationship between  a business and a 
customer. And that the original agreement  into which the parties entered is no longer viable. 
Therefore, I think its essential that consideration is given to the facts of an individual case  - 
rather than simply  following a fixed process.
Notwithstanding having terminated  the agreement, VWFS then sent out a further  set of direct 
debit forms on 19 October  - having  been contacted by J, on behalf  of Ms V, who was away 
on holiday. Whilst VWFS asserts sending the forms was an error - it had the effect of raising 
with Ms V the expectation  that the agreement was still able to be maintained.
And on 26 October Ms V had a series of phone calls, from abroad,  with VWFS call handlers 
- when she again offered to pay. But she was told - even if she did pay - the vehicle would 
still be repossessed  and she would be liable for the remaining payments under the 
agreement. Not surprisingly, this caused  her additional distress.
Upon her return from holiday, Ms V lodged a formal  complaint with VWFS  and this service. 
Since then there have  been attempts by the adjudicator to mediate  but VWFS indicated in 
January 2019  it was unwilling to do so. It has however, agreed to hold the repossession of 
the vehicle until at least 31 May 2019 whilst the decision on this complaint is finalised.
Im aware both parties  have told us they did not receive correspondence which  the other 
party sent. This included VWFS  sending information  to Ms V of alternative means to pay. 
And Ms V returning two sets of completed  direct  debit mandates.
This cuts both ways  and I see no benefit in trying  to analyse the apparent failures  of any 
third party business  responsible for delivering mail.  Its probable both Ms V and VWFS were 
sent the relevant correspondence but - whether it was delivered or not - it was not acted 
upon.
The unfortunate consequence was that both parties  dug their heels in and a state of impasse 
arose. Ms V wanted to have the direct debit  set up before she paid the arrears.  And VWFS - 
despite having the bank  correct details (albeit not on one of the mandate forms sent to Ms V) 
- didnt set up the direct  debit. Its not given a cogent explanation for not doing so.
Ill now deal with the points which Ms V has raised in her various replies  to my provisional  
decision.
Ref: DRN67962544Im aware she thinks Ive overlooked the fact that she relied on J. Ms V states, J offered to 
help and I relied on this service. Indeed,  I acted  according to Js recommendations. In legal 
terms: he held out as being able to assist and I relied on this representation.
As I explained in my provisional view - this service is restricted  in how we can deal with 
various types of complaint. As J is the credit  broker for this agreement  it might be possible 
for Ms V to raise  a separate  complaint  about that aspect.  But as this is a hire only agreement  
(as opposed to hire purchase) - VWFS is not responsible for any misrepresentations by J - 
even if there  were any. And its doubtful if a general  offer to help - even if not fulfilled - can 
amount to a misrepresentation - as its not a statement of fact rather an expression of 
willingness to assist.
Ms V also feels my provisional decision was designed not to vex or upset  VWFS and that 
Ive taken an easy option or middle  ground  solution to appease VWFS by suggesting the 
vehicle be returned.
I can only assure Ms V that Ive reached my decision based on what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable. And theres no need for me to appease  a business - as once Ive issued a final 
decision it becomes  a matter for the consumer  alone to determine  if that decision is binding.
And Id hope that no decision would vex or upset any party to a complaint - whether that be 
the consumer  or the business. Whether  a decision occupies the middle ground  is of course 
a matter of opinion. And I recognise that any decision is likely to be the source of 
disappointment if it does not coincide  with an individual partys wishes.
. 
I expressed the opinion in my provisional view - and I repeat it here - that I dont think  it 
would be fair for Ms V to have to pay the full cost of the agreement  whilst having the vehicle 
repossessed. I think that would be a disproportionate outcome for what I assess to be a 
relatively minor error on her part.
Id point out that the effect of my decision - if she accepts  it - means that Ms V is not liable  
for cancellation fees or interest  and/or charges  on late payments. She will pay only for the 
use of the vehicle shes actually obtained.  Ms V has suggested that VWFS had told her that 
if she took the matter  to court it would cost her up to £11,000. But dependent on the exact 
date the vehicle is collected - and in line with my decision - Id now expect her to owe rather  
less than £3,000. 
Im not making any adjustments in respect  of the amount  of the advance rental payments 
and insurance  costs other than to require any charges to be made  pro rata. The advance 
rental figure was stipulated in the agreement  - so its fair and reasonable it should be applied 
in proportion to the period of use of the vehicle. And the vehicle should be insured up to the 
date of collection. As it was for Ms V to insure  the vehicle, she can claim any refund  of 
premium that may be due under  the terms of her policy direct from her insurers.
Ms V questioned  the view Id expressed  about the relationship between  herself  and VWFS 
having broken  down.  And she feels this cant be so as it was purely a commercial matter.
I fully accept that a business cant feel emotion but thats not to say a commercial 
relationship cant  reach  the point where the parties  lack confidence in each other to the 
extent that the viability  of any ongoing  relationship must be in doubt.
Ref: DRN67962545Im also aware that Ms V feels  shes been treated badly by VWFS and shes described at 
times feeling intimidated and threatened by it. So its perhaps  surprising she wants  to 
continue with a business she describes in terms of disapprobation.
Ms V has said she feels she should receive  compensation for the way she perceives VWFS 
has acted during this complaint. So I should  explain  our approach to awards of 
compensation. 
Where we make an award which is not due to actual  loss - but is based on distress  and 
inconvenience experienced  by the consumer - its meant to offer some degree of 
recompense to a consumer. Its not designed  to punish a business.
But not every case  requires an award  of compensation  even  if a business has made  errors.  
Im not in any doubt that Ms V has experienced the stress and uncertainty  which has 
attached to this complaint. But Ive already explained I think  both parties  contributed to the 
state of impasse.  And where the parties  are in dispute - over an extended period - that fact 
alone will very often  create  upset  and uncertainty for a consumer.  
Where I do feel VWFS  should have been  more co-operative was in accepting  a recent 
attempt by Ms V to pay the arrears.  Our adjudicator made arrangements  with VWFS  
customer resolutions department for Ms V to pay the arrears in full (VWFS figures included 
interest charges  on the delayed payments). But its collection department then refused to 
accept the payment when Ms V attempted to make  it. Its somewhat inconsistent for a 
business to try to justify  actions taken in respect of non-payment and then refuse to accept 
the payments  which would have cleared the deficit.
Whilst I dont apply  the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And where - as is the case 
here - a party (VWFS) considers the other party to a contract (Ms V) is in breach of that 
agreement, it is under  a duty to seek to mitigate any loss it claims to incur. Refusing  to take 
payments is not consistent with that obligation.
But this refusal - which I assume  was caused  by a lack of communication  between  the 
relevant departments - hasnt resulted in any financial loss to Ms V. And I have taken into 
account that VWFS has on several  occasions postponed the date by which  it intended to 
repossess the vehicle.  This has allowed Ms V to continue to use the vehicle for several 
months longer  than would  ordinarily  have  been  the case if the repossession had proceeded 
as planned. VWFS was under no obligation  to make this concession - and Im aware  that it 
would have caused Ms V considerable hardship  if it had not done so. In all the 
circumstances Ive decided this is not a case where  additional compensation is required.
 
Although Im required to make a decision, I recognise that in this case my view might not be 
to the complete satisfaction of either party. If that is so then it is open to the parties - even at 
this late stage- to come to an alternative  resolution.
That could include the making of a new agreement regarding the future  hire of this vehicle.  
VWFS is in the business of hiring  vehicles  - and Ms V is a customer with the means to pay. 
Theres previously been a similar agreement  which  as far as Im aware was successfully  
concluded. So its all the more regrettable that a mutually acceptable resolution hasnt been 
reached.
Ref: DRN67962546But I emphasise that any such option would  be entirely a matter  for them.  I make  no finding 
of fact or offer any opinion on this or any other issue which Ive not set out specifically in my 
findings above.
As the original agreement  has been terminated - and several months  have passed - its not 
feasible to re-instate this. And the relationship between the parties has clearly  been strained 
to the very edge of complete breakdown. So I dont think  its for me to require either party  to 
continue to maintain  a relationship - other  than to bring about  an orderly separation  - against 
their will.
In summary,  Im upholding  this complaint  but only in part. And - in the absence of the parties 
reaching a mutually  agreeable  alternative  - Ive set out in my final decision  the terms on 
which the complaint  should be settled.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint  - but only in 
part.
I now require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to take the following action:
1.Make  arrangements for the collection or handing over of the vehicle at no cost to
Ms V.
2.Calculate the amount  owing  on the agreement from the commencement of the 
agreement to the date of the collection of the vehicle.  Notify Ms V of this amount 
within 14 days of the vehicle being collected.
3.The figure in 2. above is to be calculated using the contracted  monthly  payments. 
Pro-rata for any period  of less than one month.  Any payments which would be due 
from the advance  rental payment of £1391.84 are to be applied on a pro rata basis 
only. No charges in relation to the collection of the vehicle  (including previous 
collection activity) should be added. And no additional interest  and /or late payment 
charges should  be made.
4.Upon the making  of the above  payment  Volkswagen  Financial Services (UK) Limited
            is to make arrangements for the record of the default and/or  late payment markers to   
            be removed from Ms Vs credit  file. The agreement should  be recorded as fully 
            settled.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6796254