K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Lloyds Bank Plc lent irresponsibly when it approved overdraft 
limit increases on two accounts in September 2015. 
Background
On 10 September  2015 Mrs S applied for a loan for £3,500 with Lloyds. Mrs S completed the 
application online and told Lloyds she earned £2,000 a month and had monthly 
commitments of £1,800.  Lloyds declined the loan application as it wasnt affordable based 
on the information provided. 
Mrs S had two current accounts with Lloyds at the time (Mr S was later added as a joint 
account holder).  Both had overdrafts (one was £750 and the other  was £800) and Mrs S 
applied to increase them  in stages  until the credit limits were £3,750 and £3,500. That meant 
Lloyds approved new borrowing of £5,700. When Mrs S applied  for the overdrafts online she 
told Lloyds her monthly income was £3,800 and she had no rent or mortgage costs. 
In November 2015 Lloyds changed its overdraft charging structure which increased the 
borrowing costs. 
In November 2018 Mr and Mrs S complained to Lloyds about the decision to approve the 
overdrafts in 2015. Lloyds responded on 31 December 2018  but didnt agree it had lent 
irresponsibly. Lloyds say the loan application was declined  based on the information Mrs S 
provided and the overdraft applications  met its lending criteria.  
Mr and Mrs S referred their complaint to our service and it was passed to an adjudicator.  
The adjudicator thought  Lloyds had dealt with the complaint fairly and didnt agree it had lent 
irresponsibly. Mr and Mrs S didnt accept  so their complaint has been  passed to me to make 
a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs S have  questioned why two overdraft applications were approved despite a loan 
application being declined on the same day. But the information used as the basis  of the 
applications changed between applications. The loan application said Mrs S had a £200 
disposable income left after her income  and outgoings were taken into account. But the 
overdraft applications  said that Mrs S earned £3,800 a month and didnt  have any mortgage 
or rent costs. 
It appears that Mrs S may have made a mistake  when she applied for the loan and used 
£1,800 as a monthly commitment figure in place of income. I dont know why that outgoing 
figure isnt shown on the overdraft applications. But when compared  against her declared 
income of £2,000 a month it meant the loan repayments werent affordable. Im satisfied the 
decision to decline the loan was fair. 
Mrs S applied to increase  the overdraft on both of her accounts  in stages. The applications 
were all made on 10 September  2015 and Mrs S told Lloyds her income was £3,800. I 
appreciate Mrs S earned income was closer to £2,000 but Mr S was added to the current 
Ref: DRN61618102accounts a short time after the overdraft limits were  increased and he regularly paid in 
reasonable sums. Overall, the months preceding Mrs S overdraft applications show  credits 
in excess of the £3,800 figure  she gave.  I understand  that Mr and Mrs S were getting funds 
together to pay for a wedding.  But the overdraft application was completed online and was 
largely automated. I think Lloyds acted reasonably when it accepted the £3,800  income 
figure Mrs S provided. And based  on that information, even taking her credit  commitments 
into account, I think both overdrafts appeared affordable. 
Mr and Mrs S have  told us that the charges and interest have gone up since the overdraft 
limits were  increased. But Lloyds was allowed  to change the way it charges for overdrafts 
and I havent found anything to show it made  a mistake. 
When assessing the overdraft applications Lloyds checked Mrs S credit  and took into 
account the information she provided in the applications. Lloyds also used internal records  in 
order to decide  whether  the new borrowing was affordable. Im satisfied that Lloyds 
completed proportionate checks before deciding to proceed and that its decision to increase 
the overdraft limits  was reasonable based on what it knew. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs S but I havent  found that Lloyds lent irresponsibly so Im 
not telling  it to write off the outstanding debts or refund the interest and charges that have 
been applied  to their overdrafts. As Im satisfied Lloyds has dealt  with this complaint fairly, 
Im not telling it to do anything else. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6161810