K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to 
Mrs S. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2004.  Bank  of Scotland sold 
Mrs S the policy when she applied for the credit  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs S and her representatives  have said, but Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain why:
I think Bank of Scotland made Mrs S aware that the PPI was optional  and that she 
chose to take it. The loan agreement has a place where  there is a cross  indicating 
that PPI was wanted. I know  this was a printed cross, but so were all the other details 
of the loan printed, and I think its likely this followed a discussion.  Mrs S signed  the 
loan agreement close to where the PPI option  was indicated.  And I dont have  strong 
evidence to support  that the PPI was not offered as a choice.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs S, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The PPI could 
have helped pay the credit card bill for a period longer than Mrs Ss employer sick 
pay and other resources lasted. And it would have  paid out at the same time as any 
sick pay or redundancy pay, so leaving Mrs S more financially secure for longer. It 
would have meant Mrs S wouldnt  need  to fall back on other resources so soon 
(though it seems  at the time she didnt have savings). So, overall,  the PPI was 
potentially useful.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. And I cant see any other  
reason why the recommendation was unsuitable.
Its difficult now to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the PPI. Its possible 
the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But I dont think,  in her circumstances,  full information about costs 
and benefits would have affected whether  she took the PPI. And it doesnt  look like 
shed have been affected by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay back the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs S.
Ref: DRN62602152Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs S to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6260215