K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy taken out in 
connection with a store card account.  Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  didnt 
actually sell the PPI, but its accepted responsibility for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL as 
the seller to keep  things  simple. 
Miss P says FICL mis-sold her the PPI.
background
Miss P opened a store card account  in a shop in 1997. At the same  time, she took out a PPI 
policy.
The policy would have paid part of the outstanding monthly balance  on the store  card each 
month following  a successful claim for accident,  sickness or unemployment. It also included  
purchase protection and price protection cover.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  she said 
Miss P wouldnt have been able to claim on the main benefits of the policy,  due to the hours 
she was working when she took it out.
FICL disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
Miss Ps case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely,  
based on the information I have.
Ive decided to uphold  Miss Ps complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss Ps told us that her contracted working hours  were six hours per week when she took 
out the policy. But she says she sometimes worked up to 16 hours  per week  including 
overtime.
To be eligible for the accident, sickness and unemployment cover under  the policy Miss P 
would have needed to be working for at least 16 hours per week.  From what shes  told us, it 
appears that she may sometimes have worked 16 hours per week.  But her contracted hours 
were significantly  less than that, and her overtime couldnt be guaranteed.
I acknowledge that FICL  has pointed out that when Miss P raised her complaint with it, she 
ticked a box to indicate that she was employed when she took out the policy. FICLs 
pointed out that among the other  options,  Miss P could  have  ticked a box which  said 
working fewer than 16 hours. But she didnt  do so. It says that because she didnt  tick that 
box when she had the opportunity to do so, her evidence about her working  hours has been 
inconsistent.
Ref: DRN63294012But having  thought carefully about  it, I find what Miss P says persuasive. There were  nine 
other options below  the employed box, and I think its possible that she overlooked  the fact 
that there  was a box which  said working  fewer  than 16 hours. I think its not unlikely that 
she simply ticked the first option which applied to her. When Miss P brought her complaint to 
the Financial Ombudsman Service she again ticked the box to say she was employed. But 
on that occasion she also ticked the box to say she was working fewer than 16 hours. And 
she stated that her salary  at the time was £1,500 per year. 
When we asked for further  information about Miss Ps employment situation,  she told us she 
earned £4.50 per hour. If her annual  earnings  amounted to £1,500, that equates  to 28 hours 
per month, or just under  6.5 hours per week, which is consistent  with what  Miss P had 
already told us about her working  hours.
Taking everything into account,  I think its likely,  on balance that Miss P was working too few 
hours per week to be eligible for the accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  And I think  
its unlikely that shed have thought that the policy was good  value if this had been clearly 
drawn to her attention. So I dont think shed have  taken  the PPI out.
putting things right
FICL should put Miss P in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Miss P would have owed when she closed her store 
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Miss P owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss P made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Miss P would  have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Miss P would have owed each month without PPI  
Miss P paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL  should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Miss P paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point 
when Miss P wouldve owed FICL something  on her store card.  The interest  rate should 
be 8% a year
D.FICL should tell Miss P what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Miss P a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN63294013my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Financial Insurance  Company Limited  to 
put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6329401