K820x#14complaint
Mr B complained to us  that Toyota  Financial Services (UK) PLC (TFS) had mis-sold  
him payment protection insurance (PPI) when he bought a car on loan finance in 
May 2009.
background
Having arranged his loan finance with TFS,  Mr B later bought PPI that was designed to 
protect his loan repayment in the event  he couldnt work because  of accident, sickness or if 
he lost his job. 
The policy was a regular  monthly premium policy and it cost just £17.40 a month to cover his 
loan repayments.
Ive seen that TFS offered  to pay back to Mr B the commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, framed as offer made in full and final 
settlement of his claim. If he didnt wish to accept the offer,  TFS said he could bring  his 
complaint to us, which he has done.  
In my provisional decision dated  14 October I explained why I wasnt  intending  to 
uphold Mr Bs mis-sale complaint. To summarise the key points of my decision:
-From  the evidence and information Id seen I was satisfied that Mr B had bought the 
PPI in July 2009   that is, after arranging the car finance - having  received PPI 
application by post and then returned it. So thought it likely that Mr B had made  the 
decision to take out the PPI at that point. 
-Although I couldnt be sure that TFS had necessarily given him all the information 
he needed to, I thought  Mr B would have likely received enough information to 
understand how the policy worked,  how much it would cost and what he could claim 
for. 
-So overall, I couldnt see that Mr B had been  put at a disadvantage by taking out the 
policy and he would  most likely have found  it to be useful. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr B has pointed out that although TFS had offered 
him a commission refund,  he didnt accept it as appeared to have been made conditional on 
his accepting the refund in full and final settlement of his mis-sale complaint. He had  
therefore been prompted to bring his complaint  to us. So Mr B hasnt yet received his refund 
of commission and profit share.  
TFS had nothing further to add by way of response  to my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken whats relevant here into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ref: DRN63635162Mr B hasnt come back with any further evidence or information that would cause me to look 
again at my mis-sale finding. So I see no reason to depart from the findings I made in my 
provisional decision that the PPI was not mis-sold.  It follows that I dont  think Mr B has lost 
out as a result of taking out the PPI and so I will not be requiring TFS to take any action to 
compensate him. 
But TFS does have to pay back to Mr B the commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium.
what TFS needs to do
TFS has to pay back to Mr B the commission and profit share  it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  TFS should also pay back to Mr B any extra interest  he paid because of 
that.
TRS should pay back to Mr B the extra he paid each month because the commission and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. TFS should  also pay Mr B 8%* 
simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 1993). This figure will need 
to be updated  from that offered in TFSs  final response letter dated 23 May 2019.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
My decision  is that Mr Bs PPI wasnt  mis-sold so Toyota  Financial Services (UK) Plc doesnt 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But Toyota Financial Services (UK) Plc does have to pay back  to Mr B the commission  and 
profit share it go that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, plus interest. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 December 2020.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6363516