K820x#14complaint
Mr I is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc hasnt paid his travel insurance claim.
background
Mr I has travel insurance with AXA as part of his bank account. In December 2018 Mr I put in 
a claim with AXA as hed suffered additional  expenses whilst on holiday,  due to being denied  
entry to one of the countries him and his family were due to visit. AXA reviewed his claim but 
didnt agree to pay, as it said this wasnt an insured peril, so this situation wasnt covered by 
the policy.
Mr I disagreed and raised a complaint  about  this. While the claim and complaint were on-
going Mr I did incur  some service issues with AXA, but these  were  resolved. AXA didnt 
change its outcome on the claim,  so Mr I brought this complaint to our service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He agreed that the terms of Mr Is policy  didnt 
cover the situation  he was trying to claim for.
Mr I disagreed and said hed been mis-sold the policy as he was given misleading  
information. He said hed recently been in branch and the advisor had mentioned  all the risks 
included and not included with the policy, but they didnt mention  there  may be other risks 
which are not covered.  He asked for an ombudsman to review  his case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the terms of Mr Is travel insurance  policy. I appreciate the situation  Mr I was in 
and why he wants to claim, but Im in agreement  with our investigator that his situation isnt 
covered.
To make a claim  the insured person  has to first show theyve suffered an insured peril,  so 
something has happened to them or theyve suffered a loss which  the policy covers.  But that 
isnt the case  in this situation. The terms dont provide cover for additional  expenses  when 
youve been denied entry  to a country.  So it isnt that the business is applying  an exclusion, 
Mr I hasnt shown (and cant show) that his situation  is covered. So AXA isnt required to 
cover this claim.
Ive considered what Mr I said about the policy being  mis-sold.  But this complaint  is against 
AXA, his insurer, not the company who wouldve sold him the policy. And, in any event, 
I wouldnt expect someone to go through every unknown situation that the policy  doesnt  
cover. Practically, they can only discuss what the policy does cover and whats  excluded.
Ref: DRN62603022my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6260302