K822xComplaint
Mr F complains that the car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement (HPA) with 
Black Horse  Limited was mis-sold and that issues have arisen with the car.
Background 
Mr F entered  into a HPA with Black Horse  in February 2018  to acquire a used car. He says 
he was told that the car had a full main dealer service history  and wanted  for nothing. But 
then he discovered  that a service had been missed by over 10,000 miles and that the brakes 
had worn out. Mr F says the car developed  engine problems involving the timing chain. He 
said that the repairs were  undertaken but he was asked to contribute towards the repair.
Following the repair  he says the gearbox fault light came  on. He contacted  the repairing 
garage and further  work was carried out. He says this was completed as a gesture of 
goodwill but he is concerned that future  repairs wont be completed on this basis.  Mr F says 
this is why he had asked for a warranty at the time of the initial issues.  
Black Horse  says that Mr F acquired  a three year old car with a mileage of 48,500. It says he 
made contact in September 2018,  seven months after acquisition, as the car was failing to 
start and there were issues with the brakes.  He also said he was unhappy with the service 
history. Black  Horse  says that it was confirmed that the car was taken  for inspection and the 
starting issue was due to the car needing  a new timing chain. It says that Mr F was told he 
would need to make a contribution of around  £500  towards the repairs.  
Black Horse  upheld Mr Fs complaint in part and agreed to pay the contribution required 
towards the timing  chain  replacement. It says the brakes were a serviceable item and so it 
didnt uphold  this part of Mr Fs complaint. It also didnt  uphold  Mr Fs complaint in regard to 
the service history as it says this was provided to Mr F at the point of acquisition.  It offered 
further redress to Mr F to account  for his loss of use while the car was in for repair  and the 
trouble and upset  he had been caused. 
Our investigator thought the offer made by Black  Horse was reasonable. He didnt think  
Black Horse  was required to do anything regarding the brakes  noting  these are a wear and 
tear item. He also didnt think Black Horse  was required to do anything in regard to the 
gearbox issues as these had been resolved. He noted the issues  regarding  the cars service  
history and said that this information was available to Mr F at the point of acquisition.
Our investigator noted Mr Fs comments about wishing to take out a warranty but said this 
was not Black Horses  responsibility and that Mr F would need to arrange this himself  if 
desired.
Mr F responded to our investigators  view.  He said that the video advert for the car stated it 
had a full main dealer service history  and this wasnt true as the car was serviced  10,000 
miles late. He said that he trusted  the dealership which  was why he didnt check  this at the 
point of acquisition.  He felt the car was falsely advertised and said he has had it confirmed 
that the car not having a full main  dealer  history  would affect its value. 
Mr F acknowledged that the repair to the timing  chain hadnt cost him anything but said that 
the repairer had told him it couldnt  guarantee that this was the only damage that had been 
caused by the late service.  He said the issues meant he was without the car for around two 
and a half months and he didnt  think the compensation offered was sufficient. 
Ref: DRN61823132In regard to the gearbox issue, Mr F said this happened shortly after the car had been  in the 
garage and it was only because he contacted it so quickly  that the repair  took place as a 
gesture of goodwill. He said he has been  told that he will need a warranty  in place to cover 
any other issues and that the dealership and Black Horse havent  considered  this. He said 
he has a continuing  issue with the stop / start function which  he says the repairing garage 
has refused to look out saying the issue is due to oversized wheels being fitted. Mr F says 
the wheels were fitted by the dealership before he acquired the car. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F believes that he was mis-sold  a car as he was told it had a full main  dealer service 
history but then later discovered a service  had taken place much later than it should  have. 
The car developed issues which could be the result of the late service and Mr F is concerned  
that further issues may arise.
Mr F says that had he known that the car didnt have a full main dealer service  history he 
wouldnt have gone ahead with the acquisition. Black Horse  has said that on the video sent 
to Mr F prior to completing the acquisition  it says the car has a full service  history with a 
main dealer  and that services were  carried out in July 2016 and November 2017 when the 
mileage was 16,000 and 45,500 respectively. While I appreciate  Mr Fs comments that he is 
not an expert in this area I think if the service history was a key issue he would have 
considered the information provided to him and made sure he was happy with this before 
acquiring the car. 
I understand that the car was no longer in its warranty  period  and so the service history 
wasnt an issue in regard  to this. Mr F has said that because the car doesnt have a full 
service history from the main  dealer  its value  is less than would have otherwise been the 
case. I do not have  any further information  about  this but as Mr F was given the service 
dates and mileage  before acquisition I do not find that I can say I have enough to say the car 
was mis-sold.
Mr Fs car experienced problems which were identified as being linked to the timing  chain. 
The repairing  garage said the late service could have had an effect on the timing chain. 
Repairs were carried out and Mr F was asked to make a contribution towards  these. Given 
the possible link between  the late service and the timing chain issue, I think  it reasonable 
that Black  Horse offered to cover  the cost of Mr Fs contribution so that the repairs happened 
at no cost to him. Mr F has said these repairs have taken place at no cost to him so I 
assume this has been actioned, but if not I agree Black horse should cover  this contribution.
I also find it reasonable that Black Horse offered to refund Mr F two monthly  payments to 
cover the period he was without his car and pay him £200 compensation for the 
inconvenience caused. 
I understand why Mr F feels  the £200  isnt sufficient. However  as Black Horse is also 
refunding him for the time without his car and the repairs took place at no cost to him, I find 
this a reasonable amount  to compensation for the inconvenience of dealing with this issue.
Ref: DRN61823133Mr F then experienced a further issue shortly  after the repair  was carried  out. This was with 
the gearbox. Repairs were  carried  out at no cost to Mr F. I do not have any further details 
about the gearbox repair or about the cause of the issue however  in this case as the repairs  
were carried  out I find this resolves this part of his complaint. In the event Mr F experiences 
further issues in regard to this he would  need to raise this separately.
Mr F also raised concerns  about the brakes.  As has already been explained brakes are wear  
and tear items.  The car passed an MOT in September 2018 on which the brakes  were  noted 
as an advisory. At this time the mileage was over 56,800. Given  Mr F had been able to drive 
around 8,000 miles by this point and the brakes  were still sufficient for the car to pass the 
MOT I do not find that I can say the brakes  werent of a reasonable standard  at the point of 
acquisition. 
Mr F is concerned about future issues with the car. He also said that he was still 
experiencing issues with the stop / start function after the repairs.  However  I havent  seen  
any further evidence  to show that there is an ongoing issue  with the car and I can not see 
that this has been raised with Black Horse  for investigation. Without  further evidence that 
there is an ongoing issue that is linked to issues that were present or developing at the point 
of supply I do not find I can comment on this further.  
I also cannot require  Black Horse to give cover for issues that havent yet arisen.  In the 
event of further issues, Mr F can raise these  and if they are found to be due to faults that 
were present  or developing with the car at the point of acquisition  then we would expect 
Black Horse  to take action.
Overall, while  I can understand  why Mr F is upset about the service history  and the issues  
he has experienced I find that Black Horse offer in regard to the timing chain repairs,  refund 
of two monthly payments and compensation of £200 is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that Black Horse Limited  should, as it has offered, and to the extent this 
hasnt already happened:
cover  the cost of the contribution required to be made for the timing chain repairs;
refund  two months payments  due to the loss of use plus interest of 8% simple  a year 
from the date of payment to the date of settlement*;
pay £200 compensation for the inconvenience caused.
If Black Horse  Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr F how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr F a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6182313