K822xcomplaint
Miss P is unhappy about how Admiral Insurance Company  Limited (trading as Diamond) has 
handled her claim on her car insurance  policy, including how its decided whos at fault for 
the accident. 
background 
In early 2017, Miss P was involved in a car accident.  She made a claim on her car insurance  
policy. Miss Ps car was declared  a total loss and Admiral paid her an amount in settlement 
of her claim.
But there was a dispute about who caused  the accident. Miss P says the third party  driver 
was wholly  at fault and the third party says Miss P was wholly at fault. Ultimately, Admiral  
and the third party insurer have agreed liability should be split equally between Miss P and 
the third party.  Miss P doesnt think this is right.
Miss P is also unhappy about how Admiral:
Handled her claim generally. Miss P says Admiral didnt update  her as it shouldve. 
She says she spent many hours on the phone explaining the facts and issues  to 
different call handlers who didnt know anything about her claim.  And she says there 
was a year when she didnt hear from Admiral at all.
Told her shed get a proportionate refund of her insurance premium which she hasnt 
got.
Added automatic renewal to her policy without her agreement.  And she says she was 
effectively forced  to renew her insurance with Admiral for two years  because the 
claim was outstanding  even though she says she couldve got cheaper insurance 
elsewhere.
Admiral accepts it didnt keep Miss P as well-informed  about  her claim, including  the dispute 
about who caused the accident, as it shouldve done. It says its call handlers shouldve given 
Miss P better service over the phone. And it says Miss P shouldve been told shed get a 
proportionate refund of her premium only if she was found not to be at fault for the accident. 
For these failings, Admiral has offered to pay Miss P £200 in compensation.
But Admiral  didnt think its decision about  liability for the accident was wrong.  It also says 
Miss P was informed her policy would renew  automatically when it sent her its renewal offer.  
And it says Miss P was told she didnt have  to renew  her insurance with Admiral  even  
though she had an ongoing  claim.
So Miss P brought her complaint to us. Miss P disputes liability for the accident and wants  
her claim settled  speedily. She wants compensation for having to renew her insurance  with 
Admiral when she says she couldve got cheaper  insurance elsewhere. She wants to know  
why Admiral didnt keep her updated  on her claim, including not contacting  her for a year. 
And she wants compensation  for the stress  and anxiety  this has caused  her.
The adjudicator who looked at Miss Ps complaint upheld it in part. She thought Miss P 
should be awarded compensation of £350  in total for the poor service  shed got from 
Admiral. But our adjudicator thought Admiral had acted  fairly and reasonably  in deciding 
Ref: DRN65950022liability for the accident. And she thought Admiral had made  it clear  to Miss P her policy 
would renew automatically. 
Admiral accepted our adjudicators view but Miss P didnt and shes has asked for an 
ombudsman to decide her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Miss Ps claim in part.
From Admirals file, I can see it didnt update Miss P on important  developments about  her 
claim. And sometimes when Miss P called  Admiral for updates  there was information  
Admiral couldve given  her but didnt.  Miss P was also given incorrect information about a 
refund of her premiums. This level of service Miss P got from Admiral  was below the 
standard Id expect.
Miss P says this has caused her stress and anxiety, which  I think is understandable. So I 
think its fair and reasonable for Admiral to pay Miss P £350 in compensation both for its 
poor service and for the distress and inconvenience  its caused  her. And I know Admiral  has 
agreed to pay this sum.
But I dont uphold the other  aspects  of Miss Ps complaint.
Looking first at Admirals decision to hold Miss P and the third party equally responsible  for 
the accident, my starting point is her car insurance policy.  This says Admiral  can defend or 
settle any claim on Miss Ps behalf. And it says it can admit negligence for any claim  on her 
behalf. 
This is a standard provision youll see in all car insurance policies. But we expect insurers to 
act fairly and reasonably in reaching  its decisions about liability. And so my role here is to 
look at whether I think Admiral did act fairly  and reasonably  in reaching its decision in      
Miss Ps case. It isnt to decide  who was at fault.
So Ive looked  at how and why Admiral  reached its decision. Admiral  initially assessed     
Miss Ps claim as a non-fault one based  on her detailed  version  of events. But it then got the 
third partys  version of events, which were different. Admiral also looked  at whether there 
was any evidence to support  or challenge  either  Miss Ps or the third partys versions. But 
there were no independent witnesses to the accident and no CCTV or dashcam evidence  to 
show what happened. 
Admiral also looked  at photographic evidence of the accident site and the damage  to the 
cars. It reached the view that Miss P was in the wrong lane on the roundabout  where  the 
accident happened. It said there was case law saying its for the driver whos in the wrong  
lane to make  sure its safe and clear for them to change position  on the road. But it said that, 
because there were no lane markings on the road,  it would seek  to settle Miss Ps claim on 
the basis of equal split liability. Also, from what Ive seen, its decision is supported by the 
firm of solicitors  appointed to act for Miss P under her motor legal protection  insurance 
policy, who are dealing  with her claim for personal injury and uninsured losses.  And theres 
no other legal  opinion to contradict its position.
Ref: DRN65950023Looking at everything Ive got, I think Admirals decision was in line with Miss Ps policy  
terms and I think it took into account both all the available evidence and legal principles. For 
these reasons, I dont  think  its decision to seek  to settle Miss Ps claim on the basis  of a 
50%-50% liability split was unfair or unreasonable.
Ill now turn to Miss Ps other complaint points. She says her insurance  was renewed 
automatically without  her consent.  I can see that, when Admiral  sent Miss P her renewal 
offers, these made  it clear the insurance  would renew automatically. And Admiral says    
Miss P wouldve been sent Key Facts leaflets which also explained this. From this, I think  it 
shouldve been  clear to Miss P her insurance was set up to renew  automatically. So I dont 
uphold her complaint  on this point.
Miss P says she was forced to renew her insurance  with Admiral because  of the outstanding 
claim, when  she couldve  got cheaper  insurance elsewhere. But Admiral says it explained to 
Miss P in a phone call she didnt  have to renew  with it even though she had an open  claim. 
When a claim  is open, its usual for it to be to be recorded as a fault claim, which  means any 
new insurance premium will be calculated using  this information. We dont think thats  
unreasonable, as long as the insurer hasnt delayed  unduly in settling the claim. In Miss Ps 
case, although there were delays in Admiral  keeping in touch with her about the claim, I 
havent seen anything to make me think it delayed unreasonably  in settling it. Claims can 
take time to progress,  especially  when liability is disputed, and in this case it looks  as if the 
third party insurer didnt  agree to the split liability for the accident  for some time. This wasnt 
down to Admiral. So I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint on this point.
Miss P says she wants  Admiral  to deal with her claim speedily. I can understand her 
frustration that the claims process is taking a long time. But, as Ive already mentioned,  
some of this wasnt Admirals fault.  Initially, it was because the third party insurer  disputed  
the 50%-50% liability split Admiral  was seeking to negotiate. And under the terms of Miss Ps 
policy, Admiral  was required  to deal with the third party claim. More recently, Admiral has 
also informed us that, although  the liability split had been agreed, Miss Ps file had been 
passed to its legal team to defend an action from the third party  insurers. This is because 
Admiral has been  unable to agree its claim costs. 
I would hope from now on Admiral will keep  Miss P updated on the progress of the claim. 
But this isnt something I will direct  it to do, especially bearing in mind  it seems it might 
involve litigation with the third party insurer, which can take a very long time to resolve. 
However, if in the future Miss P thinks Admiral is unreasonably  delaying  the settlement of the 
claim against her car insurance policy, she can complain to Admiral and us again.
Ref: DRN65950024my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold Miss Ps complaint in part and direct  Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited  to pay her £350  in compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 March 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6595002