K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  Vanquis Bank  Limited  placed a block  on her credit  card account without 
notifying her, which resulted in a declined payment and caused her embarrassment. Shes 
also unhappy with Vanquis security  processes  overall. 
background
Miss B contacted Vanquis to discuss a transaction on her account.  During  the call, Vanquis  
asked for the password on her account, which she couldnt provide. The call disconnected 
without Miss B completing  the security  questions.  Miss B said Vanquis  terminated the call.
A few days  later, Miss B tried to use her card but it was declined. Although she was able to 
use another card, she said this was embarrassing.  Miss B called  Vanquis  to find out why and 
was told a block had been placed on her account  because security checks hadnt been 
completed on the previous call. She then answered the security  questions correctly  and the 
block was removed. Miss B feels Vanquis  should have contacted  her to tell her about the 
block, which would have  avoided  her embarrassment. 
Miss B is also unhappy that Vanquis  said she must have a password on her account. She 
doesnt think this is as secure as asking full data protection questions. Vanquis agreed that 
she could answer  additional security questions instead going forward, but advised  her that 
she may still be asked for a password in future  calls.  Miss B doesnt think this is acceptable. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Vanquis 
acted in line with its security processes when placing  a block on Miss Bs card following the 
disconnected call, and by sending a SMS  message to the mobile number on her account  to 
try to let her know about it. He also explained  Vanquis has a duty to protect  its customers 
and its for them  to decide how to do this, so he didnt think  Vanquis  did anything wrong. 
Miss B disagreed, so the case was referred  to me for a decision.  Miss B said the SMS 
message was sent to a number she hasnt  used for over seven years   and Vanquis should  
have asked her to update her details during that time. Miss B also believes it should have 
contacted her using  her other details to make sure she knew about the block,  and she 
questioned whether the SMS was even sent because  Vanquis first said they hadnt 
contacted her at all. Miss B feels Vanquis  failed her as a consumer by not protecting  her, 
and by not telling her about the block on her card. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Ive listened to the call between Vanquis  and Miss B that was disconnected. Im unable  to 
conclude which party ended the call. However,  after two failed attempts  at giving the correct  
password, the call handler explained Miss B had one last try and, in response, Miss B said 
dont worry about it, thats  fine just before the call terminated. The adviser was still 
speaking when the call ended. So, on balance, I think it was reasonable for Vanquis  call 
handler to assume  Miss B ended  the call, and to then follow  the procedures  Vanquis has in 
place for when this happens and security hasnt  been completed  successfully  especially as 
Ref: DRN63236832Miss B wasnt calling from one of the numbers on her account (she was on holiday at the 
time and had a different mobile number). 
Vanquis processes  are clear in these  circumstances: a block is placed on the account and it 
will send a SMS message  to the customer to let them know. This is to protect their 
customers from fraud. I appreciate Vanquis didnt initially tell Miss B it had sent her a text 
message, but based on the evidence  it has since  provided, Im satisfied that it did. I also find 
Vanquis acted reasonably  by sending the message  to the number it held on the account,  
given Miss B hadnt yet updated  it. 
Miss B argues that Vanquis should  have  asked her to update  her contact details  over the 
years. However, the terms and conditions of Miss Bs account say that it is her responsibility  
to keep Vanquis informed of any changes to her contact details. And I note it was in the 
process of checking  and updating her details  during  the call that disconnected. So I dont 
think this is a failing on Vanquis part. Miss B also feels  that Vanquis should  have contacted  
her using her other details. I appreciate this may have avoided  the declined  transaction,  but 
Vanquis acted in line with its policies and procedures  by attempting  to contact Miss B by 
SMS, and Im satisfied  it treated her fairly  by doing this. The block  was then removed as 
soon as she contacted Vanquis  and completed  the additional security  questions.  So, overall,  
Im satisfied Vanquis acted reasonably and in line with its security processes. 
I appreciate it must have  been embarrassing for Miss B when her card was declined,  but in 
my view this wasnt  as a result of any error on the part of Vanquis  it followed its security 
procedures correctly. I also acknowledge  Miss B is unhappy with Vanquis  security checks 
and feels she shouldnt  need to provide a password on her account.  However,  I agree with 
the investigator that its up to Vanquis to decide  what security measures it has in place to 
protect its customers. I can also see that Vanquis has tried to accommodate  Miss Bs wishes  
by noting on her account that she doesnt have to use a password, and can go through 
additional security  questions instead. I find Vanquis  acted reasonably in doing  this, so Im 
not recommending it does  anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold Miss Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019/
Joanna Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6323683