K820x#14complaint
Mr D and Mrs U complain about  the way Santander UK Plc dealt  with their request for 
consent to let their property. They  ask for compensation.  
background
Mr D and Mrs U have a mortgage  with Santander. Their work meant they needed to live 
elsewhere and Mr D contacted Santander to ask for consent to let the property. Mr D says 
Santanders staff were rude and unprofessional and this matter  has taken an unreasonable  
amount of his time. In particular, Santander sent consent to let documents to the mortgage  
address requiring a 200 mile round trip to collect them. And Santander caused unnecessary  
inconvenience by not telling him that Mrs U would have to be present to update her address. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He said Santander 
told Mr D during a call in June 2018  that he and Mrs U would both need to call to update 
their addresses. It told him it could tell him whether his request for consent to let was 
accepted over the phone.  And that he could  have the consent to let documents resent to his 
new address. 
Our adjudicator said while Santander  didnt deal very well with Mr Ds concerns when he 
called in July 2018, the £75 compensation it offered was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Mr D and Mrs S didnt  agree. Mr D said the consent  to let documents didnt  arrive.  Our 
adjudicator said this wasnt due to an error by Santander and didnt change his view about 
this complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
Santander has updated Mr D and Mrs Us address  and given its consent to them  letting their 
property. Mr D and Mrs U remain unhappy  about  the way Santander  handled these changes  
to their mortgage account and the way its staff spoke to Mr D.
Mr D called Santander in June 2018. He said he was now working in a different part of the 
country and wanted  to let the property.  Santander said hed need  consent to let. It gave  a 
preliminary decision and said it would confirm this in writing  within  7 to 10 days. It said there  
would be a fee.
There was also a discussion about updating Mr D and Mrs Us address. Santander said it 
needed their main address  that is, the address they live at. Mr D and Mrs U were in the 
process of sorting  this out and Mr D said hed change the address when it was settled. 
Santander said Mrs U would also need  to call. 
Santander said if Mr D didnt receive  the consent  to let documents  or wanted  to know  the 
decision sooner   he could call again  at the end of the week.  Once his address was updated 
Ref: DRN62255132he could ask for documents to be re-sent there if necessary. The call handler also said Mr D 
should let his insurer know and get any necessary  consents if the property was leasehold.  
I think Santander gave  Mr D clear  information  on this call about  the consent  to let process 
and updating his address.
Mr D called in July 2018 to pay the consent  to let fee and change his address. Hes unhappy 
about the service  he received and the way he was spoken to.
The information he was given  that Mrs U would  have to be present to update her address 
 was correct. And hed been told this when  he called in June.  But Santander could have 
dealt better  with his other concerns.
Santander said it wasnt happy with the way the calls had been  handled  and offered £75 
compensation. Ive listened to the calls. I appreciate that Mr D isnt happy  with this, but I 
think £75 compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.  I leave it to Mr D and 
Mrs U whether to accept Santanders  offer.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint as I think  the compensation offered by 
Santander UK Plc is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs U to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6225513