K820x#14complaint
Mr F (on behalf of his business S) complains about how Transmit Start-Ups Limited 
(Transmit) treated him during his application  for a start-up loan for his business.
background
Mr F approached Transmit  in June 2018  for a start-up loan of £25,000 to set up his new 
business S. After  various discussions and after providing information  to support his 
application, Transmit submitted his application at the start of August to the Start-Up Loans 
Company (SULCO). SULCO declined his application in August 2018.
Mr F was unhappy with the service hed been provided and so he complained to Transmit. 
He made  a number  of points to Transmit around  how the process  worked, his experience of 
it and Transmits overall service. Transmit  responded to him and issued its final response on 
8 November 2018. It said that its business advisor  had followed the process  and requested 
the necessary  information  required by SULCO. It also said it had considered the business 
plan Mr F had put forward in line with the guidelines of the Start  Up Loans programme and 
balanced this with affordability. Transmit did apologise for some initial confusion at the start 
of the loan process but said that after that the business advisor invested a lot of time in 
Mr Fs application  and dealt with responses  and recommendations  promptly.
Mr F wasnt happy with Transmits response,  so he bought the complaint  to our service.
Our investigator looked into Mr Fs complaint but he didnt uphold it. He said that Transmit 
had been fair when  making their decision about  whether to lend because theyd given a 
reasonable explanation  for why they couldnt  take Mr Fs application any further. He also 
explained that we wouldnt look to interfere  in the businesss commercial decision not to 
lend.
Mr F didnt  accept our investigators opinion  so the complaint  was passed to me to consider.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on 18 January 2021, asking both parties  to provide any 
further information or points to consider by 18 February 2021. My provisional decision said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know that this will come as a disappointment  to Mr F and S, but Im currently  minded  not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why.
I understand Mr F is frustrated and disappointed that he wasnt  approved for the loan. And 
I appreciate the time and effort it took him to send Transmit all the information it asked for. 
But Transmit wasnt required  to provide  the loan  it was there to facilitate the process.  And 
we cant interfere with how a business  runs its operation or structures its process.
Mr F has made  a number of points  about  the process and he feels  that Transmit  tried to 
influence his business plan to the extent that it did not make his business viable. Mr F says 
that had he known in the beginning that hed be asked to alter his business plan to such  a 
degree, he wouldnt have proceeded with the application. And so he would have saved 
Ref: DRN61371642himself time, effort and expense. Transmit have  said that because each application is 
reviewed on a case by case basis, it would be impossible to provide information  to cover 
every possible  scenario at the outset.
Ive thought about whether Transmit  included information on their website that would give 
Mr F a reasonable understanding  of what the application process  was likely to involve. Ive 
been able to look at an archived version  of their website from just before Mr F applied  and 
also afterwards. While  the design  of the website is different they both include an extensive 
Frequently Asked Questions (FAQs)  section   Ive looked particularly at the FAQs around 
the application process. These set out a number of things  but broadly cover  what the 
application process looks like and how long its likely to take at various stages. I dont think  
the website is ambiguous  or presents anyone viewing it with a distorted view of what  is likely 
to happen during the process.  Im satisfied that it also gives an indication of the likely 
timescales but also that there are sometimes no firm timescales when further work is 
required on the application and business  plan  as was the case with Mr Fs application.
Transmit says that its not able to give detail  for every possible scenario at the outset and 
I understand this. Given the range of businesses and different applications they receive it 
simply wouldnt be practical or reasonable to expect  them to do so. And from what  Ive seen 
I think Mr F would have  been aware  that his business plan would be scrutinised and his 
business advisor would assist and advise him on it.
I can fully understand  Mr Fs reluctance  to change his business plan. Hed given it careful 
consideration and hed tailored it in a way he felt would give his business the best chance  of 
success. But that doesnt mean the advisor  was wrong to suggest changes. Mr F was 
applying for the maximum loan amount  that was allowed  and the business advisor wouldve 
known and understood the level of supporting information that would be needed to fit the 
lending criteria. Mr F may think this should  have been available  to him at the outset but as 
Ive said above  the criteria will be dependent on many variables such as loan amount, 
business type and so on.
Ive also looked  at the email correspondence between Mr F and Transmit and the internal  
email (chatter) system. Mr F said in his complaint that Transmit asked him to change  staff 
numbers and apply  for a smaller loan first and then come back for another one later. 
I havent seen  any evidence of this and while its possible this was said on a phone  call, 
unfortunately I havent been able to listen  to them because  Transmit didnt record calls.  Also 
the recordings Mr F made have since been  overwritten due to the passage  of time. So I cant 
be certain of what was said.
But even if they had asked Mr F to submit his application in a different way I still couldnt  
conclude that it would  have been unreasonable of them to do so if this is something Transmit  
thought would help the approval of his loan. The advisors role was to give Mr Fs application 
the best chance of success based on their experience of business analysis and SULCOs 
lending criteria  and whether it was likely to be accepted or not. And similarly  it was Mr Fs 
decision to choose  whether to make those changes  and proceed with the application. So 
even if Transmit did suggest this, I dont think it wouldve acted unfairly  by doing so.
I can see from an email  on 1 August  2018 that Mr Fs business  plan was submitted to the 
approvals team but it was clear  that the advisor  was of the opinion that parts of the 
submission didnt meet the minimum standards shed discussed  with Mr F. So it appears that 
ultimately Mr F didnt change his business plan, and it was then rejected.
Ref: DRN61371643Mr F has requested that the credit search carried out is removed, but I dont think that it 
should be. It was a valid part of the process  and Mr Fs consent for the search was 
requested and obtained. I dont think its fair to ask Transmit to remove  this when it was 
carried out in line with the application process.
Mr F also complained about the service he received from Transmit  and that they changed 
how they handled communications with him  Transmit decided to restrict communication to 
emails. As Ive already mentioned Ive not been able to listen  to any calls between Mr F and 
Transmit so I cant be certain  what occurred  in these calls. It was though  up to Transmit on 
how they should best communicate with Mr F. If Mr F had difficulty  in communicating via 
email then I would  expect Transmit to be conscious  of that but that wasnt the case. It simply 
looks like they made  a decision to restrict communication  to email for clarity.
In summary  I accept that Transmits application process wasnt to Mr Fs liking but this 
doesnt mean that they acted unfairly. And so I dont think  any compensation is required or 
that they should reverse the credit search they carried  out.
responses to my provisional  decision
Transmit responded  saying they have  nothing further to add.
Mr F responded to my provisional decision. He was unhappy with the time it had taken to 
reach this stage and we had a discussion about issues relating to that. He also made some 
additional points  that were  not relating to what had happened but instead  about our 
processes. I have held back  issuing my final decision  to see if further information  would  be 
forthcoming but as I havent received anything further Ive reconsidered the complaint based 
on everything thats been submitted so far.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided anything substantial to change the opinion expressed  within  
my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart from that.
In summary  I dont think Transmit has acted unfairly and so I dont think any compensation is 
required or that they should reverse the credit search they carried  out. It follows that I dont 
uphold Mr Fs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is I dont uphold  Mr Fs complaint about 
Transmit Start-Ups  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F (on behalf of 
his business S) to accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2021.
Alexander MacDonald
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6137164