K822xcomplaint
Miss A complains  about the courier service  Assurant General Insurance Limited appointed to 
deliver her repaired/replaced gadgets under  her gadget insurance policy.
background 
Miss A has a gadget insurance  policy  through  her bank account. Assurant is the insurer.
Miss A complains  that since 2017  shes had abuse and aggression from the delivery driver 
Assurant uses to deliver her repaired/replacement  mobile phones  when she claims under 
the policy. The same  delivery driver has also opened Miss As packages before handing 
them to her which she thinks is a breach of her privacy.
Miss A complained to the courier business  and Assurant. Assurant initially told Miss A it 
wasnt able to change  the driver used to deliver her phone and she should continue  her 
complaint with the courier business.
Miss A complained to us. Assurant reviewed the video Miss A had taken  in July 2018 of the 
delivery driver's behaviour  and apologised for the distress and inconvenience shed 
experienced. It offered her £75 compensation, which Miss A rejected.
Our investigator explained why she thought Assusrant  should pay £175  compensation to 
Miss A. She also explained Assurant couldnt dictate which delivery  driver the courier  
business used  to carry out the delivery  service to Miss A.
Assurant agrees to pay £175 compensation. Miss A doesnt agree and wants an 
ombudsmans decision. She wants assurance the delivery driver wont  deliver to her in future 
and clarification about the opening  of packages for doorstep exchanges of her phones. She 
also said she was looking to get ten times the amount of compensation Assurant now 
offered as she had one and half years of harassment. Also, the incident  in July 2018  left her 
without a phone for three days.
Assurant sent us confirmation  from the courier business that it would  deal with the delivery 
driver but he may not be removed from Miss As route. The courier business  also said that 
for an exchange of a gadget the delivery  driver did have to open the package  to retrieve the 
return label  and bag to send back the old gadget,  but the package  isnt opened for a 
straightforward delivery.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I uphold this complaint.  Assurant has now made a fair and reasonable offer in response to 
Miss As complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive read Miss As detailed points. Ive also seen  her July 2018 video on how the delivery 
driver acted towards her and didnt deliver  the phone she was waiting for, both were 
unacceptable. 
Ref: DRN66279142Assurant has a contract with the courier business  to deliver the phone  on Assurant's behalf 
so it does have  some responsibility  to Miss A about  how that service is provided. However, 
Assurant can't control which delivery driver the courier business uses  on a particular route.  
The driver isnt an Assurant employee  and it cant tell the courier business how to deal with 
its employee disciplinary procedures.
Assurant has sent Miss As video to the courier business and that business will decide what  
to do about the conduct  of the delivery driver. Assurant can't reasonably do anything  more. 
I wont be telling Assurant  to ensure Miss A wont  have the same  delivery  driver  again 
because it cant control  which driver  the courier business uses. Miss A will need  to continue 
to raise that matter with the courier business  direct.
Assurant could have  raised Miss A's concerns with the courier  business  sooner than it did. It 
looks if Miss A raised a complaint with Assurant in March 2017 but I cant  see it responded. 
She complained in December 2017 about the same  issue  and Assurant  tried to speak with 
her over three days but couldnt contact her. It wasnt until July 2018 that she complained 
again to Assurant, after the July incident.  It responded quickly  to that complaint, although 
said Miss A needed to complain to the courier business direct.
If Assurant had actioned  Miss As complaint sooner  its possible she may not have had the 
incident with the delivery  driver  in July 2018.  Although it was only in July 2018  that she was 
able to get video evidence  to support that the delivery drivers conduct was unacceptable.
 
Due to the delivery  driver's behaviour  he didnt  deliver the replacement  phone on 7 July but it 
was delivered on 9 July. So Assurant delivered  a replacement to Miss A within  the one to 
three working days it aims  to deliver which is a reasonable timescale. 
Assurant hadnt  given Miss A clear information  about whether the delivery  driver  should 
open her package before he gives it to her. It's now provided confirmation of the courier 
business delivery procedure; packages are opened  on exchange of phones  for the driver to 
take certain information. If Miss A has a situation where the delivery driver takes other 
information she can complain about  that separately.
Overall Assurants offer of £175  compensation is a fair amount for Miss As distress  and 
inconvenience that its responsible for.
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
I require Assurant General Insurance Limited to pay Miss A £175 in compensation  for her 
distress and inconvenience, as its now agreed, within  28 day of us telling it Miss A accepts 
my final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6627914