K820x#14complaint
This case is about a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy. 
Mrs M says Santander UK Plc (trading at the time as Alliance & Leicester)  mis-sold  her this 
policy in 2007.  For consistency, Ill refer mainly  to Santander.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this complaint said it shouldnt be upheld but Mrs M didnt 
agree with this and the complaint has been  passed  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done this, Im afraid Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. 
A key theme of her complaint is that the policy wasnt explained  to her and she doesnt  
remember being asked  if she wanted  it. Nevertheless, I see Mrs M went on to make a claim 
on the MPPI  when she needed to be absent  from work following a family  bereavement.  She 
says the policy only paid out a proportion of her monthly mortgage costs,  rather than the full 
amount she was expecting it to.
Ive looked at the paperwork we still have from the sale and I think theres  solid evidence that 
the cover  was discussed when Mrs M met with the adviser. 
The records  show, for example, that she was originally recommended by Santander to take 
out an amount  of cover that would indeed have covered all her mortgage payments  around 
£1600 per month - in the event of a successful claim. And it was also recorded on the same 
document that she decided not to take up that recommendation in full. Instead she opted for 
cover of £150 per month. The premium for this was £8.92 per month, wich is much  lower 
than the premium to protect her whole  mortgage.  The rationale for taking out the lower 
amount was recorded on the form as being  to keep her premiums  lower and therefore more 
affordable.
I think this shows a number of things. The first is that there seems to have been  a discussion 
about this type of mortgage protection during the meeting  Mrs M had with the adviser.  I think  
it also shows that Mrs M had given considerable thought to what  she wanted to do and that 
she must have been aware she had a choice.  She rejected the original recommendation and 
decided on something  more moderate. Its clear  to me therefore that Mrs M gave her 
consent to buying this policy because  she signed the documentation that recorded these 
explanations on it.
Santander had a duty to make sure the cover was suitable  for Mrs Ms situation. Overall,  I 
think it was.
This is because Mrs M appears  to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we sometimes see in these  policies. It seems to me she wanted  
Ref: DRN61164132some level of protection but she didnt want to pay too much.  So having some  support, if 
something unexpected had happened, does  appear to have been in her mind. I note she 
did in fact go on to make a claim on the policy when she took time off work due to illness. 
Her mortgage was secured against her home and so the consequences  of her not being 
able to keep up payments  could have been serious.  
Taking account of all this, I think Mrs M came  to the conclusion  that having  £150 worth of 
financial support  each month might be of use. This was payable  for up to 12 months. I cant 
say why Mrs M decided to buy this policy in this way but I dont think  Santander  acted 
unreasonably. 
Santander also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. 
Obviously I cant confirm  if she was told everything  she ought to have  been.  But I can see 
the cost of the cover was set out and I think she had enough information on which to make  
an informed decision.  
I understand Mrs M feels strongly  about this and Im sorry shes been  through a very difficult 
time. But its more likely the policy wasnt mis-sold because  I think the evidence shows  she 
took out reduced MPPI  cover to achieve a lower monthly premium.  I think thats what  she 
wanted, although I certainly  dont doubt she genuinely may not remember all this now after 
12 years  have passed.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint. I dont direct Santander 
UK Plc to put any matters  right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6116413