K820x#14complaint
Mr Js unhappy with AXA PPP Healthcare Limiteds decision not to pay his claim in full. 
background
Mr J had private health insurance  with his previous employer. As a group scheme member, 
hes able to bring his complaint to this service. 
Mr J suffered a nervous  breakdown  at work  in March 2018. After  seeing his GP, he was 
referred to a cardiologist  and a psychiatrist  to better understand  his care needs  moving  
forward. Mr J said he discussed this with AXA and was advised itd authorised  these 
referrals. But, some  time after his treatment,  he learned the cardiologist was owed £1,776. 
Mr J said AXA should pay these costs  because it authorised the treatment back  in March.  
AXA agreed it had authorised the treatment but highlighted  Mr Js policy was subject to a 
£1,000 limit for outpatient treatment. It said because  Mr J had exceeded  his policy  limit any 
further costs would need to settled by him. AXA went on to say it made Mr J aware  of the 
policy limit for outpatient care and so didnt think it had made an error.  It accepted  it had not 
received the cardiologists invoice in good  time,  but said this was outside of its control. 
Our investigator concluded that AXA had not made  a mistake.  She found  that it had made 
Mr J aware of the policy limit through  phone calls and regular statements and was satisfied 
he had understood this. 
Mr J didnt agree. In summary he said;
AXA should have  told him how much the treatment with the cardiologist would have 
cost when he initially discussed the referral   particularly as it was able to give him 
this information  about the treating  psychiatrist;  
AXA failed to take into account  his specific needs and make  reasonable adjustments  
when discussing the policy  limit owing to his poor mental  health at the time and;
AXAs refusal to settle the outstanding balance has added  to his worries and 
significantly exacerbated his mental health  problems. 
And so its for me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to learn that Mr J has been 
through a difficult  time over the past year and I hope the treatment  he received helped him to  
deal with the effects of his work-related stress. That said,  I must consider AXAs  actions in all 
of this and having done so, Im not persuaded that its made  an error here. This means I 
wont be asking it to do anything more in relation to Mr Js complaint. Ill explain why.
The policy provided by Mr Js previous employer was always subject to the policy 
terms and limits. The particular limit to outpatient care was £1,000.  Mr J worked with 
his employer for a number  of years and Ive seen that throughout that time, hed 
used the benefits under the policy on a number of occasions. AXA regularly sent 
Ref: DRN68675182Mr J statements which clearly detailed the treatments  hed claimed for and whether 
he needed to contribute  towards these  costs. The statements also clearly  detailed 
the outpatient limit of £1,000 and how much of it had been  used.  Im therefore  
satisfied, on balance, that Mr J was always aware of the limits to his policy.  
When Mr J initially spoke to AXA about  the treatments in question on 23 March,  he 
was informed then too about the policy limit on outpatient  treatment.  And that this 
was likely to be the pot which his referral  to the cardiologist and psychiatrist would 
be deducted from as it fell into consultant and diagnostic tests  categories. AXA told 
him that he had £413 remaining in the pot and that any treatment  costs  that 
exceeded this would  need to be settled by him. The reason Ive highlighted this is 
because Mr J told us that AXA had failed to do this. But, for the reasons Ive just 
explained, Im satisfied it did. I also noticed Mr J was given a further update  on the 
balance remaining in his pot during his conversation almost a month  later on 20 
April. He was told he had £221  left and that this would  cover his first referral to see 
the psychiatrist as this cost £175. It was made  clear that outpatient treatment 
thereafter would likely  need to be covered by Mr J. 
Mr J argued  that AXA should  have told him the costs of seeing  the cardiologist  
upfront and I can understand the point hes making  here. In particular, as AXA had 
been able to tell him the costs  involved with seeing the psychiatrist,  effectively 
allowing him to make  a more informed choice about whether  to go ahead with the 
treatment. But AXA has since explained this was not possible because  the referral  to 
the cardiologist was for investigative treatment. This means Mr Js referral  was to 
identify if he was suffering any heart problems and to do this, the cardiologist would 
need to complete diagnostic tests. AXA could not have  known  the associated  costs 
beforehand because  it would  not have known  which  tests the cardiologist would 
have wanted to perform. This is why it told Mr J how much  he had remaining in the 
pot, so that he could  discuss treatment  options and the associated costs with the 
cardiologist. Mr Js referral to the psychiatrist was different because  it was charged 
at a flat rate fee for each session, so AXA was able to give him this information more  
easily. 
The reason  Mr J didnt  find out about  the outstanding amount until much later was 
because the treating  cardiologist had not submitted his full costs to AXA until some 
time after hed completed the investigative treatments. This is likely to have  caused  
problems in understanding exactly what money  was left in the pot for the out patient 
treatment, but this isnt something  I can reasonably hold AXA responsible for. What 
is clear is that the cardiologists costs would have far outweighed  the policy limit in 
any event and so it makes little difference in the circumstances of this complaint. 
During a phone call on 4 September, Mr J appeared to demonstrate his 
understanding on this particular point  as he confirmed that it was unlikely the policy  
would cover these costs as he knew the policy limit for outpatient treatment has 
been reached. Which is another reason Im persuaded  he was aware and 
understood his policy  was subject to the £1,000  limit.
I understand that Mr J has been left feeling  as though AXA didnt make reasonable 
adjustments when  it handled the claim. In particular, Mr J has argued  that AXA may 
have told him the information highlighted above, but given  the state of his mental  
health at the time,  its unreasonable to expect him to have thought  about  things  
rationally. Mr J explained this further,  saying that AXA should have handled things 
differently by telling  him about the associated costs with the cardiologist.  But for the 
Ref: DRN68675183reasons Ive already explained,  this wasnt possible.  Further, I think it reasonable to 
expect Mr J to have  questioned this in his initial consultation with the cardiologist,  
given hed been advised of the limit to his outpatient treatment policy.  
I should perhaps highlight AXA made reasonable adjustments  in terms of 
communication, but only when  Mr J asked it to, specifically when he asked for it 
email information to his wife  because he found  it too stressful  to deal with. Im 
satisfied that this demonstrates  AXA responded appropriately to the needs of Mr J. 
Should he have  needed  further reasonable adjustments,  I see no reason why AXA 
would not have supported them. Ive found  no further evidence of AXAs declination 
to make reasonable adjustments when asked by Mr J. 
Overall, I think AXA handled Mr Js claim fairly and gave him all the necessary information 
pertaining to the limit of his outpatient treatment, prior to and during, the handling of his 
claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Js complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2019.
Scott Slade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6867518