K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
Mrs M took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland in 2000 and I understand was sold PPI at 
around the same time.
Mrs M says PPI wasnt discussed and she wasnt aware it had been  added to her account. 
She says she was paying for a policy she didnt  want or need.
The adjudicator who looked at Mrs Ms complaint didnt uphold it. Mrs M disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
Bank of Scotland needed to make it clear to Mrs M she had a choice about PPI and get her 
agreement to it. But it has no documents or other records from the time of the sale of         
Mrs Ms PPI to show how it did this. And Mrs Ms recollections of the sale arent detailed. I 
dont think any of this is surprising, because the sale was such  a long time ago.
The information I have  on this complaint isnt enough to make  me think  it would be fair and 
reasonable to conclude  Bank of Scotland didnt  give Mrs M a clear  choice about the PPI or 
get her agreement to it. Based on what we know about Bank of Scotland  sales of PPI with 
mortgages in this period, I think its more likely than not Mrs M agreed to the PPI at the time, 
knowing she had a choice  about it. I think its likely this is the reason PPI was added to     
Mrs Ms account.
Bank of Scotland says it recommended  the PPI to Mrs M, so it needed  to make sure it was 
right for her in her circumstances. I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland  took to do this. 
But from the policy details  Bank  of Scotland  has sent us and from what  Mrs M says of her 
circumstances at the time, I think it was right for her. I say this because:
It seems  Mrs M was eligible for the PPI. And she wasnt  affected by any of the main  
things the policy  wouldnt have covered  like known health problems or unusual 
employment arrangements. So I dont think there was anything to stop Mrs M 
claiming the full policy  benefit  if shed needed  to.
Mrs M says shed  have got statutory  sick pay from her employer if she couldnt  work 
because of sickness or injury. The PPI wouldve  paid Mrs Ms monthly mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months  for each successful accident, sickness or 
unemployment claim she made.  So, although  I know Mrs M doesnt  think she needed  
the policy, I think it wouldve been of use to her if things got difficult. I say this 
especially bearing in mind her mortgage  was a significant and long-term financial 
Ref: DRN60773272commitment and her home  was at risk if she fell behind on her mortgage 
repayments.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think Mrs M couldnt afford  the policy or that its 
cost made it unsuitable for her.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for Mrs M, Bank of Scotland also had to give her 
enough clear information  about  it for her to be able to decide  in an informed way if she 
wanted to buy it. Again,  I dont know what steps Bank of Scotland  took to do this  and it 
may be that it didnt  make  some things as clear to Mrs M as it shouldve. But, as Ive already 
said, I think its likely Mrs M agreed to the cover and I think  it was right for her in her 
circumstances. So I think clearer information,  if it had been needed, would only have 
confirmed this to her and wouldnt have changed  her decision. I dont think Mrs M has lost 
out because of anything Bank of Scotland did wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6077327