K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that when she applied for a loan with Sainsburys Bank  Plc it offered her a 
loan at a higher interest rate than the advertised 2.9% APR.  She thinks  Sainsburys Banks 
processes are poor and they should discuss the agreed  APR before sending out loan 
documentation.
Mrs M would  also like the credit search Sainsburys Bank  completed  to be removed from her 
credit file.
background
Mrs M applied for a Sainsburys Bank loan which was advertised with an interest  rate of 2.9% 
APR. However, when she received her loan paperwork she found  out the rate she was 
offered was 5.1%. She doesnt think its fair that Sainsburys Bank  changed the interest  
rate after shed applied for the loan.
She also says she wouldnt have applied for the loan if shed known the rate was 5.1%  so 
shed like Sainsburys Bank  to remove the credit  search it completed .
Mrs M complained to Sainsburys Bank but it didnt uphold her complaint. It explained  that 
that the rate advertised on their website isn't guaranteed for every customer. And lenders 
only have to offer the best advertised APR rates to 51% of successful applicants.  Once  
customers applications are assessed, they will confirm the rate they can offer.
Unhappy with Sainsburys Bank response, Mrs M referred her complaint  to our service.  Our 
adjudicator looked into Mrs Ms complaint but didnt recommend that it should  be upheld.
Our adjudicator appreciated it was frustrating for Mrs M not to be approved for the advertised 
rate of 2.9%,  but they didnt think Sainsbury's Bank had made  an error. Having reviewed the 
application process the adjudicator thought Sainsburys  Bank  had kept her informed that her 
personalised rate would be determined after shed submitted her application. As Sainsburys 
Bank stipulated that 2.9% was just a representative  rate our adjudicator  didnt think  
Sainsburys Bank led her to believe shed been approved for that rate.
Mrs M disagrees  with the adjudicators  view.  She thinks  Sainsburys  Banks  processes  are 
poor and they should  be discussing  the agreed  APR  before  sending  out pre-contract  
information.  Shes  asked  for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the outcome 
reached by the adjudicator and for broadly the same  reasons.
Sainsbury's Bank wrote to Mrs M in early January 2019 to confirm theyd approved her loan 
subject to some final checks. The letter contained  important  information about her loan  
including an explanation of her loan agreement,  pre-contract  credit  information and her loan 
agreement - which she was asked to read and, if she was happy  with the information, to sign 
and return her loan agreement.
The letter explained that the APR for Mrs Ms personal loan was 5.1%. This rate was also 
detailed in the Pre-Contract Credit Information and the Fixed  Sum Loan Agreement.  Im 
Ref: DRN62584222satisfied that Sainsburys  Bank made her aware of her personalised APR before she agreed 
to the loan.
Sainsburys Bank also sent details of the information  Mrs M wouldve seen during the 
application process. I can see that Sainsbury's Bank  advertised  an interest rate of 2.9%  APR 
but I can see it was shown as a representative  rate throughout the application process.
The application states that the rate you may be offered will depend on your personal 
circumstances, credit assessment procedures and other related factors. So Im satisfied 
Sainsbury's Bank made clear that the APR of 2.9%  wasnt  guaranteed.
The application  process  also makes  clears  that: The APR we offer is determined by the 
details you supply and the loan you are applying for, along  with an independent verification  of 
your credit and repayment history  and will range  from 2.9%  to 26.9%.  So it is clear  that the 
actual  rate of interest  offered  would  depend  on customers  individual  circumstances.
The application process also makes clear  under  important information that once  your 
application is approved, we'll send you confirmation. This will include the terms and 
conditions for your Sainsbury's Bank Loan  Account.  Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank kept her 
informed that her personalised rate would be determined after shed submitted her 
application. And I can see that the terms and conditions of her loan were confirmed when 
Sainsburys Bank sent its offer letter and supporting documents  to Mrs M in January 2019.
I appreciate Mrs M says she wouldn't have applied  for the loan had she known her 
personalised APR would be 5.1%but  as Ive explained above Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank  
made clear that 2.9% was representative  rate of interest and wasnt guaranteed. Im also 
satisfied that the loan application process made clear that Sainsburys Bank  could perform a 
credit search. So I cant say it acted unfairly when it performed a credit  search.  It follows  that 
I wont be asking Sainsburys Bank to remove reference to the search it did from her credit  
file.
It follows that Im satisfied Sainsburys Bank acted fairly. I appreciate  Mrs M thinks 
Sainsburys Bank should discuss and agree the personalised APR with customers before  
sending out loan documentation  but Im afraid we have no regulatory  power  over financial 
businesses, so this isnt something I can ask Sainsburys Bank  to change.  That would be a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority as regulator.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6258422