K822xcomplaint
Mr I complains that a car he bought partly  using his MBNA Limited  (MBNA) credit  card didnt 
come with all the features  included in the sale. He would like to be reimbursed for the cost of 
the missing items.
background 
Mr I says he bought  a used car on 13 May 2017 for £6,315. He says the car shouldve  come 
with Bluetooth, stereo radio/DAB, alloy wheels and front fog lights.  He says when he 
collected the car it was also agreed  that scratches  to the boot would be repaired and a spare 
alloy wheel would be provided as part of the sale.
He says on 21 May 2017 he returned the car as some of the features he expected to have 
were missing.  And  the repair to the scratches  hadnt been adequate as the scratches were 
still showing. He says at that point it was confirmed the car didnt have digital radio or blue 
tooth. Mr I says he also discovered it didnt have front fog lights. But he says he was only 
offered the cost of installing Bluetooth or the option  to return the car for a full refund which at 
the time he didnt want to do. He rejected the offer to just install Bluetooth  he didnt feel 
that was a reasonable solution.
He wanted the cost of installing the missing  items  to his car - £1,030 refunded.  
As Mr I said he didnt  feel the car was of satisfactory  quality  he contacted MBNA and put in a 
Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  claim  as he had paid for some of the car using his 
MBNA credit card. 
MBNA initially  felt there had been no breach of contract or misrepresentation that would 
justify a Section  75 Claim. It also felt the business offer of installing Bluetooth or taking back 
the car and giving a full refund was reasonable. 
However after further investigation. MBNA concluded the car had been misrepresented to Mr 
I. It offered, in full and final settlement, to reimburse  the £1,030 Mr I asked for. And it also 
paid £70 into his account in acknowledgement of misleading information  it gave him.
It didnt think it was reasonable  to cover the cost of replacing the current  wheels with alloy 
wheels at a cost of £1,314.06. It said Mr I hadnt raised this with the business or with MBNA 
when he complained about  issues with his car. It said it had taken five months from getting 
the car for Mr I to raise an issue with the wheels despite taking it on two test drives when it 
felt it would have  been visibly evident what the wheels were. Also that it couldnt  confirm now 
if the car had been sold with alloy wheels or not.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in which I concluded:-
-MBNA investigated Mr Is complaint twice finally concluding the car had been 
misrepresented as Mr I didnt get what he paid for.
Ref: DRN65966852-MBNA agreed to pay the full cost that Mr I requested (£1,030) to cover  the features 
that werent included  in the sale but were specified in the advertisement. MBNA also 
paid £70 compensation for distress and inconvenience.
-Mr I didnt accept the £1,030  MBNA offered as he wasnt  comfortable  with the 
wording of its letter stating  the offer was in full and final settlement  Whilst 
appreciating Mr Is concerns I found this wording  to be standard.  And I noted MBNA  
did investigate a further complaint when Mr I discovered his car didnt have the alloy 
wheels he believed  it should have.
-Mr I was happy with the £1,030 MBNA offered so the two issues for me to decide 
were whether MBNA  should cover  the cost of changing the wheels to alloy wheels. 
And the level of compensation,  if any, MBNA should pay.
-Mr I accepted that it was reasonable for any replacement alloy wheels to be used on 
which I felt was reasonable since  there was no guarantee  the used car he bought  
would have had new alloy wheels
-Mr I obtained a quote for replacing  the wheels of £385.
-The advertisement for the car clearly showed  the car had alloy wheels. As MBNA 
agreed the car had been mis-represented to Mr I. And agreed  Mr Is first claim in full I 
thought it likely it would  have  covered the cost of the alloy wheels had Mr I claimed  
for those at the same time.
-MBNA turned down  Mr Is request for the cost of the alloy wheels for a number of 
reasons. It felt Mr I fully inspected the car when he got it and raised  his first complaint 
very soon after.  But  didnt raise the problem of the alloy wheels at that time. It felt Mr 
I would  have had to inspect the tyres  in the five months he had the car before he put 
in his complaint  about the alloy wheels so had ample opportunity to realise the car 
didnt have alloy wheels. And finally it couldnt  be sure if the car originally had alloy 
wheels or not.
-Mr I only realised his car didnt have alloy wheels when he had it fully inspected  after 
advice he got following  MBNAs  final response letter.
-Apart from the alloy wheels there were no other outstanding features that Mr I 
expected to get with his car but didnt.
-As the advertisement  stated alloy wheels and that wasnt  what  Mr I got it was fair for 
MBNA to cover  the cost of fitting four second hand alloy wheels subject  to Mr I 
providing proof this work had been  done and at a cost of no more than £385.
-It wasnt fair to expect MBNA to provide a spare alloy wheel as there was no 
evidence the car was advertised with one, or it was agreed to provide one.
-In terms of compensation  for distress  and inconvenience Mr I didnt think  £70 was 
sufficient. He felt he should  be awarded at least £300 for the distress  and 
inconvenience, the delay in handling his complaint, the effort he had to expend and 
what he felt was the incompetent way MBNA had dealt  with his complaint.
Ref: DRN65966853-The time taken to deal with Mr Is complaint wasnt unreasonable.  We usually expect 
businesses to either complete an investigation and send a final response letter  within 
eight weeks, or at least within that timescale  to keep a consumer informed if there 
are delays.  MBNA met those deadlines.
-Had Mr I had his car fully inspected when he first realised  there were some  issues he 
would have identified  the lack of alloy wheels sooner. Had he done so he could have 
just put in one complaint to MBNA rather than two which  would have reduced the 
time taken to deal with Mr Is complaint.
-In my view there was no evidence that MBNA hadnt  dealt competently with Mr Is 
complaint. It was to its credit  that when  Mr I didnt accept its first view it reconsidered 
its information and changed its view in Mr Is favour.
-The £70 compensation MBNA paid for distress and inconvenience was fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr I and MBNA have both responded to my provisional decision.
MBNA accepted my findings to pay Mr I a maximum of £385 on proof of four used alloy 
wheels being  fitted to his car.
Mr I didnt accept my provisional decision and sent in a lengthy response which I would like 
to reassure him I have  read in full. 
I am not going  to respond to every point Mr I made in his response  as a lot of what  Mr I said 
reiterated the background information  to his complaint and wasnt  ,as such, new information 
for me to consider.
However looking at the new points Mr I has raised. He feels  8% interest should be added to 
the £1,030 MBNA offered to cover the missing items from his car.  He would like this to be 
effective from the date MBNA made  this offer  7 September  2017.This is on the basis  that 
Mr I says he was advised  by a number of parties including this service not to accept this 
offer at the time due to concerns over the wording of in full and final settlement .
Also he says its now taken over two years  to resolve this he feels  interest would be 
appropriate. And he thinks this is in line with the redress guidelines of this service.
I dont think its reasonable to ask MBNA  to pay interest. We do make  awards  which include 
interest in some cases. But we look at cases individually to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable. In this situation I do appreciate Mr I seems to be a cautious  man.  And I have no 
reason to believe he didnt take the advice he says he did. But advice is just that  advice 
and it was up to Mr I to take it or not. He didnt have to do so. And I havent seen any 
evidence from any organisation telling, rather than advising, Mr I not to take the payment 
MBNA offered. MBNA offered to pay the amount Mr I asked for. But Mr I chose not to take 
this
Ref: DRN65966854I also appreciate that Mr I probably  didnt expect it to take so long to resolve his complaint. 
Its unfortunate but complaints can take some time to deal with .But I didnt find MBNA took 
an unreasonable time to deal with this complaint.  And I did feel that had Mr I had his car fully 
inspected when he first realised there were issues that he might  have  prevented some of the 
delay by identifying  he missing alloy wheels sooner. 
Mr I have made the point  that MBNA didnt advise him to have the car inspected but I dont 
think its reasonable to expect MBNA  to do this. I think  it would consider the Section 75 claim 
being made as being the full complaint   I dont think  its reasonable when  businesses  get 
these claims to expect them to always assume there  might be other  issues  consumers need 
to check for. I think it was Mr Is responsibility to make a full claim.
With regard to the £70 compensation MBNA has paid Mr I feels MBNA has taken too long to 
consider his complaint and on that basis £70 isnt sufficient. I have already considered this in 
relation to Mr Is justification   for  adding 8% interest to the payment MBNA offered to cover 
the missing items from his car.  I dont  feel this is grounds in itself to award further  
compensation for the same  reasons  I have  given in relation to Mr Is request for 8% interest 
on the £1,030 to cover the missing  items  from the car..
Mr I has also said he feels that MBNA should  have accepted his claim for alloy wheels as 
soon as he made it. Businesses  are entitled  to make decisions on claims  put to them  which 
is what MBNA did. I didnt agree with MBNAs  decision not to cover the cost of replacement 
wheels which is why I have decided it should  cover  the cost of this. But we dont award 
compensation just because  we come to a different  decision to a business. We look at the 
impact of a business decision  on a consumer.  I havent seen any evidence that Mr I has 
suffered any loss or had any particular issues from not having alloy wheels on his car. We 
also aim, w here we can, to put consumers back into a position where they would have  been  
had the business decision been different.  MBNA has agreed to cover the cost of alloy 
wheels which will then give Mr I a car with the alloy wheels he expected  it to have.
Mr I would also like 8% interest added to the £385 quote he got for fitting  his car with used 
alloy wheels. He feels this should be back dated to 24 November 2017  the date of MBNAs 
second final response letter. I dont think I can reasonably ask MBNA  to pay this. It was 
entitled to make the decision  it made  to reject  Mr Is claim at that time. And although  I have 
decided MBNA should  cover the cost of the alloy wheels that is on the basis  of used alloy 
wheels not new ones which is what Mr I originally asked for.
I appreciate Mr I has said he has lost some enjoyment of his car, he says he hasnt been  
able to safely make phone calls and he and his family have  been  unable to enjoy listening to 
the radio. He has also said the lack of front fog lights has been an issue  over the last two 
years and eight months.
I appreciate Mr I didnt accept MBNAs original offer to pay the £1,030 he asked for. 
However I am not sure if Mr I went ahead and installed the missing features  on his car or 
not. I find it surprising  he didnt install fog lights as a matter of safety and urgency.
I dont think I can reasonably ask MBNA to compensate for the fact all of the missing items 
are still missing from Mr Is car if that is the case.  Had Mr I accepted  MBNAs  offer of £1,030  
when it made it September 2017  he would,  from that time,  have  had the funds to install the 
missing items.
Ref: DRN65966855I do accept there has been some  inconvenience  for Mr I but I feel the £70 MBNA has paid is 
sufficient.
Finally Mr I has confirmed  that he has yet to receive  the £1,030 from MBNA. I apologise that 
wasnt made clear in my provisional decision.  As I stated then there was no dispute over that 
sum since it was the amount Mr I requested and MBNA agreed to pay this. So I didnt go into 
more detail over that. 
However for completeness I should have  made  it clear that MBNA  should make that 
payment  but not with 8% interest  as Mr I would  like. MBNA has confirmed that it was 
expecting to make this payment once the complaint  process had been completed.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
In full and final settlement  MBNA should:-
-Make  the £1,030  payment it has already offered to cover the cost of missing items on 
Mr Is car
-On proof  of work  being completed, refund the cost of fitting four used alloy wheels  at 
a maximum cost of £385.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6596685