K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) incorrectly  registered  a default on his credit 
file. He wants it to be removed.
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 21 May 2019   a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld and 
that Lloyds offer of compensation was fair and reasonable. I invited both parties  to send any 
additional comments or evidence they wished to make.  
Lloyds said it accepted the provisional decision and confirmed it had paid Mr P the £50 
compensation last year.  But Mr P didnt agree and in response  he made the following points:
As far as he was concerned the account had always  been a sole trader account,  
albeit Lloyds changed the reference  on his cheque book to business account some  
years ago. He said he didnt have any cheque books which still had the reference  
sole trader, but provided copies of a number of emails his account manager had 
sent him which referred to the term sole trader.
He believed Lloyds  offered a monitoring service, as part of his contract, when he first 
set up his accounts. He says that through emails and phone calls it kept his account  
within the required limits  and it was Lloyds  who removed that service, contrary to 
the original account terms and conditions. 
He thought that Lloyds did have a responsibility  to use its right of set off (ROSO) 
under its general  duty to act in the best interests of the customer.
He believed it was Lloyds who, on numerous  occasions, had instigated the process  
of transferring funds  from his accounts to ensure he stayed within  credit  limits.  He 
provided further emails  to demonstrate that point and reiterated his view that this 
constituted a contract which  Lloyds later didnt honour.
When his accounts were transferred from a business manager to a management 
team he said Lloyds simply  added  my accounts  to their blanket  team  based  service 
and by doing so broke  their contractual obligation in changing  the service level from a 
personal based manager to a so called management team  without providing an email 
address for correspondence or a mobile phone number which was part of the offered 
and excepted arrangements within the contract.
He didnt receive any letters from solicitors, as Id suggested. The letters were from a 
debt agency which  he thought appeared suspicious and, as hed previously been 
victim to banking fraud and been  told by Lloyds  not to accept communications  from 
third parties, he felt his actions in not looking at the letters had been correct.
When he received a statement showing a zero balance on his account he simply 
assumed his instructions had been  carried out. He said hed not been  made  aware 
that the bank had passed his account to recoveries  and that this was the reason  that 
his account balance showed  as zero. 
my findings
Ref: DRN63907182Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I was sorry to learn that Mr Ps domestic  and financial situation has now worsened, so Id like 
to assure him that I have  carefully considered all the evidence hes provided as well as other 
material information about his complaint. But, following his further submissions, I see no 
reason to change  the conclusions I came to in my provisional decision.
I note Mr P said his account has always been a sole trader  account and Ive seen the emails 
hes provided from his relationship manager that referred to it as a sole trader account. So I 
then asked Lloyds  to explain the situation and Ive seen a screenshot  it provided from when 
the account was set up, which shows its name to be Presland M J and son.  However, 
Lloyds went onto confirm  that the account  has been a sole trader account for the entirety  of 
the time its been  held. It also demonstrated  that the ROSO could only be applied to an 
account when  that account was passed to recoveries  and that it wasnt  a process that was 
used in day to day banking. 
Ive thought very carefully about this matter. It is possible that Lloyds terms and conditions  
may have  allowed the recoveries  team to consider  a ROSO here. But, as I said previously,  
there was simply no obligation  for Lloyds to use its ROSO  in this situation. If the money was 
available elsewhere  to reduce the outstanding overdraft I think it was more Mr Ps 
responsibility than Lloyds to make  sure his accounts  were managed properly. So, even in 
light of Mr Ps further submissions I cant safely say Lloyds  acted  unfairly by not applying  its 
ROSO.
Mr Ps other main  point  is that Lloyds was contracted to monitor his accounts and ensure 
they stayed within their credit limits.  And Ive seen evidence to show that Lloyds  did contact 
Mr P on some  occasions to suggest  that he might  want to authorise internal transfers to 
ensure that was the case. Ive also seen how this situation didnt  continue  after Mr Ps 
account was looked after by a central team instead  of a relationship manager. So I can 
understand why Mr P might have presumed  this was some  sort of additional service that was 
provided to him as part of his overall banking relationship.
But, while that might  have been  something  the relationship manager did for Mr P as part of 
her desire to help customers, theres  no evidence that Lloyds formally offered  such  a service  
as part of its contract with Mr P. Ive carefully considered Lloyds banking terms and 
conditions and Ive not found  any reference  to a service  whereby it promises  to move  money 
between customers accounts to ensure all those  accounts remain within their individual 
credit limits. 
I know Mr P is adamant that such a contract existed  and Ive looked at the emails hes 
provided to show the contact Lloyds made  regarding moving  money between  accounts. But 
theres no evidence  that such a service, as part of the overall  contract, existed. As I said 
previously, Im sure if Mr P had contacted Lloyds to ask it to transfer  money between his 
accounts it would have done  so, and I think Lloyds did continue  to monitor his account as 
indicated by the letters it sent him. 
But, while Mr P clearly  did enjoy some form of account assistance from his relationship 
manager, I havent seen that this was a general  service that was offered to customers 
according to Lloyds terms and conditions. And Ive seen that when Lloyds did contact Mr P 
to ask him if he wanted it to transfer money  between accounts, it specifically requested his 
Ref: DRN63907183authorisation to do so. Theres  no evidence that it ever transferred money  without first having 
contacted him. 
So whether  or not Lloyds provided  some additional and discretionary help  it wasnt  obliged 
to. And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect it to.
I think Lloyds did contact  Mr P throughout this time through the letters it sent him. I know 
Mr P says he didnt look at the letters  because they were from a debt agency   and Lloyds 
had previously told him not to communicate with third parties.  But I dont think this prevented  
him from opening the letters to see what they were  about. If Mr P had been concerned about  
the content of the letters,  he could still have chosen not to communicate  with the agency and 
asked Lloyds to verify  the authenticity of them. 
I havent seen  any evidence to show that Lloyds told Mr P to avoid contact with any third 
parties he wasnt sure about.  Bearing  in mind Lloyds  does use third parties for some of its 
business activities (such  as recoveries), I think its unlikely  it would have  meant for Mr P to 
ignore the letters.
Ultimately here, I havent seen evidence to support Mr Ps belief that he had a contract with 
Lloyds which  meant it would, unilaterally,  ensure  his accounts were within their credit limits 
using its ROSO where necessary. And from what Ive seen I also think Lloyds acted 
reasonably in making Mr P aware of the situation  with his account   ensuring over-limit and 
default notices  were issued. 
I dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong here,  and I dont think  it needs to apply to 
remove the default from Mr Ps credit  file.
my final decision
For the same reasons  that Ive already  given  in my provisional decision, I think  Lloyds Bank 
PLCs payment of £50 to settle the complaint is fair in all the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2019.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr P complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) incorrectly  registered a default on his credit file. He 
wants it to be removed.
background
Mr P had a long standing relationship with Lloyds and held business and personal accounts with it. In 
March 2017 Mr P was using  the overdraft on his personal accounts  but by July 2017 he had 
exceeded the agreed  limit and  although a credit was made to the account  in August, the limit was 
exceeded again by 1 September 2017. Mr Ps account continued to remain over the overdraft limit 
until Lloyds transferred  it to its recovery  team on 10 January 2018 and the account  was closed. 
Ref: DRN63907184Lloyds says during this time it tried to call Mr P about  the overdraft and sent him letters explaining 
what he needed to do and the consequences  of not paying off the excess  amount.    
Mr P complained. He said he didnt have a debt with Lloyds  as his business account held more  funds 
than his personal  account owed. He said he had a verbal agreement from Lloyds to transfer funds 
between the accounts and there was no reason why it couldnt do that.  Mr P maintained  that process 
had been carried out previously. 
Lloyds didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint.  It said it wasnt obliged to exercise what was known  as its 
right of set off (ROSO)  to transfer funds between accounts. And as it hadnt received any response 
to its numerous demands for payment it had reported the default to Mr Ps credit file correctly.  Lloyds 
did accept it may have  misinformed Mr P about the ROSO  and paid him £50 for any inconvenience 
that may have  caused.  Unhappy with this response Mr P brought his complaint to us. 
One of our investigators looked into the complaint.  She said Lloyds hadnt  acted unfairly as it had 
previously transferred money only when it had taken instructions  from Mr P. There was no evidence  
of a verbal agreement for it to transfer money between accounts if needed. She also said Lloyds 
wasnt able to use its ROSO  from a joint account to offset debts in a sole name.
 
Mr P disagreed. In summary he said:
the ROSO was an option  Lloyds  could have used, so it had misinformed him about  an 
arrangement to transfer money between his accounts. Therefore from that time the original 
contract he had with Lloyds  was void. 
Lloyds policy is to tell its customers not to accept communication from third parties, which is 
what he did when he didnt look at the correspondence from the agency trying to collect the 
debt. 
Lloyds offered him an additional benefit by monitoring his private and business accounts  and 
hed come  to rely on that service. Lloyds  shouldnt  have ended  that service  without 
communicating the decision to him and giving  notice.
Five working days before the default was registered he received a statement  telling him the 
account was settled.  It was therefore unfair to register a default shortly afterwards as he 
wasnt given any notice that there was a problem.  
He made a number of phone calls to Lloyds prior to the default to resolve  the matter  but 
Lloyds hadnt been able to access his account.  
He said hed taken  legal advice and had been informed that Lloyds shouldnt have registered  
the default as the account had already been settled and closed at that point.  
The outstanding debt was subsequently repaid  but the default remains  on Mr Ps credit file.
Following the investigators assessment of the complaint Mr P has raised a number  of further 
questions about the validity of charges  that were applied  to his account.  The investigator told Mr P 
that he should  raise these  new complaint points separately. 
So for the purpose of clarity what  Im considering  here is whether Lloyds acted fairly in registering a 
default on Mr Ps personal account and whether it could have  used its ROSO to clear  the outstanding  
overdraft balance.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P has provided  evidence to demonstrate the difficulties he says hes had with his accounts  over a 
number of years  and Ive carefully considered  all of this information. I can see that Mr P is frustrated 
by his recent dealings with Lloyds and is concerned he now has a default  on his credit file  and I 
Ref: DRN63907185have some sympathy for Mr Ps position there  but I dont think  Lloyds has acted unfairly here, which  
I know will disappoint Mr P so Ill explain why.  
Should Lloyds have  used its ROSO?
A ROSO is where the business  transfers money from an account which  is in credit, to repay  or reduce 
a debt on another  account held by the same customer. But in order to meet the legal  principle 
involved the amount involved must be due and the customer  must  hold both accounts  in the same  
capacity.   
Ive seen evidence that shows Mr P did previously ask for funds  to be transferred between  accounts.  
But this was following his personal instructions  and not actions  taken  independently by Lloyds.
Mr P has made numerous  references  to an existing agreement that allowed money  to be transferred 
between his accounts. I havent seen any evidence  of any such  agreement. What I have seen is 
evidence of Lloyds acting on Mr Ps instructions to move funds. So Im satisfied that Lloyds hadnt 
made an agreement to use its ROSO without  Mr Ps authorisation and I dont think  Lloyds has made 
any error there.
Mr P states such an agreement  existed.  But its clear no arrangement was being enforced when Mr P 
received letters about his current account being overdrawn. Had Mr P been sure there was an 
agreement I would have  expected him to have contacted Lloyds at that time to query why money 
wasnt being transferred between  his accounts.
Mr P says Lloyds agreed  to monitor his account  and used to contact him when money needed  
transferring. And I know  hes referred to his personal relationship manager leaving and being replaced 
by a general team  as evidence that this monitoring  hadnt continued. But I think Lloyds did monitor 
his account by sending him the default and unpaid notices. And had he contacted  Lloyds it would 
have been able to transfer money between his accounts if hed authorised it.
Ive gone on to consider whether Lloyds  could have used its ROSO between the accounts Mr P held. 
Lloyds has said it doesnt  exercise its ROSO between business accounts  and current accounts and I 
think thats a general principle that I would usually  expect  to see. So I dont think  Lloyds was wrong 
not to use its ROSO here.  Theres no evidence  to suggest Mr Ps account was a sole trader account 
 which I can see from Lloyds submission might have provided a legitimate reason for it to use its 
ROSO.  
But if Mr P is able to supply  any information to show it was a sole trader  account  Ill reconsider the 
matter with that in mind. However,  Im also mindful of the fact that the ROSO isnt an obligation that 
Lloyds has to carry out. Its a matter for Lloyds to decide if it will use its ROSO under the appropriate 
conditions. 
So, establishing Mr Ps business account was a sole trader one will simply determine whether the 
ROSO was something available to Lloyds to consider, rather than being  an obligation to use that 
facility.
Receipt of overlimit and default  notices
Mr P has said he wasnt made aware  of any potential problem with his account. He says Lloyds 
should have sent such information by recorded delivery  or even emailed  him directly. Hes also said 
that previously Lloyds  told him not to accept any third party communications  about his accounts.  So 
he didnt open the third party (solicitors)  request  for payment. 
Mr P hasnt provided any evidence to show that Lloyds  did tell him to ignore any third party  
correspondence. And I think  on balance, if it had of done, this would most likely have applied to any 
requests for account  information from third parties that might have compromised his security. Theres 
no evidence to suggest  that Lloyds would  have told Mr P to ignore the requests for payments from the 
solicitors acting on its behalf.  
Ref: DRN63907186But regardless of that Mr P has acknowledged that he received  letters from the solicitors. So Im 
satisfied that Lloyds did send out the necessary information to make Mr P aware of the issue of being 
over his overdraft  limit, and the effect  this might have on his credit worthiness if he failed to act. And 
Ive also seen  other  evidence from Lloyds to demonstrate that it did send Mr P letters  during 2017 
explaining the situation with his account. 
Lloyds also said it tried to contact Mr P to speak to him about the matter  and Mr P himself  has 
acknowledged two such calls, although  he says Lloyds  should have done more.  But I dont think  
Lloyds needed to have  done  more. I think it made adequate attempts,  based on the evidence Ive 
seen, to contact  Mr P and resolve the issue of his overdrawn account. 
Mr P has also questioned why his account was defaulted on 10 January  2018,  when hed received a 
statement showing his account was settled and closed. But Ive considered the statement very 
carefully, and while I can see that Lloyds transferred  his outstanding balance to its recoveries  team  
and closed the account  on that date  theres no evidence to show Mr P had paid the outstanding  
balance on the same date.  The entries appear to relate to Lloyds transferring  the management of 
Mr Ps account  to its formal  recovery (as opposed to collections) section. So  I dont think  Lloyds has 
acted unfairly  by passing Mr Ps debt to a third party or by closing his account  and registering the 
default. And therefore  I dont think  Lloyds should have to remove  the default from his credit file. 
Offer of compensation
Mr P has maintained that there was an agreement to transfer funds between his accounts  in order to 
make payments and keep  his accounts  within  their limits. Ive already said theres  no evidence of 
such an agreement but  during its investigation and response  to Mr P  Lloyds has accepted that 
one of its business  managers may have mis-advised  Mr P about  what  transfers could be made. 
Although theres  no evidence to support what might  have been said, Lloyds decided to pay 
Mr P £50 in compensation  for any potential mis-advice.  In the circumstances I think thats a fair and 
reasonable offer to have made regarding that matter.
my provisional  decision
Lloyds Bank  Plc has already  made  an offer to pay £50 to settle  the complaint and I think this offer is 
fair in all the circumstances.
So my provisional decision  is Lloyds should pay Mr P £50, unless it has already done so. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6390718