K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, (Halifax) mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs G bought  the policy at a bank branch in 2001 at the same  time as taking a loan.  
Mr G was employed at the time as an engineer and had been there more than 25 years. He 
has told us he was entitled to less than 12 but at least six months full pay for sickness  or 
redundancy and didnt  have any other  means  with which  to pay the loan if he couldnt  work. 
Mrs G wasnt  in paid employment  at the time and had started  to suffer  from a health issue  
around two years earlier. Mr G has told us he had a health condition  for which he was first 
prescribed treatment more than 20 years earlier. He hasnt told us of having ever been off 
work with this or of having had any other  health issues  before the sale.
The policy provided  cover  on Mr G for accident, sickness  and unemployment,  and life cover,  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. For a successful claim it offered to pay the monthly  
loan payment for up to 60 months for disability and 12 months  for unemployment.  The life 
cover would, subject to its terms, repay the loan on death.
The loan was repayable over 120 months.  The monthly loan repayment  started  at £110.38 
with the PPI costing  an additional £11.45,  making the total monthly payment £121.83. The 
policy didnt attract interest  and could be cancelled without penalty  by either party  with Mr G 
needing to give written notice and Halifax needing to give 30 days written notice.
Halifax has sent us evidence to show that the loan account closed in 2006.  Mr and Mrs Gs 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on their behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  Mr and Mrs Gs 
representative says,  in summary:
Halifax failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP APP 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have 
taken the policy  and the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs Gs representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Halifax  shouldve  told Mr and Mrs G 
about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Halifax  should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs G and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim; 
The information Mr and Mrs G received was misleading. These  policies were  promoted 
as providing peace  of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue; and
Ref: DRN69752092The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally,  it 
has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Gs complaint
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter guidance  (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2006. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC code, which  set out minimum standards of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Halifax, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
Ref: DRN69752093The ABI code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Halifax at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Gs case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the duty of utmost  good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Halifax was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Halifax gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs G with reasonable care and skill  
in particular, whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, given their needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions  of the policy  and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in Mr and Mrs Gs 
favour, I must then go on to consider whether  and to what extent they suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Ref: DRN69752094Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by Mr and Mrs G and 
Halifax, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs G know they had a choice?
Halifax had to make it clear the PPI was optional. Mr and Mrs G took the PPI at a meeting 
when they took their loan. The loan agreement form asked: Do you want Personal Loan 
Repayments Insurance  with boxes to say either yes or no. On Mr and Mrs Gs form, 
which they signed to take the loan, the yes box is marked - and I think  it wouldve been  
apparent that the no box should  be marked instead  if the PPI wasnt wanted.
Like most details on the form, such as the amount being borrowed, the mark in the yes box 
is printed - and I think its likely the printed  details reflect decisions Mr and Mrs G had made  
during the meeting before the form was printed for them to sign.  I say this bearing  in mind 
that I think it likely Mr and Mrs G wouldve known from the form that they had opted for the 
PPI  and the form presented the PPI as an insurance that customers  could say yes or no 
to, depending on whether  they wanted  it.
Mr and Mrs G have said they had no interest  in PPI and have said it was just included  as 
part of the package with their loan.  Ive thought about this carefully. But taking  everything  
into account, and in the light of all Ive said above, I think  its more  likely Mr and Mrs G knew 
the policy was optional and agreed to take it without  undue  pressure.
did Halifax provide advice?
Halifax says it gave  advice during  this sale. Mr and Mrs G say Halifax didnt give advice. But 
if Halifax did give advice, Halifax had to do more. With this in mind, I think  it fair to proceed 
on the basis that Halifax gave advice. This means  Halifax had to advise Mr and Mrs G with 
reasonable care and skill, in particular whether the policy was appropriate or suitable given 
their needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Halifax took to establish  whether the policy was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs G. Theres no record of what  exactly  the adviser discussed 
in relation to the PPI. This is unsurprising in respect  of a sale during a meeting. The adviser 
had some limited information about Mr and Mrs Gs financial circumstances, but there is no 
specific evidence to show the adviser  took steps  to establish whether Mr G wouldve been 
caught by the significant  exclusions  and limitations  which might have meant the policy did 
not fully meet Mr and Mrs Gs needs. For example, there is nothing to suggest Halifax  
considered whether Mr G had any pre-existing  medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs G given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded Halifax advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Halifax did all it should have done to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Ref: DRN69752095-Mr and Mrs G had a need  for the cover - even allowing for Mr Gs work  redundancy and 
sickness benefits, it seems likely  they couldve suffered a significant  fall in income were  
Mr G unable to work  for an extended period. Also, their ability to continue to meet  their 
loan repayments  couldve been  put under  strain  in that situation, bearing in mind Mr G 
was the only one in paid work at the time and they had no savings to fall back  on.
-Mr G met the eligibility criteria  for the policy and the monthly cost appears  to have been 
affordable for Mr and Mrs G.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs G. Mr G 
had a health condition but, from what Mr and Mrs G have told us, in more  than 20 years  
of having it hed never been  off work with it. With this in mind, I dont think  how the policy 
wouldve excluded such absences made it unsuitable to recommend. Also, nothing about  
Mr Gs employment or occupation wouldve made  it difficult for Mr and Mrs G to claim.
the information
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what 
Halifax was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow  
that advice and take the policy.
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs G were given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is, it would protect their payments if Mr G were  unable 
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. I have 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs G wouldve taken the policy  
without any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be. Also, the actual 
starting premium was set out on the credit  agreement, so I think  it likely Mr and Mrs G knew 
what the premium would be when they applied for the cover.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Halifax gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before 
Mr and Mrs G agreed to take the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs G, Im not persuaded 
Halifax did enough to present information  about the policy it was recommending in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to Mr and Mrs G. Im not persuaded Halifax  gave Mr and Mrs G 
all the information  they needed  about the policy to make an informed decision about  whether 
to follow  the recommendation and take it.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Gs representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like 
Mr and Mrs Gs. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
Ref: DRN69752096-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mr and Mrs Gs representative considers to be poor value  
and the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mr and Mrs G about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to them.
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Gs representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs G has suggested. And, taking  into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Halifax ought to have done either. 
What effect did Halifaxs  shortcomings have  on Mr and Mrs G? To what extent  did 
they suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Halifax  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and Mrs G. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude they 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not they 
would have still taken  the policy, had Halifax done  things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded Halifax took the steps  it should have done to establish whether  the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs G, I have found the policy  was ultimately 
suitable for them. In those  circumstances it seems to me that, whether or not Mr and Mrs G 
have suffered loss or damage  in this case primarily depends on whether, if Halifax had 
explained things  properly, Mr and Mrs G wouldve  acted differently or whether they would 
have taken the policy in any event. Mr and Mrs G say they wouldnt have taken it and believe 
I should presume  this to be the case given the significant failings  identified  above. Ive 
considered the representations of both sides  and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take insurance  requires consumers to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively they have to weigh up the 
advice to take the policy, the cost of doing so given  the benefits offered in return and the 
potential consequences  they will suffer  if they do not have insurance, should the risks come 
to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests Mr and Mrs G had some  interest in taking the PPI. By 
this I mean, when Halifax offered Mr and Mrs G the PPI or advised them there  was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their loan payments if Mr G were unable 
to work due to accident, sickness or unemployment,  Mr and Mrs G concluded  they wanted 
that product.  But they made  that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  
they thought they were getting  is not exactly what they got.
As I explained earlier, from the evidence about their circumstances at the time of the sale Im 
satisfied the policy wasnt fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable for Mr and Mrs G. As Ive also 
explained, the information they were given about the cost was clear.  But the information 
about other aspects  of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and exclusions, wasnt  as 
clear as it should have  been.
Ref: DRN69752097Im not persuaded Halifax made  clear  exactly what Mr and Mrs G would get back  if they 
made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely their expectations about what it would pay 
(an amount  sufficient to meet  their loan repayment) were significantly different to what the 
policy actually did. Possibly  the most significant differences between  what Mr and Mrs G 
thought they had bought and what they actually bought were the following:
As well as excluding  any directly related claim if Mr G were aware at the policy  start of 
any health issue in the 12 months  before the start that might  cause him to claim, the 
policy also excluded claims related to any health  issue Mr G knew about  or shouldve 
known about or for which hed been treated  or advised by a medical practitioner in the 12 
months before the policy start and which recurred within  24 months of the policy start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions, 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations  excluded, unemployment  cover  if Mr G wasnt  
a permanent employee; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for disability, Mr G be stopped  from doing  his own or 
any similar job and be stopped  from doing any paid work  his experience, education  or 
training reasonably qualified him to do.
I do accept theres a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mr and Mrs G pause  for thought  and may well have caused them  to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they mightve decided  not to proceed.  The limitations  on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  mightve dissuaded  some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs G from taking the policy.
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. Mr G was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proven  valuable to 
Mr and Mrs G if the insured risks had become a reality.
They couldnt have  claimed  for work absences related to Mr Gs health condition.  But, from 
what theyve told us, in more than 20 years of having the condition  it hadnt kept Mr G off 
work. With this in mind, what I have doesnt make  me think  it likely Mr and Mrs G wouldve 
given this much weight in their decision - and he didnt have any other  health  issues  that 
mightve been excluded. Also, Ive nothing  to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions  he was in permanent employment, for example.  So, with all the 
above in mind, I think Mr and Mrs G still had some good reasons to take the policy.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a claim for these conditions were more onerous than Mr and Mrs G might  
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs G wouldve expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support it. And, while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to 
Mr and Mrs G from taking the policy,  Mr and Mrs G in their circumstances still had some 
good reasons  to take it.
If Mr and Mrs G had known they could only claim for disability if Mr G were not only unable  
to do his own or any similar job, but also unable to do any work his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do, it might  have played into their thinking about what to 
do. And I accept it may have given them pause for thought  but, given their circumstances, 
on balance I think it likely  Mr and Mrs G wouldve  still been interested in taking the cover. 
Ref: DRN69752098Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mr and Mrs G would still have  taken the policy. It was suitable for them,  sufficiently close 
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  were  Mr G made  redundant, or unable to work through accident  
or sickness. In the circumstances,  I consider  it more likely than not Mr and Mrs G wouldve 
taken the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs G wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  they 
found themselves  in as result of the sale was the same position  they wouldve  been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they wouldnt 
have taken the policy. Im not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider that, in this case,  it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs G in the position they wouldve been in if they 
hadnt taken the PPI. Thats because, while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken  it, 
Im satisfied that, of the two possibilities, its more likely  than not they wouldve still taken it if 
theyd been given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the PPI they were buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances to conclude 
Halifax should pay Mr and Mrs G compensation, as that would put them in a better position 
than they wouldve been in had everything  happened as it should have done.
Im also aware Mr and Mrs G think Halifax misrepresented  the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  theres a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
Halifaxs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why Halifax  
failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in the 
information it provided  but because the overall  information it gave Mr and Mrs G, in the 
way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it 
to have met in 2001 when providing information  about an insurance policy.
Ref: DRN69752099Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Gs representative says a court  might  take,  
and the remedy  it might award, were it to find that Halifax had been in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs G in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6975209