K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about his pet insurance policy with Allianz Insurance  Plc. Hes raised a 
number of issues about the sale of the policy, the price of the policy and that Allianz has 
refused to upgrade the cover. 
In this decision my references to Allianz include its agent.
background
Mr M insured his young dog with Allianz, under a lifetime pet insurance policy. The policy  
covers vets fees of up to £4,000 per condition per policy year.
Unfortunately in the first year of cover Mr Ms dog fell ill and the claim for vets fees 
exceeded £4,000. Mr M made a number of complaints to Allianz.  He said it had failed to 
make the policy  limit of £4,000 clear or that there  were higher levels  of cover at a relatively  
modest additional premium. He said Allianz  was charging more for his dogs cover than the 
dogs female sibling, even though the female  dog had the higher £12,000 cover.  After  getting 
online quotes he found that Allianz  was charging more  for his policy than it would if he took a 
new policy with it. And he couldnt take a new policy because then the dogs pre-existing 
medical conditions  wouldnt be covered.  He also complained that at the 2018 renewal Allianz 
wouldnt agree  to upgrade the policy. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought Allianz had made it clear there 
were different levels of cover available, but Mr M hadnt wanted  information about the other 
level of covers. Allianz had told Mr M that any upgrade would depend on underwriters 
consent and the dogs  medical history. So Allianz  didnt have to agree  to upgrade the policy 
but had said it would  review this at the following years renewal. She didnt consider Allianz 
had made  a mistake  about the policy pricing,  even if hed been  able to find a cheaper quote 
also with Allianz. The dogs gender  and address  would have an impact on pricing, so the 
policy for Mr Ms dogs female sibling (at a different  address) would be priced  differently.
Mr M strongly disagreed  with the adjudicators findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive carefully reviewed all the evidence.  Having done  so I find I agree with our adjudicators 
conclusions, for broadly  the same reasons  shes given. Ill explain my findings and in doing 
so Ill focus on the issues  that I consider are central  to this dispute.
Ive listened to Mr Ms telephone conversation with Allianzs call handler,  when he took out 
the policy. Allianz clearly  told Mr M there were three levels of cover,  and offered to give him 
details for the policy with vets fees condition  limits of £4,000, £7,000 and £12,000  
respectively. I can see Mr M says he might  have made a different decision if hed known it 
wouldnt have cost very much more  for a higher  level of cover.  But I dont think Allianz did 
anything wrong  in not giving him the prices for the higher  cover  levels. Towards the end of 
the call Allianz reminded  Mr M there  were  three  levels  of cover,  and asked whether he was 
happy with the £4,000 level of cover. Mr M said he was. Hed earlier  also said the price for 
the £4,000 cover was more than he wanted to pay. Allianz gave him a discount  of two 
Ref: DRN69614302months premium. There was also a discussion about upgrading the cover at renewal, which  
Ill refer to later in this decision.
Mr M doesnt accept that Allianz can have calculated the price for his dogs policy correctly. 
He uses his dogs  female  sibling  as an example, as the owner had paid around  £60 less 
than hed paid for his policy in the first year for the £12,000 level of cover.  Hes also 
expressed his concern  that hes been able to source a lower price for the same level of 
cover with the same insurer.  
I decide individual complaints. Its not my role to tell an insurer  what price it should  charge 
for the risks it covers. I also dont  decide what factors it should take into account when it 
assesses those risks. I look at what factors an insurer  has taken into account  when 
calculating the policy premium and whether theyve been applied  in the same way to all its 
policy holders. I can then decide  if an insurer has treated a customer  fairly. 
Allianz has shown  us how its calculated the policy premium for Mr Ms dog. I dont  consider  
its made a mistake.  It has taken into account information including  Mr Ms dogs age and 
sex and his address. Its explained that the dogs sibling is female,  and it applies a different 
rating to female  dogs  than male dogs. Its also shown that the address where  the dog lives 
will also be taken into account. 
I understand Mr M has been able to get a lower quote for the same policy with the same 
insurer. He makes the point that as hes claimed for his dogs illness  he cant  freely  move to 
another policy. I do see his point,  but I dont think this means  Allianz made a mistake  in the 
amount it charged  him for his policy in its first year.  Im satisfied that Allianz  treated Mr M the 
same as any other customer,  with the same  circumstances, who applied  for their pet 
insurance policy at the time he did. I think its treated him fairly. 
During the sales call when he took out the policy  Allianz explained that any upgrade at 
renewal would depend on the dogs  medical  history and the policy underwriter would decide 
about the upgrade. At the 2018 renewal  Allianzs  underwriter was entitled to assess the risk 
and decide not to increase the policy cover. Thats the case even though  Mr M makes the 
point that his dogs illness wasnt cancer,  as I understand was first suspected. Allianz  has 
offered to review its decision about upgrade at the next renewal at Mr Ms request. 
So for the reasons Ive given I dont  uphold this complaint. For completeness,  I should say 
that Mr M is able to reject my final decision.  If he rejects it then it will not be binding either on 
him or Allianz. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6961430