K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Barclays  Bank plc (trading  as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 2001.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Bs credit  card account when he applied for the card during a meeting at the bank.
Mr B says he had very good sick pay entitlement with his employer so had no need  for the 
policy. He says if the costs, benefits  and optionality had been made clear to him then he 
would have declined  it.
Our adjudicator did not uphold Mr Bs complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint because:
I think Barclaycard made Mr B aware that the PPI was optional  and he chose to take it. 
I say this because  although I cant be sure what  was said in the meeting, I am 
persuaded he made it clear on the credit  agreement he signed that he wanted to take 
the policy  out.
I think Barclaycard recommended the PPI to Mr B, but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time.  He says he 
had 6 months sick pay and £3000 savings  but I think  he would have still found the 
benefit offered by the policy useful in an extended period of sickness or unemployment.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Mr B chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have  wanted  
this type of cover. He was not affected  by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced and affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mr B would have 
made a different  decision  if better  information  had been provided.
In conclusion, I dont  think the policy was mis-sold to Mr B when he obtained  a credit card in 
one of Barclays Bank Plcs branches.
Which means Barclaycard  doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclaycard has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
Ref: DRN60407952When the policy was sold, Barclaycard expected to get a high level of commission  and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have  told Mr B about that. 
Because Barclaycard didnt tell Mr B, that was unfair. 
To put that right,  Barclaycard has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6040795