K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that The Co-operative Bank Plc, trading as Britannia, has reduced the rate 
of interest on his savings  account.
background
Mr W had a regular saver account with Britannia  to which he was paying  £100 each month. 
He says that he noticed in May 2019 that the interest rate on the account had been reduced  
from 2.1% to 0.6% so he complained to Britannia.
It didnt uphold his complaint because  it had sent a letter to him in March 2018 informing him 
about the changes to his account and which gave  details  of his options  moving  forward. He 
wasnt satisfied with its response and says that he didnt receive that letter  so he complained 
to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Britannia did send letters to Mr W in March and May 2018  and he said that he was 
unable to hold Britannia responsible for those letters not being received. He said that 
Britannia only issues statements on a monthly basis if withdrawals are being made from the 
account to which he was switched  and, if no withdrawals  are made, statements are sent 
out annually.
Mr W has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman. He says,  in 
summary, that he reads all correspondence  that he receives but cant  read correspondence  
that isnt received and that it shouldve  issued the annual statement of the new account at 
the interest payment anniversary date (assuming it was to be paid and issued annually)  
rather than in May 2019 after he had made  four further payments to the account.  And he 
feels that hes entitled to the difference between the 2.1% interest rate and the 0.6% interest 
rate (on the increasing  balance  - as represented by his regular standing order  payments) 
from the original interest payment date in June 2018 until the date of the letter that he 
received in May 2019. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Britannia has provided a copy of the letter that it says was sent to Mr W in March 2018. The 
letter says that his account  would  change on the next anniversary of the account being 
opened (which  would  be June 2018) and details of the new account, its terms and conditions 
and the options that were available to Mr W were included in the letter.
Mr W says that he didnt  receive that letter. But Britannia has provided evidence  to show  that 
it was sent to him using his correct address. And by sending the letter  I consider that 
Britannia gave  notice of the account  change  even if the letter  wasnt received by Mr W. 
Britannia says that it also sent a further  batch letter to customers,  including  Mr W, about the 
account change  in May 2018.
Mr W didnt become aware of the change until he received an account statement in 
May 2019. Britannia says that it only issues statements on the account to which  Mr W was 
switched on a monthly basis if withdrawals are being  made from the account  and, if no 
Ref: DRN63012192withdrawals are made, statements are sent out annually. Mr W wasnt making withdrawals 
from the account so he received an annual statement  which for his account  was produced 
in May 2019.  
Ive seen no evidence  to show that Mr W contacted Britannia when he stopped receiving 
monthly statements   and if hed done so its likely than he wouldve become aware at that 
time about the change to his account.  
Interest is paid on the account  annually  on the anniversary date. And I can see from 
previous statements that have  been sent to Mr W that interest has been  applied to his 
account in June.
I can understand Mr Ws frustration that he didnt  become aware until May 2019 that the 
interest rate on his account had been  reduced from 2.1%  to 0.6% in June 2018. And I 
understand that Mr W has now changed his account. But Im not persuaded that Britannia 
has acted incorrectly in these circumstances. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable 
for me to require  it to pay Mr W a higher rate of interest for that period than hes already 
received, to pay him any compensation  or to take any other action in response  to his 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6301219