K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B, represented by Ms B, complain Close Brothers Limited  didnt handle  the 
rejection of their vehicle  that was subject  to a hire purchase agreement (HPA) correctly  and 
have not compensated them fully for the issues that arose.
background 
Mr and Mrs B entered into a HPA with Close Brothers in September  2017  to acquire a 
vehicle. They experienced issues with the vehicle and notified the retailer  about  these on 
12 September. Discussions were  entered into but a resolution wasnt  agreed.  Mr and Mrs B 
instructed solicitors and on 29 September a rejection letter was sent. The retailer  didnt 
accept the rejection letter and contact was made with Close Brothers.
On 18 October 2017, an email was received that confirmed Close  Brothers had spoken with 
the retailer and agreed to unwind the deal and return the former vehicle (which had been 
part exchanged). An indemnity was requested in relation to the condition of the part 
exchanged vehicle that was being  returned.  At this point Mr and Mrs B were  threatened with 
legal action if payments  werent maintained.
On 30 October 2017, a letter  was received from Close Brothers  solicitors  confirming the 
rejection had been accepted and that the parties should be put back in the position they 
would have been had the HPA not been entered into. It was then agreed  that if any damage 
was found with the part exchange vehicle a claim could be brought  against Close Brothers.
 
By the time the rejection was put into action, Mr and Mrs B say they had been without the 
vehicle for six weeks. Mr and Mrs B say that there was then a long delay before Close 
Brothers responded to the other issues involved in the complaint. It then didnt uphold the 
complaint in regard  to Mr and Mrs B not being supported by Close Brothers;  compensation 
for being without  the vehicle; and the threats  of legal action.
Mr and Mrs B say that Close Brothers  said that an alternative vehicle had been  offered by 
the retailer but that no offer was made  and they also say that given the breakdown  in 
relationship with the retailer  Close Brothers  shouldnt have expected  them to accept this.
Mr and Mrs B want an apology  from Close  Brothers about the way the rejection was handled  
and also compensation for the stress caused  and loss of use of the vehicle. They  also say 
they experienced a number of additional losses due to the issues with the vehicle for which 
they want to be refunded.  These were  listed  as:
1.Vehicle Registration  Retention Cost: £80
2.Vehicle Tax:  £267
3.Insurance: £267.07 (£853.83 repaid)
4.Loss of Earnings  for a family  member  who had to collect  the vehicle: £180
5.Fuel: £198
Following our investigation Close Brothers offered  to refund the following  amounts subject  to 
evidence being  provided:
1.The private registration for the part exchanged vehicle - retention cost of £80
2.£250 for the retention of the log book
3.Vehicle tax at - £267
Ref: DRN688855324.Loss of insurance - £267.07
Mr and Mrs B didnt  accept the offer made by Close Brothers as they said no offer had been  
made in respect  to the loss of a days wages; fuel for the journey to and from the retailer  or 
compensation for the stress and inconvenience  caused and the lack of use of the vehicle.  
Ms B also noted that the £250 for the log book had been reimbursed by the dealer.
Our adjudicator thought that the actions taken  by Close Brothers  in regard to Mr and Mrs Bs 
vehicle and the offer it had made to refund the cost of the private number plate retention,  
vehicle tax and insurance costs was reasonable. She didnt require it to do anything  further.
Ms B raised a number of issues in response  to our adjudicators view. She was concerned 
that actions of the retailer had been  confused with actions of Close  Brothers. She said that 
the vehicle was rejected within the first 30 days and so there was no need for any 
investigation to take place  or any reason for Mr and Mrs B to consider  repairs.  She said that 
had the rejection been dealt with properly Mr and Mrs B wouldnt  have  been  without a 
vehicle for six weeks or suffered the stress  and inconvenience of dealing  with the complaint 
through an extended period. She said that given  all the issues, Mr and Mrs B hadnt  been 
put back in the position  they would have  been  prior to the HPA. 
Ms B said that Close Brothers threatened legal action after the vehicle had been  rejected 
and when Mr and Mrs B were no longer liable for any payments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
A number  of issues have  been raised and I have considered all of these. This complaint is 
against Close Brothers. Under the regulations Close Brothers can be held liable if the vehicle 
was not of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. It can also be held liable for 
representations made  by the dealer in regard to setting  up the HPA and any statements 
made that induced Mr and Mrs B to enter into this. I cannot hold Close Brothers  responsible 
for the ongoing  actions of the dealer.  I note there  was a break down in relationship with the 
dealer and that this has caused some  distress and upset but this is not something I can hold 
Close Brothers responsible for.
Mr and Mrs B entered into a HPA in September 2017. There  were initial  issues regarding the 
mileage of the part exchanged vehicle but this was an issue between  Mr and Mrs B and the 
dealer and so I havent commented on this further.  Following collection of the vehicle 
Mr and Mrs B raised a number of issues. They sent a solicitors letter to the dealer dated 
29 September 2017 listing their concerns. The issues listed  included damage to the vehicle; 
oil leaks, a banging noise;  and corroded exhaust. This letter refers to the previous contact 
that had been made  with the dealer  and also set out Mr and Mrs Bs request to reject the 
vehicle.
The dealer,  in its letter dated 2 October 2017, disputed  that the vehicle wasnt  of satisfactory  
quality at the point of supply. It also said that offers had been  made  to Mr and Mrs B 
including loan vehicles,  exchange vehicles and to unwind the deal but says these were 
refused.
Ref: DRN68885533Close Brothers has shown evidence that it was contacted about the issues at end 
September 2017 and was informed on 6 October  2017 that Mr and Mrs B had rejected the 
vehicle. Mrs B says that she contacted Close Brothers on 6 October and was asked to 
provide further  information which was provided. I understand that Mr and Mrs B had stopped 
using the vehicle at this point. However, based on the information  I have seen  it doesnt  
appear that the vehicle was unsafe to drive but that Mr and Mrs B had chosen to stop using 
it due to the issues and outstanding dispute.
I can see from the notes provided by Close  Brothers  that it was working  to identify how to 
resolve the issue during October and it contacted  Mr and Mrs B on 18 October  2017  
confirming the unwind of the HPA and the return of the part exchanged vehicle. Having 
looked at the contact  notes provided  I think Close Brothers provided a fair offer to resolve  
the issue within a reasonable timeframe.
Mrs B requested that an indemnity  be provided  in regard to the condition of the returned  part 
exchange vehicle.  I understand  why this was requested  but it isnt unreasonable  that this 
needed to be considered  and that meant further  time passed.
A letter was sent to Mr and Mrs B dated 30 October 2017 confirming the unwind of the HPA 
and saying that the parties should be put back in the position they were in prior to the HPA. I 
understand the vehicle was collected  on 9 November.
I can see that the dealer didnt accept the rejection of the vehicle at the start and that it tried 
to suggest repairs  should take place. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 there is a short 
term right to reject when there is a fault that was present form the point of supply. Given  the 
nature of the issues and the dealers  comments about when damage occurred and wear and 
tear on a used vehicle  I do not find it unreasonable that it wished to discuss  options such  as 
repairs. However, Mr and Mrs B made  it clear they wished to reject the vehicle.
Having looked  through the evidence provided, I can see that Close  Brothers accepted that 
the vehicle could be rejected and arranged for the part exchanged vehicle to be returned 
and other  adjustments to be made. I find that these  actions  were fair and did attempt  to 
return Mr and Mrs B to the position they were in before the HPA.
The outstanding issues relate to additional costs Mr and Mrs B incurred, the loss of use of 
the vehicle and the trouble and upset caused.
In regard to the refund  amounts that have been  requested, Close  Brothers has accepted  a 
number of these  subject to evidence being provided.  I find this reasonable. Close Brothers  
has offered to refund £250  for the retention of the log book. Mr and Mrs B say this refund 
has been made by the dealer but Close Brothers  says the £250 refund was not for this item. 
In the event this refund  has not been made then I find it reasonable that Close  Brothers 
provides this.
An outstanding issue relates to the loss of wages  to a family  member and that family 
members fuel costs.  While I understand why a request has been made about the family 
members costs, the complainants in this case are Mr and Mrs B and it is only Mr and Mrs B 
who can be awarded compensation for distress and inconvenience caused.  I have no 
evidence that Mr and Mrs B incurred any costs  for the vehicle to be collected and therefore I 
do not find that costs  to a family  member  need  to be refunded.
Ref: DRN68885534Mr and Mrs B also say they should be refunded  for the loss of use of the vehicle.  As I have 
mentioned previously I havent  been provided any evidence to suggest  the vehicle wasnt 
safe to drive.  The issues listed do not seem  to be issues that would stop the vehicle being 
able to be used.  Also, while  I appreciate  the comments  Mr and Mrs B have made  about  not 
being offered  a loan vehicle, the information  provided by the dealer suggests offers were 
made in the early discussions. Also I find that Close Brothers acted in a timely way and 
accepted the rejection on 18 October after being made aware  of this request on 6 October. 
The vehicle wasnt collected  until 9 November but I dont find that Close  Brothers actions 
caused any unnecessary delays in this process.  Therefore, on balance,  do not find that a 
refund for the loss of use is required  in this case.
Mr and Mrs B have  also complained that they were  threatened with legal action after the 
vehicle had been rejected. I have not heard  the call on which this was discussed  but have 
seen the email sent on 18 October  which refers to legal  action.  I have considered what  was 
said and it is clear  that if the suggested resolution isnt accepted  then litigation is likely to 
follow. I appreciate that the comments about  legal  action must have been upsetting but I 
dont find it unreasonable that Close Brothers set out their position  in the event of the 
resolution not being agreed.
Raising a complaint does  involve time and inconvenience  however in this case I think that 
Close Brothers did act to try to resolve  the issues raised in a timely way. I appreciate  there 
were other issues with the dealer  but as set out previously the ongoing  service  provided by 
the dealer is not the responsibility of Close Brothers.
Overall, I find that the unwind  of the HPA was reasonable and that the offer by 
Close Brothers to refund  certain costs  subject to evidence is a reasonable resolution to this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Close Brothers  Limited should, as it has offered, refund 
Mr and Mrs B the following costs subject to evidence being provided:
1.the private registration for the part exchanged  vehicle - retention cost of £80
2.£250 for the retention of the log book (in the event this hasnt been returned)
3.vehicle tax at - £267
4.loss of insurance - £267.07
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6888553