K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  about a joint The Designer  universal protection and savings plan 
policy they have  with Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited.  They are 
unhappy that theyve been  asked to significantly increase their monthly premiums in order  to 
maintain the same level of cover. 
background
Mr and Mrs T took out the open  ended whole-of-life policy  in 1988 with a monthly  premium  of 
£20 and a sum assured level of cover  of £15,000. A review of the policy was done  in 2018 
after Mrs and Mrs T made a withdrawal. Sun Life said in order to maintain the level of cover 
the monthly premium  would need to increase to £117.42. 
Mr and Mrs T complained to Sun Life saying the policy  had been mis-sold.  They  said there  
had been no mention  of plan reviews or premium increases. 
Sun Life investigated but did not uphold the complaint. It said the terms and conditions  
issued when the policy started said it was reviewable, annual statements were  sent,  and 
review letters were  sent around every five years  since 1999. The review letters  show how 
long the premium was expected to maintain the benefit. It also said that in 2013 when Mr 
and Mrs T made a withdrawal from the policy an ad-hoc review was conducted. This said 
that the monthly premium and sum assured would remain the same until the next planned 
review in 2018. There was also a warning  that making a withdrawal from the policy means  
the premium might  need to be adjusted in the future. As part of the investigation Sun Life 
reviewed the sale and thought the policy was suitable at the time.
Mr and Mrs T remained unhappy so brought their complaint to our service where one of our 
investigators looked into what happened. He thought Sun Life made prominent that the 
policy was reviewable,  the sum assured wasnt guaranteed and that there  was no limit on 
how high the premium could rise. Mr and Mrs T didnt agree saying they still thought the 
policy was mis-sold due to the rise in premiums. So the complaint has come to me for a 
decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
Mr and Mrs T took out the policy in 1988.  This was some time ago so there  is limited  
information available.  From what I have seen Mr T was working,  Mrs T was a housewife,  and 
they had two dependent children. The primary purpose of the policy was to pay for funeral 
costs, and Mr and Mrs T have continued to pay the premiums. So it seems  Mr and Mrs T 
wanted life cover beyond the time when  their children would be financially independent. On 
balance, from the limited information available,  I think a whole-of-life policy was suitable.
The policy recommended  by Sun Life was reviewable. This means that Sun Life would 
review, at regular intervals,  if the premium being  paid was enough to support the level of 
cover being  provided  by the policy. Mr and Mrs T say they werent told the policy was 
reviewable.
Ref: DRN64404512The illustration information  from when the policy was taken out says:
We guarantee to maintain your chosen protection benefits for a minimum period of 5 years 
provided, of course,  that your regular  contributions  are paid as scheduled and no 
withdrawals are made from your fund.
The terms and conditions  go on to say:
The company will carry out a Policy review  within 30 days  before or after the 5th anniversary 
of the Date Of Commencement and at intervals thereafter as the company may determine  
but not less than every five years. Following each  policy review  the Company may stipulate 
to the Insured that he should  increase  the amount of Regular Premium payable to whatever 
level the Company  considers to be necessary in order  to sustain the Protection  Benefits in 
force until the next Policy Review. 
Im satisfied the information  from the time of sale shows that reviews of the policy will take 
place.
Sun Life says they reviewed the policy in 1999, 2004, 2009,  2013 and then again in 2018.  
Ive seen the letters Sun Life sent Mr and Mrs T after the standard reviews  in 2004, 2009 as 
well as the letter the following 2013 ad-hoc review.
The 2004  and 2009 letters say there would be no need for a premium  increase in order  to 
maintain the same level of benefit  for at least five years. The letters  conclude  by saying that 
the review was based on reasonable assumptions  of future  trends but because things might  
change it will continue to review the policy. 
In 2013 Mr and Mrs T made  a withdrawal from the policy of £925.51. At that time Sun Life 
did an ad hoc review. In a letter to Mr and Mrs T, Sun Life said that the value of the policy 
could fall or rise. It also says that the benefit provided by the policy  can be supported by the 
current premium  until the next policy review.  Whilst the letter doesnt say when that review  
will be, the terms and conditions say that it will be in a minimum of five years. This is what  
happened as the next review was in 2018  which is when Mr and Mrs T complained  about  the 
increase in premium.
I know it must be very disappointing for Mr and Mrs T to be left with the option of either  
increasing their premium, or reducing  the sum assured. But having considered everything 
Im satisfied that on balance the policy was suitable,  and the reviewable nature of the policy 
was made  clear. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained above,  my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6440451