K820x#14This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
October 1992. Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  mis-sold them the 
PPI. The policy covered Mr M only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Halifax had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs M that the PPI was optional and get their 
consent before adding  it to their account.  Mr and Mrs M are clear that they didnt know  
they had the PPI. 
I dont know exactly what happened  during  the sale so I have to decide what  is likely  to 
have happened  on the balance of probabilities.  Unfortunately neither  Halifax  nor 
Mr and Mrs M have  been able to give us any paperwork from the sale. This isnt 
surprising considering the length  of time since the sale. The PPI was added  in 
October 1992, a year after the mortgage started in October 1991. So I think  
Mr and Mrs M wouldve known that the PPI wasnt compulsory or a condition of the 
lending. Without  further evidence to support what  Mr and Mrs M have told us, I think  its 
more likely Halifax made it clear  that they didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose 
to take it out. Considering the length  of time since the sale its understandable they dont 
remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M (as the sole policy holder) so it had to check that 
the PPI was right for him and based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, 
I think that it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on 
the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr M says he wouldve been  entitled to statutory  sick pay. He also says they had some 
savings and couldve relied on his parents to help make his repayments.  But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to any statutory sick pay he wouldve received  and for up 
to 24 months if he was unable to work  because of accident or sickness.  It also wouldve 
paid out for up to 12 months if he lost his job. And having the policy meant he wouldnt 
have to rely on his parents  whose  ability to help would depend on their own 
circumstances at any given time.  It also wouldve allowed  them to use their savings to 
cover other necessary expenses at what wouldve  been a difficult  time if Mr M found 
himself out of work.  Mr M says that he has rarely  been  off work sick, and has never  been 
unemployed. But circumstances can change and the purpose of insurance is to protect 
against the unexpected. So I think Mr and Mrs M wouldve found the policy useful. 
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as 
it shouldve been. But it appears  he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs M off 
taking out the cover.  
Ref: DRN61570002Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs M have said. They  point to the fact that they did 
not cancel the policy  when their circumstances changed in the years after the PPI was 
added  and say this shows they didnt know they had it. But regardless of what  happened in 
the years  after the sale or the reasons they didnt cancel their policy   at the time of sale I 
think its more likely  they chose to take it knowing they had a choice. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6157000