K820x#14complaint
Miss Bs unhappy with the way Nationwide  Building Society has communicated  with her and 
that the account she opened doesnt  have  all the benefits she thought  it would.
background
Miss B complains  that she cant make a bill payment over the phone on her account as 
Nationwide promised when she opened  it. And that it still sends her some letters after she 
asked it to communicate by phone. She wants her accessibility needs taken into account 
and compensation.
Nationwide said in its final response that in the call when Miss B opened this account the 
information she was given wasnt incorrect but it couldve been clearer  when she asked 
about making a bill payment. Its representative  said she would be able to complete any 
action that is available with the telephone  service.  But as bill payment is no longer part of 
this service it couldve confirmed this to Miss B as shed  asked directly if this was possible. It 
had written to customers in June 2018  to advise them  of its intention to withdraw  the bill 
payment by phone  service. It apologised to Miss B but said even though  it knew shed 
problems with post it wasnt obliged to send  letters  by recorded delivery. Shed a history of 
making many complaints  about Nationwides services and if it couldnt meet her expectations 
she might  wish to make  alternative banking arrangements elsewhere. It accepted it had 
made an error and offered  her £25 compensation which shed accepted.
Our investigator felt his complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Nationwides representatives advice on the phone when this account was opened  
was correct but it couldve been clearer. And if it had been clearer  its likely Miss B 
wouldnt have opened the account  in question. 
In June 2018 Nationwide wrote to all its customers  letting them know its bill payment 
service wouldnt be continued.  Miss B was an existing customer at that time and its 
likely she was sent this letter to her correct address. Its not Nationwides fault if she 
didnt receive it.
Miss B hasnt suffered any direct financial loss as a result of not being  able to pay her 
bills over the phone.  Nationwide  has paid her £25 compensation which  is fair and 
reasonable. He cant ask it to do any more.
Miss B has raised 18 separate complaints  with Nationwide since opening  her 
accounts in July 2015. And it wasnt unreasonable for her to be told of the option of 
changing banks  if she wished to do so. She also needs to contact Nationwide  about  
her communication needs and preferences.
Miss B remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. She now says if shed 
been properly  advised she wouldve put her money in an interest  bearing  account. So, she 
has lost out financially.
The investigator responded that Miss B had been  told in the call when she opened this 
account that if she paid in a certain amount of money she could get interest. But Nationwide  
had also said it didnt  give advice.  Miss B opted  for this account as she wanted to make bill 
payments on the phone. He still thought £25 compensation was fair.
Ref: DRN63553102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Nationwide accepts it couldve  been  clearer when responding to Miss Bs specific  question 
about paying bills on the phone from the account  she was opening. Although it didnt  give 
incorrect advice if itd been clearer and actually said she couldnt  pay bills by phone,  I think 
its most  likely she wouldnt have opened  this account.
Miss B says she has lost out financially as a result. But I dont agree. There was no financial 
loss to her from not having the phone  bill payment service. And although she now says she 
wouldve invested money in an interest  bearing account Nationwide didnt  give advice about 
where she should invest her money to earn interest. It merely said there was the possibility 
of earning some interest  if a certain  amount  of money could be deposited in an account each 
month.
Miss B can also contact Nationwide to update  her communication preferences and some  
maybe manageable  by her on line such as receiving statements by email rather than in the 
post. But as Nationwide says there may be some  instances where a letter  has to be sent like 
when it issues cards on her accounts.
Its also unfortunate if Miss B was upset  by Nationwide advising  her that she could seek  
banking services elsewhere if she wished. But in view of her history of unhappiness with its 
services and making a large number of complaints about them,  I think this was a reasonable 
option for Nationwide to highlight to her.  
I recognise Miss Bs frustration and strength of feeling. But taking everything into account, 
including the level of awards we make, I think Nationwides  payment of £25 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience she was caused  by not being able to pay her bills on the 
phone is fair. And I cant reasonably ask Nationwide  to do or pay any more.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 March 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6355310