K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about three mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken 
out to cover  the repayments on a mortgage.  Mr and Mrs G say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) 
trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time mis-sold them  the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs G took out PPI with their original mortgage in February 1999. The PPI was in   
Mr Gs sole name and provided cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment. The level of 
cover was later amended  in 1999  and 2003  to take into account further borrowing.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policies werent  mis-sold. Ill explain why below. 
Lloyds says Mr and Mrs G would have  had a choice about the PPI and that it would have 
gained their consent before adding it to their mortgage. I cant  know for certain  what was 
discussed when  Mr and Mrs G applied  for the policies,  but Lloyds has sent us copies of the 
documentation Mr and Mrs G would have completed  at the time the PPI was sold to them. 
This included one mortgage application  form and two homeowner loan (further  advance) 
application forms, along with copies of their PPI application forms for all three sales.  
I can see that the mortgage  application  form and one of the further advance  application  
forms had a section  for the PPI which included a yes and no box. These forms had a tick 
in the yes box for the PPI, indicating  that Mr and Mrs G wished  to apply for the PPI to 
protect their mortgage and have completed  the relevant proposal form. I can also see that all 
three PPI application forms had been signed  by Mr and Mrs G.
Overall, I think its most likely that Lloyds made Mr and Mrs G aware  that the PPI was 
optional and that they chose to take it out  although  I can understand why they may not 
remember this. 
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G, and the policy seems to have been 
right for them based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. Mr and Mrs G say 
they didnt need the PPI, as Mr G would have received sick pay from his employer if he was 
too unwell  to work. Theyve also told us that they had some savings they could have  used  
and family  support would  have been available to help cover their mortgage repayments. 
Mr G says he would have  been entitled to at least six months pay if he was too unwell to 
work. But these policies would have paid a monthly  benefit in addition to any sick pay Mr G 
would have received from his employer, and they would have potentially paid out for longer. 
The policies also would have provided a benefit  if Mr G was ever made redundant and would 
Ref: DRN68970102have enabled  Mr and Mrs G to use any savings they had to cover any other financial 
commitments they may have had at what could be a difficult time. I note they have 
mentioned they would have had family support.  But financial support from a family member  
cant always be guaranteed as circumstances  change  over time. So, I think  Mr and Mrs G 
could have found the policy helpful  if Mr G was unable to work  or lost his job. 
Mr and Mrs G have said there was no explanation  that the policies would add extra costs to 
the monthly mortgage repayment. However,  alongside the separate PPI application forms  
Mr and Mrs G completed and signed,  Mr G also signed a direct  debit  mandate.  In addition,  
Lloyds has provided  a copy of a correctly addressed covering letter dated in May 1999 (after 
the initial sale), along  with copies of the insurance  schedules for each sale which set out the 
cost and the benefit of the policy chosen. Whilst I think  Lloyds could  have explained the cost 
of the policy  better than it did, I dont think it means the recommendation was unsuitable. 
Based on what Ive seen,  the cost of the premium was relatively low compared to the benefit  
payable in the event of a successful claim. So I dont  think better information about the cost 
of the policies would have  put Mr and Mrs G off from taking it out. 
Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But from what Ive 
seen, Mr and Mrs G dont appear to have been  affected by any of these. And they chose to 
take each policy out, so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. It also seems  like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong and it looks like it was affordable. So Im 
not persuaded that Mr and Mrs G would have done  anything differently had they been given 
better information about the PPI. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said. But these  points dont change  my 
decision. Based on everything Ive said above, I dont think the policies were  mis-sold.
Ive also thought about whether Lloyds needs to give Mr and Mrs G some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Mrs Gs 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So Lloyds 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs G paid for the PPI they had with 
that mortgage.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 January 2020.
Donna Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6897010