K820x#14complaint
Mr S says National  Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in February  1999  when Mr S applied  for a 
credit card at a NatWest  branch.
Mr S says no-one spoke  to him about the PPI and, had it been offered to him, he would've  
refused it as he feels he had enough  cover already. Mr S says the PPI was added without 
his knowledge  or consent. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint. Ill explain my reasons. 
I havent seen  enough information to be able to uphold this complaint just based on what 
Mr S says.  I have to look at everything  and decide  what I think  is most likely.
I think NatWest  made Mr S aware that the PPI was optional and that he chose to take it. 
I say this because  the application form he signed  to get his credit card also required him to 
sign separately to have the PPI if this was something he wanted to add on to his account.  
Looking at the application he completed, I can see that Mr S did this  signing separately to 
say that he wanted to take out the PPI. 
And by signing the completed form Mr S was agreeing to the information put on the 
application. So I think its likely that Mr S decided he wanted  to have the benefits PPI offered 
him and he was aware at the time that it was being  added to his account  at his request   
even if hes forgotten  this now.  
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI to Mr S so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for 
him. 
The policy wouldve paid out for up to 12 months for accident and sickness. As Mr S could 
only rely on his employer paying him for 6 months if he was off work  sick I think  this couldve  
been a useful benefit at a difficult time. 
And as well as this, the policy  wouldve  also covered Mr S if he lost his job unexpectedly  and 
was out of work. 
Ref: DRN62243732I dont know if Mr S wouldve  always  had savings he could rely on. So I cant  fairly say that 
PPI wouldnt have  been worthwhile for him. PPI provided him with the certain  knowledge that 
in the event of a successful claim the policy would pay more  than his minimum credit card 
monthly repayments  and it would clear the card balance if he claimed for the full 
12 months. 
So I can see that PPI mightve been  useful in his particular circumstances. I think that Mr S 
couldve benefitted from having the cover.
Its possible  some information NatWest gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  There were some things the policy didnt cover.  But I dont think  having  
more information  about what the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference to his 
decision to take it out as it looks  like these things  didnt  apply  in his case.  
I dont think NatWest properly explained  what the policy would cost, or what  it might  pay out 
if Mr S made a claim. But he chose to take out the policy when he didnt  have to  so he 
appears to have wanted it. And it seems  to have been affordable for him at the time  he 
couldve cancelled it if his circumstances  changed.  Looked at overall, given the benefits PPI 
offered him, I think it unlikely Mr S wouldve made a different decision if better  information  
had been provided. On balance I think hed still have taken out the policy.
Despite what Mr S says in response to our adjudicators  view this doesnt affect my decision. 
I dont find that Mr S has lost out as a result  of anything that NatWest mightve done wrong. 
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6224373