K821x#15Complaint
Mr H is a director of company Y and complains that National House-Building Council 
(NHBC) refuse to reimburse legal costs and professional fees incurred as a result  of a 
declined insurance  claim.
Background
NHBC provided a ten-year warranty to company Y for a block of flats. The warranty covers  
some problems that may arise from a breach of NHBCs  technical  requirements. And of 
relevance for this complaint is the cover from years 3 to 10 for damage arising out of a 
defect (breach of NHBC  technical  requirements).  
One of the flats had an escape of water event and a subsequent claim was dealt with by the 
household insurer.  During this claim a wider issue with floor joists was discovered  and 
referred to NHBC.  
In a NHBC report from June 2013  NHBC declined a claim under the building warranty 
because although  it was apparent the floor joists had no preservative to protect  from 
moisture, NHBC considered the damaged joists arose out of a constantly wet environment 
due to the escape of water and rainwater  entering the floor void. But in September 2014 
NHBC accepted the claim and informed company Y and the flat residents in a newsletter. 
Company Y had engaged  legal firms  and issued legal  proceedings against NHBC, the 
builder and another party. Proceedings  were stayed several  times  and, in the end, NHBC  
filed a strike  out application with the court.  Company Y discontinued proceedings, at least 
against NHBC, in May 2016  and the court awarded  costs against company Y. 
Notwithstanding NHBCs legal costs of more  than £30,000, NHBC hasnt sought to recover 
those fees. The basis of the strike out application  was the hopelessness of company Ys 
case against NHBC.
Company Y wants NHBC to pay its legal and professional fees, but our investigator 
considered it only appropriate for some fees incurred up to the point NHBC accepted  the 
claim. She explained  that legal and professional  costs werent something wed ordinarily  ask 
a business to pay given were an informal resolution service and free to use. She didnt  think  
company Ys legal action had persuaded NHBC to change  its view. But she did say NHBC 
should pay some costs associated with inspecting  the damage  (£6,726.72 + simple interest 
at 8%). 
NHBC accepted the investigators view but Mr H for company  Y did not.
my findings
Ive considered all available  evidence and arguments to decide  what  is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  done so, I agree with the investigator that 
some of company  Ys costs should  be reimbursed  but not the legal  costs  or the 
representatives fees, or fees incurred after NHBC accepted  the claim in September  2014.
The power to award costs  is set out in the rules  that govern our procedures.  The guidance to 
the relevant rule is set out in the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys handbook  (DISP 3.7.10) 
which states:
Ref: DRN62144252In most cases complainants should not need to have professional advisers to bring 
complaints to the Financial Ombudsman  Service, so awards of costs  are unlikely to be 
common.
I appreciate this guidance talks about  costs  involved  in bringing a complaint to our service. 
But equally  policyholders  shouldnt ordinarily  need  professional advisers to make  a claim to 
their insurer.  If professional fees are, in the ombudsmans  view,  necessary for the 
policyholder to incur  in bringing a complaint or making a claim then I can, in upholding a 
complaint, require an insurer to pay these where  fair and reasonable to do so. 
I appreciate why company Y instructed  a surveyor for the claim as NHBC hadnt  accepted  it. 
The circumstances had some complexities and so being able to present evidence  that 
supported the claim necessarily needed to come  from an appropriate expert  in this case 
the surveyor. And I agree this report formed part of the reasoning why NHBC accepted the 
claim. Company Y also paid local contractors to do work in the property which allowed for a 
full examination of the problem, such as taking up carpets and creating hatches so the void 
under the floor could be viewed and monitored.  So, I think  these costs were necessary and 
NHBC should refund them. NHBC should pay the costs associated with inspecting  the 
damage (£6,726.72 + simple interest  at 8%). NHBC has accepted  this.
However, I dont consider  this claim necessitated the appointment  of solicitors to act upon 
company Ys concerns.  Solicitors were  instructed  in 2013 and instructions continued long 
after NHBC accepted  the claim. We are a free to use service  and if company Y were 
unhappy with NHBCs handling of this matter they couldve raised a complaint with NHBC,  
and subsequently to our service if they remained dissatisfied, without incurring any fees.
I dont agree with company Y that it was only as a result of commencing legal action  that 
NHBC accepted the claim. While company  Y initially engaged  solicitors in 2013,  legal 
proceedings werent served on NHBC until March 2015. This was after NHBC accepted the 
claim in September  2014. 
NHBC has provided evidence that following a site visit and report  on 4 September 2014  it 
accepted the problem  was caused by an underlying defect and as such  an insurable event. 
So, although  it took NHBC longer to accept this claim than company Y wouldve liked,  I dont 
agree it wouldnt  have been  accepted at all had they not incurred the cost of legal 
proceedings. 
Its also important to note that when legal  proceedings were discontinued,  NHBC were 
awarded the right to reclaim its legal  costs from company Y. As a gesture of goodwill NHBC 
has decided not to recoup these costs. It appears  the court found company Y responsible for 
NHBCs legal costs,  so it wouldnt be appropriate for me to say NHBC should be responsible  
for company Ys legal  costs. In any case,  for the other reasons stated, in my view it wasnt 
necessary to incur  legal costs to have the claim met.
Mr H has spent time and effort dealing with the claim and complaint for company Y. The 
directors of company Y at the time instructed Mr H to act on its behalf  at a cost.  There  is 
always a certain amount  of time and commitment that is required when dealing  with any 
claim. Other than NHBC took a bit longer than company Y would have liked in dealing with 
the claim,  Im satisfied  reimbursing the fees related to inspecting  the damage detailed earlier 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  But in keeping  with what  the investigator said,  
it would  in my determination be disproportionate  and unfair  to require NHBC to cover 
company Ys legal costs, particularly given the court made an adverse cost award against 
company Y, and Mr Hs costs that company Y agreed to pay. 
Ref: DRN62144253So, in summary,  I consider company  Y should  be reimbursed the costs incurred for 
investigatory work and the surveyors fees up until the claim was accepted in September  
2014. But I feel a complaint couldve been brought to NHBC and this service without the use 
of professional advisors. I therefore do not consider  it appropriate or fair to make an award  
for company Ys other costs. 
Ive also considered, based on correspondence  from company Y, whether compensation 
should be awarded to the individual residents in this case. However, this complaint has been 
brought to us regarding the costs  incurred by company Y. And so, its the impact of any 
failings on company Y as a legal entity I can consider and not on individual  flat owners.  Im 
not satisfied NHBCs conduct has caused  company Y inconvenience such that fairly  
warrants financial compensation.
my final decision
My final decision on this case is that National House-Building  Council  should:
Reimburse company Y £6,726.72  for the costs incurred for the damage  investigatory 
work; 
pay 8% simple interest on this amount from the date the costs  were paid to the date 
NHBC issues payments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask company Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2020.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6214425