K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that the vehicle he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement financed  by 
Black Horse  Limited was not of satisfactory  quality. He further complains  that he was misled 
by the terms of settlement when that vehicle was part-exchanged and the finance  agreement 
repaid. He wants compensation for his losses.
background
Mr C tells us that in September 2018 he acquired a vehicle, which Ill refer to as vehicle A 
from a dealer Ill call CH.  The terms of the finance agreement  required monthly  payments 
of approximately  £128 per month for the vehicle and £24 for various additional  insurance  
and warranties. He says that the following month  he reported a fault with the engine and the 
vehicle was returned to CH for repairs. Mr C says the repairs took over two months to 
complete and the vehicle was still displaying the faults after the repairs.  
He states that he agreed with CH to replace vehicle A with another  vehicle which Ill refer to 
as vehicle B. Mr C describes vehicle B as being two years  older  than vehicle A and of higher  
mileage. In February 2019, he agreed a new hire purchase agreement for vehicle B. And he 
says that CH said it would cover the negative equity on vehicle A. Mr C says he didnt fully 
understand some of the terms being  used. But he accepts he signed a fixed sum loan 
agreement with lender Ill call S to cover the shortfall. He feels hes been  misled as hes 
ended up paying  for the shortfall on a vehicle which he says he returned as not being of 
satisfactory quality. And he now has similar  monthly  payments  to make for an older  vehicle.
Black Horse  told us that Mr C had highlighted  a fault with his vehicle  which had been 
successfully repaired.  It said that Mr C had returned to CH in early February 2019 and had 
agreed to purchase  a different  vehicle using vehicle A in part-exchange.  It said he was 
aware of the negative  equity on the first vehicle and had financed this through a fixed  sum 
loan provided  by another lender. And that in a telephone call on 3 May hed originally said 
that hed simply decided to trade in vehicle A. But that upon learning that Black Horse  
wouldnt be liable for the negative equity  hed then alleged that the faults were the reason 
hed changed  vehicles. Black Horse  stated that Mr C hadnt  provided it with any evidence the 
faults had reoccurred. It said that vehicle A had since  been  sold.  It said it would pay £100 to 
Mr C in respect of the trouble and upset  with the faults  occurring so soon after he acquired 
vehicle A.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said that it 
wasnt unreasonable of Black  Horse to require evidence that the repairs had failed. And it 
hadnt been informed of the issue until March 2019. By which time vehicle A had been 
returned to CH and the finance settled. He said that when Mr C had exchanged  the vehicle, 
hed also signed  an agreement to cover the shortfall  with a different  lender. And he didnt 
think that Black Horse had authorised this or made any error.
Mr C wasnt satisfied with this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN68589922Mr Cs hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  Black  Horse 
supplied vehicle A so its responsible for complaints  about the quality of that vehicle.
Whilst I dont apply  the law  directly - I do take it into account and relevant legislation here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA). This states  that in order to conform to 
contract goods must be of satisfactory  quality when supplied. Satisfactory quality is defined 
as being what  a reasonable person would consider to be satisfactory. And includes aspects 
of age, previous  use and durability. It also provides that a customer may reject  goods if the 
supplier has had an opportunity to repair  goods  so that they conform to contract. And those 
repairs have failed.
Mr Cs complaint is that having  returned a faulty vehicle and agreed a replacement  he was 
then misled into thinking this would involve  a straight  swap with no additional  expense  to 
him. And hes now ended  up in a worse position as hes paying a similar amount for an older 
vehicle.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this. 
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Its not in dispute  that vehicle A experienced faults which  required repairs.  Nor is it in issue  
that these repairs  took more  than two months to complete. Ive seen the relevant job sheet 
which list numerous valves  and a cylinder  head  gasket as having been replaced.  Its not 
entirely clear  why the delay occurred but its been suggested there  was a problem in 
obtaining the required parts. Mr C was without his own vehicle from 25 October 2018 to 15 
January 2019.  The information with which Ive been  supplied indicates a courtesy  vehicle 
was supplied during this period.
The main  area of dispute surrounds the circumstances in which Mr C acquired the second 
vehicle. And this essentially turns on whether he rejected vehicle A as repairs had failed. Or 
if he simply decided to exchange it for a different vehicle.
Where information is incomplete or contradictory  - as some  of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Other than Mr Cs statement to this effect,  Ive not seen  anything to show that vehicle  A was 
still exhibiting faults after it was returned  to him. Or that they were due to the earlier repairs. 
Im not doubting what Mr C has said he believed was the basis  of the deal regarding vehicle 
B. But I do question whether or not he may have  misunderstood the information with which 
he was provided. For instance,  Im not sure why  if Mr C thought  that he was rejecting 
vehicle A  he thought it could be traded in for vehicle  B. Nor why he would be liable for any 
outstanding finance on it (vehicle  A). Hes mentioned  being  told about negative  equity  and 
Id have expected him to query the need for this if he didnt understand the meaning of the 
term.
Ref: DRN68589923Ive also considered if there may have been  a misrepresentation in relation to the second  
finance agreement  with Black Horse.  Ive not looked at the same  issue about the finance 
agreement with S as this complaint is solely about  Black Horse. If there was a 
misrepresentation by CH in the antecedent negotiations in relation to the agreement  
regarding vehicle B, then Black  Horse would potentially be liable.
A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact that induces a consumer to enter an 
agreement. And to suffer a loss as a result of the misrepresentation. Mr C has said that as 
part of the negotiations about vehicle B, he was advised by CH that it would settle the 
finance on vehicle  A. Ive inferred he means  that CH would take on the financial liability.
But theres no documentary information  to show this. And Id query  why  if this was what 
had been said  Mr C would think he would need to take out a separate finance  agreement 
for the same purpose. I cant fairly  conclude that there was any misrepresentation.
I also asked why this loan hadnt  also been taken out with Black Horse  as part of the second 
finance agreement. The explanation provided by CH  which  I accept - is that Black Horse 
doesnt offer personal loans for this purpose. And in order  for the deal to complete it was 
necessary to fund the difference by using funds  from another lender.
Its not unreasonable - when facing a claim - for Black Horse  to require some confirmation  of 
the vehicle being faulty after repairs were completed.  As the vehicle had been sold on before 
it became aware  of the complaint it wasnt possible to have any inspection  of the vehicle 
carried out to clarify exactly  what the problem (if any) was with it.
Ive listened to a phone call with Black  Horse in which Mr C discusses the circumstances 
following which the second finance agreement was incepted and the first agreement  settled. 
But I didnt understand him to say hed just decided to swap  vehicles. Rather  it seemed  to 
me he was saying the swap was because of the faults with vehicle A. I dont think this alters 
the main point that there is still insufficient  information to show  that Mr C was entitled to 
reject vehicle A. 
In summary,  I empathise with Mr Cs concern that he incurred a loss due to the settlement 
terms of the first finance agreement. But it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to say this was 
the result  of any error by Black Horse.  And theres  insufficient information to show  that he 
was entitled to reject vehicle A as not being of satisfactory quality. Or that the second 
finance agreement  was misrepresented. Accordingly, Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6858992