K821x#15complaint
Mr and Ms M are unhappy with Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling of their claim for 
subsidence, under their buildings  insurance policy.
When I refer to Aviva, Im also referring to any of their appointed  agents or representatives.
background
Mr and Ms M have their buildings insurance policy with Aviva.  In September  2017  they 
noticed some cracks down the inside centre of their house. They arranged for an expert  to 
visit and do a report on the cause. They also reported the cracks  to Aviva.
Aviva also sent an expert to Mr and Ms Ms house.  They attended in early  October  2017.  
Their report agreed with that done  by Mr and Ms Ms expert. It said there was visible 
cracking to the left and rear left corners of the house. 
Aviva accepted it was subsidence. Both reports suggested that nearby vegetation could be 
the cause and advised that tree management works needed to take place. Following the 
removal of any trees, Avivas report said the house  should be monitored to ensure it had 
stabilised. Only after the period of monitoring would they be able to say if any foundation 
stabilising would be required.
Before the recommended  trees could  be removed, Mr and Ms M noticed that their upstairs  
balcony terrace and their front door was leaking and letting  in water.  
Aviva sent their expert  back to Mr and Ms Ms house. He was unable  to establish if the leak 
was being caused by subsidence and suggested  a period of monitoring. A sensor was fitted 
to the front of the house. But the monitoring took a bit longer than expected  as the sensor 
points hadnt been fitted to the correct areas  to allow the monitoring to start.  
One tree was also removed in connection to the subsidence at the rear of the house. 
Mr and Ms M were still concerned about  the leak from their balcony, and that the glass 
balustrade had become detached  from its fixings. They  said this was dangerous. Aviva 
explained that they couldnt agree to the subsidence  claim  until the monitoring had been 
completed. They told Mr and Ms M to get the balcony temporarily  repaired,  and if 
subsidence was found to be the cause, they would be able to add the repair  costs  to the 
claim. 
Mr and Ms M werent  happy with this. They asked their expert  to attend again in June  2018.  
Ms M then complained to Aviva as she said their latest report  confirmed the damage  to the 
front of the house and the balcony was being  caused by subsidence. 
Aviva agreed to reimburse  Mr and Ms M for the cost of their expert  report and paid £300 to 
them for this. But they didnt  agree that the damage to the front of the house had been 
proven to be caused by subsidence.  They said that monitoring was still taking  place, and no 
decision could be made until the monitoring period had been  completed. They advised 
Mr and Ms M again to undertake temporary repairs to their balcony,  and the cost could  be 
reclaimed if the damage  was deemed  to be caused  by subsidence.
Mr and Ms M didnt accept this and brought the complaint  to our service. They told our 
investigator that they felt underpinning of the entire  house was the only solution.  They  were 
Ref: DRN65698872also unhappy as they felt Aviva had agreed to get their experts  to repair  the balcony, as well 
as offering Mr and Ms M some compensation for the delays in the claim to date. Our 
investigator upheld  the complaint in respect  of the compensation.  But she didnt agree that 
Aviva had said they would arrange  for the temporary  repairs  or that the house  needed  to be 
underpinned at this stage. She said that the monitoring that was taking place was the right 
course of action. She recommended  that Aviva pay Mr and Ms M £500 compensation for the 
delays in the claim and for not awarding compensation when they said they would. 
Aviva accepted this, but Mr and Ms M didnt. Because  they didnt agree its been  passed  to 
me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This decision is only considering what happened between  the first notification  of the cracks 
by Mr and Ms M and the final response letter issued by Aviva on 4 October 2018. I know  that 
Mr and Ms M continue to raise  complaints  with Aviva, but they wont  be discussed here.
Aviva had already  accepted a claim for subsidence at the rear of Mr and Ms Ms house and 
were in the process of trying to stabilise the house when the damage to the front balcony 
and door was brought to their attention. What I need  to decide is whether theyve dealt with 
the new issues fairly, and whether the compensation offered is reasonable. In both cases  I 
think it is.
When Avivas  expert visited Mr and Ms Ms house  to review the new damage  in March 2018,  
he was unsure at that time if the damage was related to subsidence or was as a result of 
wear and tear and maintenance.  But he recommended a period of level monitoring in order  
to check the house for movement, over several months and through  three seasons of the 
year. 
In June of the same  year Mr and Ms M asked their own expert to attend and assess  the 
damage, along with the recommendations made by Aviva.  Their  report suggested that 
subsidence could  be the cause but wasnt conclusive. Their  recommendations included 
adding another  couple  of level monitoring points to allow a better definition of any 
movement.
I appreciate why Mr and Ms M wanted  the house  to be piled and underpinned  from the 
outset. They  have spent  a lot of money on the house  to make it the house that they wanted, 
and there  are historic  problems of subsidence  on record  from before they moved in. But at 
this stage I dont  think  that was something Aviva needed to consider.  Both reports  are 
inconclusive as to the cause of the damage to the front and a period of monitoring  is 
suggested by both. I agree this was the right thing to do. Until the period of monitoring was 
complete, Aviva couldnt assess the movement and the appropriate remedy  for fixing it. So, 
Im satisfied that the monitoring period  was the right course of action at this stage.
Mr and Ms M are also unhappy as the temporary  repairs werent carried  out to their first-floor 
balcony. The glass balustrade had become detached from its fixings and could become 
dangerous. They feel that Aviva agreed  to arrange for these repairs during a telephone call 
with Ms M in August 2018.  Ive listened  to this call and dont agree that Aviva agreed to do 
the temporary repairs. During  the call, Avivas  representative said that she would ask for the 
Ref: DRN65698873repairs to be considered. Ive seen evidence  that she did ask the claims team  to consider  
this. But the claims team  werent prepared to undertake the repairs  at that moment in time.  
The reason  for the damage was still undetermined  at this point, as the monitoring was still 
going on. So, they advised Mr and Ms M to arrange  for the repairs  themselves, and the costs  
could be added to the claim once the monitoring had been  completed and a decision made 
on how to take the claim forward.  I think its reasonable for Aviva to expect Mr and Ms M to 
undertake the repairs to make their balcony safe, while  the cause of the damage is 
unknown. Its also fair of Aviva to offer to reimburse the cost of repairs if they later accept the 
claim. 
Aviva did cause some delay to the monitoring.  They installed a sensor in March  2018 to 
begin the monitoring of the front of the house, but they didnt  install any other sensors to 
feed the data back from. These additional  sensors were  put in place in June 2018, at which 
time effective monitoring could start. 
During the telephone call with Ms M in August 2018,  Aviva  confirmed they would reimburse 
Mr and Ms M for the cost of appointing their own expert.  They also said they would consider 
compensation for the delays to the start of the monitoring. Aviva  reimbursed £300 for 
Mr and Ms Ms expert  but didnt award any compensation. 
Aviva has accepted they caused a delay.  They  think its around a year. I havent been able 
to see where a years  delay has come from, but I do agree that there was a delay in starting  
the monitoring of the front of the house. Considering the previous subsidence problems 
Mr and Ms M were aware of, Im sure this delay caused them some anxiety and worry about 
the future  condition of their house. Aviva  have agreed to pay £500 for this delay. Im satisfied  
thats a fair amount  in the circumstances and for the worry this would  have caused  to 
Mr and Ms M.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding this complaint.  Aviva  Insurance Limited must:
Pay Mr and Ms M £500 compensation for the delays in progressing  the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 May 2020.
Kevin Parmenter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6569887