K821x#15complaint
Mr I says Bank of Scotland Plc (Bank of Scotland) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out by Mr I in September 1998. The 
policy was added to Mr Is credit  card account after he sent in an application in the post.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr I disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Is case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Is complaint for the following reasons:
 I am persuaded  Bank of Scotland made  Mr I aware that the PPI was optional and he 
chose to take it. I say this because  I can see on the application form he completed, that 
he signed separately to have  the insurance, in a separate box where Bank  of Scotland 
offered PPI. So after seeing this, I think that Mr I was given a choice to have PPI on the 
form and he agreed  to it by signing for it. 
 As this was a postal  sale,  Bank  of Scotland didnt provide advice to Mr I so it didnt 
need to ensure  that the policy was suitable  for him. But it did have to ensure that the 
information it gave  Mr I was clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make an 
informed choice  about the insurance. 
 When looking at the information provided on the form, I am not sure that it did. But 
even if it had provided  clear information to Mr I, I dont  think it would have made  a 
difference as I think he would have taken the PPI policy  anyway. 
 I say this because,  when  looking  at Mr Is circumstances at the time, I think  he would 
have found the cover  useful. He has told us that he was entitled  to at least  3 months 
full sick pay and 3 months half sick pay with his employer at the time of sale, but the 
policy would  have provided a useful benefit  in a difficult  time and for longer. The policy 
would have paid in addition to his sick pay, for up to an extended  period of 12 months if 
he couldnt work.  So I think he would have found at least  some  benefit in having  the 
cover.
Ref: DRN68169522 As our adjudicator said in his view, we havent  been able to obtain a copy  of the policy 
document from the time of sale. This is understandable  considering the sale took place 
many years ago. We have though seen a policy  document from shortly  after the sale 
and I think it is reasonable  to take this document into consideration as well as what  we 
know about sales carried out from that time. So with that in mind,  I dont think on this 
occasion Mr I was affected by any of the exclusions or limitations  such  as those given 
for pre-existing medical  conditions. 
 Im not sure if the costs were clearly  disclosed to Mr I. But I think he wouldve taken the 
policy anyway  even  if they were for the same  reasons that I have already given. The 
PPI policy was competitively  priced  and affordable.  
So I dont think  Bank of Scotland  mis-sold Mr I this PPI policy.  This means Bank of Scotland  
dont have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr I. But Bank of Scotland has paid back  
some of the cost of the PPI to Mr I because:  
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr I about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mr I, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr I.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr I any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 August 2019.
Mark Richardson 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6816952