K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Startline Motor Finance Limited (SMF) wont allow  him to reject a car 
hes financed through them, despite it being  of unsatisfactory quality.
background
Mr T took receipt  of a used vehicle in February  2016. The car was six years old and had 
completed over 46,000  miles at the point of supply. Mr T financed the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with SMF.
But in January 2018 Mr T complained to SMF as the fuel pump had failed on his car. He said 
this was a common  problem on this make and model and therefore asked them to pay for 
the repair. But SMF refused as they told him there was no proof the vehicle had been  faulty  
at the point of supply.  Subsequently, In May 2018,  the engine  failed  on the car.
Mr T referred his complaint to this service  and our adjudicator  took a look at the evidence.  
But she didnt think SMF needed to take any further  action. She explained that, as the car 
had completed significant  further mileage since the inception  of the finance deal and hed 
had it for such a long time, it would be for Mr T to demonstrate the fault with the car was 
there from the beginning. And she didnt  think he had demonstrated  that. She couldnt find 
evidence of any manufacturers recalls for this sort of fuel pump problem and noted that the 
quality issues, that Mr T said had been widely  publicized on the internet,  about this make 
and model, appeared to be related to the air conditioning and heating units.
But Mr T was still dissatisfied. He said that overall, his vehicle had done less than average 
mileage and the fault was a known one on this type of car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr T acquired his car under a hire purchase agreement. The relevant law says that the car 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then SMF are 
responsible. I take account of relevant law when deciding  what is fair and reasonable. On 
this basis if I thought the car was faulty  when supplied, Id think  it fair and reasonable to ask 
SMF to put this right. 
But SMFs responsibility for the car is not unlimited. Whilst  they are responsible  for its 
condition at the point of supply they are not responsible for faults that develop afterwards.  
Ref: DRN69888262SMF are right to suggest that wed usually  assume that if a car developed a fault in the first 
six months it was likely to have been  there  from the point of supply but if it happened after 
that wed usually  look to the consumer  to prove this was the case.
The fuel pump failed  on Mr Ts car almost  two years after hed taken charge of the vehicle. 
So I think its reasonable to suggest  its his responsibility to demonstrate  the car was faulty  
or developing faults  at the point of supply. But Im not persuaded this is the case  because:
theres no expert evidence, such as an independent engineers inspection, to suggest 
the fault was there from the start
the dealership  have  confirmed that the car hadnt been back  to them until the fuel 
pump failed. So it doesnt seem  likely  a fault was developing
Mr T appears  to have completed a reasonable, and apparently trouble free, mileage  
in the vehicle before the fuel pump failure. I see hed completed almost  30,000  miles 
in two years.
Mr T says that the problem is a known one on this make  and model but our adjudicator 
couldnt find evidence  of that and Mr T hasnt provided evidence either. Ive taken a look 
myself and cant see any reported issues of a manufacturing fault. It seems,  its most likely; 
this issue is the widely  reported one of vehicles firing due to an improper  repair of the 
heater/blower motor.  But I cant see there  have been issues with fuel pumps. 
So I dont  think it would  be reasonable to hold SMF responsible for this failure  or to ask them 
to take any further  action  as theres  insufficient  evidence that this vehicle was of 
unsatisfactory quality  at the point of supply.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6988826