K820x#14complaint
The estate  of the late Mr B and Mrs B complain that Real Financial Services Ltd (RFS)  
recommended putting more than £300,000  in excessively  risky investments and charged  an 
unreasonable amount for this poor advice,  particularly  given the lack of ongoing 
management of the portfolio.
background 
An adjudicator at this service  felt the advice  to Mr B had been  thoroughly  unsuitable, for 
reasons he outlined. But he was not convinced the advice given to Mrs B was wrong.
Having concluded  that Mr B should  not have exposed  his share of their money to any risk 
(given his age, circumstances etc.), he calculated how much  the invested sum might now be 
worth if it had not been exposed to risk. Taking  account of the various fees charged  by RFS 
and the product providers, this calculation showed  that the unsuitable investment had still 
delivered a higher return than keeping this money  in risk-free savings accounts.
A new investigator noted that even if one concluded  that the advice given to Mrs B was also 
deemed unsuitable, and that her money  should not have  been exposed to risk-based  funds, 
their joint portfolio was now worth  significantly more than if theyd been  advised to keep their 
money-risk-free (with no fees being  paid to RFS or the product providers).
Mr B2, the representative  of Mr and Mrs Bs estate,  reiterated  that there had been no 
ongoing management of their investments despite  being charged for this, and that this had 
prevented funds being moved to a tax-efficient ISA environment. The investigator said that 
even if this were the case, any benefit from being moved to an ISA-based holding  would  not 
have come close to delivering  the £30,000 gain which  resulted from having  been invested in 
these unsuitably risky funds. So there was no evidence  to indicate this advice  had resulted in 
a loss.
Mr B2 asked  for an ombudsman to review the case,  reiterating that Mr and Mrs B had paid,  
amongst other things,  a £9,000 upfront fee for this bad advice and £4,500  for non-existent 
ongoing advice.  He felt the advisor in question had acted unscrupulously and that a regulator  
should take action to prevent other customers being penalised by his unprofessional 
behaviour. He also outlined a range of related  concerns including the lack of key paperwork.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the original adjudicator that the advice to Mr B was manifestly 
unsuitable, and for the reasons he outlined. In these circumstances this services role is to 
assess what might have  been more suitable and then to calculate  whether a complainant (or 
their estate) has lost out as a result  of such unsuitable advice. Whether one includes just the 
investments in Mr Bs name or those in Mrs Bs name and the joint investment as well, our 
calculations show that their overall  portfolio  would  be worth  significantly less if theyd been 
advised to keep this money  in secure  savings accounts and paid no advisory fees.
Ref: DRN66223562Therefore, while  I am upholding  this complaint RFS does not have to pay any compensation 
as its unsuitable  advice is very unlikely to have resulted  in a financial loss even taking  
account of the ISA issue.
I fully understand  Mr B2s concerns about  what appears to have been very poor advice but 
this services role  where a complaint is upheld  is to compensate  a customer fairly and 
appropriately, not to penalise a business for poor advice. This is because it is the Financial 
Conduct Authoritys  role to oversee businesses and their working  practices; our role is to 
solely consider individual complaints. Given this, while I have  read and considered his 
various comments and concerns about  RDF and the advisor, I have  not addressed these as 
these issues do not affect the outcome of this complaint, including  my ability to award 
compensation. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  but do not order any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B2, on behalf of 
the estate of the late Mr B and Mrs B, to accept or reject my decision before 
29 December 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6622356