K820x#14complaint
Mrs R says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a Total  Mortgage  
Protection Plan (TMPP). 
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) together with other features, such as life insurance and critical illness  
cover (CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added  or taken out as the 
consumer wishes. 
We now know Mrs R was sold all the above  elements of the TMPP; that is to say, MPPI, life 
cover and CIC. 
Only the MPPI part is a form of PPI, as this protected Mrs R in the event of her losing her job 
or being unable to work. The life cover  and CIC protected different eventualities.
background
One of our adjudicators has already provided Mrs R with an answer about this complaint. 
They said that they didnt think it should be upheld. Mrs R disagreed  and asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
Mrs R says she wasnt told about MPPI or given any documents. And Halifax was only able 
to supply us with certain bits of information  and documents - most documents are no longer 
available. I can see Mrs R doesnt  think this is acceptable, but the sale was in January 
2004, which is now some  15 years ago. So it really  isnt that unusual  that we dont have the 
original documentation  as businesses arent required to keep records  indefinitely.
Nevertheless, we do still have some records, and I think theres evidence to support that 
she probably agreed to the cover and would  have also known  it had been  set up for her. Its 
obviously now possible that because of the passage of time, Mrs R has since  forgotten 
about this. 
For example, Halifax sent me screenshots of its computer system relating to Mrs Rs 
account. These would  have probably been inputted  at the time of the mortgage  meeting 
and they show  she was asked a number  of questions about her job and health. This 
suggests to me that this discussion was about  TMPP products. 
Ive also seen quite  a few very similar sales to this and I know  from these that Halifax  
tended to set out which (if any) TMPP  products  the consumer had agreed  to buy on a 
schedule which was sent to them. Consumers were  also usually given details  about  the 
policy rules.  I note Mrs R bought life and CIC cover too. Again, to me, this makes  it far less 
Ref: DRN65909942likely she wasnt  sent or given something explaining what  shed  agreed  to buy. I think what  
she would  have been given would have been  quite comprehensive.
So, whilst accepting that neither party has very much hard evidence  left after so long, I 
think all these things indicate  its much more likely Mrs R would have agreed to the cover. If 
she hadnt, I think she would have wanted to know what the letters and policy documents 
were all about.
 
But I can also see there was claims activity on Mrs Rs MPPI account. This means she 
made a claim and I note she herself confirmed this in her questionnaire we asked her to fill 
out. Clearly this means Mrs R was aware of the cover and knew  what  it was for. If Halifax 
hadnt either told her about the PPI, or not given her any written information, I dont see how 
she could have come  to make a claim.
I therefore think its more  likely Mrs R agreed to this cover and was aware it had been set 
up for her.
Next, I specifically looked to see if the MPPI  was suitable for Mrs R. Halifax recommended  
this to her as part of an advised sale. I think it was suitable and I say this because  Mrs R 
seems to have been eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the major exclusions 
we tend to see in these policies. 
Mrs R said she already  had some sickness protection with her job. Ive thought  carefully 
about this and I understand the point that is being made. But Im afraid this doesnt 
necessarily mean the cover wasnt suitable  for her. I think  her mortgage would have been a 
significant and long-term financial commitment and secured against her home. So the 
consequences of her not being able to make  the repayments could  have been  serious.  The 
MPPI cover, on the other hand, was designed to pay a monthly sum for up to 24 months  if 
shed needed  to claim. In my experience, this is longer  than many  MPPI policies that were  
sold at around that time.
Mrs R said her family would have supported her if shed needed help. Im sure thats right 
and her family would  have  wanted  to help as much as possible. But a mortgage lasts a long 
time and this would  depend on her familys ability to help over an extended  time period.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information that was clear, fair and not misleading. From 
similar policies  Ive seen, evidence that the costs  were  set out during the sale is usually 
present. I accept we no longer have the actual copies now in respect of Mrs R, but I think  
its more likely she would have known  what  the cover was costing.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its more likely that Mrs R tailored the cover to 
suit her needs of the time. I think she probably  agreed to the cover because  it was 
something she thought  would  be useful  to have at the time. 
Ref: DRN65909943my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Rs complaint and I dont direct Bank of 
Scotland plc to do anything to put matters right. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6590994