K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains MBNA Limited (MBNA) applied interest incorrectly to his account at the 
end of a promotional period. 
background
Mr F brought  his case to us as he was unhappy  with the response hed received from MBNA 
to his complaint.  MBNA said theyd charged  Mr F interest following the expiry of a 
promotional rate on 4 October 2017 at 18.9%. And that had been charged from 5 October 
2017 to 22 October  2017 when he cleared the balance of the card.  They apologised if this 
came as a surprise but told Mr F it was a legitimate charge which they were  unable to 
refund. They  said theyd informed Mr F on his statements under the heading of promotional  
rate you are currently using  that the promotional rate would end on 4 October  2017  so didnt 
agree with his concern that they didnt make  the interest clear on his statement.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. He couldnt see any evidence that MBNA wasnt  
clear to Mr F that his promotional period was coming to an end. And, whilst he agreed it 
would be helpful  to have information pertaining  to the end of promotional  rates  displayed  
more prominently on the front page  of statements, he couldnt  fairly say that MBNA has 
acted unfairly in this case.
Mr F didnt  agree. He told us hed held credit cards  for a number of decades and this is the 
first instance  where a statement  hadnt  detailed the date a payment is required to ensure 
interest charges  werent incurred. He said in his case his statement showed the payment 
due date being 30 October 2017.  He expected this service to ask MBNA what  was the 
relevance of this date if interest was being incurred from 4 October 2017, which incidentally 
is the date of the statement. He thought  if MBNA acknowledged their statements were 
misleading then they should refund the interest  charged.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the statements for this account from opening on 3 February  2016 to October 2017.
On each one theres  a table on third page which state the rates in force and that the 
promotional rate will end on 4 October 2017  and the rate which  will apply after that. I think 
the inclusion  of the end date for the promotional rate period on each of Mr Fs monthly 
statements was sufficient  to make Mr F aware of when the period was due to end.
When Mr F opened  this account  he agreed to the terms and conditions. Part of those 
conditions was a promotional rate of 0% for all retail transactions from account opening until 
4 October 2017. Those terms are clear  that when a promotional rate ends any balance on 
the card will be charged at the standard rate for that transaction type. The monthly 
statements, up to and including that dated 4 October  2017,  display  the promotional  rate and 
the end date. Mr F doesnt dispute  this but told us it shouldve been more prominent  and on 
the first page of the statement. But Im afraid I disagree. Its Mr Fs responsibility to manage 
this account within the terms and conditions  he agreed to. Theres  nothing to suggest the 
statements werent available. Additionally  in Mr Fs case I think he wouldve been further 
alerted to the promotional period ending by the information on estimated interest in the 
summary box on the first page of the October statement dated 4 October 2017. In previous 
Ref: DRN66067632months  due to the promotional period - this estimated interest was zero but in the October 
statement it changed to £155.90. So, overall, I cant reasonably say MBNA have done 
anything wrong  here.
Mr F is concerned about the significance of the payment due date of 30 October 2017. Each 
statement has a payment due date by which time the minimum payment must be made but 
this isnt linked to the promotional rate or the ending of it which, as Ive already said, I think  
was made  sufficiently clear to Mr F by MBNA.
Given how strongly Mr F feels  about what happened he may want  to pursue the matter 
further through other routes.  But my decision brings  to an end what  we  in trying to resolve  
his dispute with MBNA informally   can do for him. Im sorry if this disappoints  Mr F.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6606763