K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 14 December 2018. A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why I thought 
this policy  had not been mis-sold.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 
14 January 2019.  But neither side added anything more.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party have  sent me anything new to consider.  So having reviewed everything, Ive 
come to the same conclusion as before  that I dont think  Mr and Mrs Ss policy was 
mis-sold in this case.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  
Mr and Mrs Ss complaint about  Bank  of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62429802COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S applied  for a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1997, and it started  in 1998.  Mr and Mrs S 
paid for the PPI with a regular  monthly premium,  which  didnt attract interest. It covered  Mrs S only, in 
case she was off work sick or lost her job.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I dont  think Mr and Mrs Ss PPI policy was mis-sold  here. Ill explain  
why.
The mortgage  application had a section for PPI. It briefly explained what it was for, and only 
recommended that Mr and Mrs S thought about it. It offered  more details if theyd like. Then there was 
a box Mr and Mrs S could sign if they wanted  PPI, or which could be left blank if they didnt want it. 
Mr and Mrs S signed the box to say they wanted PPI, and they signed  the application  as a whole. 
They also submitted a separate  application specifically for PPI. It set out the PPIs cost separately to 
the cost of the mortgage itself. It specified that they wanted  the policy  for Mrs S only,  and that theyd 
checked she was eligible. Overall, I think that Halifax made Mr and Mrs S aware they had a choice 
about buying the PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time.
Halifax recommended the PPI for Mrs S, so it had to check it was right for her. And based on what  
Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think its most likely  that it was. For example, Mrs S 
wasnt affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. And it looks like it wouldve been 
affordable for Mr and Mrs S.
Mr and Mrs S originally told their representative that Mrs S was only entitled to limited sick pay, and 
didnt have any other  cover  in case she lost her job. So in that case, the PPI would have  been really  
useful for her. Its worth bearing  in mind that Mrs S was the main  earner, and if Mr and Mrs S fell 
behind on their mortgage payments they risked losing  their home.
Mr and Mrs S have now said that Mrs S had twelve months  cover for both sickness and redundancy  
through work. This differs substantially  from what they said before. And aside from being  an 
uncommonly high level of work benefits in general, it doesnt seem to fit Mrs Ss employment  
situation. So I think its more  likely that what  Mr and Mrs S originally  told their representative  that 
Mrs S only had limited benefits  is true. However,  if in response  to this provisional  decision Mr and 
Mrs S send in evidence  of Mrs Ss work benefits from the time of the sale,  then Id be happy to 
reconsider this point.
The PPI application  showed the cost of the policy,  as well as what it would  pay out in a claim.  So 
I think  Mr and Mrs S wouldve understood what the PPI would cost and what its benefit was.
Ref: DRN62429803Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out all the main  things the policy wouldnt  cover. But as 
I said above,  Mrs S doesnt  appear  to have been affected  by any of those  things. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont plan to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Please could  Mr and Mrs S, and Halifax, send me any more information  or comments to look at by 
14 January 2019. Particularly, Mr and Mrs S should send evidence of Mrs Ss work benefits. After that 
date, Ill issue my final decision based on the evidence I have.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6242980