K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC (Tesco) mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs L took out a credit  card with Tesco in 2006. At the same time she bought a PPI policy 
which wouldve helped cover her repayments on the card for up to 12 months at a time if she 
couldnt work. It also provided some life cover.
Mrs L says she thought she wouldve had a better chance of getting the credit card if she 
took the PPI. She says that she wouldnt have bought it if shed understood the terms and 
benefits.
The adjudicator didnt think Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld.  Mrs L disagrees, so the 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mrs Ls 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision. 
Mrs L applied for the credit card and PPI by post.  Mrs L doesnt  suggest the PPI was added  
without her knowledge or consent; indeed the copy of the application form provided by 
Tesco shows that Mrs L selected the PPI and that it was optional.  Mrs L does,  however, say 
that she thought  by taking  the PPI shed have a better chance of qualifying for the credit 
card.
Mrs L doesnt say what  made her think that way. But theres nothing on the form to suggest 
this was the case, and Mrs L didnt have any contact with a Tesco representative.  So I dont 
think Mrs L was erroneously led to believe the PPI wouldve  influenced the outcome of her 
credit application  by anything Tesco did wrong.
Tesco didnt  give Mrs L a personal recommendation to buy the policy, so it didnt need to 
check it was right for her. But it did need  to make sure Mrs L had enough information to 
make her own decision.
Its possible Tesco didnt do this. But this doesnt  mean I should automatically  uphold Mrs Ls 
complaint. I have to consider whether Mrs L wouldve acted  differently and not bought the 
policy if shed had all the details.
I dont think Mrs L wouldve acted differently. I say this because:
Mrs L was eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been affected by any terms which 
mightve made it more  difficult for her to make a successful claim, such  as those 
relating to existing  medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances;
Ref: DRN63013862I think Mrs L wouldve understood the basic  premise that the PPI wouldve helped  
with her repayments if she couldnt work  due to accident, sickness or unemployment 
 because the application form explained this. So it was up to her to decide whether 
her existing  means such as sick pay, redundancy pay, savings or help from friends 
and family were sufficient;
The cost of the policy was comparable with other  similar policies on the market  at the 
time. And I havent seen anything to suggest it was unaffordable  for her. 
So although  I think its possible Mrs L didnt get all the information  she shouldve  done in 
relation to the policy, I dont think she lost out as a result. This means Tesco  doesnt  have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Tesco will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L because:
When the policy was sold,Tesco  expected  to get a high level of commission and 
profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs L 
about that. Because Tesco didnt tell Mrs L, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Tesco has offered to pay back the amount  of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair 
in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Tesco has to pay back to Mrs L any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Tesco should  also pay back to Mrs L any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
Tesco should re-work the credit card account  and pay back  to Mrs L the difference  between 
what she owes and what she wouldve owed if the commission and profit  share it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Tesco  should also pay Mrs L 8%* simple interest if 
Mrs L paid off her credit  card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs L can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Tesco Personal  Finance PLC does not have to pay back 
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs L.
But Tesco Personal Finance PLC does  have to pay back to Mrs L any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs L to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 March 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6301386