K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained that Automobile Association  Insurance Services Limited (AA) unfairly 
charged him twice for his AA membership breakdown policy.
background
Mr P has had breakdown  cover with AA since 1999  for both himself and his wife (the 
standalone policy) for which  he paid an annual fee, which in 2017 was around £175. In 2001 
Mr Ps bank  also gave him AA breakdown  cover  as a benefit  of his bank account (the bank 
policy) which  he paid for as part of his banking charge.
In 2018 Mr P complained to AA. He said that his recent  renewal letter had shown him that 
AA was charging him around £45 a year to provide cover for his wife. He said it wasn't  fair 
that he paid around  £130  for himself  on that policy, when he already had the cover provided  
by his bank policy.  He said that AA should  just charge him the additional fee for his wife 
rather than him having to pay twice for his own membership. He said it should refund  him the 
difference that hed paid for the preceding years. The AA didn't agree to do that.
Mr P brought his complaint about that to us. Our adjudicator didn't think AA had done 
anything wrong. Mr P didn't agree so his complaint been passed to me to decide.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
The two policies that Mr P held with the AA both gave  similar benefits;  the key difference 
was that the standalone policy also covered his wife, whereas the bank policy  only covered 
him.
Ive listened to Mr Ps calls with AA in 2017  about  renewing his standalone policy.  Its clear 
from those that Mr P was aware that he had two policies that provided broadly similar 
benefits. Its also clear that he was aware  that he could  only add his wife to the bank policy  
by making her a joint account holder on his bank account. In fact when AA commented that 
he had dual cover  he said that he had this conversation every year with the AA. And I note 
that hed managed to negotiate  a discount for his standalone policy  fee almost every  year.  
So it was clear that he was aware  the he had the standalone policy, as well as the bank 
policy and the amounts  he was paying  for it.
It seems  that Mr P doesn't think it was fair that AA charged him the full fee for his standalone 
policy, rather than just charging him the additional amount for his wife. He said that AA 
hadn't previously  explained what the cost was for adding his wife to the policy.  That might be 
the case but I don't think that AA was under any obligation to do so. 
Also the two policies are separate. The bank policy doesn't  allow  a joint policyholder unless  
that policyholder  is also a joint account holder. And Mr P chose  not to add his wife to his 
back account. So if he wanted joint cover then he needed to buy another policy. But that was 
his choice. And he made it in the knowledge of how much it would cost him for the 
standalone policy and that he had similar cover provided by his bank policy.  
Ref: DRN62393522Mr Ps said that he had no choice  but to buy the joint policy. But he did have a choice. The 
AA didn't force him to buy the standalone policy. And he could have  bought a separate  
policy for his wife in her name alone if he wanted to avoid the dual insurance or he could 
have made  his wife a joint account  holder with the bank.  And he was under no obligation to 
buy any policy from the AA. So I don't  think  AA did anything wrong in providing Mr P with the 
cover he clearly wanted, especially as he was fully aware of what  it was costing him and that 
he was dual insured.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6239352