K822xcomplaint 
Miss G complains that a used car she acquired under a hire purchase  agreement with 
Mercedes-Benz Financial  Services UK Limited  ("MBFS") wasn't of satisfactory quality.
background
In July 2016  Miss G acquired a used car under  a four year hire purchase agreement with 
MBFS. The car was just over a year old and had a mileage of 9,473.
Miss G says that shortly after she took the car she noticed  a rattle  around the 
dashboard  when she drove. In March 2017 she took the car back  to the dealership  to 
investigate the rattle.  Miss G also asked the dealership  to investigate why the airbag 
warning light had illuminated.
The dealership inspected the car and confirmed a rattle from the instrument cluster.  It 
stripped out the instrument  cluster and secured the can block  as it was moving  about in 
the bracket,  lubricated  the parts and reassembled it. The dealership carried out a road test 
and said the fault had been repaired. It also found a fault with the SRS control module for 
the seat recognition  pad and so fitted  a new seat pad. Again this was tested and found to 
be fixed.
In May 2017 Miss G returned the car to the dealership again, as she said the rattle  hadn't  
been fixed. Again the dealership confirmed a rattle from the instrument  cluster area and 
air vents. The dealership  stripped out the parts, applied felt tape and sound-proofing to all 
the contact  points and reassembled it. It found the fault was fixed.
But in July 2017 Miss G again contacted the dealership  as she said the rattle  was a 
continuing problem and the airbag warning light had again illuminated. She asked  if 
she could have a meeting with the manager  before the car was taken in for repairs.
Following some months of communication with the dealership, Miss G complained to MBFS  
and said she would  now like to reject the car. It offered to arrange  for the car to be 
inspected  by an independent engineer. Miss G then complained to this service as MBFS  
had appeared  to suggest she needed to cover the cost of this inspection.
Our investigator then spoke with MBFS who agreed  it would  cover the cost of 
the independent engineer's report. So Miss G agreed for the car to be inspected.  
In July 2018  the car was inspected and the independent engineer noted it was in generally  
good condition but that the "instrument binnacle  trim was ill fitting at its upper edge."  The 
engineer was also able to replicate  the rattle from the dashboard during  the test drive. He 
also noted  the car's airbag appeared  faulty  due to the warning light that was illuminated.
On the basis  of this report,  our investigator  recommended  that Miss G's complaint should  be 
partially upheld. She said there wasn't enough evidence to establish that the rattling fault
had been present  from the point of sale, as Miss G'd had the car for eight months  before  
she'd complained.  So she couldn't  agree that it was reasonable for Miss G to hand the car 
back. But she said she thought  that MBFS  hadn't treated Miss G fairly during her 
complaint,  as it hadn't been clear that it was always going to cover the cost of the 
independent report,  especially as Miss G had initially  declined the inspection because it 
Ref: DRN61425782would be at a cost to her. If MBFS  had told Miss G earlier  that it would  be paying then 
some of the delay in obtaining the report would've  been  avoided.
Our investigator also said that once the independent inspection had been agreed MBFS had 
then taken three months to arrange it which had caused  Miss G further  inconvenience.   She 
said that MBFS should pay Miss G £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it 
had caused  with this delay.
MBFS agreed with our investigators view but Miss G has disagreed. She says she 
considers the car to be of substandard condition as she wouldn't expect it to develop 
faults  when it was still fairly new. And it had only been 18 months old at the time she'd  first 
complained. The independent engineer had also found  faults with it when he'd inspected it 
and the rattle in the dashboard was getting worse.
As there was no agreement, the complaint  was passed to me to look at and I issued  a 
provisional  decision  along  the following  lines.
Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 goods supplied to a consumer must be of "satisfactory  
quality", "fit for purpose"  and "as described". For a used car "satisfactory quality"  takes  into 
account the age, condition  and mileage. I'd seen the car supplied  to Miss G was nearly new 
with a relatively low mileage and even  after a further two years of use by Miss G was 
described as being in "generally good condition."
Miss G said shed noticed  the car "rattled"  when driving  it over various  surfaces from the 
time shed acquired it, but accepted  that she hadn't report it to the dealership until around 
eight  months later. I've seen that she was driving around 1000 miles per month which is 
average  use.
Miss G supplied this service with two letters shed received from the dealership setting out 
the work it had carried out on the car in both March and May 2017. I noted in both letters 
the dealership said "confirmed rattle from the instrument  cluster"  - though the independent  
engineer said in their report that the dealership had "been  unable  to replicate"  the rattle.  I
didn't think that this comment by the independent engineer was consistent with what Miss 
G was told by the dealership, nor with the work  it had carried out on the car in an effort to 
stop the car rattling.
The independent engineer  reported that "there  is a rattle  emanating from behind the 
vehicle's  dashboard and the instrument binnacle trim is ill fitting". He also said that the 
faulty airbag  system needed repairing "as soon as possible for safety reasons".
The issue for me to decide was whether the faults  with the car were existing  or developing 
at the point of sale. I appreciated that once six months  had passed from the time the car 
had been acquired then the onus  rested with Miss G to prove this. However, I'd noted 
that the independent engineer hadn't provided an opinion as to whether the rattle  was 
inherent or something that had developed  through wear and tear.
Looking at the evidence provided by Miss G I was satisfied  that she'd experienced this rattle  
in the car's dashboard while  driving for some time and that the dealership  had had two 
opportunities to fix it. There was also a fault with the airbag  system which the dealership  
had had one opportunity  to fix. It appeared that none of these repairs had worked.
However, I accepted that some of the evidence  as to when these faults arose  was either  
missing  or contradictory  and where this is the case then I have  to decide what  I think is the 
most  likely  think to have  happened. From the independent engineer's report, the cause  of 
Ref: DRN61425783the rattle appeared to be the ill fitting trim. I thought  most people wouldn't expect that 
problem to have  arisen from wear and tear, but to be an inherent  fault. I appreciated it was 
possible this had been  aggravated by the attempts at repair by the dealership, but the 
independent engineer  didn't state  that faulty repairs were  the cause.  So, I was satisfied  this 
was more likely than not to be an inherent  fault.
It was also unclear what  the fault was with the airbag system,  but I'd seen one new part had 
already been fitted. As the fault re-occurred a short time after this then I didn't think it was 
likely  the original problem  was repaired.  Taking into account the age and condition  of the 
car, I was satisfied this wasn't an issue with wear  and tear. It was reasonable to expect the 
air bag system to last much longer  than 18 months. So I was satisfied this was more  likely 
than not to be an inherent  fault.
So from the evidence I thought this car was either developing  or had developed faults at 
the point of sale and so it wasn't of satisfactory  condition.  As the dealership  had had 
opportunities to fix the issues but hadn't been able to then I thought  it was fair and 
reasonable for Miss G to now reject  the car.
Miss G's complaint has taken some time due in part to the delay  in arranging  the 
independent  inspection.  MBFS had accepted that £250 compensation to Miss G for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to her was fair and I intended  to require MBFS to still pay 
this amount.
I also intended to uphold Miss G's complaint  and require MBFS to cancel the agreement,  
collec t the car at no cost to Miss G, and mark  the agreement as settled (ensuring there is 
no adverse information  recorded about  this agreement on her credit file). It must also return  
her deposit  together  with interest,  and pay £250 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience  caused.
As Miss G has been  able to use the car I wasnt going to ask MBFS to repay  any of 
her monthly payments under the agreement.
Miss  G has agreed  with my view but MBFS  hasnt  responded.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent changed my mind. For the reasons given above Im satisfied that its more likely 
than not that the car acquired by Miss G wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of sale.  Its 
fair and reasonable for Miss G to now reject  it.
Im upholding Miss Gs complaint and Im asking  MBFS to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Mark the agreement  as settled and remove any adverse  information  about this 
agreement from her credit file
Collect the car at no cost to Miss G.
Reimburse any deposit  paid by Miss G for this car together  with interest at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement  
Ref: DRN61425784Pay Miss G the sum of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience which 
has been caused 
my final decision
For the reasons  above Im upholding Miss Gs complaint. Im asking  Mercedes-Benz 
Financial Services UK Limited  to do the following:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Mark the agreement  as settled and remove any adverse  information  about this 
agreement from her credit file
Collect the car at no cost to Miss G.
Reimburse any deposit  paid by Miss G for this car together  with interest at the yearly 
rate of 8% simple from the date of payment until the date of settlement  
Pay Miss G the sum of £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience which 
has been caused 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 April 2019 .
Jocelyn Griffith 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6142578