K820x#14complaint
Miss S has complained  about  her let property insurer Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros  
y Reaseguros because it has refused liability for repairing  and reinstating her property which  
she says was damaged  by an ingress  of water.
background
Miss S contacted Ocaso in March 2018  as her tenants had told her water had come  in and 
was pouring down (internally) the front walls of all three floors of the property. It was reported 
that this was felt likely due to recent  heavy snow thawing and overflowing from iced up 
gutters. Miss S had a contractor complete a report and Ocaso asked for a surveyors  or 
engineers opinion. It agreed to pay Miss Ss contractor to put up scaffolding and appoint an 
expert.
The appointed expert (which Ill refer to as S) inspected the property and damage  in 
May 2018. S said the timber  beam  that supports  the upper floor of the property had been 
damaged by water coming in from the gutter  above. Damage to the joists  was noted as well, 
the floor was seen  to be bowing  and there  were  cracks in the walls,  part of the ceiling had 
collapsed. Photos taken  showed fungal growth  around the joists and on the coving above 
the raised ground floor bay, as well as water marking around  the double  windows on the 
upper floor, a cracked window-sill and major  cracking externally above those windows.
Ocaso noted the report contents but didnt feel it gave  sufficient  attention to the cause of the 
damage. Ocaso was concerned the water  ingress may have been on-going for some time.  It 
appointed a firm of consulting engineers (which Ill refer to as C). C carried  out an 
inspection at the property in August 2018. C said there had been a prolonged water ingress 
issue to the front facade of the building. It felt this was likely due to the guttering (boxed and 
part of the building facade) being  insufficient  and prone to blocking. But C also thought the 
bay roof had been poorly installed. Regardless  C felt the damage had been going on for a 
considerable extent  of time. It noted  wet and dry rot and said the beam had failed due to 
the extent of rot  this had caused the floor to bow and the brickwork between the windows 
to drop resulting in the roof also settling.
C concluded that the rot was so extensive  as to require complete replacement  of the 
structural timbers. It said that the failure  of the timbers would mean that at least 50% of the 
front facade of the building at second floor level, would need to be rebuilt. C competed its 
conclusions by confirming  that, in its view,  none  of this damage was related to subsidence.
Ocaso decided  to decline liability for the damage. It said the on-going  nature of the damage  
meant it hadnt been caused by a one-off  event,  such  as a storm. It felt it was most likely that 
water had got in over time due to the guttering not being maintained.
Miss S, via a claims representative, complained to us. Miss Ss representative said Ocaso 
should have considered this under the escape of water cover and that whilst the damage 
may have  been  on-going for a longer period, Miss S couldnt have known about it before the 
water started pouring down the walls, which lead to this claim being made. He said in line 
with this services approach to gradually  operating cause exclusions (including rot), Ocasos  
attempt to decline the claim on the basis the damage had been ongoing and was mostly 
related to rot, was unfair and unreasonable. 
Ref: DRN63325392Our investigator wasnt persuaded that the claim should be considered as one of escape  of 
water. But, having  considered the available expert  evidence concluded that the damage 
hadnt resulted  from any insured event because  it had likely been  on-going  over a prolonged 
period, as opposed to having resulted from any one-off incident (such as a storm or an 
escape of water). Our investigator felt the damage  present wasnt  that which would  be 
typically found following  a single incident  covered by the policy. He thought Ocaso had 
treated Miss S fairly in deciding the claim.
Miss Ss representative noted that the damage  had progressed by the point of Cs 
assessment in August, and said it had continued  to progress with another ceiling having now 
collapsed. But the initial damage had only occurred following a period of heavy snow which 
had then melted. If the ingress had been going  on over a longer period the wooden  windows 
would surely have  been affected,  but they werent. The representative said there  was no 
reason for this to not be considered as damage  caused by an escape of water  and that 
whilst a claim under the storm  cover  had also been  discounted the policy  didnt define  storm 
or state  damage  had to result  from a one-off incident. In terms of gradual damage  the 
representative pointed  again to this services approach to exclusions  of this type. 
Our investigator noted that the damage  was reportedly caused due to weather but on review 
he said it was likely  this had just highlighted the problem that had existed and been causing  
damage for a long period.  In terms of our approach to gradual cause exclusions, he said he 
wasnt convinced that Miss S had no way of knowing damage was occurring. Miss S asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision and the complaint was passed  to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Miss S is disappointed  by Ocasos decline. However,  having  seen the 
damage, and considered how its suggested it occurred, I think  Ocasos  decision is fair and 
reasonable. I say that having  taken  into account the available expert evidence and our 
approach which we apply when an insurer is seeking to defeat its liability for a claim by 
relying on an exclusion for damage which has occurred gradually.
The basic  premise of insurance is that it gives cover for damage caused by one-off incidents. 
Whether or not this claim is said to refer to storm or escape of water  damage, the weight of 
the available  expert  evidence  suggests  the internal parts of the property have been 
subjected to significant amounts of water and over a prolonged period. 
I say that as even  in Ss report form May 2018 there was extensive fungal growth visible on 
the joists and the main supporting beam  had been  structurally compromised. I agree with our 
investigator  that is not the sort of damage  one would expect to see as a result of a one-off 
weather related incident. For a beam of the size involved in this case to become structurally  
compromised due to wet rot (as is the case here) is something that takes  time and would 
only likely result from significant  and repeated  soaking by water. I note C comments  that the 
property had suffered  prolonged water  ingress and that the damage had been  on-going  for a 
considerable period of time. Nothing Ive seen  gives me cause to doubt that conclusion  in 
any way.
I appreciate Miss Ss representatives  view that Ocaso shouldnt have declined  the claim on 
the basis of gradual  damage and rot due to the approach this service often takes when a 
Ref: DRN63325393complaint about  a claim turns  on the insurer relying  on these exclusions. But Im not entirely 
persuaded this case does  turn on that. Ocaso  has mentioned  that the policy  contains  an 
exclusion for rot, and it has referred  to damage which has occurred over time,  which  is also 
excluded in the policy. But Ocaso  has also been  quite  clear that it doesnt think an insured 
event has occurred. Unless an insured event is shown to have  occurred, the claim/complaint 
doesnt move to a consideration  of any relevant  policy exclusions.
However, for completeness, our approach where an insurer seeks to rely on a gradual cause 
exclusion to decline a claim is to say that if the policyholder couldnt or shouldnt reasonably 
have known that damage was occurring we wont allow  an insurer to rely on this type of 
exclusion to defeat  its liability. Like our investigator  though, Im not convinced  that Miss S 
couldnt or shouldnt reasonably have been  aware  that damage was occurring. I say that 
because there is significant  water  damage showing under the upper windows in the 
May 2018 report, as well as extensive,  external cracking. Im not persuaded, given my 
experience of this type of damage, that either  wouldnt have been  visible  to some  degree 
much earlier than March  2018  when Miss S made her claim.   
Whist I understand that Miss S thinks she should have cover for this damage, with regret for 
any disappointment this may cause her, nothing Ive seen makes  me think Ocasos  refusal to 
accept liability was unfair or unreasonable. I know Miss S would like me to make  Ocaso  
accept her claim and pay her interest  and compensation  but Im not convinced its failed her 
or treated her unfairly. Im of the view that Ocasos decision that the damage being  claimed  
for has been on-going for a prolonged period and hasnt resulted from a one-off incident  
covered by the policy is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Ocaso SA, Compania de 
Seguros y Reaseguros.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 May 2020.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6332539