K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  which Mr and Mrs T 
say Lloyds Bank PLC, trading as Lloyds TSB, mis-sold to them.  
For consistency, Ill refer to Lloyds throughout this decision.
background
Mr and Mrs T applied  for a mortgage in 1999 and they were  sold an MPPI policy which 
protected Mr T against  accident, sickness and unemployment. Mrs T wasnt  covered.
One of our adjudicators has assessed this complaint  and said it shouldnt be upheld.
Mr and Mrs T disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. 
The company representing Mr and Mrs T say they were either unaware of the MPPI or must 
have been told it was something  they needed to have with the mortgage. Obviously, these 
are quite different  versions of what happened.
 
So in arriving at a decision, Ive taken  into account  how long ago this sale was. Clearly its 
possible  and indeed  understandable   that Mr and Mrs T might not be able to accurately  
remember everything that happened from around 20 years ago. I also take into account  that 
although Lloyds  has been able to send us some documentation, there  is quite a lot of the 
paperwork that hasnt  survived this long. Businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely.
Lloyds says Mr and Mrs T would have been  given  a choice about  the MPPI.  And although 
we dont have  a copy of their mortgage application form or mortgage offer, my experience  of 
these types of sale is that they would have probably had to give their permission for the 
MPPI to be added.  
Also, Mr T appears to have been  the only person insured and I think  he and Mrs T would 
have been able to see a policy had been set up because they would have probably needed 
to transfer the monthly premium via a signed direct  debit (or similar).
However, I also note from Lloyds computerised records that a successful claim was made 
on the policy commencing in March 2002 and that Mr and Mr T were  paid £193.70.  So all 
these things make it highly likely Mr and Mrs T did know they had a policy and had given 
their consent  for it to be added to their mortgage. 
Lloyds says it probably recommended the cover  to Mr and Mrs T during  an advised sale. 
This means  Lloyds needed to ensure the cover was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ts particular 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN61101612I think it was. 
I say this because  Mr T was eligible for the cover  and not caught by any of the major 
exclusions we sometimes see in these  policies. He was the main earner, so I can see why 
the policy wouldve  been helpful to cover his income.
Ive thought about the job Mr T said he had and the sickness benefits he said he enjoyed but 
Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean the MPPI wasnt suitable. This is because I think
Mr and Mrs Ts mortgage wouldve been  a significant financial commitments  and the MPPI 
policy was designed  to pay out for up to 12 months  in the event of financially difficult  times.  
The policy only cost £3.42 per month so I think this would have been  affordable  for them and 
it would  have paid out in addition to any other  means  Mr and Mrs T had at that time.  As their 
borrowing was secured against their home,  I think the consequences for them  not being able 
to keep up the payments could have been  serious.  
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the MPPI  was suitable for them.
To uphold  this case Id need to think these policies were added  without  Mr and Mrs Ts 
permission or that there were other serious  flaws  in the sale process. I simply dont have that 
evidence and what Ive seen and described above  does show they were aware of the MPPI 
policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. And I dont direct 
Lloyds Bank  PLC to do anything to put matters  right.   
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6110161