K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  payment 
protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy at the same time as they applied  for their mortgage in 
1999 in one of the banks branches. They took out a second  policy  in 2002 when they 
applied for a further advance. The cover  gave them accident, sickness  and unemployment 
cover. They  paid a monthly amount for the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs W
disagreed so the complaint was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  I have 
based my decision  on the balance  of probabilities   in other  words,  on what I consider is 
most likely given the available evidence and what we know  about how Halifax  sold PPI at the 
time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed
it here.
Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say they always  refused PPI and werent aware the cover had been added  to 
their mortgage account on either occasion.  It wasnt made clear to them the policies  were  
optional. I cant know what was discussed  in the meetings but Ive thought carefully  about 
their comments and looked at the paperwork from the sales.  In 1999 Mr and Mrs W didnt 
select PPI on their mortgage application form, but they did complete and sign a separate  PPI 
application form. On this they answered  a number of questions  to confirm their eligibility.  So 
overall I think its most likely they decided  they did want the cover. The form also set out the 
cost of the PPI separately and there was nothing on it that I think  could reasonably have led 
them to think it was a mandatory part of their mortgage application. 
In 2002 they received a Total Mortgage  Protection Plan (TMPP)  cost illustration. This 
showed they had selected PPI, but not life or critical illness cover. Based on what we know  
about the banks sales process at this time its most likely this was produced after theyd 
completed a TMPP application  form and discussed  their options with the bank. The fact the 
split of cover  changed from 50:50 on the 1999  policy to 75:25  (Mr/Mrs) for the 2002 policy 
also suggests to me there was discussion between the parties.lH
I have thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs W have  said,  but I also have to consider how 
long ago the sales were and how that might affect  what they recall. So, given the balance  of 
evidence, I think its most  likely Halifax  made it clear that PPI was optional  and Mr and 
Mrs W chose  to take it out in both years.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it had to check that the PPI was right for
Ref: DRN68720952them. I know they feel strongly they had good benefits and were in secure  employment   but 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances, I think  that it was suitable. Mrs W told us in 
1999 she was entitled to one months  full pay and one months half pay if she was sick, 
rising to three months  full and three months half pay in 2002. And Mr W was entitled to 
three months full and half pay if he was sick, rising to six months full and half pay. But the 
PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to their work benefits and for  up to 24 months for each 
successful claim. Mrs W also told us she had a death-in-service benefit but this wouldnt  help 
with monthly mortgage repayments in the same way as PPI. They also had around £3,000 in 
savings but the PPI would have allowed them to use this to cover other living  expenses  
whilst not working, or to keep them intact  for their future needs.
In both years  Mr and Mrs W were  borrowing quite a large sum of money over a long period, 
secured on their home.  And the effects of not keeping up the repayments could have been 
serious for them. So, overall,  I think the PPI would  have been useful for Mr and Mrs W if they 
were sick or lost their job(s).
Its possible Halifax didnt give Mr and Mrs W all the information they needed  before deciding
to buy PPI. The costs  were made clear each time (on the application  in 1999 and on the cost 
illustration in 2002) and it was apparently affordable.  But I dont know  that the bank pointed 
out the main things  the policies didnt  cover.  However Mr and Mrs W dont appear to have 
been affected by any of the main exclusions. So I dont  think better information about the 
policies wouldve changed their mind about  buying PPI.
It follows I dont think Mr and Mrs W have lost out because of any problems with these sales.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to
accept or reject my decision  before  25 August 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6872095