K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide trading  at the time as Dunfermline 
Building Society) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs M took out the policy in 1994 in a branch at the same time as she applied  for a 
mortgage. It gave  her protection against accident,  sickness and unemployment. Mrs M paid 
a monthly amount for it.
Mrs M says she wasnt aware the MPPI policy had been added  and that she wasnt given a 
choice to have  it. She thinks  it was mis-sold  to her.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  for the following reasons:
Nationwide  had to make it clear  to Mrs M the MPPI  was optional and she had to agree 
to take it. I can see that Mrs M signed a separate MPPI application  form. MPPI is 
presented as an optional requirement  on this form and it looks like a discussion would 
have been had around the policy. Mrs M has then signed the form agreeing to have it.
Mrs M says the policy was added to her mortgage without her knowledge. I 
acknowledge what she has said about  the sale. I cant know  for sure what  happened but 
memories do fade over time and the meeting took place  many years ago. Based on 
what I have seen in front of me, I think the balance of evidence shows Nationwide made 
it clear the PPI was optional on this occasion  and Mrs M chose to take it.
I cant be sure if Nationwide recommended  the policy to Mrs M or not but it seems  to 
have been suitable  for her anyway based  on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time. Mrs M says she was entitled  to 12 months sick pay from her employer  at the time. 
But the PPI wouldve  paid out in addition to this. It would also have paid out for each 
successful claim giving long term protection which was important given the term of 
Mrs Ms mortgage.  Overall, I think it wouldve been useful for Mrs M if she was sick or 
lost her job. 
Nationwide has provided details about  the cost of the policy  but I cant be sure that this 
was disclosed to Mrs M in the meeting when it was sold to her. That said,  even if 
Nationwide had disclosed  the costs clearly to her, I think she would have taken  it anyway 
for the reasons I have  given  for why the policy was suitable. I am persuaded the policy 
was competitively priced and apparently affordable.
Ref: DRN68923302Mrs M was eligible for the policy and wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover. So I dont think better information  on the exclusions or limitations wouldve 
changed her decision.  
It follows I dont think Mrs M has lost out because of any problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6892330