K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains about the lack of assistance provided to him by Union Reiseversicherung 
AG (URV) under his travel insurance policy when  he had an accident abroad.  
All references to URV include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.  
background 
Mr W was insured under a travel insurance  provided by URV.
Unfortunately Mr W had an accident  while on holiday. URV was contacted on the same  day
and Mr W followed  this up with an email the next morning outlining what  had happened  in
more detail. Mr W explained  hed cancelled his original return  flight and asked for advice on
what the next steps would be.
Mr W phoned URV a number of times that day and asked his treating doctor for a medical
report so URV could assess how best to repatriate  him to the UK.
Two days after his accident, Mr W contacted URV  to ask if it had received his medical report.
Later that afternoon Mr W sent URV a photograph of the report which outlined what  had
happened and how Mr W was being  treated.
Mr W received  a call-back from URV on the morning of the third day after the accident during
which Mr W said he anticipated being discharged and flying  home the following day. Mr W
suggested his preferred  route back to the UK. URV  confirmed it would make all of the
arrangements and it was agreed that Mr W would email URV with confirmation of when he
was being discharged together  with copies of his and his sons passports.  URV said it would
confirm when cover was in place and look into various options for arranging  for Mr W to
return home.
Mr W emailed URV after the call to say hed asked  his doctors  for confirmation  that he was
fit to fly. A few hours later Mr W sent another email  to ask URV  what its plans were for his 
repatriation. 
Mr W telephoned URV that afternoon to say he needed an itinerary  for his return  home the
following day and if he didnt receive  this soon hed go ahead  and make his own
arrangements and claim the costs back from URV. Mr W also followed this with an email
along the same lines.
When URV phoned Mr W back that evening he said hed booked  to travel home himself.
Unhappy, Mr W complained to URV  about the level of service hed received. URV sent Mr W
a final response letter  saying it didnt feel there had been inactivity in dealing with his case.
URV explained its medical  team  needed to be fully confident Mr W was able to undertake  a
flight before  any plans were put in place and said Mr W hadnt wished to wait for an answer
and had booked  his own flights instead.
Mr W then brought his complaint to our service. Two of our investigators said they didnt
think there had been any significant delays by URV in the handling of Mr Ws claim.
However, the second investigator then suggested  that URV  should make a payment  of
compensation to Mr W.
Ref: DRN68124092URV offered to pay Mr W £200 but Mr W didnt accept, so the case was passed  to me
to decide.
I sent my provisional decision about Mr Ws case in May 2019.  In it, I said;
Since bringing his complaint to us, Mr W has raised  further points about URVs delays and
administrative problems in dealing with his claim for the reimbursement of his travel
expenses and settlement  of the helicopter  invoice. But as these issues didnt form part of the
original complaint to URV, I havent addressed them here. If Mr W is unhappy with any of
these things then hed need to complain directly to URV before this service  could consider
and comment on them.
The newspaper articles which Mr W has sent to us also havent had any bearing  on my
provisional decision. Our role is to look into individual disputes based on what  has happened
in the specific  circumstances  of the case.  If we think a business has acted unfairly or
unreasonably then we can award  compensation for any trouble and upset a customer  has
experienced as a result. But we dont have the power to punish or fine a business though our
awards or to require  an insurer to change its policy wording. Any broader concerns that
Mr W may have about how URV  operates  would be a matter for the regulator, the Financial
Conduct Authority.
Mr W says one of the key selling points that attracted him to this policy was the availability of
a 24 hour emergency  assistance team. He has also pointed to URVs customer  promise of
first class  service.
I understand Mr W had certain expectations  about what level of assistance URV  shouldve
provided to him. And I think it would have been helpful if URV had explained the repatriation
process in better and clearer detail to him from the outset.
It wont always be appropriate  or necessary for an insurers medical team  to speak to a
treating doctor.  Often an insurer will ask a policyholder to obtain a medical  report and send it
directly to the insurer to assess. Depending on factors such  as the severity of the injury and
the location of the accident,  this may be a quicker  option than the insurers  medical team
trying to get in touch  with the treating doctor without having had sight of a medical report
first. Or, if more complex repatriation arrangements are needed or if theres any dispute
about the best manner  of repatriation then I might  expect to see the insurers  medical  team
getting in touch with the treating doctor.
However, in this case, I dont think there  was anything unfair or unreasonable  about  URVs
failure to speak directly  to Mr Ws treating doctors.  And I dont think  the claim was likely to
have progressed any quicker if URV had contacted the treating doctor directly.
I wouldnt usually expect  an insurer to start making repatriation  arrangements  until it has
received confirmation  from a treating  doctor that a policyholder is fit to fly and its medical
team has had a reasonable  opportunity to consider and comment  on the policyholders
medical condition.
Mr W has provided a medical report confirming he was fit to fly two days after the accident.
And Ive seen a note on URVs  file on the evening  of the same day confirming that its
medical team thought Mr W should  be fit to fly.
Ref: DRN68124093So I think it would have  been reasonable for URV to start looking into repatriation
arrangements from this point  especially  when  Mr W contacted it early the following
morning to set out his preferred route for returning home.
However I dont think its realistic to expect  an insurer  to put these plans into place instantly.
The turnaround time for an insurer to make arrangements in a situation like this can be a
couple of days  and I dont think this is unreasonable. Having an accident abroad is
inconvenient and distressing and sometimes may involve  a policyholder having to wait
abroad for longer than theyd  like while an insurer makes arrangements for them to travel
home.
Nonetheless, I can appreciate Mr W was anxious to get back to the UK and I think he made
this clear to URV on the morning of the third day after his accident.  So I think  it wouldve
been reasonable for URV  to have explained  to Mr W at this point that it might not be possible
for it to arrange repatriation within  the timescales Mr W wanted,  and that making his own
arrangements may lead to Mr W being  able to return home more quickly.
And, overall,  having reviewed the correspondence  and telephone  call log which Mr W has
provided I think URV couldve kept him updated  more often while  the claim was ongoing.
This means  I think  there  was more URV couldve done in this case to explain next steps  and
timescales for arranging  repatriation to Mr W and I think  it couldve kept in contact with him
more regularly and pro-actively throughout the claim.
Mr W understandably suffered frustration,  trouble  and upset as a result  and I think  the offer
of £200 which URV  has now made fairly  compensates Mr W for the impact of this on him.
So my provisional decision was that URVs  offer to pay £200 compensation was fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. URV responded to my provisional  findings and said it had 
nothing further  to add. Mr W didnt accept my provisional decision  and responded with 
detailed comments.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive given careful thought to everything Mr W has said in response to my provisional decision  
but Ive only addressed the points which I think are materially relevant to the outcome of this 
complaint, and which I havent addressed  previously.  
Mr W has queried comments I made about  calls between himself and URV on the third day 
after his accident.  I asked URV for a copy of the calls recordings from that day before 
making my provisional decision. URV sent us a call recording time-stamped 09.35, when 
URV telephoned Mr W. During this call URV confirmed it would make all of the 
arrangements for Mr W and his son to return to the UK once it had received the necessary 
documents. URV also provided a call recording time-stamped 18.00, when URV telephoned  
Mr W. 
Ive taken into account what Mr W has said about URVs teams being led by medical  staff.  
The purpose of a team like this is to oversee and provide reasonable assistance with a 
claim. Different claims  will be handled in different ways, depending on the circumstances 
Ref: DRN68124094involved. In a situation like this one, I think its relatively common  practice for an insurer  to 
ask a policyholder  to obtain a medical report from their treating doctor and send  this to the 
insurer for it to assess. So I dont  think it was unreasonable  for URV to expect Mr W to 
provide a medical report himself, rather than URV requesting it directly  from the hospital.   
But Ive already agreed I think  it would have been helpful if URV had explained the 
repatriation process  and next steps  in better and clearer detail to Mr W. This includes 
information about exactly what details it needed from Mr Ws doctors in order to make  return  
flight arrangements. Ive also acknowledged  that I think  URV couldve kept in contact with 
Mr W more regularly and pro-actively throughout the claim. 
I understand Mr W doesnt think £200 reflects  the extra pain and considerable worry that 
URV caused him, and feels this offer is an admission of guilt. The offer was made  by URV in 
an attempt to resolve Mr Ws complaint  and I need to assess  whether I think  this offer is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances. 
When assessing compensation we consider the impact of the business actions on the 
individual consumer,  the level of awards  previously made by our service in cases sharing 
similar features  and our guidance on the payment of compensation for trouble and upset 
which is published on our website. I have no doubt  that the level of service and assistance  
provided by URV caused Mr W frustration  and upset at a time when he was already worried,  
in considerable pain and anxious to return home. I can also appreciate Mr W spent time 
chasing URV and making his own repatriation arrangements. 
I understand Mr Ws family in the UK were also affected by URVs actions in this case but, 
as Mr W is the sole policyholder I can only award compensation for the impact the situation 
had on him. 
Ive taken all of these  factors into account when considering  what compensation is 
appropriate. And, overall, I think an award in the category of what this service  would 
consider to be moderate compensation is warranted in the circumstances. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W but Im satisfied £200 compensation is fair and reasonable and I 
wont be recommending  that URV should increase its offer.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part. 
Union Reiseversicherung  AG must pay Mr W £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6812409