K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that Society of Lloyds turned down a claim he made on his hire 
excess insurance policy. 
For ease of reading, reference  to Lloyds also includes the actions and comments  of the 
underwriter.
background
Mr D claimed  on his policy for damage to the car hed hired on holiday. He said hed followed 
signs and the sat nav which took him down an untarmacked road to a view point. As he 
wasnt sure the car would be able to get back to the road,  he called a recovery agent. He 
said the car hire company  alleged that the car had been damaged by the recovery  agent  
during the recovery  and charged him an excess. 
Lloyds turned down Mr Ds claim as it said the policy didnt cover damage caused by driving  
on an unmade road. It said while the road didnt specifically have to be made of tarmac it did 
need to let a standard  vehicle pass unimpeded. Mr D didnt think this was fair and brought 
his complaint to us. He said hed followed signs, as well as the sat nav and the road appears  
on the map as a road. He said a number  of roads arent tarmacked in the country he was 
visiting. 
Our investigator thought Lloyds had fairly turned down Mr Ds claim, in line with the terms 
and conditions of the policy, as the road was unmade.  Mr D didnt agree and asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. He said he wasnt aware  he was going  to drive on a road which  
wasnt tarmacked and was following signs  and a map.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ds policy say that theres no cover where damage is as a 
result of driving off-road,  on an unmade  road or a road that isnt designed  as a public 
thoroughfare. 
Mr Ds said that he needed to call a recovery agent as the road wasnt  tarmacked and he 
was concerned the car wouldnt be able to deal with the terrain. So, that suggests the road 
wasnt suitable for a standard vehicle.  Ive also seen photos  of where Mr Ds car was 
recovered from and accept Lloyds view that the road was unmade and not of a condition  to 
let a standard vehicle through unimpeded. 
I appreciate Mr D said he was following signs and his sat nav to the view point.  But thats not 
enough to persuade me he wasnt driving  on an unmade road. And that road wasnt  suitable  
for the car he was in. So, while I understand my decision will be disappointing for Mr D, Im 
not going to interfere with Lloyds decision to turn down his claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN64694202Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6469420