K821x#15complaint
Mr W says Casheuronet UK LLC (trading  as Quick Quid) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three payday  loans Quick Quid provided  to Mr W from February 
2010 to June 2010. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld Mr Ws complaint  and thought that loans two and three  
shouldnt have been given. 
Quick Quid disagreed with our adjudicators  view.  As the parties havent been able to agree 
on a resolution the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Mr W could  repay  the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Quick Quid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans two and three would most 
likely have shown that the repayment  required for these loans would have  taken a significant 
Ref: DRN67992302portion of Mr Ws monthly income. In these circumstances,  there was a significant risk Mr W 
wouldnt have been able to repay these loans without undue difficulty  or borrowing further.
I think that Mr W lost out because he had to pay interest and charges on loans he shouldnt 
have been provided with. So Im upholding Mr Ws complaint  about  loans two and three and 
Quick Quid should  put things right.
putting things right  what Quick Quid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr W paid on loan two;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the debt Quick Quid sold on for loan three  included interest  and charges that Mr W 
shouldnt have  to pay. So Quick Quid should either contact the third party  debt 
purchaser and pay it an amount  to reduce whats due to the amount of what was 
borrowed, or buy back the debt from the third party and do this. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ws complaint. Casheuronet UK LLC 
(trading as Quick  Quid) should pay Mr W compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6799230