K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that National  Westminster  Bank  Plc hasnt requested a chargeback for 
money he paid to a third party.
background
Mr S made a payment of 250€ to a third party using his NatWest  debit card.  He discovered it 
mayve been a scam and asked NatWest to cancel the payment but it asked him to contact  
the third party  first. The third party has acknowledged his payment and his subsequent  
withdrawal request. But it hasnt refunded the money. Mr S says his account with the third 
party shows  that despite making no transactions  with it, his account  showed zero with his 
requested withdrawal of the money  showing as pending. He subsequently asked NatWest to 
make a chargeback  request for the money and is unhappy that it hasnt done  so. He wants  it 
to refund him his 250€ and pay some compensation.
NatWest said in its final response that as Mr S account balance  with the third party was 
showing as zero it wasnt able to make a claim.  Its a requirement of the card operator  that 
proof is provided that there are funds available to withdraw. Without this evidence  it hasnt  
enough to dispute the payment  on his behalf.  And it cannot proceed  with the chargeback  
request.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
NatWest said it needed evidence the funds  were still available  with the third party.  
Although Mr S hasnt  been able to obtain a statement  for the account  NatWest has 
acted appropriately  asking for this evidence before it could proceed.
The third partys  terms and conditions on its website say there is a fee to withdraw 
funds. And it says it may also require additional  information or identification before it 
can process a withdrawal. So, its likely Mr S wouldnt have received a full refund and 
so the chargeback wouldnt have  been successful.
Banks have the right to refuse a chargeback request when they think  its likely to be 
unsuccessful. As Mr S couldnt provide proof the funds were  available  to withdraw its 
unlikely the chargeback request  wouldve been  successful.  
NatWest responded  to Mr S chargeback request promptly  and was clear in what it 
wanted. It hasnt  made  an error or caused delay. And she cant  agree it should 
provide compensation to Mr S.
Mr S remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman  review. He says payments by 
debit card are protected by the card providers assurance to refund the card user if 
something goes wrong. Something has gone wrong  here and the retailer  hasnt  provided  all 
the evidence the card provider has asked for. The service  from the retailer wasnt  as 
described and its taken his money. So, he should  be given a refund.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN63563942When Mr S suspected he was the victim of a scam  he asked NatWest to make  a chargeback 
request for the 250€ hed paid on his debit card. 
NatWest was entitled to ask him for more information before deciding whether or not to 
make a chargeback  request. Here  it asked Mr S for proof that the money  was still available 
in his account with the third party. Its unfortunate that Mr S cannot  obtain the required proof,  
although not surprising if this was in fact a scam by the third party.  But that isnt NatWests 
fault.
NatWest is also entitled to consider the available evidence when deciding  whether  a 
chargeback request is likely to be successful or not before submitting it. And in this case  it 
concluded that in the absence of the evidence it asked for, a chargeback request wasnt  
likely to be successful and it made the decision  not to make  the request.  And as the 
adjudicator has said its likely any refund made to Mr S by the third party  wouldve been  
subject to the deduction of its fees and wouldnt  have been for the full €250  he paid.
Overall although  I understand this was all extremely frustrating for Mr S I dont think  NatWest 
has acted unfairly or made an error by not making  a chargeback  request.  And I think it made  
appropriate efforts to assist in putting  things right and reasonably  concluded it was unlikely  a 
chargeback request for the full €250 wouldnt  have  been successful.
Even if a chargeback  request  had been made theres also no guarantee it wouldve been  
successful.
Taking everything into account  although  I recognise  Mr S strength of feeling, I dont think I 
can fairly or reasonably now require NatWest to do anything  differently or require it to refund 
any money to him or pay him any compensation as hed like.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6356394