K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  accept  a cash deposit  that hed asked a third 
party to make on his behalf. 
background
On 19 February 2019, Mr Bs HSBC bank account balance  was above his authorised  
overdraft limit. Mr B works during  branch opening  hours, so he asked a relative to pay cash 
into account at his local branch to bring the account back within  the limit. The branch staff 
didnt allow Mr Bs relative to do this because the banks policy is that only account holders 
can pay money in, unless theres  a formal arrangement for somebody else to do so  which  
there wasnt here. Mr B arranged an online bank transfer into his account instead  and his 
account was back within the overdraft limit by the end of the day.
Mr B was unhappy that the branch hadnt allowed his relative to pay money  in. He 
complained to HSBC  about what had happened  and that his branch wasnt  open on 
Saturdays for him to attend instead.  He wanted HSBC  to reconsider its policy  and to refund 
him the fees hed been charged for going  above his overdraft limit that day.
HSBC apologised  for the inconvenience to Mr B, but didnt uphold  the complaint.  It said the 
policy was intended  to protect  customers  and prevent financial crime. It said it had notified 
customers of the new arrangements  before  they had been  introduced  in December 2018. 
Mr B wasnt  happy with HSBCs response  and brought his complaint to our service. An 
adjudicator considered it but didnt agree that HSBC had made a mistake.   She  concluded 
the banks policy on paying in funds  and branch opening hours was a legitimate  commercial  
decision, which it was entitled to make. And she couldnt see Mr B had been charged. 
Mr B wasnt  satisfied with the adjudicators view and felt that HSBC had given a different 
version of events to our service. He asked  for an ombudsmans decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr B wouldve been  frustrated when his relative  couldnt  pay money into his 
account, and that hes found  it difficult to carry out his branch banking around his working  
hours. But having considered his complaint carefully, I dont agree that HSBC needs  to do 
anything more here  Ill explain why.
HSBC have shared  the terms and conditions that applied  to Mr Bs account on the date his 
relative tried to pay money  into it. These  clearly  say only  the account holder can pay cash in 
over the counter at HSBC UK branches  and self-service  machines. From  this, Im satisfied  
that the branch staffs decision to refuse the transaction was in line with the terms of his 
account at that time and so they were following their own process.  
Ref: DRN62830812This policy was introduced in December 2018, and HSBCs said its intended to protect 
customers by tackling  financial crime. Having  read the terms and conditions of HSBCs 
current accounts, I see nothing to suggest  that HSBC wasnt  entitled to make this change. I 
also think it would be unfair to find against  HSBC  for making a change thats intended to help 
comply with its regulatory obligations, particularly  because I dont think Mr B was 
disadvantaged by the change. I say this because Mr B still had other ways he could still pay 
money into his account, for example, online or asking his relative  to make a transfer into the 
account. 
HSBCs explained that it told customers about the new arrangements  in advance, through 
notices in branch  and on its website. It says that customers whod paid in cash in the three 
months before the policy was introduced were sent an email about the change. Mr B says he 
didnt receive this email  or know about  the new policy. Its unfortunate he wasnt aware, but 
on balance I think HSBC  took reasonable efforts to notify him about  the new arrangements.  
And overall,  I dont  think the change was detrimental  to him.
Mr B says he was told hed be charged for going  above his overdraft limit that day, and 
asked our service to order HSBC to refund the charges. From the evidence Ive seen, Im 
satisfied that because Mr B was able to arrange  to have funds transferred into his account 
online, in the end no charges were  applied and so there isnt anything to refund here.  
Ive considered whether Mr B should be compensated for trouble and upset hes said hes 
experienced. I understand it wouldve been frustrating for him when the cash  couldnt be 
paid in and he had to arrange an online  payment. But although I sympathise with Mr B, it 
doesnt lead me to find HSBC at fault.  I think HSBC was entitled to operate  such a policy,  
that it made  reasonable efforts to tell Mr B about  it, and that he had other  ways  to pay money  
in. HSBC apologised for any inconvenience  Mr B suffered in its response to his complaint 
and I dont think it needs to do anything more  here to resolve the matter.
Finally, Mr B has complained that HSBC gave our service and him different versions of these 
events. Ive considered  his concerns  carefully, but from the evidence  Im satisfied that HSBC  
has been consistent here - its clarified  its response  but not changed it. Mr B has also asked  
our service  to order HSBC to extend  the opening hours at his branch. But that a business 
decision for HSBC to take and its not one wed interfere  with.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here, I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Katy Pillai
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6283081