K820x#14Complaint
Mr A complains that Royal and Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly  voided  
(treated as if it never existed)  his contents  insurance  policy and has consequently  refused to 
consider a claim.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter on 8 October 2019,  part of which  is copied 
below:
Mr A jointly  owns  a house  with his brother, who Ill refer to as Mr Z. Mr A had a contents 
insurance policy with RSA under one of its trading names.
In December 2018, there was a fire at the property and the house was very badly  damaged. 
Mr As brother  had a buildings insurance  policy with another insurance provider and the 
issues relating to the claim  on that policy are not part of this complaint.
Mr A made a claim on his contents insurance policy for the damage and loss of the contents 
at the property. RSA investigated the matter  and found information  that Mr Z and his family 
lived at Mr As home and that Mr Z had a criminal  conviction. But this information hadnt  
been disclosed by Mr A when he bought the policy. RSA said if Mr A had disclosed Mr Zs 
conviction then it wouldnt have offered to sell him the insurance policy.  
To support its position RSA provided press coverage of Mr Zs conviction  and copies of 
official court  documents which noted  Mr Z was living at Mr As address. Other  financial 
related information  such as credit searches and notification of County Court  Judgment also 
showed Mr Z living at Mr As address.
Mr A provided copies of documentation including HMRC self-assessment and benefits 
related letters and utility bills to support Mr Z living at a different address until after the policy 
started.
RSA didnt change  its view and so Mr As claim remained declined and the policy  void as it 
would never  have been sold to Mr A had it known  the correct information  although  the 
premium was repaid  to Mr A. The policy included cover for alternative accommodation, in 
certain circumstances,  and RSA said it had paid approximately  £12,000  to provide Mr A and 
his family  with a place  to live. It said it would continue to pursue Mr A for the reimbursement 
of the alternative  accommodation costs as he had not disclosed Mr Zs criminal  conviction 
when he made the claim.
Mr A remained unhappy  with this and brought  the complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
considered the evidence  presented by both parties  and accepted it was more  likely than not 
that Mr Z only moved into Mr As home  after the policy was bought.  He upheld the complaint 
on the basis that in his opinion RSA had acted unfairly in voiding the policy. He thought  RSA 
should reconsider the claim against  the rest of the policy terms and conditions as if Mr Z 
hadnt been in residence when the policy was incepted.
RSA disagreed with the investigator  and asked for the case to be referred to an 
ombudsman. RSA said it had discovered  Mr A also had a criminal conviction which hadnt 
been disclosed so it said this was another reason for the policy to be voided. RSA 
Ref: DRN67742262considered this to be a deliberate or reckless qualifying misrepresentation.  Our investigator 
didnt agree and so RSA asked an ombudsman to make a decision.  
My provisional findings  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive reached a 
different conclusion from the investigator. Ill explain why.
Mr A and his family have  been through the very unpleasant and, no doubt,  traumatic 
experience of losing their home and possessions.  My role here though is to consider the 
evidence impartially and fairly and that may mean my decision sounds  a little matter-of-fact. 
Mr As conviction
RSA and our investigator looked extensively  at whether Mr Z was living  at the property at the 
time the policy was taken  out and therefore  whether his conviction should  have  been  
disclosed. But Ill start by looking  at whether Mr A should have disclosed his conviction  at the 
time the policy was taken  out.
When a consumer takes out an insurance policy theyll be asked  questions  about 
themselves and the risk they want to insure. The insurance company will then use this 
information to weigh  up whether it wishes to cover that risk and how much  it will charge for 
doing so.
Relevant legislation is The Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure and Representations ACT 2012 
(CIDRA) which  places  a duty on consumers to take reasonable care not to make  a 
misrepresentation when entering into an insurance  contract. In other  words,  consumers must 
provide the insurance company with accurate information to allow it to assess  the risk. If they 
dont, there  are some circumstances where an insurer may, among other things, void an 
insurance policy  but thats only if theres been a qualifying misrepresentation. RSA says 
there has been a qualifying  misrepresentation in this case.
Whether Mr A took reasonable care is to be determined in light of all the relevant 
circumstances. And CIDRA gives a number of examples of things that may need to be taken 
into account including how clear and how specific RSAs questions  were.  
In this case, RSA says that during the call to set up the complaint Mr A was asked
Have you or any person  living with you (at your present address or any previous address)  
received any conviction  except  for driving  offences?
Ive seen the script that RSA used  for this kind of call and Im satisfied the question RSA 
asked was clear and specific.  Mr A responded No to the question. 
Mr A pleaded guilty to a criminal charge in May 2018 and his sentencing was adjourned until 
June 2018. But he applied  for the policy having  knowingly  pleaded guilty and awaiting 
sentence.  Mr As view is that he didnt  receive  a conviction until later in June 2018 when he 
was sentenced  and thats why he responded the way he did. 
I think its fair to say that when Mr A pleaded  guilty to his offence in court,  and so accepting  
his guilt, he was convicted. It follows that a defendant in criminal proceedings cannot  be 
sentenced unless  and until their guilt has been  established  either by plea or finding of guilt 
Ref: DRN67742263by the court.  So, Im satisfied that Mr A should  reasonably have been aware that he had 
been convicted by virtue of his own plea of guilty.  At the time of buying the insurance policy  
Mr A was simply  waiting to know his sentence as opposed to whether  he would be convicted  
 he had pleaded guilty. And I think it would  have been reasonable for Mr A to have told 
RSA about the nature  of his conviction,  particularly as the court case had happened  only a 
few weeks before when  hed pleaded  guilty. 
In summary,  Im not satisfied that Mr A took reasonable care not to make a 
misrepresentation to RSA when he took the policy out. 
Even though  Im satisfied Mr A failed  to take reasonable care,  RSA only has a remedy if 
there has been a qualifying  misrepresentation.  That means  RSA has to show that it wouldnt 
have offered a policy at all to Mr A - or would have only done so on different terms  had it 
known the true facts.
RSA has shown, through its underwriters that, had it known about Mr As conviction, it 
wouldnt have offered him a policy. So Im satisfied RSA wouldnt have entered  into the 
contract of insurance with Mr A had it known  the true facts. Because of this, Im satisfied this 
was a qualifying  misrepresentation.
A qualifying  misrepresentation is either  deliberate or reckless, or careless.  The remedies 
available to RSA are based on what it would  have done if Mr A had taken  reasonable care 
not to make  a misrepresentation.  And where RSA would not have entered into the 
insurance contract on any terms, as RSA have shown is the case  here,  it may avoid  the 
contract and refuse all claims.  But unless the qualifying misrepresentation is deliberate or 
reckless RSA must return the premiums Mr A paid.
Here, RSA has made a decision  to refund  the premium rather  than retain it. It has suggested 
Mr As qualifying  misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless  although by returning the 
premium the outcome  is based on a careless misrepresentation. That means  I dont need to 
make a finding on the category of qualifying misrepresentation here. Thats  because  RSA 
was entitled to void the policy and refuse  all claims.  The only issue  to decide would be the 
return of the premium but RSA has repaid Mr A.
Where Mr Z lived and his conviction
Ive already concluded that RSA acted  fairly  in avoiding the policy  because  of Mr As 
misrepresentation about his conviction. So, theres no need for me to make a finding  on this 
aspect of the complaint.
Alternative Accommodation
By avoiding  the policy RSA has treated  it as if it never existed, which  RSA is entitled to do. 
RSA was entitled to refuse all claims but it has paid around £12,000  for Mr As alternative  
accommodation, which it now seeks reimbursement from Mr A. Given  that RSA isnt liable to 
pay any claim under the policy,  it being  the case that the policy in effect never existed, Mr A 
isnt entitled to the benefit of any claim. So, Im satisfied that its not unfair  for RSA to ask 
Mr A to pay back  the accommodation  cost. For clarity I cant  require a consumer to do 
anything in a final decision  so whether Mr A pays RSA is a matter  between him and RSA. 
RSA accepted my provisional decision.
Mr A didnt accept it and made some further comments. In summary  he said:
Ref: DRN67742264that he was only asked about  convictions  and not pending convictions
in his opinion,  he only had a pending  conviction  as he hadnt  been sentenced
he disclosed his conviction when he met with RSAs  loss assessor and didnt  try to 
hide it
a DBS check hed obtained didnt show any details of his conviction
he thought  the more  important point was where his brother lived at the time the policy  
was taken out and thought I should have  commented on this further
hed spoken  to the Financial Conduct  Authority and he thought  RSA may have 
breached some  guidelines
he thought  RSA had allowed them to stay in the hotel accommodation too long 
meaning the amount its seeking  him to reimburse him is higher than it needed to be
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill deal with Mr As points.
Mr As conviction
I accept Mr A was only asked about  convictions and not about pending convictions when he 
took out the policy. But for the reasons  I explained in my provisional decision,  while  Mr A 
hadnt been sentenced, I think its fair to say that, when he pleaded guilty  to his offence in 
court, and so accepting  his guilt, he was convicted. Mr A hasnt said anything new which 
alters my view on this.  
While the DBS check may not show details, Mr A accepts he has a conviction. He disclosed 
it to RSAs loss assessor while the claim was being  dealt  with and I dont think hed have 
done this unless he accepted the fact. Im satisfied that, in pleading  guilty in court, Mr A was 
convicted of a crime in May 2018 and therefore had a conviction  before  he took the policy  
out in June 2018.
His brothers home  address 
I explained in my provisional decision  why I dont consider I need to make  a decision on this 
aspect of the case. For the sake of clarity though, even if I were to decide it was more  likely 
Mr Z lived at another property at the time the policy was taken  out, Ive already concluded  
RSA didnt act unfairly in avoiding the policy because Mr A made  a qualifying 
misrepresentation. So I dont consider Mr Zs home address has a bearing on the decision 
Ive reached on this case.
Insurance: Code  of Business Sourcebook   
Mr A submitted an extract of The FCAs Insurance: Code of Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) 
guidelines and highlighted some of these  but didnt explain why he believed they may have 
been breached.
In reviewing the complaint, I am required  to bear in mind the requirements laid down  in 
ICOBS. I havent seen anything which led me to conclude RSA has breached  these 
guidelines. 
Alternative accommodation
When Mr A reported the fire and registered  the claim on the policy,  he told RSA that he and 
his family  didnt have  anywhere to live. It therefore  agreed to provide alternative 
Ref: DRN67742265accommodation while it assessed his claim. He doesnt think  its fair this cost is being 
passed on to him and he says RSA could have sorted things out more quickly - so the cost 
would have been less - were it not for the Christmas  period.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  RSA wasnt liable to pay any claim as it had avoided 
the policy and was entitled to do so. Mr A isnt entitled to the benefit of any claim so Im 
satisfied its not unfair for RSA to ask Mr A to pay back the accommodation  cost.  Mr A hasnt 
said anything new which has changed  my mind on this.
It seems  to me RSA acted reasonably in arranging the accommodation swiftly and agreeing 
to extend it over the Christmas period while it conducted its investigation into the claim. Ive 
not seen anything which leads me to conclude this took longer than necessary,  given  the 
nature of the investigation it had to undertake  to establish the residential address of Mr As 
brother.
Conclusion
Ive thought about this very carefully  and, overall, Im not persuaded to change my opinion  
on this matter. For the reasons Ive explained above  Im satisfied RSA hasnt  acted unfairly 
in avoiding Mr As policy  and seeking  reimbursement of the alternative  accommodation  costs  
from Mr A.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Paul Phillips
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6774226