K821x#15complaint
Mr H is complaining on behalf of a company, S Ltd, that Advanced Payment Solution Limited 
(trading as Cashplus)  wont  refund a transaction he didnt authorise. 
The full details of this complaint are well known to both parties so I wont  repeat them  again  
here. Instead Ill recap the key points  and focus  on giving the reasons  for my decision:  
Mr H received a call from someone  purporting to be from BT on 11 April 2018. They 
gained remote access to his computer and his Cashplus account  online, under the 
guise that his computer was at risk and they needed to add extra security features. 
The fraudsters made a payment from his account. Cashplus sent Mr H a text about  
the payment,  so he hung up the call with BT and called  Cashplus. The payment 
wasnt successful. 
On 26 April 2018, BT called  Mr H again. They said that a fraudster had managed to 
attempt a payment  because  his computers security was compromised. They  
explained theyd  need to complete  their work,  so this couldnt happen again. A 
successful payment was made  for £9,254.00.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
In line with the Payment Service Regulations 2017, Mr H isnt liable for a payment he 
didnt authorise,  unless he failed  with gross negligence or intent to comply with the 
terms of the account or keep his personalised security details safe.
Its agreed Mr H didnt  authorise the transaction on 26 April 2018,  because he didnt 
complete the agreed steps to make the payment. Instead, it seems  the fraudster  set 
up the new payee and made the payment, after they duped Mr H into giving them 
remote access to his computer and convincing him to log in to his Cashplus account. 
I dont think Mr H failed with intent  to keep his details safe  he genuinely believed  
what he was doing was to protect his account.  
Im also not satisfied Mr H failed with gross  negligence. He believed he was talking to 
a trusted, reputable company  he said he could hear an office environment in the 
background, with others introducing themselves from BT. And while BT arent his 
internet provider, they told him that everything  goes through  their servers, so they 
knew there was a problem. Given the sophistication of the office set-up  and that BT 
are genuinely  connected to other internet providers, I can see how Mr H believed  
them. I think lots of people wouldve done.  
The fraudster led Mr H to believe that his computer was at risk. To fix it, he was told 
that hed need to download something  to allow them access to his computer. The 
software installed, TeamViewer, is something thats genuinely used to help people 
with IT problems. So I can see why Mr H didnt question it. 
BT instructed Mr H to log on to the accounts  he used, so they could add extra  
security features. At first, he saw lots of scripts running, with some of the text saying  
NOT SECURE.  After their work, the text would say SECURE.  So its clear this 
scam was cleverly planned   to look legitimate and to misdirect the victim from what 
was actually happening. Ive also considered how most  people arent experts in IT 
and cyber security, making it difficult to question these seemingly technical  
Ref: DRN60305152processes. Instead,  most people tend to trust the advice of professionals and 
experts, particularly when theyre anxious  about  what could happen if they dont. 
Given this context   that Mr H thought he was talking to an expert  who was trying  to 
help  I can understand why he logged on to his Cashplus account.  Im not satisfied 
that in doing so, he acted with significant carelessness that he failed with gross 
negligence. 
When Cashplus first replied to Mr Hs complaint,  it said he shared a one-time-
passcode too, which allowed  the payment to go through. But its since  said this 
wasnt part of its process at the time  so Mr Hs only actions here were logging  on 
while the fraudsters  had remote access.  As Ive said, I dont believe these actions 
meant he failed with gross negligence in the circumstances. 
Cashplus also raised how Mr H was a victim of a scam on 11 April 2018, a couple of 
weeks before. But ultimately, what happened  on 26 April 2018 (when the payment 
went through) was a continuation of the same  scam. And, despite that Cashplus 
stopped the payment on 11 April, Ive seen no evidence that it alerted him to it being  
scam or educated  him about  how fraudsters operate.  So when BT called Mr H back  
and presented a plausible story that the attempted payment was a result  of his 
compromised computer,  I can see why Mr H continued to follow  their instructions. It 
follows that this doesnt change my mind. 
On this basis, I dont think Mr Hs actions  fell so far below what  a reasonable person 
wouldve done that it amounts to gross negligence. So I conclude that S Ltd isnt 
liable for the transaction  and Cashplus need  to put things  right. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is to uphold S Ltds complaint  and I order  Advanced  
Payment Solutions Limited to:
Pay S Ltd £9,254.00 less any amount already returned. 
Pay 8% simple interest per year on this amount, from the date of the successful 
unauthorised transaction (26 April 2018) to the date of settlement  (less any tax 
lawfully deductible).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S Ltd to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2020.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6030515