K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Yorkshire Building  Society  (YBS) mis-sold them  payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint  a copy  of which attached  and forms part of 
this decision. I set out the background to the matter and explained why I didnt think Mr and 
Mrs Ps complaint should be upheld. In summary,  this was because  I didnt think  there was 
enough evidence  to conclude they had been pressured into taking out the PPI. I also thought  
the PPI was a suitable for them given  their circumstances. And while  the information might  
not have been as clear as it should have been,  I didnt think  Mr and Mrs P would have been 
put off taking out the cover if theyd  had better information.
YBS didnt respond to my provisional decision by the deadline Id set. Mr and Mrs P did 
respond to say they didnt agree with what Id said. In summary, they said:
-They assure me that they know they were pressured into taking out the PPI. They 
arent the type to pay for extras  and it was common practice  within the industry  for 
businesses to give people  the impression they wouldnt get credit if they didnt take 
out PPI.
-Cover would only be right for them if they had wanted or asked for it and they did 
neither. As they have never claimed  on it, they have  been  proved right.  
-In 2005 Mrs P wasnt working  through choice and could easily  have gone out to work 
if Mr P had been  unable  to work.  They dont agree  that increasing the cover in 2007 
was a suitable recommendation.
-The cover  Mrs P had was never intended  to pay for redundancy or sickness. In fact 
she was made redundant five times between 2005 and 2009 and they did not 
struggle.  
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the further points 
made by Mr and Mrs P to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, I still dont think this complaint  should  be upheld.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs P feel very strongly the PPI was mis-sold   specifically that they 
were told they would have to have the PPI to borrow money  from YBS. But I could only 
uphold their complaint  on this basis if I was persuaded that what theyre saying  happened  is 
more likely than not. And their recollections,  however  strongly felt, arent  enough on their 
own to do this. The other available evidence shows the PPI wasnt a condition  of the 
borrowing and theres nothing to suggest  their chances of getting a mortgage  would  be 
better if they took out PPI. 
I still think the cover provided by the PPI could  have been useful for Mr and Mrs P. While 
they havent needed to make a claim, this doesnt  mean it wouldnt have been  helpful if, for 
example, Mr P had become seriously  ill or lost his job. I accept that Mrs P could have gone 
out to work if necessary  but the PPI would alleviate the pressure on her to find a job and 
mean they wouldnt have to worry  about their mortgage repayments at what  is likely to have 
been a difficult  time.
Ref: DRN63468262If, as they say, Mrs P had been  made redundant five times  within  the space of four years,  
this could be a reason  why they might  choose to take out cover for her in 2009. And as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  by 2009 they were borrowing a lot more money and a 
policy that would at least cover half the mortgage repayment if Mrs P wasnt  working does 
seem like it could be useful.
Overall, Im still satisfied the PPI that was sold to Mr and Mrs P was suitable for them and I 
dont think it was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63468263copy provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs P say Yorkshire Building Society (YBS) mis-sold them  payment protection insurance  
(PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs P arranged  a mortgage with YBS in 2005. At the same time a PPI policy was set up that 
covered Mr P only if he couldnt work because of accident or sickness or he was made redundant  
Mrs P wasnt working  at the time. The policy  would  pay out £600 a month if a successful claim was 
made.
In 2007 Mr and Mrs P borrowed further money from YBS.  The existing PPI policy was amended at 
this time so it had a new monthly benefit of £850.
In 2009 Mr and Mrs P took out another further advance from YBS.  Mr Ps cover was increased to 
£1,040 a month  and a policy  was also set up for Mrs P that would  pay out £520  a month if she made  
a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs P disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ps case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint. Ill explain  why.
The crux of Mr and Mrs Ps complaint is that they were pressured into taking out the PPI. While  they 
knew it was optional they say they were told to take it if they wanted to be sure their mortgage and 
further advance applications  were successful. They thought they would be refused if they didnt take 
it. And I accept  that, many  years later, this might be how they remember the sales. But theres  a 
difference between YBS encouraging them to take out PPI and pressuring them  to do so.
Theres no evidence  to support Mr and Mrs Ps recollections. The available  paperwork from when 
they first took out the PPI and when they amended  the cover  in 2007 and 2009 shows the PPI was 
optional insurance. And there is nothing to suggest that taking it out would  improve their chances of 
getting the mortgage or further advances.
Having carefully considered this point, there isnt enough for me to conclude its more likely than not 
YBS gave Mr and Mrs P the impression their mortgage application  was less likely to be successful if 
they didnt take out PPI.
YBS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs P so it had to check that the PPI was right for them   and 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example they 
werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a 
need for the cover.  
In 2005 Mrs P wasnt working, so they were  reliant  on Mr Ps income to pay the mortgage 
repayments, as well as all the other household expenses. So if Mr P stopped receiving his income,  its 
likely they would have  struggled  financially.  Mr Ps employer did provide generous benefits,  so in the 
Ref: DRN63468264short term,  theyre unlikely to have had any problems  paying the mortgage if he was off sick. But if he 
was off work for a longer  time, his income would stop.  Having a PPI policy that would at least  mean  
the mortgage repayments were met, seems  like it would have been useful.  It would  also provide  cover 
if he was made  redundant. Given  how long Mr P had been in his job, its unlikely any redundancy  pay 
he received would be enough to keep up with the mortgage repayments for very long if he wasnt able 
to find another  job.
By 2007 Mrs P had started working  part time.  But Mr P was still the main  wage earner  in the 
household. Even though Mrs Ps income could  have helped to make  the mortgage repayments if Mr P 
wasnt able to work, I still think theyre likely to have found things difficult. So recommending  the 
benefit provided  by the PPI was increased  to cover the higher mortgage repayments,  seems to be a 
suitable recommendation.
Mr and Mrs P say they didnt need  cover  for Mrs P in 2009 because theyd got by on Mr Ps wage only 
for many years and werent reliant on her income. They also say she already had an insurance  policy. 
The insurance  policy  Mrs P had only provided  life cover, so it didnt protect against the same things as 
the PPI  it wouldnt have paid out if she was made redundant  or couldnt work  because of an 
accident or sickness. 
By 2009 Mr and Mrs Ps borrowing had increased significantly  their mortgage  repayments had gone 
from being  about £500 in 2005 to around £1,000 a month in 2009.  And while they might have been 
able to get by without Mrs Ps income, it seems a policy  that would cover half of the mortgage 
repayment, would make  things  easier for them if she wasnt able to work. And if Mr P hadnt been 
able to work for a long time, its likely  they would have found it difficult to make  the mortgage 
repayment with just Mrs Ps income.
Overall, I think  the PPI that was sold to Mr and Mrs P was right, given their circumstances  at the time.
Its possible the information YBS gave  Mr and Mrs P about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But as I think its likely they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. 
And it seems  like it would have been useful for them  if something went wrong.  It also looks like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put them off taking out the 
cover. 
 
my provisional  decision
I dont plan to uphold this complaint.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6346826