K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about unsuitable  advice when he took out a section 32 buy-out policy with 
Phoenix Life Limited. He says that fund growth  has been poor and fees have  been  too high. 
Mr S also complains that he cant take tax free cash from the policy.
background
Mr S was a member of his employers defined benefit pension  scheme.  In 1996 the value of 
his pension benefits was transferred to a section 32 buy-out policy  with Phoenix Life.
Mr S reached his intended retirement age in 2018  and was disappointed with the value of his 
fund. He also considers  Phoenix Lifes charges have been too high.  Mr S is also unhappy 
that he cant take tax free cash from the policy.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said that Phoenix 
Life hadnt given  any advice to Mr S when he took out the policy. So he didnt find the 
business responsible for the fund selection Mr S made  when he took out the policy.
In addition, the investigator  found that Phoenix Life wasnt responsible for explaining the 
charges that applied  to the policy.
The investigator explained that Phoenix  Life couldnt  allow Mr S to withdraw tax free cash 
from the policy because  the value of the fund wasnt enough to cover his Guaranteed 
Minimum Pension (GMP).
Mr S didnt agree with the investigators conclusions and asked for his complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  has explained, Phoenix  Life didnt provide any advice to Mr S when he 
took out the section 32 buy-out policy. Advice was provided by a separate  financial adviser,  
and I understand  that this business has since been  taken over. Phoenix Life has provided 
Mr S with contact details for the business that took over his original financial adviser
As Im not persuaded that Phoenix  Life advised  Mr S in connection  with the fund selection  for the 
policy, it would have  no responsibility for potential unsuitability in that regard. Fund performance 
in itself isnt something  which this service would normally consider, unless theres evidence that a 
business didnt  manage a fund in line with the stated objectives or had misrepresented  the nature 
of the fund. But Ive seen  no indication  here that Phoenix Life done this.
So whilst I appreciate  Mr Ss disappointment with the performance  of his funds, I dont think I 
can hold Phoenix  Life responsible for this.
In addition, I dont  think Phoenix Life is responsible for any lack of explanation of the charges 
associated with his plan. Mr Ss financial adviser  wouldve been obliged to explain those 
charges to him before he took out the policy. 
Ref: DRN64457562As to the inability  to take tax free cash from the plan, due to the particular nature of this type 
of policy, Mr Ss fund has to provide his GMP. This is equivalent to the top-up pension that 
wouldve been provided by the government in addition to the basic state pension.  When 
these policies were  sold, this was seen as a benefit,  as it would guarantee  a minimum level 
of pension payment,  irrespective  of the fund value which had accrued. But it was 
nevertheless anticipated  that fund growth  would outstrip this basic requirement and provide 
for a pension, along with tax free cash,  in excess of that.
Unfortunately these conditions havent prevailed,  primarily  due to the performance  of 
financial markets, and the value of Mr Ss fund isnt enough to cover  the cost of providing  his 
GMP. The nature of the guarantee  means  that Phoenix Life will have to cover the shortfall to 
provide the GMP  Mr S is entitled to.
But the shortfall means that theres insufficient  money in the plan for Mr S to be able to take 
tax free cash from it. I understand why Mr S may be disappointed  with this, but I dont find 
that Phoenix Life is acting  unfairly by restricting the cash that can be taken.
From what  Ive seen and been  told, there are no reasonable grounds on which  I can uphold 
Mr Ss complaint against Phoenix Life.
Its nevertheless possible  that this policy  was mis-sold to Mr S and he would have been 
better off remaining in his employers  pension  scheme. If that was the case,  the advising 
business (or in this case a business which took it over) would need to compensate Mr S for 
the difference in value between his current  plan benefits and those hed instead be receiving 
from his employers pension scheme.  
But we can only look at whether this was the case if he raises  a complaint against that business 
first. If Mr S doesnt  have  the letter from Phoenix Life dated 18 October  2018 with the contact  
details of the business he needs to contact, Id urge him to get in touch with our investigator or 
Phoenix Life to obtain those details. If the new business didnt take on the liabilities  for the 
financial adviser which sold the policy, he can approach the Financial Services  Compensation 
Scheme, which can help when a business  that gave financial advice is no longer  trading.
I hope Mr S finds this helpful  but if he remains unsure  of the responsibilities  of the different 
financial businesses involved here, he should contact our investigator who can explain  it in 
more detail. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Ss complaint against Phoenix  Life.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6445756