K821x#15complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about his need  for FIL Investment Advisors  (UK) Limited (FIL) to address 
platform problems which have affected data reports for investments in his accounts  and 
about his claim for compensation in this respect.
background
The problems appear to have started  in late 2017, after Mr Hs accounts were  moved  to 
FILs new/updated website platform.  They related to inaccurate reporting of performance and 
value related data for his investments. He raised  the matter  with FIL around November 2017.  
FILs reaction appears to have been initially slow and then it sought  to address the problems. 
FIL says the problems  were eventually addressed around the same  time the complaint was 
referred to this service,  in May 2018.  FIL conceded  the problems and made goodwill 
payments to Mr H totalling £150.  In response to the complaint  referral,  FIL also offered an 
additional goodwill  payment of £150.
However, the problems  appear to have continued  even  after referral of the complaint  to us. 
Mr H explained that the annual return data reporting continued to be inaccurate. He declined  
FILs additional goodwill offer, he requested proof  of accuracy from FIL with regards to the 
reported data and he sought a refund of account fees he had paid over the period of the 
problems as he considered he had not received the service he was entitled to.
FIL argued  that the account fees covered areas of its service beyond  the data reporting  
aspect and that its service  fee was already very reasonable. It said it could not say which  
part of the fee related to the data reporting  aspect and it concluded it would not refund the 
fees requested  by Mr H. Mr H retained his position and said an independent  audit of FILs 
data reporting  was required to verify accuracy.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and explained that the audit suggested  by 
Mr H is beyond our remit. She accepted that Mr H had been facing the problems for around 
a year  as of the time she issued her view  and as such it is understandable that he 
remains concerned  about accuracy in the reports and that he appears to have lost trust in 
FIL. However, in recognising that resolution of the problem is a priority for Mr H, she did not 
consider that a refund of fees would achieve  that. She concluded that a suitable alternative 
would be for FIL to grant Mr H a transfer  of his accounts with a waiver  of penalties, 
especially as evidence  showed Mr H had asked about transferring his accounts previously.  
She also proposed  that FILs additional  goodwill offer should be increased to £250.
FIL considers that the proposed additional payment is high in the circumstances and that it 
needs Mr H to be more  specific  about the problem he still needs to be resolved  as it 
considers the problems  to have been resolved,  unless Mr H is able to disprove the presently 
reported figures. Nevertheless, it accepts the adjudicators  proposals.  Mr H does not appear 
to have accepted the adjudicators view. Whilst he is prepared  to consider the transfer  of 
accounts he expressed his concern that such a transfer does nothing about FILs  
responsibility to resolve the problem and that transferring the accounts  without first ensuring  
the problems have been resolved could potentially  crystalize  the problems for him to 
continue to face with a new firm. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN68634882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator for the same reasons  I also agree with her point that the 
audit mentioned by Mr H is beyond this services  remit. FIL essentially concedes the 
complaint and I am satisfied that sufficiently  establishes the sense of responsibility that Mr H 
seeks. The matter  to address is the outcome for him.
First, I do not consider that the adjudicators proposal for the additional goodwill payment is 
high in the circumstances. Performance and/or value related data reporting in any 
investment account  is an important aspect of such an account. There were problems in such 
data reporting  within Mr Hs account  for around a year. I note FILs assertion that they have 
been resolved,  but it appears  there might be an outstanding issue(s).  
I am persuaded that a total payment to Mr H of £400  (including the total of £150 he 
previously received) is compensation that reasonably reflects  the trouble and upset that the 
matter has caused  him. I endorse the adjudicators proposal of a payment to Mr H of £250  
(the additional goodwill payment) for the trouble  and upset caused to him by this matter.
As the adjudicator explained,  a case could be considered for a refund of fees but the priority  
appears to be the need to address Mr Hs loss of confidence in FIL and his understandable 
desire to resolve  the reporting issues  and, in turn, to restore  his confidence in data 
reported for his investments. Given the history of this matter  it seems plausible that, in any 
outcome, Mr Hs lack of confidence in FILs  reporting could continue. It appears that he will 
indeed be better served by a transfer of his accounts to a new firm. I endorse the 
adjudicators proposal in this respect  and in terms of FIL arranging  the transfer  if Mr H 
accepts this decision  with a full waiver  of related transfer fees and penalties. Mr H has 
commented that any proposed transfer would need to be applied to his investments in 
specie in order not to expose him unfairly to tax liability. I agree. The purpose of such  a 
transfer cannot reasonably put him into a worse position, so I conclude  that the transfer 
should be applied  to his investments/accounts  in specie.
The matter  has been referred to me for a decision, based on presently available evidence. I 
understand that Mr H still seeks clarification  and/or  resolution of the ongoing problem he has 
described, however  I also consider that FIL appears to be willing  to address any outstanding  
issue but it will need specific information about  the issue in order  to do so. 
Mr H will find below  that he has a period of time to consider acceptance of this decision. My 
decision is that his complaint  is upheld, that FIL should grant him a transfer of his accounts 
with waived fees and penalties and that FIL should  pay him £250. I do not have  enough 
evidence to comment on the likelihood of the outstanding problem he has referred to being 
addressed to his satisfaction. However,  I invite him to provide the specific  information 
needed by FIL in order to do so and I invite both parties to engage meaningfully  and in a 
timely fashion to resolve any such problems before the deadline for Mr Hs acceptance of 
this decision. Mr H could  then take a view, before or by the deadline, on whether (or not) to 
accept this decision and the redress I order below, and he can communicate that to us.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Ref: DRN68634883I order FIL Investment Advisors  (UK) Limited to:
Pay Mr H £250 for the trouble and upset  caused  to him in this matter.
Arrange and conclude a transfer,  without fees and without penalties, of his accounts 
(his investments  in specie) upon  his instruction to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6863488