K821x#15Complaint
Mr R complains that First Response  Finance  Ltd (FRF) wasnt helpful in dealing  with a faulty
car.
Background
In November 2018 Mr R acquired a car costing £2,400  funded by a hire purchase agreement
and a deposit of £200. It was some 12 years  old and had done 93,936 miles. He had some
issues with the gearbox  and took it for a health  check. He also said that he was offered a
free MOT  which the dealer refused to provide. The dealer said Mr R had accepted  a
reduction in the price  of £500  to compensate  for not having a MOT.
Mr R complained to FRF and it paid for a diagnostic test and for the recovery of the car. The
dealer said the fault was due to driving  style. The car was repaired, but there were some
delays and it reimbursed  him one monthly  payment of £122.85 as compensation. It also
offered to cover the cost of the upcoming MOT, but not any further expenditure. It says Mr R
accepted this resolution and it issued final response letter.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators. Shortly afterwards he complained about a clunking sound and FRF arranged
for the car to be subjected to an independent inspection. This noted the transmission  had
been repaired before  with salvaged parts and the work had been  substandard.
The report  concluded:  On the balance  of probability although considerable time and mileage
has now elapsed since the point of initial finance inception the conditions have had previous
repair attempts and have  been previously brought to the attention of the selling dealership.
We therefore recommend  the condition is referred back to the selling agents for their
consideration and rectification.
FRF offered to cancel the agreement and take the car back.  However, after carrying  out a
credit search it didnt believe it could offer him another finance agreement. Mr R concluded
he wished to retain the car. Our investigator considered  the options and concluded the best
outcome would be for FRF to cover the cost of repairing  the car to a satisfactory condition.
She also thought  the business should pay him compensation of £200. FRF didnt agree that
it should pay compensation and pointed out that the investigator had said they had treated
Mr R fairly.
I issued a provisional decision as follows: 
I explained that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators  rules,  guidance and standards  and codes of 
practice and (where  appropriate) what I consider  to have  been good industry practice at the 
time.
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it.
FRF is also the supplier  of the goods under this type of agreement,  and responsible for a
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard
Ref: DRN67397262that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I noted it has been accepted that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and I didnt propose to
comment further save to say I agreed. The remaining issue  was the matter  of redress  and
compensation. As our investigator  had pointed out the normal route would be rejection, but
Mr R doesnt want this. I presumed he would find it difficult  to obtain alternative finance  to
fund another car.
Finding a suitable replacement would be challenging and I thought the proposed  option  of 
the car being  repaired is the most suitable  in the circumstances. I presumed  given the time 
lapse that this work had been  carried out? Certainly  nobody had suggested otherwise. 
However, if it hadnt been, I said I considered  this work should be carried out. As far as the 
matter of compensation is concerned  I found  myself in agreement  with the business. I could 
understand that Mr R may have suffered some distress and inconvenience, but I didnt 
consider that was due to the actions of FRF. I agreed with the investigator  that it
had handled  the matter  fairly. It had already forgone one monthly payment to take account of
the fact the car spent some  time in the garage. It then arranged for an independent
inspection and offered to accept rejection. I didnt think any additional  compensation was 
merited.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FRF agreed with my provisional  decision and no response has been  received from Mr R 
despite several reminders.  FRF said that it appeared  that the actions I suggested had 
already been completed. I presume  that means the repairs have been  completed, but for the 
avoidance of doubt I will leave the direction on this point in my final decision.  As such  my 
decision remains unchanged.
Ref: DRN67397263My final decision
My final decision is that I direct First Response Finance Ltd to:
Forego a monthly payment of £122.85 for loss of use if not already done.
Cover the cost repairs to take the car to a satisfactory condition  so that it is 
roadworthy, if not already done.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 September 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6739726