K820x#14Complaint
Ms C complains that Allianz Insurance Plc unfairly  declined claims for veterinary treatment 
made under a pet insurance policy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I appreciate Ms C will be very disappointed  with this, so Ill explain why.
Ms C made claims for veterinary treatment for her dog, who Ill refer to as O. Allianz said 
claims for medical  conditions  where clinical signs appear in the first 14 days of cover are 
excluded. It also said O was suffering from diarrhoea before the policy start date, which  
Ms C shouldve told it about. Had Allianz known this, it wouldve  excluded claims for gastro-
intestinal / digestive system disorders for three months. As Ms Cs claim was for treatment 
of a gastro-intestinal / digestive system disorder, the claim wasnt eligible for payment.
The investigator was satisfied Ms C ought to have told Allianz about Os diarrhoea, so she 
thought the later claim wouldve  been excluded. Having considered the evidence provided, 
I agree  with the investigators view of the matter.
Allianz was provided  with Os medical  records. This showed Ms C had taken O to the vet on 
26 November 2018 as hed been suffering  from diarrhoea for three days.  This would place 
the symptoms starting on 23 November  2018. Although Ms C applied  for the policy  on 
8 November 2018, the policy start date was 25 November  2018. When  Ms C applied  for the 
policy online, she answered the following question:
Has (O) shown  any signs of illness or injury  or been  unwell either  now or in the past?
This is regardless  of whether he/she was seen  by a vet for the problem or not.
She answered, no to this question, which was correct when she completed  the 
application on 8 November 2018.
But she also had to agree  to a declaration, which  said:
You have chosen  your cover to start after today, meaning some  of your answers  to the 
questions above  could change before your policy start date. If anything happens between  
now and your cover starting which changes  your answers, its important you contact us to let 
us know. Well then be able to tell you how this affects the cover we provide.  If you dont, it 
could result in a claim not being paid or may affect the cover we provide.
As O showed signs of an illness before the policy start date, I think it was made  clear  to 
Ms C that she needed to contact Allianz to let it know about this. She was also warned about  
the consequences of not doing so.
Allianz has shown  us that if Ms C had made it aware  O had suffered from diarrhoea  before the 
policy start date, it wouldve added an exclusion for gastro-intestinal / digestive system 
disorders for three months. I understand the treatment O underwent from 20 December 2018 
was for a condition that was later diagnosed as intestinal lymphangiectasis. Allianz  concluded 
that treatment of this condition  wouldve  fallen  within the exclusion so the claims werent 
eligible for payment.  I think that was a fair conclusion. So, I dont think the decision to decline 
the claim was unreasonable.
Ref: DRN64712632Ms C says that she didnt  ask for the policy to start on 25 November 2018 as this would  be 
illogical having already taken ownership of O. Instead she said she asked for her direct debit 
payments to start on 25 November 2018 as this was after her pay day. Ive considered this 
carefully, but I havent seen enough  to say the policy starting on 25 November 2018 was due 
to any mistake made by Allianz.
I say this because  Ive been sent screenshots of the online application process which  asked:
When would you like cover  to start?
Ms C wouldve  then input  the start date she wanted. Allianzs records  show  this was input as 
25 November 2018. Allianz has also shown me that a warning  wouldve  popped  up on the 
screen saying:
Please note.
As your policy starts in the future,  cover for illness  will only begin 14 days  after your selected 
start date. Cover for injury will begin on your selected start date.
Ms C was sent her policy documents on 8 November 2018. This included  a certificate of 
insurance showing the period of cover from 25 November 2018 to 24 November 2019.  Ms C 
was asked to check  her certificate carefully for any mistakes.
I accept that Ms C may not have  intended for the policy  to start on 25 November 2018. But 
Im satisfied that it did start on this date, and that Allianz made it clear to Ms C this was the 
case. It was Ms Cs responsibility to let Allianz  know if a mistake  had been made. As she 
didnt, I cant say Allianz has done  anything wrong  here.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6471263