K820x#14complaint
Mr Cs unhappy with the valuation AA Underwriting Insurance Company Limited has made of 
his vehicle in a claim on his motor insurance  policy and that it hasnt recorded it as being a 
total loss which would  allow him to claim on his separate GAP insurance.
background
Mr Cs car was involved in accident on 6 July 2018  when it was struck from behind. As it 
wouldve cost about £18,000 to repair and there  wouldve been up to 12 weeks  hire charges  
he says he was told in writing by AA Underwriting  that his car was being  written off. He says 
he bought it for £44,185 in September 2017 and it offered him what  he thought was a low 
valuation of £36,780. That was later increased to £38,121 which was the average of three 
trade guide prices.  Mr C says he wasnt concerned with this low value as he thought  he 
could make a claim on his separate GAP insurance  with another  insurer for the difference. 
But the GAP insurer has said it cannot  pay out as AA Underwriting hasnt recorded  the car 
as being a total loss on the relevant database.
Mr C is unhappy with this. He wants AA Underwriting  either to register the vehicle as a total 
loss on the database or, if it doesnt do so, to pay him its true value which he considers it still 
what he paid for it.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. She said:
Mr Cs policy says the most AA Underwriting will pay is the vehicles market value at 
the time of the loss. Thats defined as the cost of replacing it and its accessories.
We look at the valuations in the main trade guides when looking at market value. 
They are based on likely selling  process  of vehicles. Adverts  for vehicles that are for 
sale are likely to be higher than actual  sale prices.  Here AA Underwriting used the 
guide prices to assess an average price and as a result  it increased  its original offer 
to £38,121. That is a fair and reasonable valuation. 
The third party insurer agreed to pay a total loss settlement as the extensive 
estimated repair costs plus necessary car hire were  more  than the vehicles value. 
This was agreed.
Mr C also said he didnt want the vehicle  returned and preferred a total loss pay out. 
This is an unusual situation  and claims  like this arent  normally settled on this basis  
as its clear from the engineers notes that the vehicle wasnt a write off or a 
repairable write off. 
AA Underwriting did say in a poorly worded letter that the vehicle would be written  off 
and the total loss process would be used to settle its value. But it hasnt done 
anything wrong  by not recording  it as a total loss on the relevant database as its 
followed the process Mr C wanted.  
She understands Mr C being  unhappy  that he cannot make a claim on his GAP  
insurance. But AA Underwriting  shouldnt have to do anything  more including  paying 
any more or by recording the vehicle as being a total loss. 
Ref: DRN63174652Mr C doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary he says the Code 
of Practice for the Categorisation of Motor Vehicle Salvage indicates his car should be 
recorded as CAT S. AA Underwriting said in a letter that it was beyond economic repair 
and his claim will follow the total loss process and the vehicle will be written off. His GAP 
insurer says it cannot pay out until AA Underwriting categorises the vehicle on the relevant  
database as a total loss. By not doing so, AA Underwriting is committing fraud. He has been 
advised by the dealer that the vehicle would  sell on forecourt for the price  he paid for it and 
the valuation is too low. Hed expect  to pay the prices asked for on the forecourt and not 
barter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Cs complaint falls into two parts which I will deal with in turn.
the vehicles valuation
Mr Cs policy  says AA Underwriting will settle  the claim by paying him the market value of his 
car at the time of loss. That sum isnt necessarily  the same amount that he bought  the car for 
or the cost to him of actually replacing  it. 
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider  if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various  trade guides  and we will also look at any 
other evidence produced  including adverts. But I place most weight on the values  in the 
main trade guides as theyre based  on likely  selling  prices  rather than advertised prices,  
which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices  are by their very nature averages  and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless  I think its fair and reasonable to use them to assess 
AA Underwritings offer. 
In this case AA Underwritings revised  higher valuation of £38,121 is the average of the 
valuations in three of the main trade guides. It is also a valuation that was accepted by Mr C.
Taking everything into account,  although  Im aware of Mr Cs frustration, I think  thats fair 
and I dont think I can reasonably require AA Underwriting to increase this valuation or pay 
any more to him.
the failure to record the car as a total loss on the relevant  database.
AA Underwriting wrote to Mr C and said that following a phone  conversation  his vehicle was 
being considered to be beyond economical  repair and his claim will follow  the total loss 
process and his car will be written  be written off and disposed of. 
In this case the total cost of repairing the vehicle plus the potential  hire car costs  were such  
that it was agreed  with the third party insurer that the vehicle would be considered  beyond  
economical repair and the total loss process would be followed. But the vehicle wasnt  an 
actual total loss as it couldve  been  economically repaired for about £18,000. This rather 
unusual settlement was agreed by Mr C.
Ref: DRN63174653AA Underwriting has an obligation  to accurately record information on various databases.  
And in this case it rightly  hasnt recorded  that this vehicle was a total loss as it wasnt  one 
and couldve  been economically repaired at a repair  cost of around  £18,000.  As a result, 
although I understand Mr Cs strength of feeling, I dont think I can fairly or reasonably 
require AA Underwriting  to record information  that is factually incorrect  on the relevant 
database. That is I cant require it to say the vehicle was a total loss when it wasnt  
determined to be such by the engineer. And the only reason  the total loss process has been 
followed is because the various parties  all agreed to it.  
Mr C appears  to have agreed  the valuation and this process of settlement on the assumption 
that he could claim  any difference between the vehicles valuation  and its purchase  price 
from his GAP Insurer. He also appears, from AA Underwritings claims notes of conversation 
with him, to have been in touch with his GAP insurer at around  the time of agreeing  to this 
rather unusual settlement. 
I think it was Mr Cs responsibility to ensure he fully understood how his GAP insurer would 
view a claim if he agreed to AA Underwritings settlement and process. And I think it was 
reasonable for Mr C to have ascertained that the GAP insurer would allow  a valid claim on 
his GAP policy if this settlement process  and valuation were agreed. AA Underwriting 
wouldnt have been aware of his GAP policys terms and conditions  and I dont think it can 
reasonably have been expected to advise  Mr C about making  the GAP insurance  claim.
Mr C says his GAP  insurers  will not consider his claim on that policy unless the vehicle is 
shown on the relevant  database as a total loss. But that isnt AA Underwritings fault. If Mr C 
is unhappy with the GAP  insurers decision he will have to take that up with them  in the first 
instance.
Taking everything into account  I dont think AA Underwriting has done anything  wrong.  And I 
dont think I can fairly  or reasonably require it to now do anything  more including  increasing  
its valuation of the vehicle or adding it to the relevant database as a total loss as Mr C would 
like.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Cs strength of feeling and frustration,  I dont see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2020.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6317465