K820x#14complaint
Miss R has complained about The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) and their decision to 
increase her credit limit. Shes  unhappy a default  may be recorded  on her credit.
background
Miss R opened her credit card account in 2011  with a £500 credit  limit. Miss R didnt use this 
account until June  2016, when she asked  for an increase to her limit. RBS agreed to raise  it 
to £3,500. 
In November 2016, Miss R called  RBS again, asking them  to increase her limit to £5,000. 
This was rejected  and Miss R spoke  to the complaints  department about this. Following 
discussions, RBS agreed  to increase  the limit to £4,250.
Miss R began to miss the minimum monthly payments in June 2017. She spoke to RBS in 
August and made them aware she was struggling financially. RBS agreed  to halt interest  
and refunded the previous  three months  charges  whilst Miss R sorted  out her finances.
Miss R made three complaints over the next 15 months. She said RBS were irresponsible  
when they agreed  to extend her credit  limit. She said her mother  told them  about existing 
disabilities which  meant she was vulnerable  before they increased the limit and this 
shouldve been  considered. So, she didnt  think  it was fair that RBS wouldnt agree  to 
permanently freeze any charges while she paid the outstanding balance gradually.
RBS said they had no record of Miss Rs mother informing them about a disability before the 
limit was increased. They said they completed  the necessary checks so felt theyd  acted 
reasonably. They offered  Miss R a payment plan of £1 a month  with a halt on all charges but 
explained the account would be defaulted.
Miss R was unhappy with this as she didnt want her credit  file impacted so she referred her 
complaint to us.
An investigator looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold  it. He thought RBS acted 
reasonably when approving the credit  limit increase as he didnt have any evidence  to show 
Miss Rs mother  informing  the bank of her vulnerability. So, he thought  RBSs  offer was fair 
in the circumstances. 
RBS agreed and explained  they were still willing to negotiate an affordable  plan. Miss R 
disagreed as she was sure her mother told RBS about her vulnerability.  She was unhappy 
that her credit  rating  would be affected.  So, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
Ref: DRN66831562Ive first looked into Miss Rs mothers claims that RBS were  made  aware of Miss Rs 
vulnerability before she requested a limit increase.  Ive seen a letter from a third party,  
acting as a representative of Miss R, saying a meeting took place. But, this letter was drafted 
in 2018 so a significant  length of time after the meeting is said to have been held. Also,  it is 
written by a third party that wasnt in attendance so it only recounts the information  they were  
told by Miss Rs mother. Because of this, I dont think this letter on its own is enough for me 
to decide that RBS were definitely  aware of Miss Rs vulnerability.
I havent seen  any evidence of the meeting in RBS system notes. I also havent seen any 
payments supporting Miss Rs mothers claim that she paid off Miss Rs existing arrears  on 
the same  day. The support worker that attended with Miss Rs mother has also been unable  
to find any evidence that shows when the visit took place. 
Without this, I think itd be unreasonable for me to agree that RBS were aware of Miss Rs 
vulnerability before the limits were  increased.  I understand this will be frustrating for Miss R 
but I must  be fair to both parties and to do this I have  to rely on the evidence  available.
But, Ive still looked  at whether theyve acted responsibly and considered  all the information 
that was available to them.
Ive seen that on both occasions,  it was Miss R who contacted RBS to request an increase. 
In June 2016, the limit was increased  from £500 to £3,500. This is a substantial  increase but 
Ive seen from the system  notes that her income was considered as well that account being  
her only form of credit. As RBS also provides Miss Rs current  account, they had access to 
information about how she managed her finances. Because of this, I dont think there was a 
notable reason for RBS to turn down Miss Rs request for an increase  and so they acted  
fairly when  approving it.
In November 2016, Miss R was initially  rejected for a further increase to £5000. I think  this 
shows RBS considered her circumstances  carefully  and decided  that amount  wasnt 
affordable. Ive listened to the calls Miss R held with RBS that day and also seen  the system 
notes. Miss R was clearly upset at the initial rejection. To try and help Miss Rs situation, 
RBS reviewed their decision and decided they could approve a new limit of £4,250.  They 
clearly considered her annual income,  banking history,  the payments shed made to the 
credit card and a credit check.
They also mentioned her current balance which had exceeded the £3,500 limit. By 
increasing the limit, it prevented Miss R from being  charged additional  fees. I understand 
that with hindsight with all the information available to me, the further increase  may appear 
unreasonable and has impacted Miss R and her ability to repay the amount. But, I think RBS 
took the decision considering Miss Rs unhappiness at the initial decline. I think RBS thought 
they were acting in her best interests to find a suitable solution. As the increase prevented  
additional charges that may have  worsened Miss Rs financial situation, I dont think it would 
be fair overall for me to find that RBS have acted unreasonably at the time.
As Miss R is unhappy about RBSs decision to offer a payment plan that would result  in a 
default to her credit file, Ive considered whether they acted reasonably once they knew  she 
was in financial difficulty.
Ref: DRN66831563Ive seen between  August  2017  October 2018,  RBS froze  the interest and charges on 
Miss Rs account while she made  payments to reduce  the arrears and bring her account  up 
to date. I think this shows RBS taking positive steps  to help Miss Rs individual situation. 
After completing an income and expenditure review, it was found  Miss R had just over £1 
remaining after incomings and outgoings. 
So, RBS offered to accept  a payment of £1 per month with no further interest and charges 
but explained a default would be registered as the account would go into arrears. I think this 
was a reasonable offer from RBS.
Miss R didnt want to accept this and asked to pay £50 a month  but still wanted the interest 
to be frozen  and no default to be registered.  RBS explained  this wouldnt cover the minimum 
payment so it wasnt an option.  As Miss R was unable  to pay the minimum payment amount, 
I think its reasonable for RBS to continue to offer the payment  plan of £1.
Whilst I understand Miss Rs reservations about  the impact on her credit  file; it will prevent 
her being  faced with any further charges and helps ease the impact on her current  financial 
situation. Also, RBS have a responsibility  to record how Miss R manages her account  on her 
credit file and so they are reasonable in explaining  that a default  would  need  to be registered 
when that plan is put in place.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint about The Royal Bank of 
Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6683156