K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Miss M say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about the sale of a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage. 
Mr M and Miss M say their mortgage with Santander was taken in 1988 and that was when 
Mr M says he was sold PPI. Santander  says its earliest records  show that a PPI policy  was 
in place in 1991. 
The policy was in Mr Ms name only. In the event of a successful claim for accident and 
sickness it covered Mr M for up to 36 months  per claim. And if Mr M lost his job, the policy  
would have paid out for up to 12 months.  The PPI provided a monthly benefit of £300  and 
initially cost £15 per month. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As the matter hasnt been resolved, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Having done so, I dont uphold the complaint. Ill explain why.
As this complaint  relates  to the concerns Mr M has about the PPI he was sold alongside the 
mortgage, for ease  Ill only refer to Mr M going  forward.
While Santanders earliest records indicate  that the PPI was in place in 1991  it has admitted 
that its records are from an archive system and recognises there is limited information 
available to it about the policy.  
Mr M has provided information that his mortgage was taken in 1988.  And he has also 
provided a letter from Abbey  National  (now  Santander) dated in 1993 which says that PPI 
was taken out when the mortgage was arranged.  I understand Mr M went  to great lengths to 
obtain this information  and I thank him for his effort  in helping establish the date PPI was 
sold.
Based on the above, Im satisfied that the PPI was most likely sold in 1988 when Mr M took 
out his mortgage. 
Mr M says he was pressured into taking the PPI and recalls  being told that his mortgage 
application would be affected if he did not take the policy.
 
Ref: DRN68535982The sale of PPI happened over 30 years ago, and as explained above, Santander has 
limited information about  the policy and what happened when it was sold.  I dont  find this 
surprising given the time that has passed. That said, Ive still reached a conclusion  taking 
into account the available evidence, my knowledge and experience  of these types  of sales  
and whats fair to both parties.
I dont know how Santander  would have presented PPI to Mr M or explained it to him during 
any discussions. As theres  little paperwork from the time of the sale, I cant say for sure that 
Mr M was told he had the option  of refusing PPI, or that he agreed for it to be added. 
Equally, theres  nothing  to show the PPI wasnt presented to him as optional  or that he didnt 
choose to go ahead  with it. 
I dont expect Santander to keep records indefinitely. And it wouldnt be reasonable to expect 
Mr M to remember exactly what,  if anything, he was told when  the PPI was sold as the sale 
happened so long ago. I dont think it is fair to solely rely on what  Mr M says happened 30 
years ago. Memories can, and do, fade naturally over time. I have to look at everything  and 
decide what I think is - more likely. 
Mr M says he did not feel he had a choice and was pressured by the in-branch sales  adviser 
that he needed to take PPI in order to get the mortgage. But its just as likely, that as Mr M 
was being advised, he was told he should consider taking out the PPI, rather  than he had to.
In order to uphold  Mr Ms complaint on this point Id have to find that its likely he wasnt  
given a fair choice  about PPI. 
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to say that Santander didnt make 
it clear that it was open to Mr M not to choose PPI if he didnt want to have it. I think it would 
be unfair to assume  something went wrong  when I have  no information from the time of sale 
to show that it did. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a number of years.  The 
home would have been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. So, I can 
see why Mr M mightve felt PPI was useful to have. On balance, I think its more likely that 
Mr M decided he wanted  to have the benefits the policy could offer and it was added when 
he decided to buy the policy.
Santander says that it would  have  recommended  the PPI to Mr M. And it seems to have  
been right for Mr M based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.   
Mr M was eligible for the PPI policy and met the requirements to have the cover.  
Mr M has told us he would have received generous  sick pay from his employer that he could 
use to meet  the repayments if he couldnt work  due to illness. Mr M also said he had around 
six months savings at the time the PPI was taken.  So Mr M says he didnt need the PPI. Ive 
thought carefully  about everything Mr M told us. But Im not persuaded that his 
circumstances meant  Santanders  recommendation wasnt right and that he didnt need  PPI.
Ref: DRN68535983I say this because  although Mr M was entitled to six months full sick pay followed by six 
months half pay from his employer in the event that he was too ill to work. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition to his sick pay and for up to 36 months per claim for accident 
or sickness. And if Mr M lost his job, he could have potentially claimed for up to 12 months 
for unemployment.
I appreciate that Mr M says he had some savings  he could have used to help meet his 
repayments. But having the PPI meant  he wouldnt have had to rely on his savings and they 
could be kept intact for their original purpose  or for other essential commitments that Mr M 
might have had to meet if he was unable to work.
All things  considered, I think the cover  could have provided a useful benefit and I cant fairly 
say that the advisers recommendation was unsuitable.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. But I think its likely that Mr M chose to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have 
put him off taking  out the cover.  
I would also like to add, that even if I thought the PPI had been mis-sold  I wouldnt direct 
Santander to pay anything to Mr M. Ill explain why.
In total, Mr M paid around £3,900  in premiums during the period he had PPI. But Mr M also 
successfully claimed under the PPI in 2004  with a benefit of £7,200  being  paid out. 
When I find that a PPI policy has been mis-sold Id direct the business  to put the consumer 
in the financial  position theyd be in if they hadnt taken it out (so far as is possible). 
Had Mr M not taken out PPI, he wouldnt have had to pay for it, but at the same time he 
wouldnt have benefitted from the claim amounts. And he would have  had to make the 
mortgage repayments himself. 
So if I had considered the policy was mis-sold,  Mr M wouldnt receive any compensation.  
Santander would be entitled to deduct the amount of his successful claim  under  the policy 
from the mis-sale compensation. 
It wouldnt be fair for Mr M to have received the benefit of the claim amounts and then also 
receive back all the money he had paid in premiums. And as Mr Ms claim totalled  far more 
than he paid for the PPI, he wouldnt receive any compensation.
In any event, for the reasons  Ive explained earlier, I dont think this policy was mis-sold.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Santander, at various  points during  the time Mr M held his policy, got a high level of 
commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  
told Mr M about that. Because Santander didnt tell Mr M, that was unfair. 
Ref: DRN68535984To put that right, Santander has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium.
Mr M wasnt sure whether  the compensation offered was fair. Having looked at what 
Santander has offered,  I think its fair. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules and guidance about  how businesses should  deal with complaints about 
PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Santander has said that the level of commission and profit  share it received did create an 
unfair relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra Mr M paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it received was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI 
for the time there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to 
compensate Mr M for the time he was out of pocket. 
Santanders worked out that it owed Mr M £51.85 as a refund for the unfair  commission  and 
profit share that was over 50%. And it also offered £40.59 (£32.47 after tax) as 
compensation for Mr M being out of pocket on the overpayments he made. 
So its total offer to Mr M was for £84.32  (after  tax).
Santander has provided a breakdown of its compensation. It shows the monthly premium 
Mr M was charged alongside the percentage of commission  and profit share it received. 
So Santander worked out the commission offer by looking at the PPI premium  Mr M was 
charged each month and working out what the commission and profit  share rate was on 
each premium. And for the periods where  Mr M paid anything above  50% in commission or 
profit share, Santander has refunded this back to Mr M.
It is important  to note in this case,  the commission and profit  share Santander received on 
the PPI didnt go above 50% until January 2004.  So despite the initial  dispute  over the date 
the policy was sold  it doesnt make  a difference to the compensation amount.
In January 2004, Santander received 51.56% as commission and profit  share. So Santander  
only needed to refund 1.56% of that months  PPI premium. As the premium  was £14.24, 
Santander refunded £0.22  to Mr M for that month. And I can see that Santander has 
compensated Mr M £0.27 for being out of pocket on that £0.22.  
Having looked  at Santanders  breakdown I can see that for any point the commission and 
profit share was above 50% - Santander has refunded the difference above  50%.  It has also 
compensated Mr M for being out of pocket each  time. 
Ref: DRN68535985The reason  Mr Ms offer is low is because  the level of commission  and profit share  
Santander received  didnt  go above  50% until 2004. Thereafter it was only slightly above  
50%. And there were also periods where the level of commission  and profit  share Santander 
received went back to being under  50%. 
Santander has offered  fair compensation that is in accordance with the FCAs rules  and 
guidance and remedies the unfair relationship caused by the non-disclosure of the high level 
of commission and profit share it received from the PPI.
putting things right
As the commission compensation hasnt been  paid, Santander UK Plc should arrangement  
payment ensuring  the compensation is brought up to date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. So Santander UK Plc does not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Im satisfied  Santander  UK Plc has worked out 
the offer fairly. 
As the commission compensation hasnt been  paid, Santander UK Plc should pay Mr M 
ensuring the compensation is brought up to date.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss M 
to accept or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6853598