K822xcomplaint
Miss J said that she sent some money  to an account  overseas  from her account with 
TSB Bank Plc, but not all of it was received.
background 
Miss J told us that shed  sent £10,000 to a bank account overseas. She said that while  this 
account was held in a country where  the currency isnt pounds  sterling,  the account itself 
was. So shed sent the money in pounds sterling  to that account. Shed paid £17.50  as a 
transfer fee. But only £9,378.09 arrived. Miss J said she wanted TSB to pay back the rest of 
the money that had gone missing.
TSB said that what had gone wrong was that Miss J had actually  sent the amount in the 
currency of the country that she was sending the money to. It said that when someone is 
sending money  overseas,  its online banking screens  will default to sending that money in the 
local currency. TSB said that if Miss J had wanted  the money to be sent in pounds sterling, 
then she shouldve input  that direction as part of making the transfer. TSB thought that 
Miss J had just made a mistake about  that when she set up the payment.  
TSB said that if the money was received  at the other end in local currency, not in pounds 
sterling, then it would need to be converted back again before it could be paid into an 
account held in pounds sterling.  And some  money  would be lost each time that happened.  
Thats why not all of the money  arrived. 
Miss J said that she is familiar with how these online payments work. She was adamant that 
she had set up the payment in pounds sterling.  She said that this transfer was for a very 
large amount of money,  so shed checked  it repeatedly. And she said that TSB hadnt 
provided any proof otherwise. 
TSB said that it couldnt provide proof of this now. It said that a recent IT migration meant  
that it no longer  had those records. But it said that when the complaint was originally 
investigated, the relevant team could see the information Miss J had input, so it said that it 
was confident that it had reached the right decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He said that Miss J had been consistent in her 
testimony that she had sent this payment in sterling. And TSB hadnt actually shown that the 
payment had been converted  from local currency to sterling, hence sustaining a loss. It had 
just asserted that Miss J wouldve seen a screen which told her that the money would  be 
paid in local currency, and she mustve made  a mistake over that. 
On balance, our adjudicator thought  that it was more likely that Miss J had sent the payment 
in pounds sterling than that shed made a mistake. So he asked TSB to pay the difference 
between what was sent and what was received. That was £621.91.
TSB didnt  agree with that. It said that the complaint  wasnt brought  until after its IT 
migration. It said that it had requested screenshots of the transaction  to show  what was input 
by Miss J, but it hadnt been able to get those. It said that it wouldnt expect  this sort of 
complaint to be upheld, because  Miss J had inputted all of the details herself. It also said it 
had no known IT issues at the time of this transaction, and that its complaint handler 
wouldnt have decided  that this was Miss Js mistake without being sure that there was 
supporting evidence. Overall, TSB didnt think this complaint  should  be upheld.
Ref: DRN65650532Because TSB didnt agree with our adjudicator, the case was passed to me for a final 
decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I didnt  propose  to 
uphold it. This is what I said then: 
-Miss J had shown us evidence that this payment was received in local currency. She 
said that she intended to send this money in pounds. Unfortunately, there was no clear 
evidence whether she did that or not. 
-TSB said that its staff member saw how this money was sent. It said that he could see 
that Miss J had sent that money  in local currency. I didnt think  that the notes Id seen 
were entirely clear on that point. They didnt seem to me to be conclusive. 
-I recognised that it wasnt ideal  at all for TSB not to be able to prove what happened, 
either way. But I also didnt think I should uphold  this complaint just because TSB no 
longer had that evidence. 
-So I had to decide what was most likely  to have happened in this case.  And in doing  so I 
reached a different  conclusion on that to our adjudicator. 
-I knew that TSB had, more recently,  experienced serious IT difficulties. But it said that 
there were no such difficulties at the time that this payment  was made.  It also pointed out 
that its staff werent involved in this transaction at all. 
-So, either there was a one-off  IT problem, which caused this transfer  to be sent in the 
wrong currency, or Miss J just made  a mistake. 
-Miss J told us that shes familiar with how overseas payments are made. But prior to this, 
her last overseas  payment was some years ago. So I didnt think I could assume,  
because of her familiarity with the process, that it was less likely that she made a 
mistake.
-I said I was sorry to have to tell Miss J that, having weighed up all the evidence  in this 
case carefully, I just thought it was more likely that she made a mistake, than that this 
problem was caused by a one-off  IT problem. 
-That meant that TSB didnt have to pay her back the shortfall in the money that the 
company received.  
-I realised that Miss J would be very disappointed with my decision,  but I said I had to be 
fair to both parties, and I didnt think this complaint should be upheld.
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Neither side responded.
my findings
Ref: DRN65650533Although Ive not received  any responses  to my provisional decision, Ive still reconsidered  
all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. I havent changed  my mind.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6565053