K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that The Governor and Company of the Bank of Ireland (BOI) mis-sold him 
payment protection insurance (PPI) with a mortgage.
background
Briefly:
In 1997 Mr L took out PPI at the same time as taking out a mortgage.  Mr L says things 
happened in a branch  meeting.  The policy was designed to protect Mr Ls mortgage  
payments in the event he couldnt work because of accident, sickness  or unemployment. It 
cost less than £7 a month and it would pay a monthly benefit of around £175  a month for up 
to seven months per claim.
Mr L says he was entitled to six months  full pay at the time. And says he had savings and a 
work place  share save scheme he couldve relied  on to help him out.
BOI records show  Mr Ls mortgage account  ended in 2002.
I issued my provisional decision of October 2019  in which I said I was likely to not uphold  
Mr Ls complaint. In summary  I provisionally decided that:
BOI didnt likely advise Mr L and recommend PPI, so it didnt have to ensure it was 
right or suitable for him. But it did have to give him enough clear and timely 
information about the policy so Mr L could make that decision himself.
Because things  happened many years ago, I said it wouldnt be fair to conclude BOI 
didnt give Mr L a choice  about PPI.
The limited evidence  available meant  I thought it was possible there were  gaps in the 
information BOI provided about PPI  for example it wasnt  clear  how the significant 
exclusions on or limits to the cover were brought to Mr Ls attention.
But given  Mr Ls circumstances at the time, I didnt think  hed have likely changed his 
mind about taking out PPI had BOI done anything  more.
So overall I didnt  think  Mr L had lost out as a result of taking out PPI.
BOI replied and said it had nothing  further  to add.
Mr L replied and in summary  he said:
He was concerned  about the difference between  the adjudicators conclusion and my 
conclusion and why it was so radically different.
He disagreed with my view that his share save scheme couldnt  have been relied  on 
because it was designed to be a medium to long-term savings scheme. He says it 
couldve been cancelled  at any point and readily accessed, which hed done in the 
past with a similar scheme.
Hes unable to provide evidence of savings  because of how long ago things 
happened.
Ref: DRN62133012my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments  including what Mr L has said 
in response to my provisional decision - to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I see no reason to change my mind and depart  from my reasoning and 
conclusion as set out in my provisional  decision.
Im sorry  that Mr Ls expectations  about  the outcome of his complaint were  raised  following 
the adjudicators  assessment of his complaint. And I can understand his disappointment with 
my decision.  But in short I think the adjudicator got things wrong and for the reasons I set out 
in my provisional decision,  I dont think Mr Ls lost out as a result of taking out PPI with his 
mortgage.
I accept what Mr L says about being  able to access his share save scheme.  But I maintain 
my view that it is designed to be a medium to long term savings plan and not a source of 
emergency cash. But not withstanding this, Mr L understood  his existing means  at the time 
he chose to take out PPI. And while he might  not have been  properly  informed about  the 
policy, for the reasons I set out in my provisional decision, I dont think  better  information  
about it wouldve  likely prompted  him to change  his mind  I think  hed have still gone ahead  
and taken out PPI. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above and in my provisional  decision, Ive decided not to uphold this 
complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6213301