K822xComplaint
Miss N complains that Shop Direct Finance  Company Limited (trading  as Very) unfairly 
charged her interest on a buy now pay later item. Miss N also complains  about  the way a call 
was handled by Shop Direct.  
Background 
On 17 December 2017 Miss N made a purchase for £429.99 via Very on a buy now pay later 
(BNPL) basis. The arrangement meant that if Miss N repaid the transaction amount by 
28 December 2018 she wouldnt incur any interest. But if Miss N paid after that date interest 
would be charged.  
Miss N has told us that during 2018  she went through some very difficult experiences.  
Miss N has explained  that she lost a member of her immediate family in March 2018, was 
involved in a serious road traffic accident  and that there was a fire in at her home June 2018. 
Miss N says that as a result of the issues that arose in 2018  she had to move, didnt have 
easy access to the internet and wasnt aware  that interest would become payable on the 
BNPL arrangement at the end of the year.  
On 21 January 2019 Miss N called Very and asked about the interest that had been  added 
to her account. Miss N says the call was handled badly and the person she spoke to was 
rude. Miss N complained  and Very responded on 9 March  2019. 
Verys final response  said the interest had been correctly  applied to Miss Ns account. But 
Very agreed that the call handlers tone was abrupt  and that Miss N hadnt received  a 
promised call back. Very offered  Miss N £15 to apologise. 
Miss N referred her complaint to our service and it was passed to an investigator. Within 
Verys complaint submission it advised  it wanted to increase the offer by £25, taking the total 
award to £40. The investigator  thought  that was fair but Miss N asked to appeal  so her 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss N has told us about the difficulties she faces  in 2018. I wont  repeat  everything Miss N 
has told us here. But I want to assure Miss N that Ive read and considered  everything  shes  
told us in bringing the complaint. I can see that 2018  was an incredibly hard year for Miss N 
and that she experienced real hardship.
I need to decide whether Very has reasonably applied interest to Miss Ns account following 
her BNPL  purchase.  Miss N made  the purchase on 17 December 2017 on a BNPL  basis  and 
had until 28 December 2018 to repay the purchase amount and avoid interest. I understand 
Miss N had a very difficult year, and Im very sorry to disappoint  her, but I havent been 
persuaded that Very acted unfairly  by charging  interest on her purchase. 
Miss N told Very that the fire at her home happened in June 2018  and that she had to move. 
But Miss N accessed  her account information.  Very has provided  systems evidence to show 
Miss N checked her account  on a regular basis in the three months  leading  up to the interest  
Ref: DRN64980412being added. I appreciate Miss N has told us she was using  her friends internet access to 
check her account. But Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Very made Miss Ns statements 
available and that she had access to them. The statements  Very issued explained that if the 
payment wasnt cleared  before 28 December  2018  interest would apply. Im satisfied Very 
made it clear  when interest  would apply. 
Ive very sorry to disappoint  Miss N as I can see how difficult things have been. But my role 
is to consider whether Very has acted fairly by applying the interest to the BNPL purchase  
Miss N made. Having done  so, Im satisfied  the interest was fairly applied, in line with the 
account terms. I havent found grounds to tell Very to refund  the interest it charged Miss N. 
Very accepts Miss Ns call on 21 January  2019  should have been handled better and has 
offered £40 to apologise. I know Miss N is upset about the way Verys call handler spoke to 
her and I agree the service it provided  was poor. Ive thought about Verys offer to resolve 
Miss Ns complaint. Having done so, I think the £40 offered is fair in relation to the impact  of 
how the call was handled. As I think Verys offer of £40 is fair in all the circumstances, Im 
not telling  it to increase the award  of take any further action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and endorse Shop Direct Finance Company 
Limiteds offer to pay Miss N £40 (less any compensation  already paid).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 23 April 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6498041