K821x#15complaint
Mr M says My Finance  Club Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about one payday  loan My Finance  Club provided to Mr M in March  2019. 
The loan was for £400 with the repayment  being £521.60 including interest and charges. 
From what  I can see the loan is still outstanding and an agreed repayment plan is in place. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint and thought the loan shouldnt have been given. 
My Finance  Club disagreed and so the complaint was passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
My Finance  Club needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure that 
Mr M could  repay the loans in a sustainable manner.These  checks  could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that My Finance Club should fairly and reasonably 
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that My Finance Club was required to 
establish whether  Mr M could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. 
Ref: DRN68262082This is because the relevant legislation defines sustainable as being  without  undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
My Finance  Club asked  Mr M for information about  his income and expenditure and it carried 
out credit  checks.  Mr M said his monthly income  was £2,100 and My Finance Club said it 
verified this. Mr M said his outgoings for his living  expenses and credit commitments totalled 
£790. My Finance Club checked his credit  record and it said it found two instalment loans, 
one unsecured loan and a credit card bill. It increased Mr Ms expenditure to take these 
repayments into account. It said this left Mr M with disposable income of £848 to repay  his 
loan of £521.60. 
I think these affordability checks were proportionate  to the amount Mr M was borrowing 
compared to his income and taking into account  that this was his first loan from My Finance 
Club. 
But, as our adjudicator  explained, these checks showed that Mr M was most likely having 
problems managing his money.  This is because  of the significant  number  of short-term loans 
Mr M had outstanding when he asked for the loan from My Finance Club. I think My Finance 
Club was aware of these  loans  and it should have realised that Mr M was having difficulties 
managing his money and wouldnt be able to repay another loan sustainably.  So I think My 
Finance Club was wrong to have provided Mr Ms loan.  And I think  it should put things right.   
Mr M wanted My Finance Club to put his account on hold whilst we investigated his 
complaint, but it refused. Instead, My Finance Club set up a repayment plan over twelve  
months as it said he would need  to clear the principal  hed borrowed  no matter the outcome 
of his complaint.  I can see that Mr M has been making  repayments.  So I think  My Finance 
Club responded positively and sympathetically  to Mr Ms financial difficulties. 
putting things right  what My Finance Club needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on his loan and waive  any still outstanding; 
offset this refund  against the balance of principal still owing and then pay the remainder 
to Mr M; or, if a balance  remains owing,  then agree an affordable  repayment plan to 
clear this. 
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about the loan from Mr Ms credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires My Finance Club to take off tax from this interest.  My 
Finance Club must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
Ref: DRN68262083my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I require 
My Finance  Club Limited to pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6826208