K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Loans  2 Go Limited lent to him in an irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
October 2020. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. Neither party have  
provided me with anything  further in response  to that provisional decision.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Given that neither party has provided 
me with any new evidence or further comments I see no reason  to alter the conclusions 
I reached in my provisional  decision.
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  I dont think  it was unreasonable  for 
Loans 2 Go to approve Mr Bs application for the loan. So I dont  uphold  his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Loans 2 Go Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62252232EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr B complains that Loans 2 Go Limited  lent to him in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Mr B was given a single loan by Loans 2 Go. In October 2017 he borrowed £400 and agreed to repay  
the loan in 18 monthly instalments. It appears that Mr B failed to make a couple  of his early 
repayments when they were due, but his loan was fully repaid in May 2018.
Mr Bs complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. Whilst she thought  that the checks  
Loans 2 Go did before agreeing the loan were proportionate, she thought  the checks  showed that 
Mr B would be unlikely to be able to repay the loan in a sustainable manner. So she didnt  think the 
loan should have been agreed.  Our adjudicator  asked Loans  2 Go to pay Mr B some compensation.
Loans 2 Go didnt agree  with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it 
has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Mr Bs complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time Loans 2 Go gave this loan to Mr B required it to carry out a 
reasonable and proportionate  assessment  of whether  he could afford  to repay  what he owed  in a 
sustainable manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  assessment or 
affordability check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so Loans 2 Go had to think about whether repaying  the 
credit sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse consequences for Mr B. In practice this meant 
that Loans  2 Go had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt  cause Mr B undue difficulty or 
adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for Loans 2 Go to simply think about the 
likelihood of it getting its money back, it had to consider  the impact of any repayments on Mr B. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
Ref: DRN62252233There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether Loans 2 Go did what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr B.
Loans 2 Go gathered some  information from Mr B before it agreed the loan. It asked him for details of 
his income, and his normal expenditure and verified  these by checking his bank statements for the 
previous two months. And it checked his credit  file to assess how much he was repaying to other 
creditors.
The check of Mr Bs credit  file showed that although he had few open accounts, he had struggled in 
the past to make all his repayments when they were due. That might  be, as Loans  2 Go suggests,  
because of an isolated problem.  But it could also have been a symptom of deeper problems with 
Mr Bs finances.  So since Mr B was entering into a significant  commitment with Loans 2 Go, and he 
would need to make  monthly repayments  for a period of 18 months, I would expect  that Loans  2 Go 
would want to gather, and independently check, some  detailed information about Mr Bs financial 
circumstances before  it agreed to lend to him. 
As I said earlier, Mr B provided Loans 2 Go with copies  of his bank statements  for the two months 
prior to him requesting the loan. And I can see that Loans 2 Go did use at least  some of the 
information on those statements when looking at whether it should  lend to Mr B. So I think that the 
checks Loans  2 Go did before agreeing the loan were proportionate.
But simply doing proportionate checks isnt enough. A lender  also needs  to react appropriately to 
what those checks show. So Ive looked at the bank statements Mr B gave to Loans 2 Go, and the 
results of its credit check, to see whether it was reasonable to give him this loan.
It seems that the income figure that Loans 2 Go relied  on is supported by the information shown on 
Mr Bs bank statements.  And his normal day to day expenditure estimates are similar to what his bank 
statements show, assuming that the large cash withdrawal Mr B made was to pay some of those 
expenses. As he doesnt seem to be paying those expenses  elsewhere on his statements  I think that 
is a reasonable conclusion. So that would suggest that Mr B was able to afford the repayments he 
would need to make  on this loan. Mr Bs bank account was well run, with no evidence of unpaid 
transactions, or unauthorised  overdrafts.
The credit  check results  that Loans 2 Go received did show that Mr B hadnt always  managed his 
credit well. Although  the check  didnt  show Mr B was using credit heavily,  three accounts  showed  late 
or missed payments  earlier in the year. And Mr B had taken,  and repaid three short  term loans 
relatively recently. But Mr Bs credit accounts  were now all up to date so, on balance, I dont think any 
concerns raised by the credit report should have been so great that Loans 2 Go should  have declined  
Mr Bs loan application.
The only other area that I need to address is what appears  to be some gambling expenditure on Mr 
Bs bank statements. I can see that in each of the two months covered by the statements Mr B spent  
a large proportion  of his disposable income  on gambling transactions. But that expenditure  was made 
on just a single day each month. And the amounts that Mr B spent appear to reflect  the amount of 
money that he had left over.  I dont think that pattern  of spending suggested that Mr B was in some 
way addicted to gambling, or that he would be reliant on gambling winnings to repay  his borrowing. 
I think  it would be reasonable for Loans 2 Go to conclude, based on the expenditure  patterns shown 
on the bank statements,  that Mr B could  simply  reduce his gambling expenditure  to allow him to afford  
the loan repayments.
So taking all that into account I dont currently think it was unreasonable for Loans 2 Go to approve 
Mr Bs application for this loan. I dont intend to uphold his complaint.
Ref: DRN6225223