K820x#14complaint
The executors of the estate of Mr B complain  that Nationwide Building Society have declined 
several claims under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 (s.75). 
Although one of the executors, through their personal representative,  has been the lead 
correspondent for the complaint, for ease  I will refer to them  collectively throughout my 
decision.
background
In 2018 the executors, following an examination of the late Mr Bs bank and credit card 
statements, contacted  Nationwide to raise s.75 claims  in relation to the following five 
payments: 
i)Four payments made between 2002 and 2005 to four different companies who 
offered services in relinquishing  timeshares (the four companies). 
ii)A payment made to a fifth company in 2009 (the fifth company).
The executors say that in 2009  Mr B made  a statement to the following effect:
The information  I have supplied is true and correct.  I have lost money through  payments to 
timeshare resellers and advisors who have failed to provide the promised  services.
They say that this was in reference to the payments made to the four companies and that 
Mr B was actively  investigating options to recover his money at that time. This resulted in 
him paying the fifth company to recover the money on his behalf. The executors say that the 
fifth company also failed  to provide  their services and Mr B sadly passed away  the following 
year in 2010, before he could recover any money. 
The executors told Nationwide  that all five companies were therefore  fraudulent  and had 
breached their contracts  with Mr B by failing to provide their respective services. So refunds 
were due to Mr Bs estate  under s.75.  
But Nationwide declined the s.75 claims in relation  to the four companies on the basis  that 
the claims had been made more than six years  from the date that Mr B entered  into the 
various contracts.  So the claims were  time barred under  the Limitation Act 1980.
Nationwide also declined the s.75 claim in relation  to the fifth company. They  explained that 
in order for s.75 to apply there  had to be a debtor-creditor-supplier (DCS)  agreement in 
place, meaning  that Mr B had to be the one who was both invoiced and who made the 
payment. And that the payment needed to be made directly to the fifth company.  There was 
no issue in relation to the former,  but in relation to the latter Mr Bs credit  card statement 
showed that the payment  was made  through a third party company (company  A). So the 
DCS link was broken  and s.75 couldnt  apply.    
The executors complained to Nationwide about  this. In relation to the four companies, they 
said that the Limitation Act applied to court proceedings as opposed to claims under s.75, for 
which there was no time limit. But in any event, Mr Bs death in 2010 made it impossible for 
the claims to be made within the six year time frame and the executors only became 
reasonably aware  of the payments in 2018 following the request and investigation of Mr Bs 
Nationwide statements. Therefore, theyd made the claims in time.  
Ref: DRN63274422As for the fifth company, the executors  said there was no evidence  that company A had 
passed Mr Bs payment  onto the fifth company. So the DCS  chain ended with company A 
and the executors raised a further  s.75 claim against  company  A instead. They said that 
there was no evidence that company  A had provided any goods or services in return  for 
Mr Bs payment so a refund was due to his estate.
Nationwide continued  to decline all of the claims for the reasons already given to the 
executors. But they acknowledged that theyd troubled the executors with a repeat request 
for duplicate  information  and in failing to respond  to a letter. So they offered the executors a 
total of £200 for this inconvenience.
The executors remained  unhappy and brought their complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  that Nationwide had acted unfairly in relying  upon  the Limitation Act 
when declining  the s.75 claims against the four companies.  
In relation to the fifth company, the investigator disagreed that the DCS chain ended  with 
company A given  that the executors had provided a copy of a receipt for the payment, 
issued to Mr B by the fifth company. So the fifth company was the supplier for the purposes 
of DCS. And as Nationwide had been unable to establish a link between the fifth company 
and company A, the investigator didnt think theyd acted unreasonably in declining  this claim 
either.
Furthermore, the investigator  explained  that he could  only consider issues relating to the 
complainant in this case, namely the estate of Mr B. So he wasnt  able to consider whether  
or not the £200 compensation awarded to the executors  as opposed to the estate  was a 
fair and reasonable amount.
 
The executors remained  unhappy and so this matter has been passed to me for a decision. I 
note that in responding to our investigators view the executors raised the additional point 
that Mr Bs payment to company A had been  unauthorised. So they believe that Nationwide 
had failed in their duty to protect  Mr B and ought to refund the payment to his estate. 
But our investigator informed the executors  that this hadnt formed part of our investigations 
because when raising the s.75 claim with Nationwide  theyd completed a disputed credit 
cards transaction form confirming that the payment had been authorised. So the executors 
were informed that they would have to raise  that as a separate  matter directly  with 
Nationwide.
my findings
The issues  relating to the £200 compensation and unauthorised transaction  havent formed  
part of my decision for the same reasons as outlined by our investigator.  So Ive only 
considered the available evidence and arguments  in relation to the declined s.75 claims to 
decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must decide what, if anything, Nationwide  should  do to resolve the executors complaint. To 
do this, I have to decide  what I think is fair and reasonable,  having  regard to  amongst other 
things  what the law says. Here, that is s.75 and the Limitation  Act 1980.
Ref: DRN63274423S.75 says that, in certain  circumstances, if the late Mr B paid for goods or services  on his 
credit card and there was a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier, 
Nationwide can be held responsible. In particular,  s.75(1)  states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
S.75 claims   the four companies
Ive noted why the executors believe the four companies were  fraudulent  but this is 
information that has come to light after Mr B entered into his contracts. Whereas a 
misrepresentation under s.75 has to be one that was made by the companies before the late 
Mr B entered into the contracts and one that induced him into doing so. Unfortunately, I dont 
have evidence of what, if anything, may have been  misrepresented to Mr B at that point in 
time. So Im not persuaded  that I have sufficient  evidence of misrepresentation.  Instead,  I 
think the correct basis  for these s.75 claims is breach of contract for the following reasons. 
I havent had sight of the contracts Mr B entered into with the four companies. But it doesnt 
appear to be disputed that his statement in 2009  was in reference to the four companies. 
And he then entered an agreement with the fifth company to recover the money  hed paid to 
the four companies. I dont think that he would have gone to the trouble of doing that if the 
four companies had in fact delivered  what theyd promised. So I think  its more likely  than not 
that Mr Bs statement in 2009 was an accurate reflection of what  had happened. It follows  
that the four companies had therefore  breached their respective contracts by failing to 
provide what Mr B had paid for. 
Nationwide have said that any court claim against the four companies would have been time 
barred by the Limitation Act. So the s.75 claims  were  too late. The executors are right to 
point out that a s.75 claim isnt the same as court  proceedings. But I dont think s.75 can be 
considered in isolation in this way or independently of a potential court claim. I say that 
because a like claim under s.75 can only arise against Nationwide  if there  is a claim for 
breach of contract against the supplier. 
It is of course for a court  to decide whether a claim is time barred but I nevertheless have  to 
take into account what the law says. And it appears that its more likely than not that any 
court claim commenced in 2018  would have  been  too late. I say that because its clear  from 
Mr Bs statement  in 2009 that he was already aware of the breaches of contract  by the four 
companies. Furthermore, in a letter to Nationwide dated May 2018,  the executors  said that 
Mr B had been actively looking into options  to recover his money  evidenced by his 
appointment of the fifth company. Again, this shows that Mr B was fully aware  of the 
breaches of contract. That means that the six year timeframe to bring a claim began  in 2009. 
Ive also thought about the executors point that they couldnt have reasonably known about 
the breaches of contract until 2018. But as I say, the late Mr B knew as far back  as 2009. So 
I dont think it was unreasonable  of Nationwide to decide that its likely  the six year timeframe 
would nevertheless have begun in 2009.
For all of these reasons, I dont think that Nationwide acted unfairly in taking into account  the 
Limitation Act when  deciding that the s.75 claims had been made too late.
Ref: DRN63274424S.75 claim   the fifth company
The executors subsequently revised  this claim to be against company A on the basis that  
as the company who took Mr Bs payment   the DCS chain ended with them. But the party 
taking a payment  isnt always the same entity as the end supplier. 
Not all DCS agreements  enable a s.75 claim to be made. There have to have been 
pre-existing arrangements  between the creditor (Nationwide)  and the supplier. So I need to 
first decide  whether the supplier was the fifth company or company  A.
 
The executors have referred to the existence  of a contract between Mr B and the fifth 
company and none  that they know of  between  him and company A. Furthermore, I note 
that the date and amount  of the payment made to company A corresponds to the receipt 
issued to Mr B by the fifth company. Plus that receipt refers  to payment having been  made  
in favour of [fifth company]. 
Based on this evidence,  Mr B entered into a contract with the fifth company only. And it 
seems more likely  than not that Mr Bs payment to company A was the same one referred to 
in the receipt from the fifth company. It follows that its also more likely than not that the fifth 
company received that payment through company A. So they are the supplier for the 
purposes of s.75  and not company A. 
But pre-existing arrangements can be arranged through a fourth party, such  as a merchant 
acquirer. So the number of parties involved isnt the deciding factor  here. Instead, I need to 
think about whether  the nature of company As role broke the DCS link. 
One possibility  is that company A was acting in their capacity  as an associate  of the fifth 
company as defined  by sections 184 and 187 of the Consumer Credit Act. This would mean 
DCS remained intact. But Nationwide have said they were unable  to find a link between  the 
two. Despite research  into available public records Ive also been  unable to establish  a link. 
So I dont  think the two companies  were  associates.
The second  possibility is that company A was acting as a payment collection agent within 
the definition outlined by the High Court in Governor and Company of the Bank of Scotland  v 
Alfred Truman  (a firm) [2005]  EWHC 583 (QB) . But, again, I have no evidence  relating to 
how company A became  involved with the DCS agreement  and the basis  upon which they 
took Mr Bs payment. 
Furthermore, I note the executors comments in an email to our investigator in 
December 2020,  sent in response to his view, that there is no evidence  that company A 
were merchant payment  providers, or that they were  acting for, or in relationship  with, [the 
fifth company].
Based on this evidence,  I dont think  that company A could be said to have been acting as a 
payment collection  agent.
For all of these reasons, I dont think Nationwide acted unreasonably in declining the s.75 
claim against the fifth company either. 
I know that my decision will no doubt  come as a great disappointment  to the executors. But I 
cant say that Nationwide has handled  any of the s.75 claims unfairly  or unreasonably.
Ref: DRN63274425my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors, on 
behalf of the estate of Mr B, to accept or reject  my decision before 12 March 2021.
Sim Ozen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6327442