K820x#14complaint
The four members of the Self-Directed Personal Pension Scheme (SDPPS) operated by 
Mattioli Woods  PLC (MW PLC) for their company Q, have complained that MW PLC 
deducted a Scheme Sanction Charge from their SDPPS account, and paid this to HMRC in 
April 2011 negligently  and without their knowledge.
background
I issued a provisional decision that the members complaint  shouldnt  succeed on 14 June 
2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of this final decision. The main conclusions  I 
reached were:
-I couldnt consider  a complaint about the activities of MW PLCs sister  company MW 
Trustees Ltd, as it hadnt been  regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority and 
didnt need to be in order to act as Trustee of a pension scheme.
-I was considering the complaint about MW PLC acting as scheme administrator as it 
was unlikely that it would have been brought within the time limits of the other 
ombudsman scheme that could have considered it  the Pensions  Ombudsman.
-The Scheme Sanction Charge (SSC) was payable under the HMRC  rules,  because 
an arms length commercial arrangement  for Q to lease its business premises from 
the SDPPS hadnt been adequately documented or adhered  to.
-MW PLC wasnt being unsympathetic to the members  and Qs circumstances, but 
rather mindful that HMRC didnt  have discretion not to apply these rules. 
-The steps Q and the members  were taking to repay the debt were still insufficient  - 
and they hadnt yet acted to document any formal agreement.  MW PLCs obligations 
as scheme administrator were to report the unauthorised payment  not to consult 
the members about whether it should  make the report.
-Q doesnt seem to have been financially comfortable, so I dont think the members 
are in a materially different position, whatever order they might  have  decided  to 
allocate cash to clear the rent arrears  or bring the ongoing  rent up to date.
-The SSC had to be paid once HMRC demanded it. Although the members werent 
told on the date the charge was paid,  I wasnt satisfied that the members could 
compel MW PLC to appeal  it - and MW PLC would have  been  entitled to take the 
view that an appeal  wouldnt succeed in these circumstances.
-The SDPPS trust deed  and rules and bank  account mandate confirm  the scheme  
administrator could withdraw  funds on the sole signature of MW Trustees Ltd, if the 
monies were demanded by HMRC
MW PLC responded to the provisional decision saying that it had nothing further to add.
The members didnt  agree with the provisional decision.  In summary they said:
The core of the matter  is that they were  at no time provided with the HMRC  notice of 
the SSC. MW PLC also had a duty to disclose any material information concerning 
the pension scheme.
Had they known  about the HMRC notice they would  have  made the necessary 
financial arrangements  to pay the rent sum due. 
Regular payments of substantial amounts  were  being made to the pension  scheme,  
and the scheme  owed  Q £60,000 which effectively left it in credit. 
There are numerous email exchanges so to say that no arrangement  was entered  
into is simply unacceptable. In effect there  was a breakdown in communication. MW 
took an aggressive approach when there was no need  to do so.
Ref: DRN64616522MW never  followed up its correspondence that the members  would be entitled to 
have the SSC reduced to 15%.  This was never followed  up by MW and it had a duty 
to do so to mitigate the loss to the scheme. 
This is a particularly concerning case and should be referred to the pension 
ombudsman for further review. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note the members continue to disagree with my provisional decision,  however I believe Ive 
addressed most of their points already. I appreciate this will be very disappointing for them 
but Im not persuaded by what theyve said to reach a different decision in this case.
Its not disputed  that MW PLC didnt provide the members specifically with HMRCs notice  of 
assessment  however it had set out previously that it was obliged  to report  the matter  to 
HMRC and that these  charges would result. So whilst as I said in the provisional decision 
these can be considered matters of courtesy I dont think this alters the overall  outcome  of 
the complaint.  I say this as I think theres a fundamental misunderstanding  of the likelihood 
that HMRC would have  simply  cancelled the SSC once Q paid the overdue  rent.
In effect the unauthorised payment had already occurred as the rent was unpaid at the end 
of the tax year in which it fell due. Q and the SDPPS  were  deemed to be connected  parties, 
so failing to adhere  to the repayments (or at least formally documenting when late payments 
would be made) would  squarely in my view be regarded as an unauthorised payment. Im 
sorry that I dont agree  with the members  that an email saying Further payments will follow  
on a regular basis from now onwards  constituted  a formal agreement. It was characteristic 
of the informality  that existed because the members  were leasing property to their own 
company, but it wouldnt be a reasonable basis on which the property could have been 
leased to an unconnected  party  and that was the point of the HMRC rules.
I indicated in my provisional decision that its unclear whether MW PLC would  still have 
needed to make the report  to HMRC (which it did in the January of the following year), if Q 
had subsequently caught up with the payments or put them  on a contractual footing. 
However I also said that it was clear  from the attempts MW PLC had made to get Q and its 
solicitor to take this matter  seriously - which I consider were  reasonable and proportionate to 
the situation rather than aggressive  - that these requirements were  not going  to be met. I 
agree with the members that there were some  staff changes at MW PLC but this was, in my 
view, a reflection  of how long the matter  had been outstanding. If there was a breakdown in 
communication (or rather simply a lack of communication) I believe that ultimately Q had a 
significant part to play in this.
Once the HMRC  report was made  it was inevitable  that a notice of assessment would be 
issued and the SSC then had to be paid, which MW Trustees Ltd could instruct the schemes 
bankers to do unilaterally (whether the members  consented or not). And I set out in my 
provisional decision why an appeal was highly unlikely to be successful.
Ive answered the point  that MW didnt follow up on a potential  reduction of the SSC in my 
provisional decision. Im not convinced that this would result  in the members saving money 
as it would first involve them paying an unauthorised payment  charge  themselves. However  
this is a matter they now need to address with their tax advisers or new scheme  
Ref: DRN64616523administrator. Im satisfied  that MW PLC made sufficient efforts  to notify  the members  of 
what was required.
This is my final decision on the members  complaint about  MW PLC.  Im not sure if their 
reference to a pensions ombudsman was about  an ombudsman who decides pensions  
cases at the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  such  as myself. If they were referring to the 
separate scheme operated by the Pensions Ombudsman, I think  its unlikely that scheme 
would be willing to consider a complaint against MW PLC that has already been considered 
by the Financial Ombudsman Service.
The Pensions Ombudsman is also the only scheme  that can consider a complaint against  
MW Trustees Ltd  but I made the members aware  in my provisional decision that this 
scheme has stricter time limits  than ours and so it may always  have been  that the Pensions 
Ombudsman wouldnt haves been  willing to consider  either complaint. These are matters  
that only the Pensions Ombudsman can decide.  The members are free to approach that 
scheme separately.
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  the members complaint against MW PLC or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the members to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN64616524PROVISIONAL DECISION  of 14 June 2019
background
Q established a SDPPS, which is a type of Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP), to purchase the 
commercial property to which it and another business paid rent. It was the value  of that property 
together with the rent collected that formed the pension funds for later use in the members  
retirement. The members  were also trustees,  with another company in the Mattioli Woods group (MW 
Trustees Ltd) acting as professional trustee.
There had historically been a few problems  with overdue rent which had tended to run significantly  in 
arrears. In October 2006 MW PLC wrote to the members (by contacting Q at its business address)  to 
explain the changes  in the tax regime  which had taken effect that April.  Its letter  said:
HM Revenue & Customs will have a right (which  they are highly likely to take advantage of) to 
impose unauthorised payment charges in the following  situations:
i)Loanbacks  where an employer does not pay the contractually required repayment in any 
one year.
ii)Property leased to employers   where  rental payments are not maintained in full and in line 
with payment dates.

Schemes must submit an Event Report on an annual  basis if an unauthorised payment occursan 
unauthorised payment  charge will arise  on the amount of the difference  between  the required amount 
and the total amount payable during a twelve-month period Additionally further charges  could be 
levied on the employer and the scheme dependent  on the amount of the unauthorised payment 
Dealing with such matters promptly will be essential to avoid these  new and oppressive  charges.
In March 2007  MW PLC was writing to both Q and its solicitors pointing  out that leases detailing  the 
rent payable  still had not been drawn up. It said it is important this matter is finalised before the end 
of the tax year to ensure the pension  scheme avoids  receiving  an unauthorised payment charge  for 
not paying  the market rent.
MW PLC had ongoing contact with Qs solicitors during May 2007 to ensure these  requirements were  
being complied with. It appears a signed,  dated copy of the lease wasnt returned by the solicitor to 
MW PLC  despite several reminders to both the solicitor  and Q directly. An internal memo at MW 
PLC in September 2008 expresses concern in particular  that the executed lease was still outstanding  
and about what MW PLC should do next.
On 6 July 2009 MW PLC sent notices to Q (in order to be passed on to the members). It would 
appear it was doing this in its capacity  as scheme administrator  albeit the letter  itself was signed  
MW Trustees Limited. It said:
In accordance with the Finance Act 2004, as administrator of the above pension scheme we write to 
advise that an unauthorised payment was made to you from the above scheme, as follows:
Nature of benefit : Rental income
Amount : £40,000
Date of payment : 05.04.2009
This information is provided in order for you to submit a self-assessment return, or if no self-
assessment is required you must advise the Inland Revenue of this payment in writing.
A covering  letter explained to Q that the notice was in respect of rent arrears for the tax year 2008-9. 
It appears an annual sum of £40,000 technically fell due in November  each year  and in the 
absence of an executed lease there wasnt an agreement about whether  this was payable  in 
instalments . MW PLC said if the payment  is not met, the pension scheme will be reported to HM 
Revenue & Customs, as standard  legislation.  I look forward to receiving payment  in due course.
Ref: DRN64616525MW PLC chased Q on 30 July 2009, pointing out that an amount of £40,000 was due in each of 
November 2008 and November 2009, so separate agreements would be required to bring arrears as 
well as ongoing  payments  up to date. It said, I would be most grateful  if you would  advise the 
amounts that will be paid and when.  We need  to put an agreement in place in order to avoid reporting 
the matter to HM Revenue & Customs.
It followed this up with emails in August and September 2009. Q responded the same day saying one 
of the members would look into this and email  you a plan of payment. However  it doesnt seem the 
necessary arrangements were made. When providing the schemes anniversary valuation to Q on 15 
January 2010 MW PLC said I would  be grateful if you will update me on the present position of the 
outstanding leases and outstanding rental payments within the next seven  days.
It appears that the reason  for this request was that at around this time each year MW PLC made  its 
report to HMRC about schemes  it administered, including any matters of concern  such  as 
unauthorised payments.
The request prompted  Q to put a cheque of £10,000 in the post on 28 January  one of the members  
emailed MW PLC that day saying Further payments  will follow on a regular basis from now onwards. 
But it seems  the formal repayment agreement which MW PLC advised would be required,  wasnt 
drawn up; bearing in mind  ongoing rent payments of £40,000 per year were needed in addition  to the 
arrears  and the lease  information was still outstanding.
As a result  MW PLC emailed Qs accountants on 22 April 2010 reiterating that £40,000  due in 
November 2008 and £40,000 in November  2009 was outstanding   towards  which it had received  two 
cheques of £10,000 from Q in February and April 2010. It went on to say (with my emphasis) :
[Q] kindly informed me of the current financial position of the company. However to prevent severe  
tax penalties I need  to put a schedule  in place in order for the outstanding rent to be repaid but we do 
not want  to put the company under  any more pressure.
Initially we can offer clients a change of payment frequency, a reduced rent for a set period with the 
outstanding balance to be caught up, then a payment holiday (which the clients have already had). 
However I believe these options are no longer available due to the amount of time the rent has 
been outstanding.
We now need  to put a schedule in place for the outstanding amount to be paid over a 3-5 year period. 
As the company accountant I look forward to receiving confirmation of the amount  the company  can 
afford each month.
MW PLC chased the accountant on 10 May 2010 who informed it, I am waiting to hear from the client 
before we can respond. It chased them again  on 16 June and theres then a gap in the 
correspondence. However Im aware that Q made two more  payments of £10,000 in June 2010 and 
February 2011. Whilst not being paid in line with any written agreement regarding the arrears, this 
effectively caught up with the missing payment from November 2008. But its not clear  that much (if 
any) progress was being made with bringing  subsequent arrears up to date.
On 11 April 2011 I understand HMRC sent a Notice of Assessment to MW PLC for a £16,000  Scheme 
Sanction Charge  (SSC)  40% of the £40,000 unauthorised payment MW PLC had declared to 
HMRC for the 2008-9 tax year. The members have said they didnt  notice this payment  had been  
made until they saw the schemes bank statements  on 6 May.  
However regarding the ongoing rent problems, after a phone  call on 27 April 2011 MW PLC emailed 
Q directly again offering  a further  proposal:
The pension  scheme  currently has a loan outstanding to [Q] and assuming the loan is repaid 
immediately the pension scheme will forward a cheque for £63,467.38. As [Q] owes rent of £60,000 
for 2009 and 2010 the cheque should be immediately  returned to ourselves payable to the pension 
scheme. As this is a very simple solution I would urge to agree to this as a matter of urgency.
Ref: DRN64616526On 9 May MW PLC varied its opinion and suggested the same exchange  of monies could be carried  
out as a book transaction, meaning Q only needed to pay £3,467.38 to the SDPPS. It said Should I 
not hear from you within the next two weeks I will proceed with the above proposal.  MW PLC tells us 
that in fact the £60,000 was repaid to Q and the book transaction did not take place.
On 13 and 16 May there were two phone calls between MW PLC and one of the members  querying 
the £16,000 tax payment  theyd noticed being taken from the SDPPS bank account. According  to MW 
PLCs notes, the member  requested the payment be returned to the scheme, but it said the payment 
couldnt be contested. The member considered that the four payments Q had made  of £10,000 over 
the previous year constituted an arrangement  to clear the £40,000 of overdue rent for the 2008-9 tax 
year; whereas MW PLC said that it had made numerous requests for a written  rent agreement  and Q 
had not complied. On 17 May MW PLC confirmed:
I believe we gave you every opportunity to discuss the situation with a view to putting a rental 
agreement in place and avoiding the tax charges. However, [MW PLC] would not be aware of the tax 
charge until HM Revenue & Customs sent its request for payment.
The Royal Bank  of Scotland mandate  confirms that monies can be withdrawn from the pension  
scheme on the sole signatures of MW Trustees Limited if the monies  are required  by HM Revenue & 
Customs under theregulations. A copy of the mandate is enclosed  for your reference.
I confirm that the unauthorised  payment  charge represents the outstanding rate [sic  rent] for the 
2008/2009 tax year; therefore I can only urge you to rectify the position for the 2009 and 2010 years, 
which we have not reported in anticipation of a formal agreement being  put in place.
After a further phone discussion MW PLC wrote to the member again  on 15 July 2011:
HMRC guidelines are that any connected transaction is kept on at arms  length basis. In order to 
achieve this the trustees can agree to a repayment agreement. However this must be formally  
documented and on a commercial basis.  Unfortunately,  a verbal agreement  is not sufficient  for their 
purposes.
The unauthorised payment which  is classed as a personal charge should have been included on your 
self-assessment tax return It is only the unauthorised  payment charge  that can be appealed against 
to HM Revenue & Customs.
The payment that has left the pension  schemes bank account  is the [SSC]which you cannot  appeal 
against. However  on payment of the unauthorised payment charge (by you personally) the [SSC]  
would be reduced from 40% to 15%. In essence the scheme could reclaim the difference...
The following week MW PLC was in correspondence with Qs accountants who stated Qs intention of 
repaying the remaining  rent at the rate of £3,000 per month, plus the ongoing rent payments. MW 
PLC considered this sufficient to draw up a rent agreement and said the  rental  agreement  will need 
to be maintained in order to prevent any further reports being  submitted to HM Revenue & Customs.
MW PLC had to later point  out to Q in May 2012 that the ongoing rent payments werent being  
maintained and would need to be, to prevent  a further report to HMRC. This seems to have prompted 
the members to seek to transfer out the SDPPS to a Small Self-Administered Scheme (SSAS) 
operated by another provider in July 2012. The transfer was completed in May 2013 and I note Q was 
dissolved on 1 November 2014.
A significant further time passed until February 2017 when the members  initiated a further complaint  
to MW PLC as follows:
Its fiduciary duty had been significantly breached contrary to the Trustee Act.
Ref: DRN64616527The members had no knowledge of HMRCs  11 April 2011  notice of assessment for the SSC 
before MW PLC had already  paid this charge.  There was an opportunity  for the trustees to 
appeal the SSC within 30 days.
MW PLC had no authority on which to withdraw this money from the SDPPS account.
there was an agreement  in place and payments [of rent arrears] were  being  made, even if 
it was not in a written  format, active steps were  being taken to clear  the rental arrears [four 
payments of £10,000 from January 2010   February 2011]
If those  payments had been  shown  to HMRC  it would  have found, on appeal,  in the trustees 
favour.
MW PLCs letter of 15 July 2011 said that some of the SSC could  be reclaimed, and this was 
never actioned by MW PLC.
MW PLC responded to the complaint in its capacity as scheme administrator. It confirmed that in its 
view, its duty to make  the necessary report of the unauthorised payment to HMRC overrode all other 
considerations. And the consequences of it not carrying  out that function  were  potentially serious and 
far-reaching. It also reiterated that verbal  agreements to repay rent arrears werent acceptable  from 
HMRCs point of view.
One of our investigators considered the complaint  and didnt think it should succeed. In summary, he 
said that whilst some arrears  payments  were being made, further monthly  rent wasnt  so the 
SDPPS had remained  in arrears overall.  He added that in reporting the unauthorised payment, MW 
PLC was acting in a way which was consistent with the schemes trust deed and trust law  because  
of the even  worse consequences  that might have followed if it hadnt done so.
The investigator said it wasnt  clear  if MW PLC had specifically discussed HMRCs  notice of 
assessment with the members. But without a formal rent repayment schedule already being  in place 
at the time the notice was issued, he doubted that the outcome  could have been any different. He 
didnt consider MW PLC had a reason to appeal  the SSC (if that had been possible), given the 
circumstances in which  it had arisen.
The SDPPS  members didnt agree with the investigator. In summary, they said:
-Whilst they appreciated that MW PLC had a duty to HMRC it more importantly had a duty to 
the beneficiaries  and the trust.  It had paid over funds to a third party without  the consent  of 
the trustees or named account holders.  This was misappropriation of funds and a criminal 
offence.
-The members received  no notice of HMRCs notice of assessment,and  the investigator was 
mistaken that this would have made no difference.
-They  vehemently deny that any sums  were  due in view of the regular repayments of £10,000 
they were making.
-They  referred to MW PLCs correspondence of 27 April and 9 May 2011 about the possibility 
of a book  transaction  to cancel out the loan and rent arrears.
-As Q or the scheme members didnt object to this proposal,  theyd understood at that point 
that the loan had paid off the rent and that no sums  were due and owing.
-The loan had originally been made by Q to the SDPPS  to meet the death benefits due to a 
wife and mother, respectively, of the members. This was a particularly difficult  time and MW 
PLC should have acted much more professionally,  diligently and sympathetically.
In response the investigator told the members that the issue  he had focused his opinion on was MW 
PLCs authority to report  the unauthorised payment and deduct  funds, when  due, from the SDPPS  
bank account to pay to HMRC. As the members appeared to be raising further issues in relation to its 
(by which he meant MW Trustees  Ltds)  duty to the other trustees, he considered it may be necessary  
for those to be looked into separately.
The investigator asked the members whether  they had attempted to appeal the tax charge to HMRC. 
They said they could  not have  done this, as they were out of time.  MW PLC added:
Ref: DRN64616528-The SDPPS trust deed and rules and the bank account mandate (which  had been sent again 
to the members in April 2011) confirmed that the scheme administrator  could withdraw funds  
on the sole signature of MW Trustees Ltd if the monies  were demanded  by HMRC.  
-It was concerned that the Financial Ombudsman Services investigation was looking  at the 
actions of MW Trustees Ltd and this was outside  our jurisdiction. 
-It also didnt consider it was the ombudsmans role to decide whether it was appropriate or not 
for MW PLC to report the unauthorised payment to HMRC when it had a duty to do so. 
-The unpaid  rent was treated as an unauthorised  payment to the employer, and the employer 
wasnt required to be notified  that the report was about to be made. However it considered it 
was required to notify  the members when the unauthorised payment  was deemed to occur, 
and it did this by way of its letters  in July 2009 which contained the prescribed  information.
As agreement  couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
which business and activities  can the ombudsman service look at complaints against?
MW PLC has said that we cant look at the activities of MW Trustees Ltd and I think thats correct. MW 
Trustees Ltd wasnt (and isnt)  regulated by the Financial Conduct Authority, as it doesnt need to be 
in order to act as a Trustee of a pension  scheme. Its the administration of the scheme  which is the 
activity the FCA regulates.
The Pensions  Ombudsman, a separate organisation, can consider complaints from the members of a 
pension scheme against  the trustees. They can also consider complaints against the scheme  
administrator. In this case it appears MW Trustees Ltd acts as trustee, and MW PLC acts as 
administrator. Even though the two names have sometimes been used interchangeably  on 
correspondence, the legal  authority to act as trustee (and I notice  the members are referring to the 
Trustee Act) appears to reside with MW Trustees Ltd. And the regulatory basis on which the SDPPS  
is administered appears to reside  with MW PLC. Im not able to step outside my powers as an 
ombudsman  and our jurisdiction is governed in part by which activities are being carried  out and by 
whom.
We have  a memorandum  of understanding with the Pensions Ombudsman under  which we wont 
refer complaints to them unless we consider the complaint is more suitable to be dealt  with by the 
other Ombudsman; for reasons which include, The complaint is outside the time limits of the first 
ombudsman, but inside the time limits of the second ombudsman.
The same  memorandum of understanding sets out that: usually complaints to The Pensions 
Ombudsman need to be made within three years of when the event(s) complained about  happened - 
or, if later, within three years of when the applicant  first knew about it (or ought  reasonably to have 
known about it). The Pensions Ombudsman can extend the three year limit, if he considers it 
reasonable for the complaint not to have  been  made before  the end of three years and provided the 
complaint was then brought within a further period which the Ombudsman considers  reasonable.
So the Financial Ombudsman Service has continued to consider this complaint in respect of the 
business we do have jurisdiction over (MW PLC), because  the events  the members complain about 
(the deduction of the SSC amount from the SDPPS account) occurred in 2011.  The members  
complained significantly later than the primary three-year period afforded by the Pensions 
Ombudsman, but within  the primary  six year period  allowed for referring a complaint to the Financial  
Ombudsman Service. 
This doesnt change the fact that we cannot consider complaints about the activities of MW Trustees 
Ltd, so I wont  be commenting on the Trustee Act in this decision. In my experience  its also unlikely 
the Pensions Ombudsman would  have  been  willing to consider the members complaints because  of 
Ref: DRN64616529its shorter time limits  but the members  are of course free to enquire  about this with the Pensions 
Ombudsman.
why was the overdue  rent payable to the SDPPS deemed an unauthorised  payment?
The reason is the generous tax breaks afforded to pension arrangements. HMRC/Inland Revenue has 
always sought  to ensure that transactions such as loans and property rent  between  a pension  
scheme and the sponsoring employer are carried  out on an arms  length basis  ie on commercial 
terms that are no different  than if the transaction was with an unconnected party.
If the SDPPS had rented  the entire property  to a different company than Q as a commercial  
transaction, it would have  been necessary  to set the terms of that transaction out in a rent agreement. 
And if the other company didnt  pay the rent, on any sensible commercial basis this would result in a 
process to enforce payment of the rent that could ultimately see the company being evicted  from the 
property (unless  further documented agreements were  reached).
In order  to satisfy  HMRC requirements, the transaction between Q and the SDPPS needed to be no 
different. To do otherwise would mean that Q was enjoying a very cheap or rent-free existence in the 
SDPPS property, which would constitute an abuse of the tax privileges afforded to the SDPPS. 
In 2006 the HMRC regime shifted away from carrying out bespoke investigations into schemes, to 
automatically classifying any transaction that wasnt carried out on an arms length  basis as an 
unauthorised payment. Such payments automatically attracted the tax penalties which  are the subject 
of this complaint, and MW PLCs letter of October  2006  was drawing this to the members attention.
was MW PLC (as scheme administrator) entitled to report the unauthorised  payment to HMRC, and 
should the members have  been notified  of this?
The members in my view should reasonably  have  been  aware of their obligations,  both as members  
of the scheme and as the employer, to ensure they took heed of MW PLCs  repeated warnings. 
These warnings were  given up to January 2010, when I understand  the actual report of the 
unauthorised payment  in respect of the £40,000 of overdue  rent from November 2008 was made  to 
HMRC.
I understand that Q was in financial difficulty. There had also been a death in the family and there 
were, I appreciate, strains on the business as a result of all of these things. The members  believe that 
MW PLC should have been more sympathetic  to their circumstances.  I dont underestimate how 
difficult things were at that time, but unfortunately I have to return to the position Ive set out above: 
the leasing of the property  to the employer could only be seen as commercial transaction in which 
personal sympathy had little role to play.
Unfortunately it wouldnt  have been HMRCs concern if Q was in trading difficulties. As I think MW 
PLC appreciated  at the time, even if the SDPPS members (understandably) wanted to support Q 
financially by allowing it to delay payment  of rent, HMRC would  be no less inclined  to enforce  the 
pension tax rules unless whatever arrangement theyd come to was formally documented and 
adhered to by the parties. Effectively, as HMRC wasnt going to soften its position, nor could MW PLC 
acting as the scheme  administrator. So I dont agree it was being unsympathetic to the members  in 
needing to face reality.
Im satisfied it was reasonable for MW PLC to report  the overdue rent as an unauthorised payment 
because, at the time it was due to make  its annual report to HMRC it was still not clear  when or how 
this was going  to be repaid.  Despite MW PLCs  warnings, Q and the members  had still failed to take 
the necessary steps ensure  the transaction was on an arms length basis.
I understand the members concern that they didnt know precisely when  the report  was made. But I 
dont think this makes a difference  to the outcome  of the complaint. They were given notice of that 
there had been a reportable unauthorised  payment in July 2009.  MW PLC continued to remind them  
of ways in which they might be able to avoid  suffering tax penalties (which  applied just as much  to this 
Ref: DRN646165210payment as the ongoing  rent), but there was little acknowledgement of the issue from Q or the 
members.
Had the members fully complied by coming to a formal agreement  with Q, I dont know if this would 
have made  a difference to whether HMRC  would  have  assessed the unauthorised payment as 
chargeable. But this is in my view irrelevant  because although  Q had started  repaying  the arrears  
from 2008/9, this was effectively by little more than verbal agreement. I dont agree  that an email 
promising that payments would  now be made more regularly, which didnt  actually recognise the 
extent of the problem with pasts  arrears  and ongoing  payments, constituted  the type of formal 
arrangement MW PLC had for a long time been seeking.
I understand the members point about MW PLCs correspondence in April and May 2011 concerning 
a book transaction to cancel  out the loan with rent arrears.  But Q was already in further debt to the 
scheme than just the £40,000 from 2008/9. MW PLC could perhaps have explained  this better, 
particularly given that the members didnt know that the unauthorised payment  had now been 
reported to HMRC.  But it was clearly in the members  interests for this loan to be used to also rectify  
the problem with ongoing rent payments.
The members may be asking why this loan should have been offset earlier, to avoid the arrears from 
2008/9 being reported to HMRC. But they were aware  the loan had been made. So equally it had 
been open to them or Qs accountant to engage  with MW PLC, given  all its warnings, to ask that this 
be done. Furthermore if the loan had been  used  to repay earlier arrears, that would  have then meant 
it wasnt available to help meet the ongoing difficulties  with rent payments.
Although this was being discussed, I havent seen evidence of a formal  agreement to repay the 
arrears actually  being reached after 2011  either.  So it seems to me that MW PLC was close to having 
to make another report to HMRC  in 2013  and it may only have been the transfer of the SDPPS to a 
different provider that prevented this happening. Had Q already spent the repayment of this loan 
clearing the 2008/9 arrears,  I think its more  likely MW PLC would  have had to report  a unauthorised 
payment from subsequent unpaid rent. Q doesnt seem  to have been in a financially comfortable 
position, so I dont  think  the members are in a materially different position, whatever order  they might 
have decided  to allocate cash to clear the rent arrears.
Whilst it would have  been  courteous for MW PLC to confirm to the members  in January  2010 that the 
report to HMRC had actually  been made, Ive also taken  into account the indifference often  shown by 
the members to the warnings and requests for action over an extended period of time.  And I have to 
emphasize that MW PLCs obligations as scheme administrator were to report  the unauthorised 
payment  not to consult  the members about whether it should make the report. So however MW PLC 
had acted at this time, given those obligations I cant see how matters  would have turned out 
differently. And as HMRC decided that the unauthorised payment was chargeable,  that would always 
have happened.
should MW PLC have told the members of the SSC and could they have appealed  it?
Again, my view is that it would  have  been  a matter of courtesy whether the members were informed, 
given the effect it was going  to have on their pensions. But at the same time,  they were  warned 
previously that this was going to be the likely outcome of their failure to come to a formal  agreement  
about the rent arrears.  So I think part of the members  surprise that HMRC would levy such a charge,  
is actually a result of their indifference to the previous  warnings they were given. Clearly its not MW 
PLCs fault that they didnt  heed its previous  warnings to rectify the rent arrears.
The members seem  to have  taken recent advice suggesting they could have appealed  against having  
to pay the SSC within  30 days,  and would  have  won that appeal if consulted at the time. My 
understanding is that the SSC actually  has to be paid (rather than appealed)  within 30 days  of the 
notice, but it can be retrospectively appealed  by the scheme  administrator if specific conditions apply1.
1https://webarchive.nationalarchives.gov.uk/20101011104819/http://www.hmrc.gov.uk///manuals/rpsm
manual/RPSM04104870.htm
Ref: DRN646165211The only conditions  which  are relevant  here are where  the scheme  administrator reasonably believed 
that the unauthorised payment was not a scheme chargeable payment; and in all the circumstances 
of the case it would  not be just or reasonable for the scheme administrator to be liable  to the scheme 
sanction charge
However HMRCs guidance  explains: this good faith protection is aimed  at the situation where the 
scheme administrator has been  misled or been given  incomplete information, by the member or 
employer (or another party acting for them) leading them  to assume wrongly that the payment was an 
authorised payment.
In other words, this condition wouldnt apply where  the unauthorised payment was rightly classified by 
the scheme administrator  because  it was based  on the members non-response to reminders  that 
they needed to draw up a payment agreement. I cant see that the members misled MW PLC in any 
way but rather it was obvious that they werent going to comply with what it required them to do. And 
in issuing the notice of assessment HMRC  had already agreed  that there wasnt a rent agreement on 
an arms length  basis.
I also note that the appeal has to come from the scheme administrator, not the members. Im not 
satisfied that the members  could compel  MW PLC to appeal and I think  it was entitled to take the view 
that an appeal wouldnt  succeed. In theory, had the members been unhappy  about any refusal to 
appeal they could have  brought  that matter to the ombudsman service   but I think the outcome we 
would have reached was that the scheme administrator was entitled to use its judgement not to 
appeal in the circumstances of this case.
on what authority could MW PLC deduct the SSC from the SDPPS bank account?
As MW PLC says, the SDPPS  trust deed and rules and bank account mandate  confirm the scheme  
administrator could withdraw funds on the sole signature of MW Trustees Ltd, if the monies  were 
demanded by HMRC. That evidently does apply  here,  so its clearly not misappropriation of funds 
and a criminal offence . I think its something the members should have  been aware  of, if they were  
hoping (in response to the warnings MW PLC gave them) that they could refuse to pay the charges to 
HMRC. The terms of the SDPPS  prevented  them  from doing  so.
was MW PLC expected to reclaim some of the SSC, as set out in its letter of 15 July 2011?
This point the members have raised  seems to be a misunderstanding of the above letter. It explained 
that the members would  need to pay an unauthorised payment  charge to HMRC themselves  in order 
for the SSC to then be reduced  from 40% to 15%. MW PLC could not compel the members (or Q) to 
pay this charge  this was a matter between them  and HMRC. 
Essentially the SSC was initially set at 40% so that HMRC wouldnt lose out if the unauthorised  
payment charge wasnt also paid. The Financial Ombudsman Service is not a tax authority so Im not 
in a position  to advise the members on whether there is anything that they should do in respect of this 
situation now.  As theyve transferred their business away  from MW PLC they may wish to discuss this 
with their accountant or current scheme administrator.
my provisional  decision
I do not intend  to uphold the members complaint  against  MW PLC or make any award.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6461652