K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs M-S complain Ageas Insurance Limited has incorrectly  declined  a claim 
theyve made under  their building insurance.  Any reference to the insurer  includes the loss 
adjuster and its agents. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on 22 January 2019, a copy  of which  is attached and
forms part of this final decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I did not intend to 
uphold Mr S and Mrs M-S complaint against Ageas.
I invited all parties to let me have any further comments before I reached  a final decision.
Ageas has responded to the provisional decision to confirm it has nothing  further  to add. 
Mr S said he was still trying to obtain the relevant permissions needed to enable him to 
instruct his own independent expert  to challenge some of the findings  in the forensic experts 
report. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
While I recognise my decision will be a disappointment to Mr S and Mrs M-S,  Im unable  to 
uphold their complaint.  
Mr S and Mrs M-S say they were trying to obtain  their own report  so their experts  can 
question the witness  testimony included in the forensic experts  report. Mr S says he doesnt 
agree with the statements  they gave in the report.  However, they key issue for me to decide 
is whether or not the insurer  acted  fairly  in declining the claim. 
While Mr S and Mrs M-S may want to seek their own report,  I dont see how this, in itself, 
could cause me to decide the insurer acted unfairly  in declining the claim. As I said in my 
provisional decision, I think it was clear  from the paperwork I have seen that 
Mr S and Mrs M-S ought  reasonably to have  been  aware the chimneys were not safe for 
use until the remedial  works had been completed, and on this basis, they did not have cover 
for damage  caused  by a fire. The forensic experts  report stated the chimneys  had been  use 
on a number of occasions since they were swept in the summer of 2016. On this basis, I still 
cant say the insurer  has acted unfairly  in relying  on Endorsement  26, or in declining  their 
claim.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs M-S 
to accept or reject my decision before 19 March 2019
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63622372
Ref: DRN63622373extract decision  dated 22 January 2019
complaint
Mr S and Mrs M-S complain  Ageas Insurance Limited has incorrectly declined  a claim
theyve made under their building insurance. Any reference to the insurer  includes the loss
adjuster and its agents.
background
Mr S and Mrs M-S lived at a property with a thatch roof. In the summer of 2016, their insurer
sent a surveyor out to inspect  the property.  The surveyor made several recommendations,
saying:
the chimney in the lounge was unsafe for use due to a lack of insulation between  the 
masonry and the flue. In its current state, it didnt  meet the Chimney Liners
condition of the policy or document J Combustion appliances and fuel storage
systems of the Building  Regulations;  and
for the appliance  in the kitchen, the surveyor hadnt been able to identify any
insulation between the masonry and flue due to a lack of access.
Mr S and Mrs M-S insurance broker wrote to them, and sent the new policy  schedule. This
said the insurers required  remedial works to be carried out, and documentary evidence
should be provided to demonstrate this had been completed. The appliance in the lounge
was unsafe for use and the installation needed to comply with the thatch condition  Chimney
Liners condition of the policy  schedule  and document J of the Building Regulations. For the
appliance in the kitchen, the insurer said Mr S and Mrs M-S needed to provide
documentation to show either  the insulation  was already  in place, or that it had been
installed by a suitably  qualified engineer.
Until they were able to provide sufficient documentation, the insurer said Mr S and Mrs M-S
did not comply with the Chimney Liners condition  of their policy, the insurers  had removed
the use of solid fuel stoves, and applied  Endorsement 26 to their policy.
Endorsement 26 meant the insurer  would  not insure  loss or damage caused by fire if any
open fires, solid fuel, multi fuel or wood burning stoves are used in the property.
Mr S and Mrs M-S were  also referred to the thatch conditions fire protections and smoke
detectors part of the policy, as they didnt comply with these. Mr S and Mrs M-S were  given
a partial refund of their premium to recognise the Endorsement that was in place and the
reduced level of cover.
In October 2016 there was a fire at the property,  which caused significant damage.
Mr S and Mrs M-S made  a claim under  their home insurance policy. A forensic inspection
was carried out to try and determine the cause of the fire.
The forensic  experts report from December  2016 said the property wasnt safe to fully
inspect. This meant  they were unable to determine the exact cause of the fire. The report
included testimony from neighbours who said they thought a chimney had been in use
before the fire. It also noted  there was evidence to suggest the chimneys had been in use
on a number  of occasions since they were last swept and inspected  in the summer. Finally,
the report  also recognised  an electrical  fault could  have  been the cause of the fire.
In February 2017, Mr S and Mrs M-S were sent a letter which indicated the insurers  were
intending to decline  the claim. The letter said there a number of conditions  on the policy  and
an Endorsement. On that basis the insurer was considering declining the claim for three
potential reasons:
Ref: DRN63622374A valid electrical certificate had not been provided and, as an electrical fault could  not
be ruled out as the cause of the fire, that exclusion applied; and
the chimneys did not comply with approved  document J Combustion  appliances and
fuel storage  systems of the Building  Regulations. As the heating  system could not be
ruled out of the cause  of the fire, this exclusion  also applied; and
there was evidence of the chimney  in the lounge  having  been in use since it was
swept in the summer, without Mr S and Mrs M-S having  shown  they carried  out the
remedial works required, so Endorsement  26 applied.
The insurer went on to decline Mr S and Mrs M-Ss claim. They  were  unhappy  with this,
particularly because the forensic  experts report wasnt able to identify exactly how the fire
started. They asked us to look into their complaint.
An investigator did so, but reached the conclusion  the insurer hasnt acted unfairly in relying
on the Endorsement in place, and declining  the claim  on that basis. Mr S and Mrs M-S were
unhappy with these conclusions and asked  for their complaint  to be reviewed by an
ombudsman.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And while Im sorry to disappoint
Mr S and Mrs M-S, Im not recommending their claim  be upheld based  on the information  I
currently have available to me. Ill go on to explain why.
The forensic  experts report hasnt been able to identify the source  of the fire. I can
understand Mr S and Mrs M-Ss  frustrations their claim has been  declined without the exact
cause of the fire being determined.  However,  while the report  hasnt been able to pinpoint
the exact cause of the fire, it identified the chimneys  had been in regular use since they were
swept and inspected in the summer.
Mr S and Mrs M-S were  told in the summer  of 2016 that the insurer had removed the use of
solid fuel stoves, and applied  an Endorsement  to their policy.
Ive seen the revised policy  schedule  issued  in July 2016, after the inspection  earlier in the
summer. Endorsement  26 of their policy, stated Mr S and Mrs M-S would not be insured for
any loss or damage  caused  by fire if any open fires, solid fuel, multi fuel or wood burning
stoves are used in the property.
As Ive said,  the cause  of the fire hasnt been determined. However, I dont think  that, in
itself, is the key issue here.
Mr S and Mrs M-S havent  been able to demonstrate they had the repairs detailed  in
insurance report from summer 2016 carried out. I think the letter and schedule  issued after
the inspection made it clear  that, until evidence  of these repairs had been carried out,
Mr S and Mrs M-S would  not have cover in place for any damage caused by fire. They even
received a refund  of premiums to reflect the reduced cover  that had been put in place.
However, as things stand, Mr S and Mrs M-S were told both chimneys required remedial
works to make them safe for use. They havent demonstrated the works were completed and
cover should have been  reinstated.  They also havent given any indication they were
unaware of the remedial works that needed to be carried  out in order for fire cover to be put
in place.
If Mr S and Mrs M-S were unsure about what works  needed to be completed in order for the
chimney to be made properly insulated  in line with the building regulations and for cover  to
be reinstated, they could have asked the insurer or their broker.
Ref: DRN63622375I think  it was clear from the paperwork I have seen that Mr S and Mrs M-S ought  reasonably
to have been  aware the chimneys were not safe for use until the remedial works had been
completed, and on this basis, they did not have cover for damage caused by a fire. The
forensic experts report stated the chimneys  had been use on a number of occasions since
they were swept in the summer of 2016. On this basis,  I cant  say the insurer  has acted
unfairly in relying  on Endorsement 26, or in declining  the claim.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Mr S and Mrs M-S have  said on a number  of occasions they intend to provide their own
independent reports. But to date, weve not received these. So, unless  I receive any further
evidence from them by 5 February 2019, Im likely  to reach a final decision  along the lines
Ive outlined in my provisional decision.
COPY
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6362237