K820x#14Complaint
Miss G complains  that Nationwide Building Society wont fully refund disputed transactions  
made on her account. She says shes not responsible for spending this money. Miss Gs 
also unhappy that Nationwide closed her accounts.
Background
Miss G had a basic current account  and savings account with Nationwide. Miss G has said 
that between 12 February  and 6 November 2018, a number of payments were  made from 
her basic  account, which  she said she didnt make or authorise. 
Miss G reported the transactions  to the bank.  Nationwide said Miss G hadnt made it clear 
which transactions she wanted to dispute.  And noted Miss G had previously told them some 
of the disputed transactions were genuine. It also pointed out that shed provided  many 
different explanations about how the transactions had been carried  out. So, it declined  the 
claim on the basis that it thought Miss G had either made them herself  or authorised  them.
Miss G wasnt happy with this response. She told Nationwide  that her bank card was stolen 
on multiple occasions from various addresses  shed lived at. She explained that these were  
homes she shared  with other people who repeatedly broke into rooms  she was occupying  
and stole her bank card.  She says the individuals used her bank card to make  various  
transactions and then replaced it. Miss G wasnt  able to provide any specific  details about 
when these thefts occurred. 
Miss G also told the bank that her ex-boyfriend had stolen money  from her after shed 
withdrawn cash from ATMs. And that her friends  had been with her when using her card.  So, 
they wouldve  seen  her enter her PIN and could have taken her card whilst  she was asleep,  
use it and put it back  without her noticing. But Miss G wasnt able to provide any specific  
details around  exactly  when, who might be responsible,  and how this happened.
The banks notes  suggest it told Miss G the information shed provided didnt change its 
decision to decline her claim. It highlighted that Miss G had given a lot of different reasons to 
explain how and why her accounts had been  accessed by other people, making it very 
difficult to work out what might have happened and how. It said it wasnt  clear  how Miss Gs 
friends could have known her PIN. And also pointed out that Miss G had previously 
confirmed some of the disputed transactions as genuine. So, it concluded that, on balance, 
Miss G had most  likely authorised the spending on her account. The bank also said it hadnt 
done anything  wrong when it closed  Miss Gs accounts. 
Miss G was unhappy with the outcome and asked us to consider her complaint. One of our 
investigators asked Miss G to confirm  specifically which transactions  were still in dispute  by 
going through and marking her bank statements. Miss G highlighted a number  of cash 
machine withdrawals, retail transactions  and online transactions made between 12 February  
and 6 November  2018. But the investigator noted that Miss G hadnt reported most of the 
highlighted transactions to the bank. So, he couldnt  fairly and reasonably  say Nationwide 
shouldve refunded Miss G the payments. He suggested Miss G go back to the bank to so 
that it could investigate things.
After quite a bit of back and forth,  the investigator did eventually manage to confirm some 
transactions with Miss G, which had been  reported  to the bank. Below  are the transactions  
Ref: DRN65091892the investigator considered relevant to Miss Gs complaint. The transactions Miss G disputes 
are in bold.
Date and Time Type of transaction Amount
03/07/2018 19:45 ATM withdrawal £100
03/07/2018 19:46 ATM withdrawal £100
03/07/2018 19:47 ATM withdrawal £100
03/07/2018 19:49 ATM withdrawal £100
03/07/2018 19:50 ATM withdrawal £100
03/07/2018 20:20 Contactless payment £1.86
03/07/2018 20:49 Online payment £36.99
04/07/2018 12:02 Online payment to gambling  
site£50
13/07/2018 18:34 Card not present £145.93
17/07/2018 18:53 Card not present £132.49
Total £729.42
The investigator asked  Miss G about  the disputed transactions and whether shed ever been 
to any of the places  or used any of the services. But Miss G said she wasnt able to 
remember much about anything about where  shed visited and when due to the time that 
had passed. Miss G told the investigator  shed never allowed anyone to use her card at all, 
nor disclosed  her PIN to anyone. She also said that someone must have used her mobile 
phone behind her back to make various payments. And said that someone had also hacked 
her food delivery account to make other payments from her account.
 
Having looked  at the sequence of events, the investigator said it was more  likely than not 
Miss G had authorised  the disputed transactions. Miss G disagreed.  As no agreement could 
be reached the complaint has come to me to decide.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
I can see Miss G feels very strongly about  the complaint. Thats clear from what shes  said to 
both us and the bank.  But from whats been said and provided  so far, theres not much 
common ground about exactly what happened  or how it might have happened. Where the 
evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory (as it is here),  I reach my findings on 
balance  in other words,  what  I consider  is more  likely than not to have happened in the 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.  
Did Miss G authorise the disputed payments?
A customer should only be responsible for transactions theyve authorised. Miss G says she 
didnt make any of the transactions  in dispute. But Nationwide can still hold Miss G liable for 
them if the evidence  suggests its more likely than not that she did make them, or if she 
authorised someone  else to make them. 
Ref: DRN65091893Ive looked carefully  at the banks technical  records to understand how the disputed 
payments were made.  The banks evidence shows the genuine card and PIN were  used and 
the relevant verification procedures were  followed. So, Im satisfied the transactions  were  
made with Miss Gs genuine  account information. But the regulations relevant to this case 
say this is not, on its own, enough  to say Nationwide can hold Miss G responsible  for the 
payments she disputes. A payment out of someones account  can only be treated as 
authorised if the payer has consented  to it. So, Ive also gone on to think  about the 
circumstances around the transactions and whether  Miss G gave her consent  to the 
payments being  made. 
One of the difficulties in this case is its not very clear exactly what happened  or how it 
happened. This is due to Miss G providing a number of different explanations of the key 
events and not specifying clearly and consistently  which transactions she disputes. Shes 
also been unable  to consistently identify  the transactions she did make.  So, this makes  it 
very difficult for me to place much  weight on what shes said. 
Im not persuaded, as Miss G has suggested, that the disputed  transactions were  carried  out 
by an unknown third party  who gained access to Miss Gs addresses,  took her card, used it 
and then replaced it. I say this because the ATM  withdrawals  took place on 3 July 2018  and I 
can see from the banks  records that Miss G requested a new bank card on 22 June 2018.  
Miss G requested another  replacement card on 23 August 2018. So, if Miss Gs card was 
stolen and used  to make the four ATM withdrawals on 3 July 2018, this means Miss G was 
unaware her card had been stolen for several weeks. But from looking at Miss Gs bank 
statements I can see that there were contactless payments made between the ATM 
withdrawals and Miss G reporting her bank card stolen, which she hasnt disputed. And 
these wouldve required Miss G to have the card in her possession. 
I also dont think that an unknown third party would risk taking Miss Gs bank card,  replacing  
it, taking it again,  completing further transactions and then returning  the card. This back  and 
forth wouldve  created  an unnecessary risk of alerting Miss G that fraudulent  transactions  
were taking place. Its also unclear to me how a third party could have repeatedly  used and 
returned Miss Gs card to her without her noticing,  given that some  of the disputed 
transactions and undisputed transactions happen  only minutes apart on 3 July 2018. 
 
It would also be unusual  for a third party,  having managed to take Miss Gs card and 
PIN without  her noticing, to make transactions with gaps of days between them, on 3, 4, 13,
and 17 July 2018. In these circumstances  Id expect an unknown third party  to maximise 
use of the card by accessing any available funds as quickly as possible as they wouldnt 
know when Miss G might notice her card was missing. But from looking at Miss Gs bank  
statements I can see that there was money  available in the account after the ATM  
withdrawals. So, Im unsure why a third party wouldnt continue to make transactions until all 
the funds in the account had been spent. 
Ive also thought about how someone  else couldve become aware of Miss Gs PIN when 
shes Miss G has consistently said that she hasnt shared her PIN with anyone and doesnt 
a record of it anywhere. Shes said her friends  wouldve seen her enter her PIN when using 
her card. So, Ive considered the possibility that someone observed her entering her PIN 
(that is that she was shoulder surfed). From looking at Miss Gs account activity  the last 
opportunity for shoulder surfing  was on 2 July 2018,  when Miss Gs card was used in an 
ATM. However, Miss G still had her card on 3 July 2018, when she used it to make an ATM 
withdrawal, a contactless payment and online payment. So, I dont think its possible  that a 
third party saw Miss G on 2 July 2018,  made  a note of her PIN and then by coincidence  
Ref: DRN65091894came into contact with Miss G on 3 July 2018,  stole her card, used it and then replaced  it all 
within minutes. So, theres no plausible explanation for how someone  else would 
become aware  of Miss Gs PIN.
Ive kept in mind  that initially Miss G told the investigator that she didnt make  the ATM  
withdrawals on 3 July 2018. But then said she did carry out the transactions.  And someone 
stole the money she withdrew from her, which  conflicts with what she first told the bank, and 
with the information she provided when she first brought her complaint to this service. If 
Miss G has been the victim of theft of her money  as shes suggested that is a matter  for the 
police. And not something the bank  is liable for. 
Ive also thought about the payments that took place online and those where  Miss Gs card 
wasnt present, which as the investigator  explained, could have been made online or over a 
phone. If a third party made these transactions, they wouldve needed  to have access to 
Miss Gs card details at some  point after her new card was issued on 22 June 2018. The 
transactions were  spread  out over a number  of days on 4, 13 and 17 July 2018. Again,  I 
think this is unusual activity and would expect a third party to maximise the use of the card 
once theyd gotten hold of it. And until there were no funds remaining in Miss Gs account. 
But this isnt what happened.  
I can also see from the banks records that Miss G was logging on to her online banking  after 
these transactions.  Miss G hasnt disputed she was checking her account. So, I think  its 
likely she wouldve noticed this activity  on her account. And asked  the bank to look into 
things for her. But she didnt dispute the payments with the bank until 22 February  2019.  I 
find it unusual that she didnt report the transactions sooner than she did.   
When I weigh everything up, there are simply too many inconsistencies in the information  
Miss G has provided to the bank and to this service. For example,  I can see that Miss G told 
the investigator about transactions  she disputes  which she hasnt raised with the bank. And 
that there  are transactions she reported to Nationwide that she hasnt mentioned to the 
investigator. If Miss G was certain  about  the activity  on her account, I would expect to see 
some consistency with the information and not to see so many differences  between what  
she told this service and the bank.
I also note in call with Nationwide  on 14 October  2018, Miss G told the bank that theyd been  
no unauthorised  transactions on her account since March 2018. But she subsequently  
reported a significant number of transactions as unauthorised that took place  after
March 2018. When the investigator asked Miss G about this, she told him shed given  the 
bank incorrect information because she wanted to stop the bank from closing  her accounts. 
But this doesnt  explain why, after Nationwide closed her accounts in October and
November 2018,  Miss G didnt report all the transactions she told the investigator  about to 
the bank when she raised a claim in February 2019.   
I can see that in more recent communications with the investigator she told him that 
transactions she previously disputed  were made  by her. And she was now disputing  the 
payments for other reasons, such as problems with the items shed bought, and products not 
being delivered. Whilst it might be possible for the bank to look into these  payments.  This is 
very different to the transactions not being authorised.   
In summary,  for the reasons Ive explained,  Im not able to place much  weight on the 
explanations Miss G has provided  about the transactions she disputes. I say this because 
her version of events  has far too many inconsistencies, which  lead me to doubt the credibility 
Ref: DRN65091895of what shes said. So, I therefore  think its fair and reasonable  for Nationwide to refuse her a 
refund of the disputed transactions she disputes.  
account closure
Miss Gs also unhappy that Nationwide closed  her accounts. She wants  the bank to reopen 
them. Miss G had a basic  account  and a savings account with the bank. The circumstances 
in which  an account  provider can close a basic account, are more limited.  Theyre  set out in 
section 26 of the Payment Account Regulations 2015.  And say that a bank can close an 
account if the customer has another account  elsewhere which  was opened after the basic 
account was opened. 
Having looked  at all the circumstances of this particular complaint, Im satisfied that 
Nationwide has acted  in accordance with the terms and conditions of the accounts.  And in 
line with the regulations when it decided to close Miss Gs accounts. So, I cant say the bank 
did anything wrong.  And I dont think it would be fair or reasonable, given the circumstances 
of this particular  case, for me to ask Nationwide to reopen Miss Gs accounts.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Sharon Kerrison
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6509189