K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Principality Building  Society required him to provide original or certified 
documentation in order to close his dormant account.
background 
Mr S was recently informed by Principality that his account had become dormant. He 
contacted Principality by telephone and gave instructions to close the account and send him 
a cheque for the balance.
Principality told Mr S it required  him to provide two documents to prove his identity, which he 
must either take into a branch or send  by post. 
Mr S says that on each  occasion he has telephoned he has successfully completed the 
security process. He doesnt  live near a branch and hes unhappy about sending  original 
documents by post because hes been a victim of identity fraud in the past. He says he 
offered to send his documents by email but Principality  refused.
Our investigator felt that Principality hadnt  acted fairly. He said the terms and conditions  
allowed Principality to apply the dormancy restriction and ask for ID to verify Mr Ss identity. 
But he didnt  think Principality had acted  fairly,  given  the concerns he had raised. The 
investigator noted that the terms and conditions  didnt set out how ID must be provided.  
Following discussions with the investigator, Principality offered to accept scanned copies of 
Mr Ss certified ID. The investigator  said this was a fair resolution.
Mr S didnt agree. He said he would be willing to email uncertified copies of his ID but that to 
obtain certified copies  would  cost money. He said hed already travelled to a branch of 
another building society to get his ID certified  and they had refused. Mr S felt that he should 
be awarded compensation  for his time and expenses.
Principality said that Mr S hadnt told it he had been  a victim of identity fraud and that hed 
never asked  if he could send his ID by email. It said it only accepted ID by email in 
exceptional circumstances.  It didnt agree that Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld because  it 
said it had offered an alternative method  of submitting documentation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Mr Ss account. These say that a dormancy 
restriction can be applied where  an account  hasnt been transacted on for 15 years. Ive also 
looked at Principalitys  internal procedures. These say it can ask for ID documents  to be 
provided before closing  an account.
Its not the role of this service to tell Principality to alter its internal procedures.  The type of 
documentation Principality  asks for to verify  identity  is a risk management decision for the 
business. Im unable to require  Principality  to accept scanned copies of ID (as opposed to 
certified copies).
Ref: DRN65026782I agree  with the investigator that neither the terms and conditions or the internal procedures  
set out how ID documents should  be provided.
Theres a dispute  between Principality and Mr S as to whether he made it aware that he had 
been a victim of identity  fraud in the past and whether Mr S asked if he could email  his ID. 
Ive listened to the calls and whilst I agree that Mr S didnt explicitly  ask to email his ID, the 
call handlers are adamant that the ID must  be sent by post.  Mr S repeatedly asks to verify 
his ID by telephone rather than sending  documents by post.  
I think the call handler  should have done more to understand Mr Ss concerns about sending 
documents by post. If this had happened, I think Mr S would have  volunteered the 
information about him previously having been a victim of identity theft.  And in those 
circumstances the possibility of sending ID by email could have been explored. Its clear  that 
sending documents  by email is possible in what Principality call exceptional  circumstances. 
My overall impression of the calls is that the call handlers were intransigent  and offered no 
alternative to Mr S. It would  have  been  reasonable to discuss  other options with him.
Principality has now offered to accept scanned copies  of certified ID by email. I think  this is a 
reasonable resolution. I appreciate that Principality dont agree that the complaint should be 
upheld, but it didnt offer to accept certified  copies by email until after this service got 
involved. Because of this, the complaint  should  be upheld.
I understand that Mr S isnt happy that hes being  required to provide certified ID. I agree 
with Mr S that solicitors  might charge for this service but there a number of alternatives for 
obtaining certified ID which are free of charge. I understand that Mr S has now manged to 
have his ID certified at a building society.
I appreciate Mr Ss strength of feeling about  this matter, and I understand that its taken up 
time in getting his ID certified. However,  I dont think Principality has acted unreasonably in 
requiring certified ID  as Ive said, this is an internal  risk management decision and not one 
which this service can interfere with. On balance, I dont think it would be fair to ask 
Principality to reimburse Mr S for his time and expense in obtaining certified ID because I 
think the request  for certified ID is reasonable.
Mr S has raised an ancillary  issue regarding  loyalty mailings. I agree  with what  the 
investigator has said in this respect.  Loyalty mailings  tend to be automated mailings  sent by 
a marketing department who would have  been  unaware of the specific  details of Mr Ss 
complaint.
For the reasons  Ive given, I uphold the complaint.  I think Principality acted unfairly  when it 
required Mr S to send his ID by post or take it to a branch without offering him alternative  
options.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Principality Building Society must allow Mr S 
to send certified copies  of his ID by email.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Ref: DRN65026783Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6502678