K821x#15complaint
Mr K has complained that Virgin  Money Plc only collected the minimum monthly  payment 
due on his credit card and charged  him interest  as a result  of this.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 23 September 2019. A copy of this is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.  In my provisional decision I invited  both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.
Mr K didnt comment on my provisional decision.
Virgin Money didnt  agree with my provisional  decision and it has provided additional 
information. It says it amended the account opening process two days  after Mr K opened his 
account so that customers could opt for the full statement balance to be paid by direct  debit. 
It says Mr Ks wife opened  her account the day after the change  was implemented  and 
chose to have  the full statement balance  paid by direct debit.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this I dont intend to change 
my decision.
The new information  that Virgin Money  has provided shows  why Mr Ks wife was able to opt 
to have her full statement paid by direct  debit when she opened her account and why he 
wasnt able to do this. And I still think Mr K wanted to have his account paid in the same way 
as his wifes. So I think its more likely than not that he asked  Virgin Money to take the full 
statement balance on his account, as well.
In the individual circumstances of this case Im satisfied its fair and reasonable for Virgin  
Money to refund the interest it charged Mr K in February and March 2019.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, my final decision is I uphold  
this complaint. I require  Virgin Money  Plc to refund the interest it charged on Mr Ks credit 
card in February and March 2019.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60891912Copy of provisional decision
background
Mr K took out a credit card with Virgin  Money by making an online application. He asked for the 
monthly payments he needed  to make to Virgin Money to be taken  by direct debit. He wanted to pay 
the full outstanding  balance each month but he says the online  application only allowed him to 
request that the minimum payments were taken. He says he spoke to Virgin Money after the card had 
been issued and told it to take the full outstanding balance  by direct debit every month.
In March 2019  Mr K realised  Virgin  Money had only taken the minimum payment in January and 
February 2019 and because of this hed been charged interest in February  and March. He 
complained about this and Virgin Money amended his direct debit instruction. It also agreed to waive  
the interest that would have  been charged in April 2019 but it didnt  agree to refund the interest it had 
already charged  Mr K.
Mr K wasnt happy with Virgin Moneys  response and referred his complaint to this service.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He thought the online  application 
stated the direct debit would only take the minimum amount and Mr K would have received 
statements which showed  the amount being taken.
Mr K didnt accept our investigators recommendation. He says he didnt receive the statements and 
he told Virgin  Money  to take the full outstanding balance.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr K says his wife took out a credit  card with Virgin Money  at the same time as he did. He says she 
telephoned Virgin Money after the card had been issued and told it to take the full outstanding 
balance each  month. He says she then handed the telephone to him and he told Virgin  Money  to take 
the full outstanding  balance on his card as well. He says Virgin  Money followed his wifes instructions 
but not his.
I asked Virgin Money for recordings of telephone calls it had with Mr K and its provided recordings of 
some calls. The recordings  dont include the conversation Mr K says he had with Virgin Money when 
he told it he wanted it to take the full outstanding balance each month. But that doesnt necessarily 
mean the conversation  didnt  take place. Its also possible  a recording  of the conversation hasnt been 
logged against  Mr Ks account.
I think  its more  likely  than not that Mr K and his wife would both have told Virgin Money to take the full 
outstanding balance on their cards each month. It would seem strange for one of them  to have done 
this but not the other. Im therefore satisfied Mr K asked Virgin Money to take the full balance on his 
card and it didnt implement his instructions.
Given the above  I think  Virgin Money should have agreed to refund the interest it had charged Mr K in 
February and March 2019.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive given and subject to any additional comments  and evidence I get from the parties 
my provisional  decision  is I uphold this complaint. I require Virgin Money plc to refund the interest it 
charged on Mr Ks credit  card in February and March 2019.
Ref: DRN6089191