K820x#14Complaint
Mr E is unhappy that TSB Bank Plc has declined a claim  he made under Section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
Background
Mr E paid three separate  companies to transcribe legal proceedings that he has been
involved with. Hes unhappy  with the quality of service that hes been  provided with and says
that all three  of these  providers are in breach of the contracts he has with them.  
He says that:
They took too long to provide him with the requested transcripts   hed been 
promised a turnaround time of around twelve days.
The font sizes  on some of the transcripts were incorrect.
The transcripts werent accurate  important parts of the proceedings were left out.
Hes also unhappy with the general standard of customer service hes received from 
these companies.
Mr E paid for these  services using his TSB credit card.  He wants to rely on section 75 of the
Consumer Credit Act 1974  to hold TSB liable for these alleged breaches  of contract.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I issued a provisional decision on 15 May and said that I didnt intend to uphold  Mr Es 
complaint. I wrote:
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  says that (in certain  circumstances), 
where Mr E has paid for goods  or services with credit, for any claim he has against  
the supplier in respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he has a like 
claim against the credit card provider  in this case,  TSB Bank.  Neither side has 
been able to provide any evidence setting out the terms of the contracts Mr E entered 
into with the transcription companies however, the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 
implies a range of terms into all consumer  contracts. In this instance,  it implies terms 
that require the companies to:
 carry out its service with reasonable care and skill; and
 carry out its service within a reasonable period of time
Ive reviewed a representative  sample of the material supplied by Mr E and after 
careful consideration, Ive not seen  enough  evidence to say that theres been any 
breach of contract.  The fact that the transcripts arent completely error free does not 
mean that any individual supplier has breached its contract with Mr E. A transcription  
company is allowed some leeway for non-fundamental errors and can still be said to 
have carried out the contract  with reasonable care. Thats particularly true in this 
case where carrying out the contract was made particularly difficult  by problems with 
the audio recordings that were to be transcribed.
Ref: DRN69128802Mr E made a separate complaint to the Ministry of Justice  about  the transcription  
companies. In its response to his complaint, it said that the fundamental problem is 
that the recording quality is not good,  and there are several points in the recording 
where people  are talking  over one another. If an individual carrying out a 
transcription is unable  to transcribe with complete accuracy because  multiple  
participants in the proceedings  are talking over one another, I dont agree that this 
means that the service hasnt been  performed with reasonable care and skill.
There are some errors  in the transcriptions that have required correction. But from 
what Ive seen, these  dont affect  the substance of what is being  reported. For 
example, comments made  by the judge  which shouldve  been attributed to the 
parties. However, a third party reading the transcript would be able to identify that 
those comments werent  made  by the judge. From what Ive seen, the errors  that Mr 
E has highlighted are generally of this nature.
Mr E is also unhappy about  the length  of time the companies took to provide him with
transcripts. I can see that one of the transcription  companies told him they had a 
turnaround time of twelve days  which it was unable  to meet. But I can see that this 
turnaround time is described by the company as an estimate and so I dont think  its a 
contractual promise on the part of that company. The company  was expected to 
provide its service within a reasonable time and from what  Ive seen, I think it did 
so.
Mr E has also raised a range of other concerns about the way the transcription  
companies handled his requests  including that when one of the transcripts was 
amended, the amendments were not displayed  in red font as hed requested. Section 
75 only offers Mr E a potential remedy if theres  a misrepresentation or a breach of 
contract. I can see from copies of emails that have been sent to me that Mr E asked 
one of the transcription companies to present amendments to the document  in red 
font but that doesnt mean that it was contractually  required to do so.
Mr E also has concerns about the customer service hes received from the 
transcription companies. However, its important to note that under a s75 complaint 
Im only looking at what the TSB needs  to do in response to his like claim against 
the provider of the service. I need  to consider  what compensation a court  might  
award against the supplier in similar circumstances. And I wouldnt expect the courts 
to award financial  compensation in respect of the customer service Mr E experienced 
during his interaction with these transcription companies.
Neither TSB nor Mr E responded, so I dont  see any reason to depart from the findings  I 
reached in the provisional decision.
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2020.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6912880