K820x#14complaint
Mrs B says Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds)  mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mrs B bought a monthly premium PPI policy in November 2000 at the same  time as taking 
out a credit card. The card and insurance ended in or before December 2005.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mrs B when she discussed having a 
credit card with an advisor.  But Ive looked  at sales documentation and I consider it is 
more likely than not she was advised  it was a good idea to have  the insurance to protect  
her card repayments, and she took it on that advice by signing the agreement.
I have come to this conclusion because I can see in the application form provided that 
there is a separate section for PPI with a box ticked. It says optional  features   Asset  
Payment Protection  tick yes to take out asset  payment protection   if you do not wish 
to protect  your payments tick no. I can see the yes box has been ticked  and Mrs B has 
signed the application agreeing to have  the insurance. I havent been able to see any 
evidence that anything different happened in this sale and Mrs Bs recollections have not 
persuaded me on this occasion  that she wasnt given a choice to have  it either. So on 
balance, as I have  already  concluded,  I think Mrs B was given a choice.
From  what I have  seen in this complaint, I think Lloyds recommended  the PPI to Mrs B. 
So it needed  to ensure the policy was suitable  for her. But it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for Mrs B based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. 
I say this because  the benefit provided  by the policy would have been useful to her if she 
had any period of sickness  or unemployment.  Any claim could have been paid for up to 
12 months in addition to statutory  sick pay and would  have  provided  her with additional 
income at a difficult time. So I think the policy recommended to Mrs B would have been 
of use and so I cannot  conclude  that it would have been unsuitable  for her based on 
what I have seen.  I also dont  think there  were  any significant terms or exclusions that 
made the policy unsuitable for Mrs B either.
Lloyds has been unable to provide evidence that it provided clear costs  at the time of 
sale. But I dont think Mrs B wouldve  changed her mind about taking the policy  if this 
Ref: DRN69536652cost was presented  clearly to her (for the same reasons why I think  the policy is 
suitable).
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its unlikely 
Mrs B wouldve  been  affected  by any of these, due to her circumstances at the time of 
sale.
I know this will be a disappointment  to Mrs B but I cannot find a reason to uphold  her 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6953665