K820x#14complaint
Mr W complained  about the length of time taken by Zenith Insurance  plc to settle his 
insurance claim.
background
Mr W made a claim to Zenith in June 2017 for damage caused  to his business  by fire. It took 
about a year for the claim to be settled. Mr W complained  to Zenith  about  the delays. Zenith 
accepted the service  Mr W received hadnt  been  to the expected  standard and that it led to 
delays (although it felt some delays were unavoidable). It offered Mr W £400 compensation 
as an apology for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr W didnt think  the compensation was enough  given the hardship he suffered so he 
complained to us. Our investigator  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Although she 
noted the claim took nearly a year to be settled, she thought Mr W had contributed to some 
of the delays. She noted that Mr W was under a lot of stress  given what had happened, but 
she felt Zeniths compensation offer was fair.
Mr W disagreed  with our investigator. He felt £400 was unfair as following  the fire he was 
unable to effectively  run his business   thereby resulting in a loss of income.  He also felt one 
of the delays mentioned by the investigator wasnt due to him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  this type of complaint its important  for me to consider the length of time a 
claim would ordinarily take to settle,  whether there were  any delays that were unavoidable 
(from the insurers point of view), whether any delays were caused  by the insurer, and what  
impact that had on the consumer.
Considerable damage was caused  to Mr Ws property which,  in my view, would have caused 
significant disruption to his business.  Zenith isnt liable for that  thats simply a natural result 
of the claim. The nature  of the claim also meant that even if nothing went wrong  it would 
have taken a few months to settle.  So while it took about a year for the claim to be settled, I 
dont think it can be said that the claim was delayed by a year.
Zenith has already  identified, and accepted responsibility for, areas  where it caused 
unnecessary delays. This included delays in requesting information, delays in instructing 
engineers to value  or settle the claim, and a lack of communication with Mr W. I dont 
therefore feel the need to dwell  on this further.  The issue is more  about the impact these 
delays had on Mr W.
I think its important to confirm that I dont  think Zenith was responsible for all the delays. 
Like our investigator,  I dont think Mr W helped matters progress quicker.  There  were delays, 
for example, in him providing information  Zenith had reasonably requested.  His own 
representatives even  commented that he needed to co-operate and that he viewed the claim 
more simply that it was. I also note that at one point  during the claim  Zenith made offers  on 
some items but, rather than accepting those on an interim basis  and receiving  some  
settlement money  that he could use to replace items, Mr W wanted  clarification  on other 
Ref: DRN61557932items that formed the claim before considering  the offers further. Had Mr W accepted  some  
settlement at that point it would most likely  have  lessened  the inability to run the business.
Nevertheless, Im satisfied that delays caused by Zenith led to Mr W suffering additional 
distress and inconvenience. But Im satisfied that the £400  offered  by Zenith sufficiently 
compensates him for that. So Im not going to ask Zenith  to pay any more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6155793