K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained National Westminster  Bank  Plc wont refund transactions  he didnt  
make.
background
In early 2015 Mr J got a letter  from his mortgage provider saying theyd not been  able to 
collect his mortgage  payments  by direct debit because of insufficient funds. He realised 
money was missing from his accounts. Mr J went to his bank to complain about transactions 
his ex-partner had made. These involved  transactions from a current account and savings 
account that had been  set up in his name more than five years before. The amount in 
dispute was £35,032.13.
NatWest wouldnt refund him. After Mr Js ex-partner was convicted of fraudulent  activity  and 
sentenced, NatWest  rejected  his request for a refund again.  Mr J brought  his complaint to 
the ombudsman  service. Ill call Mr Js ex-partner Miss B.
Mr J told us these accounts  had been opened  to build up a fund for building work to his 
home, as well as providing some  contingency. Miss B had subsequently opened a number of 
credit cards and accounts and spent about £135,000 without his knowledge or permission. 
He admitted being with her when the savings account was set up in 2008 but knew  nothing  
about the account in 2009  which he believed shed opened fraudulently using a fake 
signature.
He agreed he wasnt  really financially savvy and had allowed Miss B to pay money into the 
account on his behalf. Like when he received a cheque as an endowment policy  pay-out and 
money he received  from his employment.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included records  from NatWest about the 
account openings and evidence collated  by the police  and used  in the prosecution  of Miss B. 
This included both Mr Js and Miss Bs witness statements.  It was clear Miss B had control 
over Mr Js finances and had used his money for her own purposes.  This included paying 
household bills, food,  shopping and gambling. She admitted using his money without him 
knowing or authorising  those individual transactions. Shed also applied  for other credit  cards 
and accounts  in Mr Js name.
Our investigator agreed there  was no doubt  Miss B was guilty  of fraud  as a court had made  
this judgement. We were  not looking at the banks liability under criminal law but under the 
relevant payments legislation, and our fair and reasonable remit. He felt Mr J had given 
Miss B apparent authority  to use and manage  his accounts. Therefore he couldnt ask 
NatWest to refund Mr J.
Mr J disagreed with this outcome. He argued  that as the signature  for the account opened in 
2009 was not his, then he could not be held liable for the numerous withdrawals made by 
Miss B. He wasnt even  aware there was a debit card for the account.
Mr Js complaint has been referred to an ombudsman for a final decision to be made.
Ref: DRN63921472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments  themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making 
here. So when  we look at whether a bank  has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what NatWest, Mr J and the police have shared with us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, each  partys testimony and how the transactions  
were made were comprehensively covered  in our investigators view of 11 February 2020. I 
dont intend to repeat everything that was said there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects 
which form the basis of my decision. I can reassure Mr J and NatWest Ive read the file 
thoroughly.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Miss B was found  guilty of fraudulent activity in 2017. She admitted to stealing  
£7,256.26 from these accounts  to pay her own Council Tax. In addition  she gambled  
£7,187.45 of Mr Js money. She confirmed these funds  came  from the current  
account.
These figures differ to those that Mr J submitted as money she withdrew from his 
accounts without  his authorisation. 
Miss B told the police Mr J knew about  both accounts being opened, even though  
shed opened  the second account herself.  As they were  saving to carry out building  
works to the house, Mr J allowed her to withdraw  cash which was used to pay the 
builders.
I can see the current account was opened  in December 2009.
Evidence from NatWest shows the signature to open the account  differed from Mr Js 
signature used to open the savings account  in October 2008. Or in fact his signature 
as attached to his police  witness  statements.
The email address attached to the current account record  was Miss Bs.
Mr J has said Miss B wanted him to set up online  banking  but as he didnt like using 
computers he didnt  agree to this suggestion. The evidence  shows  Miss B in all 
likelihood set up online  banking  herself.  Miss B used  online banking  for transfers 
from the savings  to the current  account.
The current account is used  for a range of normal household expenses. NatWest 
originally felt it would be very difficult to disentangle normal  expenses  that could  be 
considered as Mr Js from those Miss B made without any authority.
Ref: DRN63921473There are numerous credits into the current account. From all the evidence  this 
appears to be Mr Js wages which he gave to Miss B to pay into his account. He may 
well not have known  which  account  the money was paid into.
There is also at least one automated credit  from HMRC  paid into the current account. 
This suggests that Mr J must have provided the account details to HMRC. 
Alternatively Miss B may have helped Mr J out with his tax returns   as he admits 
she managed his finances overall   and she may have  provided  the account  details  
to HMRC. Ive considered both options  in helping me make  my decision.
Mr Js witness  statement  to the police  confirmed he knew  of the existence of both 
accounts even  though  hed not been  involved in opening the current account.
Like our investigator and taking into account  the police evidence,  I dont believe Mr J 
authorised the transactions in dispute.  Most of these were made using card and PIN which I 
believe remained under  Miss Bs control at all times.
But when Ive looked at why it would  be that Miss B had control of Mr Js card,  Ive seen 
nothing to suggest she was doing this in a completely  deceitful  way. When Mr J first 
contacted NatWest he referred to a series of transactions hed authorised Miss B to make.  
These were  for building supplies. Its difficult to imagine Mr J thought Miss B was making 
these payments without  a debit card  particularly  as on occasion they were together  when 
these purchases were being  made.  I think its most likely Mr J knew Miss B had a card for 
either one or both of the accounts.
Mr J has been clear  that he allowed Miss B to manage his finances. He also knew  of both 
accounts and that credits  were made to them  otherwise how were they building  up a fund 
to pay for the building work? He also knew certain  transactions were being  made   on his 
behalf  by Miss B.
Under the Payment  Services Regulations,  we consider the issue of the relationship between 
the account-holder, formally Mr J, and the person making the transactions. In this case thats 
Miss B. I think, taking into account  all the circumstances of this case, Mr J authorised Miss B 
to act as his agent: to look after his finances, and make transactions  on his behalf.  He may 
not have thought about it in this way of course.  
He didnt differentiate  between  those  transactions he allowed her to make and those that she 
made without his specific authority. I dont doubt  there were  individual transactions  which  
Mr J didnt authorise. But because of the nature of their relationship  and the authority he 
gave her to manage  his finances overall, he was giving her apparent authority to carry out 
those transactions  he subsequently disputed. 
In coming to this conclusion Im aware Mr J didnt open the current account himself. I believe 
the evidence supports  this  and its certainly  what Mr J has told us. However that fact alone 
doesnt mean he should be reimbursed  for transactions that occurred on that account. I say 
this partly because I believe if this account hadnt existed, this really  wouldnt have made  any 
difference to what then happened.  And all the evidence shows Mr J did know  about this 
account. He made the choice  and I appreciate  this may seem  harsh   not to pay close 
attention to his finances. I dont believe it would be fair and reasonable to say that even 
though Mr J didnt  open this account, he wasnt aware of the transactions that took place by 
giving Miss J authority  to manage his finances.
I appreciate how bitterly disappointed Mr J will be in this outcome. He put his trust in his 
partner to help him out with his finances. This turned out to be massively misplaced. Miss B 
Ref: DRN63921474undoubtedly stole a lot of money  from him. However  I dont believe it would be fair, taking 
into account the relevant law on a banks liability for disputed  payment transactions, to 
instruct NatWest to repay Mr J.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Js complaint against 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 June 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6392147