K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2003. Miss A says Financial  Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Miss A took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken responsibility for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss As case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Miss A says that PPI was added to her store card without being given the option to choose 
the policy. But I think that FICL made  it clear  that she didnt have to take out he PPI, and that 
she chose to do so, although I can understand why she doesnt remember this as it was so 
long ago. I say this because FICL has provided a copy of Miss As store card application  
and I can see that the policy is presented as optional, and Miss A has signed to select  it. 
This is separate  to her signature for the card.   
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss A so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss A got the information she needed  to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss A about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Miss A has said, but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
My final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 August 2019.
Claire Pugh
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6280898