K822xcomplaint
Miss D has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limiteds handling of her car 
insurance policy.
Reference to Admiral includes their agents.
background 
Miss Ds car insurance was with Admiral. In December  2013, she was involved in an 
accident and claimed on her policy. Admiral paid her claim for the total loss of her car. At the 
time of the accident Miss Ds partner was a passenger in the car. He later made  a claim 
against Miss Ds policy for injuries  he suffered.
Miss D complained about Admirals service. In particular,  Admiral withdrew her indemnity in 
April 2017, because they said she hadnt cooperated with their investigation.  Miss D had to 
prepare her own defence  when court proceedings were  started  against her. In April 2018, 
Admiral reinstated  Miss Ds indemnity and settled her partners claim.
Admiral initially offered Miss D £300 compensation. Miss D felt that didnt go far enough and 
she brought her complaint to our service. Once our investigator started  looking into it Admiral 
said they were prepared to increase the compensation to £1,000.  Our investigator  felt 
£2,500 was a fair amount  of compensation. Admiral agreed with our investigators suggested 
compensation. But Miss D didnt  think it went far enough. The complaint has therefore  been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it. But Im 
not asking Admiral to pay more than the compensation suggested by our investigator. Ill 
explain why.
Ive considered all of the information provided  to me by the parties carefully. In this decision I 
will focus on what I consider to be the key outstanding issues. Admiral  agreed that errors 
were made and their service should have been better. Admiral also accepted  to pay the 
£2,500 compensation suggested  by our investigator. But Miss D felt the suggested 
compensation didnt go far enough  as its not reflective of the distress  and inconvenience  
she experienced.
Miss Ds claim  for the total loss of her car was dealt with within a reasonable period of time. 
But it wasnt  until almost a year later towards  the end of 2014 that her partner made a claim 
against Miss Ds policy for injuries  he suffered during the accident. In the summer of 2015, 
Admiral told Miss D that they needed her to provide a statement to an investigator. They said 
that was normal  practice  and it should  have been  done at the time of the accident.  Although  
Miss D wasnt  happy with being  asked to provide a statement so long after the incident, she 
agreed and provided  a statement around September 2015.  Admiral didnt have any concerns 
at that stage. But Miss D was also unhappy with the number and nature of calls she received 
from Admiral during that period.  She felt they were harassing, unnecessary  and 
inappropriate as they asked questions about  her partner and his claim. Admiral  accepted  
they made an error as they should  have asked her for a statement at the time of the 
accident. But I dont  think their request was unreasonable. Things had changed in that 
Ref: DRN62418632initially the only claim was by her for the total loss of her car. Her partners claim came much 
later and Admiral were potentially facing  the possibility of paying a substantial amount of 
compensation to him.
From the calls Ive listened  to and the notes  of calls Ive seen, while I agree  it would  have 
been inconvenient for Miss D I dont think the calls were harassing or unreasonable. Admiral 
were entitled  to investigate the claim and to gather information.
Towards the end of 2015, Admiral accepted Miss Ds partners  claim.  But Admiral  wanted to 
look into things a bit more so they asked the police  for the information they held.  When  
Admiral received the police report in December 2015, they saw an entry  that said Miss Ds 
partner had called the police to report the accident and he told them that he was driving at 
the time.  That information led Admiral to suspect that Miss D had misinformed them when  
she made her claim as she had said she was the driver. If true, the implications of Miss Ds 
partner being  the driver  were serious. Admiral said it would have invalidated Miss Ds claim 
for the total loss of her car and her partners claim for injuries. 
I can understand why Miss D was offended as she felt her integrity was questioned.  She felt 
Admiral were treating  her as though she had lied. But up until that point Admiral  hadnt 
questioned Miss Ds account of the accident.  And it was information, as it later turned out 
mistakenly, recorded by the police that suggested  Miss Ds partner was the driver.  I think it 
was therefore  reasonable  for Admiral  to investigate.
Admiral asked the police for the call recordings to see if Miss Ds partner had said he was 
driving. But it wasnt until the end of the summer of 2016 that Admiral instructed an 
investigator to look into the new concerns. Around August 2016,  Miss D told Admiral that 
before being interviewed by the investigator she wanted copies of the police calls. Admiral 
didnt have them at that stage. As the relevant  call was made by Miss Ds partner the police 
refused to give Admiral  a copy. Admiral therefore asked the partners solicitor for a copy. 
When Admiral  told Miss D that she was required to give a statement to their investigator,  she 
also said she was busy and that she had professional exams to sit. 
Admiral knew  from the police report that Miss Ds father had also made  a call to the police 
on the night of the accident and they wanted  that call recording too. Admiral also wanted to 
know if Miss D had called the police herself.  For that reason Admirals  solicitor sent Miss D 
mandates for her and her father to sign to enable the solicitor  to ask the police for any call 
recordings. The solicitor  wrote to Miss D twice in relation to that in September and October 
2016. But Miss D didnt return the mandates.  Miss D later explained that she didnt return  the 
mandates because  she knew she hadnt  made  a call to the police. And as her father wasnt  
present during the accident his call wouldnt have been relevant. But Admiral concluded at 
that stage Miss D had refused to give a statement and had failed to return the mandates  
meant she wasnt cooperating.  They  wrote to her saying she was required to cooperate 
under General Condition 2 of her policy. Admiral asked Miss D to get in touch with the 
investigator.
As required, Miss D did contact the investigator. I have seen the text message exchange 
between Miss D and the investigator on 7 September  2016.  Miss D said she could  meet for 
an interview after her exams were over. The investigator asked her when she would be 
available. Miss D replied saying she could meet on 12 November 2016 at the earliest. The 
investigator didnt  reply after that. Even  though Miss D wanted the call recordings first and 
she was busy with exams, Im satisfied that she was cooperative.  She also contacted the 
police herself to ask for the call recordings.
Ref: DRN62418633Around October 2016, Admiral said they were  given the police call recording by the other 
solicitor and they were  told Miss Ds partner intended to start court  proceedings. Admiral  felt 
the copy of the call recording they were  given was incomplete as it had been  edited, so they 
continued with trying to get a full copy from the police.
On 10 April 2017, Admiral  wrote to Miss D and told her they had withdrawn indemnity 
because she failed  to cooperate. Admiral  gave two reasons:  (1) that she refused to provide 
the investigator with a statement; and (2) she didnt reply to Admirals solicitor when they 
twice asked her to return the mandates. Around that time Miss D was served with court 
papers relating to her partners  claim. The claim was directly against her and she was 
named as the defendant.  Even though Miss D felt it wasnt  necessary for her to return  the 
mandates to Admirals  solicitor I think she should have done so. So, I can see why Admiral  
felt that was Miss D being uncooperative. But clearly Miss D hadnt refused to be interviewed 
by the investigator, so the suggestion  she had was wrong. As explained Miss D had given 
the investigator a date for them to meet but that was overlooked.
Following Admirals letter withdrawing indemnity, Miss D immediately got into contact with 
them. She said she was willing  to cooperate in every way possible.  She confirmed she was 
willing to give the investigator a statement and to sign the mandates Admirals solicitor 
wanted. During a call with Admiral  on 13 April 2017,  Admirals claim handler told Miss D that 
if her statement to the investigator  was satisfactory  and the full call recording of her 
partners call to the police  was an admin  error then indemnity would be reinstated.
On 18 April 2017, Miss D emailed Admiral again  confirming she was cooperating. She 
provided: a screen  shot of her text exchange with the investigator that showed she had given  
him a date to meet; the signed  mandates; her email exchange with the police where she 
tried to get information  about the calls; and other information. It seems that Admiral were  at 
that point satisfied that Miss D was cooperating. But when she asked them why they were 
not reinstating indemnity they said they were still waiting for disclosure from her partners 
solicitor. But I dont  think that was reasonable because it was clear Miss D was cooperating. 
And she had provided proof that she did want to meet with the investigator. And she had 
explained why she hadnt originally returned the mandates.  So, even if Admiral felt she 
wasnt being cooperative as at 10 April 2017, I think they should  have  reinstated indemnity 
following Miss Ds response. But they didnt. And in the following months Miss D constantly 
asked Admiral to reinstate  indemnity  and wanted to know why they wouldnt. Its apparent 
that Admiral were waiting  to receive  the complete recording of Miss Ds partners call to the 
police to be satisfied  of what he had said. But during that time Miss D was left to deal with 
court proceedings on her own given Admirals  solicitor wasnt assisting her as indemnity had 
been removed.  
Admirals file note of 29 November 2017,  said the full call recording had been  received from 
the police  and listened to. But it wasnt helpful  in identifying who the driver was. I think that 
was a point at which Admiral could have  reinstated Miss Ds indemnity. But they didnt. 
Instead Admiral decided to wait until Miss Ds partners medical notes were disclosed. That 
didnt happen  until the end of March 2018. I understand the medical  notes recorded that 
Miss Ds partner had told his doctor that he was a passenger at the time of the accident. In 
light of that evidence Admiral reinstated indemnity on 17 April 2018 and settled Miss Ds 
partners claim.
I have no doubt  that the period between April 2017 and April 2018, during which indemnity 
was removed and court proceedings  started, caused Miss D very significant distress and 
Ref: DRN62418634inconvenience. Miss D had to attend  court and prepare her defence  by herself.  She faced 
the prospect of having a county court judgement  against her and having  to pay significant  
amounts in compensation and costs.  Even  if Admiral  felt they were justified in withdrawing  
indemnity on 10 April 2017, given Miss Ds immediate response which made it clear she was 
willing to cooperate and always had been, Admiral should have reinstated  indemnity. Im 
therefore upholding this complaint.
The main  issue I must  decide is what compensation I think  is appropriate in the 
circumstances. Miss D has provided  a lot of information as to what she feels  is fair 
compensation. Having considered all the information  very carefully, like our investigator I 
think £2,500 is a reasonable amount. Ill explain why.
I accept the impact of having indemnity withdrawn for a year and Miss D having to deal with 
the court process herself had a detrimental impact on her. She was at the time fully 
employed and trying  to progress her career by taking professional  exams.  Given  she isnt 
legally qualified she had to spend  a lot of time researching how to respond to the various 
stages of the court process. And I understand she had to take time off work for that and to 
attend court hearings. Miss D has asked  for the following compensation:
£5,000 for her having to step into the shoes  of a solicitor to deal with the legal 
proceedings.
£1,376.47  for 12 days annual  leave  she had to use to deal with legal  proceedings.
£2,321.65  being the cost of her premiums with Admiral over five years.
£1,408 in professional exam fees.  She said she missed five and failed seven exams 
as a direct result  of the distress caused to her and the time she had to spend  on the 
claim.
£13,000 in lost salary.  Miss D said had she passed her exams  and qualified  her 
salary would have  been £13,000 higher.
My response to Miss Ds compensation request  is as follows:
While  Miss D dealt  with her defence by herself  she isnt a solicitor. I therefore dont 
think it would be reasonable for me to award  her compensation equivalent  to what  a 
solicitor would have  charged for the time and work  she put into dealing  with the 
claim.
I accept Miss D had to take time off work  to deal with the claim. But as she was 
employed the time she took off was fully paid by her employer so she didnt lose out 
financially. 
While  the service  Miss D received from Admiral should have been much better and 
things went wrong,  they did pay her claim for the total loss of her car. And they did 
pay her partners injury claim.  So, she did benefit from the policy.  Miss D also chose 
to renew with Admiral  a number of times.
I accept Miss Ds professional life was impacted by what was going  on. But I cant  
say if Admirals actions caused her to miss or fail her exams.  It follows that I cant  say 
if Admirals actions  prevented Miss Ds career progression  and her expected  salary  
increase.
The £2,500 compensation  I think is reasonable is to address the distress and inconvenience 
Miss D suffered. I have  taken into consideration the impact she has told us, including the 
impact on her physical and emotional health,  her relationship  and her professional  life. 
Assessing what is reasonable compensation in circumstances such  as this isnt an exact 
Ref: DRN62418635science. But I consider the impact on Miss D to be severe  and the compensation is in line 
with other  awards  our service makes for complaints of this seriousness.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Admiral Insurance  
Company Limited  to pay Miss D £2,500 compensation. This should  be paid within  28 days  of 
us telling them that Miss D has accepted my final decision. If they pay later than that they 
must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to the date of 
payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 June  2020.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman 
1 If Admiral consider that they are required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, they should tell Miss D how much they have taken off. They  should also give her a 
certificate showing  this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6241863