K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him a regular  payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy to cover  his credit card repayments.
background
Mr C applied for a credit  card in 2002. At the same  time he took out a PPI policy to cover his 
credit card repayments. The policy cost £0.78  per £100 of the balance  on Mr Cs credit card. 
A successful  claim on the policy wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding balance for up to 12 
months per claim if Mr C was unable to work due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Cs complaint should be upheld because  she thought Mr C 
wouldve understood he had a choice  in taking the policy and thought it wouldve provided a 
useful benefit.
Mr C disagrees.  He says it wasnt made  clear  it was optional and didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
BOS have given  us a copy  of the application  form Mr C completed when taking out his credit 
card. 
I can see that theres a separate  section  on the application form that deals with PPI. Within 
the section it gives  the cost of PPI and brief description of the cover  and then gives the 
option to select  PPI with a tick next to the words Please tick the box to enrol. I can see on 
Mr Cs application form a tick has been  placed in the box next to this. 
I think there is enough there for Mr C to understand he didnt need to take PPI because he 
couldve just left the section blank. So I think Mr C selected to take PPI with a tick because  
he wanted the cover. 
BOS has told us that it was a no contact sale so I dont think BOS advised 
Mr C to take PPI. What this means  is that BOS didnt recommend  PPI to Mr C, it just gave 
him information about PPI. This information  needed  to be given in a way that was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so he could make an informed choice about  buying PPI.
I dont know if BOS  did give all the proper information that was needed. But even if BOS did 
give all the information  Mr C needed to make an informed choice on taking  out the policy, 
I think he wouldve still taken the policy because at the time of sale from what  we know about 
BOS policies:
He was eligible for the PPI.
Ref: DRN68481472It doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of the main  exclusions in the terms 
and conditions  of the policy which couldve made it difficult  to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mr C says he was entitled  to a good level of sick pay but had no 
other means  of making his repayments  if he couldnt work due to accident  or sickness or 
if he lost his job. A successful claim on the policy wouldve paid out on top of any work  
benefits and for potentially longer  for up to 12 months  per claim.  So I cant  see how 
knowing this information wouldve  put him off buying it.
Theres nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable to Mr C and he could cancel the 
policy if he no longer  wanted it.
So I dont  think it wouldve made a difference in how the information was given to Mr C on 
the PPI. I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy  as it was of value to him.
Which means BOS doesnt  have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint against  
Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6848147