K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) refused to pay her claim for 
medical expenses.  
My references to IPA include its agents. 
background
In early 2018 Miss C bought travel  insurance for a forthcoming trip. Unfortunately she fell ill 
on holiday  with an inflamed, stiff face. She sought emergency medical treatment and asked 
IPA to pay her claim for the costs. 
IPA refused  to pay Miss Cs claim.  It said her medical records showed  that in the five years 
before she bought the policy shed suffered with four separate conditions (two in 2017 and 
two in 2018).  It said the policy didnt cover anyone  whod had medical attention  in the last 
five years and Miss C hadnt  answered the policy sales  questions about her pre-existing 
medical conditions  correctly. If she had IPA said it simply  wouldnt have sold the policy  to 
her. It said it would refund the policy premium.
Miss C complained to us. She said there wasnt any previous medical history and so nothing  
to tell IPA about.  Shed  visited the doctor  for one-off issues and hadnt been  given  any 
medication. And the illness  shed suffered abroad  had no connection with any of those one-
off issues, as confirmed  by her doctor.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. He said IPA should pay Miss Cs claim. 
IPA didnt agree. It said our adjudicator  hadnt properly interpreted its question, which  asked 
about any medical conditions that required prescribed  medication and/or treatment including  
surgery, tests  or investigations. She should have  answered yes, and if shed done so it 
wouldnt have sold her this policy. 
Before my decision our adjudicator explained  to Miss C that the complaint should be against 
IPA, which  is the insurer,  rather  than the previous company  name which was IPAs agent.  
He also asked her about  the policy premium refund, and Miss C said that to the best of her 
knowledge IPA hadnt refunded the premium to her. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint.
Our adjudicator has explained to Miss C that the business her complaint is against  has 
changed to IPA. This is because the insurer who underwrites the policy  is IPA, and it is the 
correct business  for the complaint to be against. This change in name  doesnt  affect  the 
outcome of the complaint.  
The policy says that IPA wont cover any medical  condition Miss C had for which  she was 
taking prescribed medication and/or any medical  condition for which she was waiting to 
receive, or had received,  treatment within  the last five years.  
Ref: DRN64892322Theres no evidence that Miss C had the medical  condition for which  she was treated abroad  
when she bought the policy.  But IPA says that if Miss C had known shed received medical 
treatment for any medical condition in the last five years it wouldnt have sold her the policy 
in the first place. 
So the issue  I must decide is whether  Miss C took reasonable care in answering the 
questions she was asked  when she bought the policy.  If she didnt take reasonable care 
then its fair for IPA to decline her claim. If she did take reasonable care then it must  accept 
the claim.  
The first relevant question  Miss C was asked through  the comparison website said: 
Does any person to be insured have a pre-existing medical condition?
Underneath this question, it says:
To ensure you have the right cover for your trip it is important you tell us about your medical 
history. If you do not declare medical conditions this could invalidate your policy.  Examples 
include diabetes,  high blood pressure,  depression  and respiratory conditions (including  
asthma).
IPA hasnt sent us the medical information it received from Miss Cs doctor. But it says shed  
had a sore throat/lipoma and loin pain in June 2016. And shed  had raised cholesterol and 
parotitis (inflammation of the salivary gland) in July 2017. 
In response Miss C has said that shes a fit person and these issues  had been  one-offs (viral 
flu in 2016 and parotitis  due to eating a satsuma in 2017), and that she wasnt on any 
prescription medication. IPA hasnt sent us any medical information to the contrary  and so 
I accept what Miss C says. In these circumstances  I think Miss C could reasonably 
understand that she didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions.   
During the policy sale Miss C was asked to confirm shed read a separate important  
information section which included information relating to pre-existing medical  conditions.  It 
said she must tell her insurer about  pre-existing  medical conditions  and not declaring those 
conditions could lead to the policy being invalid. 
The important information was opened  via a website link in a new screen.  On clicking the 
link she was asked to proceed with policy purchase  if she could answer no to two 
questions. The relevant  question was:
Within the last 5 years have you or anyone you wish to insure on this policy  suffered from 
any medical condition  that has required prescribed medication and/or treatment including 
surgery, tests  or investigations? 
Miss C was asked to confirm that she could answer  no to the above  question by clicking on 
a button that said I agree. The alternative  was a different button that said Show me 
policies for people with pre-existing conditions. 
I think Miss C must have clicked on I agree to proceed with the policy  purchase. And I think 
she acted reasonably in doing  so. I say that because  theres no evidence that she was given 
medication and/or treatment for any of the medical  issues that IPA has listed in its response 
to her complaint. 
Ref: DRN64892323This means  that I find Miss C took reasonable care in answering  the questions  IPA asked 
her when she bought the policy. It follows that IPA must pay the claim subject  to the policy  
limit and less any applicable policy excess,  together with 8% simple interest as detailed  
below. 
If IPA says it has refunded the policy premium to Miss C. Weve asked her about this but she 
says that to the best of her knowledge  she didnt receive a refund of the policy premium. I 
think it is fair for IPA to deduct the policy premium from the claim settlement only if it can first 
send Miss C evidence  that it has already refunded that premium to her. And by evidence  
I mean  the date and amount of the payment and the account to which  it sent the payment. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. 
Within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Miss C accepts this final decision I order Inter 
Partner Assistance  SA to pay her claim, subject to the policy  limit and any applicable excess. 
If it has refunded the policy premium  to Miss C then it can deduct  the premium  from the 
resulting claim payment  only if it has first sent her evidence that it has paid her the premium 
refund, as set out in my findings. IPA must also add interest* to the balance of the claim 
payment at the simple annual rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Inter Partner Assistance SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
take off income  tax from that interest,  it should tell Miss C how much its taken off. It should 
also give Miss C a certificate showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HM Revenue  & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6489232