K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains (on behalf  of herself  and the estate of her late husband Mr S) that 
Santander UK Plc (then  trading as National & Provincial but Ill just refer to Santander  from 
now on) mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a mortgage with PPI in 1987. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. 
Mrs S mainly  said that PPI wasnt  ever mentioned and it was added  without consent.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Mr and Mrs S took out the mortgage in joint names  and they both had PPI, so Ive looked at 
both their circumstances  when the policy  was taken out.  
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  Heres why I say this.
Usually Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened  at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But Santander hasnt  been  able to provide 
anything signed  by Mr and Mrs S from this sale. 
I dont think thats  surprising given that the PPI was taken out so long ago. And after all this 
time, it would be unreasonable to expect Mrs S to be able to recall  precisely  what was said 
when the mortgage was arranged and the policy was taken out. This means that what  she 
says about the way the PPI was sold isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  her 
complaint. Where theres  only limited information  and its unclear what happened I have to 
look at everything Ive been  told and sent and decide what I think is most likely.
Mr and Mrs Ss mortgage was a major financial commitment, repayable over a substantial  
number of years. Their  home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable protection  and better  cover  than they had otherwise. 
So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI was useful to have.  
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs S decided that they wanted  to have the benefits 
PPI offered  and they chose to buy the policy.  
Mrs S recalled arranging the mortgage during a meeting and Santander  says it wouldve 
recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S. This means  it had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the cover was suitable for them. 
Santander has provided examples of policies that it sold, including the sort of policy  in use 
around the time Mr and Mrs S took out PPI. So I think  its likely that in all main respects the 
policy that Mr and Mrs S took out wouldve had similar terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN64963202It looks like Mr and Mrs S were both eligible for the policy and it protected  them in the event 
of unemployment  for up to 24 months  per claim.  
And the policy couldve also paid out a benefit for up to 24 months each time they claimed if 
either of them  had an accident  or was too sick or disabled to work. Both Mr and Mrs S 
couldve depended on getting 6 months full sick pay followed by 6 months on half sick pay. 
So if either (or both) of them had been off sick the policy couldve paid out in full for longer 
than their employer wouldve paid them sick pay. And the monthly  benefit  wouldve been 
paid on top of any sick pay received through work.  This couldve been  useful  particularly if 
they had extra costs as a result of illness or disability,  bearing in mind  they wouldve been  on 
half pay only after 6 months off work sick, and their sick pay from work  wouldve stopped  
altogether after 12 months. 
Mr and Mrs S were  both in work when they took out their mortgage. So even though they 
were both in steady jobs, I think losing one income is likely to have  had a significant impact 
on their joint finances   and losing both incomes  wouldve  put them in a difficult financial 
position. Having  PPI protected their mortgage  monthly repayments  in the long term if either  
or both of them couldnt work. 
Mrs S told us that they had no savings to fall back on and no other  ways  to pay their 
mortgage if they werent able to work. So I think that the policy  wouldve been  suitable for 
Mr and Mrs S. 
Its possible some of the information  Mr and Mrs S were given about  the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. There were some  things the policy  didnt cover. But it doesnt  look as if 
that wouldve  affected either Mr S or Mrs S. So I dont think having  more information about  
things the policy didnt cover wouldve put them off taking it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs S when they bought  the policy. 
But Ive seen nothing  to suggest that they couldnt  afford the monthly premiums. And as they 
paid for the policy each  month, they couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if they no longer 
wanted to pay for it or keep the policy running. 
Its possible there mightve been  some failings in the way this policy  was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs S still wouldve decided to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as it gave 
them useful protection in their particular situation. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs S paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly. 
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ss PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ss commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI. 
I appreciate that Mrs S feels strongly.  I realise shes put time and effort into this complaint 
and will be disappointed at the outcome. But I hope  that setting things out as I've done will 
help explain  how I've reached  my final decision.
Ref: DRN64963203my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019. 
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6496320