K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M are unhappy that Openwork Limited  hasnt accepted liability for the 
misrepresentation that happened when they took out a new home insurance policy.
background
In June 2017 Mr and Mrs M used a broker who was part of Openwork to take out new home 
insurance cover. They had been  with their previous  insurer (P) for a number of years, but 
were recommended  to Openwork by a work  colleague who considered  they could get a 
better deal through a broker.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that in the meeting  with the broker they discussed their previous 
claims history  and also an on-going  issue with their home. They  say that the broker  advised 
them to contact P about this issue.
When the paperwork for their insurance was submitted,  it shows  that Mr and Mrs M 
answered no to the question  around  their home having any problems relating to subsidence  
and it lists one previous  claim in the last five years; a claim in October 2016 for buildings 
cover, relating  to glass/mirrors. 
In August  2017  Mr and Mrs M were unfortunately burgled. They put in a claim under their 
home insurance, but it was declined, and the policy was voided. This was due to them not 
declaring numerous previous claims. Mrs M contacted the broker and requested a copy  of 
the application form. On receipt  of this she complained  to the broker that it had failed to 
correctly record the information she provided,  so it was responsible for the policy  being  
voided.
Openwork looked  into her complaint  but didnt uphold it. It found  an email from the broker  
dated the day of the initial  meeting which  referenced an on-going  claims issue, so it 
acknowledged a mistake had been made   as this wasnt disclosed.  It said the broker  didnt  
recall the context of the claim comment, but they considered it was likely to be about the 
burglary Mr and Mrs M had in May 2017,  as this had just happened. However it said that as 
the policy was voided for numerous  claims issues, it didnt consider this single error was 
responsible for the policy being  voided.  It also said Mr and Mrs M had a duty to check  the 
paperwork was correct  and that they were provided  with a combined  quote and application 
form. On this paperwork it showed their answers and the recorded claims history.
Mr and Mrs M disagreed, so they brought their complaint to our service.  They  said theyd  
been honest with the broker and hadnt  seen  the paperwork, so didnt  have the opportunity 
to check it. They provided us with the email the broker sent them after the meeting, which 
included a quote for the cover. This was different to the quote and application form that 
Openwork had said theyd been  given.
I issued a provisional decision upholding this complaint in March  2020. I was satisfied that 
Mrs M had disclosed the on-going claim to the broker and that it related to subsidence. This 
was because Mrs M was able to provide an email from the broker,  sent just after the 
meeting, advising  her to get P to confirm in writing  it would look into the on-going  issue. And 
she provided a letter  from P dated a few days after this, which stated it was appointing 
someone to come and assess  her home.  I didnt  consider it was appropriate  for the broker to 
advise Mrs M to move insurers when she was potentially about to start a subsidence claim, 
which shed first discussed with her insurer several  years earlier.
Ref: DRN67436262On the basis of the information I had, I considered it more likely Mrs M had disclosed her 
claims history  accurately, but that this hadnt  been  correctly recorded by the broker. I hadnt 
seen any evidence that Mrs M wouldve seen what was recorded before taking out the 
policy. And the paperwork that was sent by the broker  (after  the sale) was attached to an 
email about other products. The body of this email didnt suggest that Mrs M needed to read 
or check what had been recorded, it just noted that the paperwork was attached. So I 
concluded that the broker had failed to accurately record  Mrs Ms claims history and was 
wrong to advise her to change her insurer at that time.
I provisionally awarded Mr and Mrs M compensation and said that I intended  for Openwork  
to write a letter setting  out that wed upheld this case and not found  Mrs M responsible for 
the policy voidance.  I also said it should act in the shoes of P for the August 2017 claim. I did 
however say any compensation or payment Mr and Mrs M received could be reduced by 
£700, as this was the additional premium they wouldve paid to stay with P.
Mr and Mrs M accepted my provisional  decision, but Openwork disagreed  and provided 
further evidence.
Openwork stated that it hadnt previously been informed that there  was a potential  
subsidence claim  and instead  it said Mrs M told it the ongoing claim related to the burglary 
in May 2017.  It asked  for evidence  that the May 2017 burglary had been logged  by 4 June 
2017, when the meeting took place with the broker. It considered it difficult to comprehend  
that Mrs M wouldnt  have complained about the August 2017 claim not being covered when 
shed told our service it was high value.  It also argued that Mrs M shouldve  read the 
attachments to the email regardless of whether she was instructed to do so. Openwork also 
provided further information, including copies of paperwork Mrs M was sent directly by her 
new insurer in June  2017, setting out the claims history that had been declared.
We provided this evidence to Mrs M for her comments. She confirmed she had received 
copies of the paperwork directly and recalled  reviewing the documents.  However she said 
she didnt spot the incorrect claims history. And she argued that as shed already left P and 
was insured with someone else, the damage  had been done at this time.
The case  was then returned to me for review  and I issued a second provisional decision in 
October 2020.
I accepted Openworks point that Mrs M did seem  to focus on the burglary claim being the 
reason her policy was voided and that her email suggests this is what the brokers  email  to 
her in June  2017  was referring to (rather  than the subsidence issue). However, the evidence 
Id seen from when  the new insurer voided the policy  suggests  the burglary claim was 
already ongoing from May 2017.  And I considered the letter from P, just after the June 2017 
email was sent, confirming it would be looking into the issues with Mrs Ms flooring, was key 
evidence. It seemed that while  there  were inconsistencies in how Mrs M presented  her 
complaint, the contemporaneous evidence did support the version of events she told our 
service.
Whilst I considered Openworks point, I placed more  weight on the evidence  from the time,  
than what Mrs M said to Openwork in her complaint. I appreciated this case had to be 
decided on the balance of probability  and so honesty was a key consideration. But I also 
noted that Mrs Ms new insurer told her it had cancelled  her policy  due to the theft claim. So I 
could see why she focussed on this. Considering the evidence, I didnt consider Mrs M was 
Ref: DRN67436263being dishonest  in her recollections   instead  it seemed she framed  her complaint around 
the evidence she held at the time of cancellation (the email from the broker  and the 
cancellation letter)  and her recollection  of disclosing all previous claims  which  she had 
consistently argued throughout. Then, on approaching our service, she provided a full 
timeline of her claims history, including the subsidence enquiry, which clarified  her 
recollections and the reason she received the broker email.
Openwork raised  questions about  the repairs carried  out to the property following the 
burglary in May 2017  and whether these left the property vulnerable to another  break-in. I 
didnt make enquiries on this point  as Id provisionally determined  that Openwork should  
stand in the shoes of P for the August 2017  claim.  So as part of this, I said Openwork was 
entitled to look into the condition of the property and obtain previous claims information. And 
so I didnt consider  I needed this information for my decision, as Openwork needed to 
consider the claim  (as best possible) as P would have, I hadnt directed it to pay the claim.
Openwork also raised concerns about  Mrs M not initially asking for it to cover the August 
2017 claim or provide compensation, and instead  only saying she wanted it to clear  her and 
her husbands  names. But I reminded Openwork that our services role was to consider 
whats fair in all the circumstances of the complaint. So I had to decide what I believed was a 
fair outcome is in this case,  rather  than just looking into what  Mrs M may or may not have 
asked for  or known could be awarded at the time of complaint.
With all that said, I did consider that the award I provisionally made needed reviewing. I 
considered Openwork shouldve made  it clearer to Mrs M about the importance of reviewing 
the policy documentation  despite her having enlisted a professional to select a new policy  
 and I still stood  by this. But, Openwork provided  copies  of documentation that Mrs M 
confirmed shed received directly.  And the first page  of this paperwork instructed  her to 
check the documents and immediately contact the insurer  if there  were  any errors. Mrs M 
didnt act on this, despite the paperwork clearly being incorrect and missing  the majority of 
her claims history. So, she missed a chance to mitigate this situation.
Mrs M argued  that at this time the damage  was done. But I didnt agree this was true. As she 
received the paperwork within days of taking  out the policy, she was still within her cooling-
off period for her new insurer. And, based on my experience, I said P wouldve been able to 
facilitate a policy renewal  despite it being a few days after the previous cover ended. So I 
believed her reviewing  the paperwork wouldve made a difference  to the situation she ended 
up in. 
I said that evidence  I held suggested  Mrs M did disclose at least  one more claim than the 
broker recorded. And I concluded  it seemed  more  likely that this was a subsidence issue, 
although I also believed  the other claims were discussed too, such as the recent burglary. 
So Openwork had failed to complete the paperwork accurately, resulting in Mrs M obtaining  
cover that shouldnt have  been available to her. However, Mrs M had then missed an 
opportunity to correct  this mistake. So I considered what a fair remedy  to this situation was.
Mrs M approached Openwork as a professional and trusted it to accurately complete her 
paperwork to obtain her a policy. It was clear from the email  sent to Mrs M that a claim was 
discussed that wasnt disclosed on the paperwork, so I was satisfied Openwork did need  to 
compensate Mrs M in some  way. I considered her responsibility in the situation,  but could 
only find she was careless  by not fully checking  her paperwork  and relying  on the broker to 
have accurately completed it. On that basis, I still considered  that Openwork should act in 
the shoes of P for the purpose  of the August 2017  claim.
Ref: DRN67436264I said that, if things had gone  as they should  have, Mrs M wouldnt have taken out this cover.  
The new insurer confirmed the May 2017  claim meant they wouldnt have accepted Mr and 
Mrs M, so even  if I accepted Openworks argument  that this was what Mrs M did disclose,  
then it is still responsible for the poor advice that led her to take out a policy  that didnt cover 
her. If it had given her the correct advice, considering the subsidence issue, I found  it most 
likely shed  have stayed  with P  and so wouldve had the August 2017 claim considered. So 
I thought it was fair that happened now.
However, I said that as it was now clear Mrs M did have the opportunity to correct the 
mistake, I no longer  considered Openwork  needed  to provide Mr and Mrs M with a letter  
setting out my findings or pay the level of compensation I previously awarded. I appreciated 
Mrs M trusted  the broker,  but ultimately she received   and had even  said she read parts of 
 the paperwork  that highlighted the mistake to her. And this was clear  about the importance 
of checking the details  and correcting any errors  quickly.  So I couldnt say a fair conclusion 
was one where her and/or  Mr M take no responsibility for what happened.  On that basis, I 
reduced the provisional compensation awarded  to £250.
Both Mr and Mrs M and Openwork responded to my provisional decision confirming that they 
had nothing further to add. So the complaint has been returned  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As both parties have  confirmed they have  nothing further to add, I see no reason to change 
my findings  from the provisional decision I issued in October 2020. For the reasons set out in 
this provisional decision,  summarised  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
What Openwork needs to do to put things right
Act in the shoes  of P in relation to Mr and Mrs Ms burglary claim from August 2017
Mr and Mrs M should cooperate with it and provide the evidence they can. And 
Openwork should  assess their claim under the terms of the policy they wouldve had 
with P if the renewal  had taken place.
Openwork should  compensate them for any loss or damage that would have  been  
covered by P under  the renewed  insurance. If they cant reach agreement over the 
amount, both parties should jointly instruct a loss adjuster to give an expert opinion 
on what the insurer would have paid, had it agreed to cover  the claim.  The amount 
payable should  take into account the excess under the policy  as this is to put 
Mr and Mrs M in the position  they wouldve been  in if their claim had been made to P.
Compensate Mr and Mrs M for the distress and inconvenience caused
While I accept Mrs M did have an opportunity to rectify the situation, this is ultimately 
a situation she shouldnt have been  in. The broker shouldve  correctly recorded the 
claims discussed with Mrs M on her paperwork. So an award for the distress this 
mistake has caused her and Mr M is warranted. On that basis,  as set out in my 
provisional decision, Mr and Mrs M should  also be paid £250 in compensation. 
Ref: DRN67436265Mrs M has told us that her renewal premium with P was £700 more  than what  she paid to 
the new insurer. And shes confirmed her and Mr M received a refund of the premiums  they 
paid for this policy. So Openwork can reduce the total amount it pays Mr and Mrs M by £700, 
as this is the additional amount I consider they wouldve paid in premiums  in 2017  if the 
correct advice had been given.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Openwork Limited 
should arrange to carry out the actions set out above within  28 days  of receiving  notice of 
Mr and Mrs Ms acceptance  of this decision.  
Mr and Mrs M should note that if they accept my decision,  it will be legally binding on all 
parties and they probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter  for 
additional compensation. If, however,  Mr and Mrs M reject my decision, although their legal 
rights will remain  intact, itll be purely  a matter between them  and Openwork Limited as to 
whether the redress  Ive awarded remains open  for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is 
not binding on the offeror after rejection  of it has been communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2020.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6743626