K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with a number of actions of The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc 
(RBS) in relation to their personal accounts.
Ive primarily referred to Mr and Mrs B throughout this decision, even though some events 
were likely only undertaken by one party.
Background
I issued a provisional decision on 1 March 2021 explaining what  I thought was a fair way to 
resolve matters. Extracts from those findings,  setting out the background to the complaint, 
and my thoughts  on how matters should be resolved, are included below as they form part of 
this final decision.
This decision covers a number of complaints  Mr and Mrs B have  raised against RBS for their 
personal accounts. Mr and Mrs B made complaints about their personal accounts,  as well as 
about Mr Bs limited company account.
Based on the information I have, Mr and Mrs B first raised concerns in 2014 about some  of 
the issues they say they experienced. They say they dropped  their complaint in to their local 
branch and were  assured a response would be provided. Mr and Mrs B say they did this 
again in 2015, but still didnt get a response at that time.
Following some attempted  fraud  on their accounts,  which Ive explained below, they 
complained about this separately,  and reminded RBS to reply  to the complaints theyd been 
raising since 2014.
RBS did provide a response to the concerns  first raised in 2014, as well as about the 
attempted fraud.  After this, the personal complaint, and limited company complaint, were  
brought to our service. This decision only deals with the personal complaint   and Ive set 
out Mr and Mrs Bs concerns, as well as RBS responses, below.
A final decision was issued on the limited  company complaint. So, this decision doesnt 
make any findings about  the issues considered in that complaint. But, I do have to reference 
it because RBS addressed Mr and Mrs Bs personal complaint, and the company complaint, 
together  and paid £550 compensation. RBS didnt specify  what  amount related to Mr and 
Mrs Bs personal accounts,  and what related  to the company accounts.
In the company complaint, the ombudsman concluded that if even 50% of the amount paid 
related to the issues experienced  by the company that would be fair.
Across their complaints  Mr and Mrs B calculated they believed  a fair compensation amount 
was £25,000.  Their calculations included Mr Bs hourly rate.
Being told in November 2009 Mr and Mrs B had a balance of over £5,000  in the account, but 
it was actually £500
Mr and Mrs B say in early November 2009  they called RBS to ask for the outstanding 
balance on the account. They were told it was more than £5,000 and say because of this 
they didnt credit their account with any money. But, actually,  the balance  was only around 
£500 and as a result of this error they incurred fees totalling £97.48.
Ref: DRN61658582I cant see RBS replied  to this complaint point  and believe they may have said it was out of 
time to be considered  by our service.  For reasons  Ill go on to explain, I think  we can 
consider this.
Trying to log into internet  banking  in April 2013 and RBS saying Mr B may have forgotten  his 
password which  he found rude
Mr and Mrs B said on 11 April 2013  for the fourth  time they had issues accessing their online 
banking because it wouldnt accept their password. So, they had to wait for the password to 
be sent out in the post.
While speaking to RBS to get logged back in, Mr and Mrs B were told to provide some  
details and were  told it would now work. They  tried to log in, but it didnt work, and say RBS 
said the fault must be with them. Mr and Mrs B say RBS implied  they were stupid or 
ignorant. And, as a result  of not being  able to access  their online banking, Mr and Mrs B had 
to travel to the closest branch to make the transfer  they wanted  to.
RBS said, in relation  to this, due to the time thats elapsed its difficult to conduct  any kind of 
factual investigation.  But they have no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs B did experience  issues  
having been locked out  and from their timeline  seem to have had a very frustrating time.
Having to go into branch as RBS didnt answer  their phone on many occasions
Mr and Mrs B have  said its become  difficult trying  to contact their local branch. They  said 
theyve attempted  to contact their branch on 38 occasions, with only three successful 
connections  and of those, two calls disconnected whilst they were waiting to be transferred 
to the right person.
Mr and Mrs B discovered the bank  had a dedicated phone  line to improve  customer service 
 but dont agree with the purpose of this line because of the issues outlined above. Mr and 
Mrs B also say the bank  didnt tell them about  this change,  causing  them  to have  to go into 
branch on many occasions.
RBS said sorry for the difficulties Mr and Mrs B have had, but the relevant details were  
available to them.
Poor service received in relation to travellers cheques
Mr and Mrs B say that upon  deciding to travel at short notice, they tried to contact a branch 
of RBS to establish  if they held travellers cheques and if so how much.  Mr and Mrs B say 
they were asked rudely why they wanted to talk to the branch and the phone line went dead 
on two occasions.  Ultimately Mr and Mrs B were  able to speak to someone, but that person 
couldnt confirm  if the branch held travellers cheques or not  so Mr and Mrs B had to drive 
to the branch to find out. 
Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy when getting  to the branch to be told travellers cheques had to 
be ordered. And were  also unhappy with RBS cashier saying  things had been  left a bit late. 
Mr and Mrs B say, yet again,  another service has been withdrawn which  theyve used in the 
past without being told about  it.
Ref: DRN61658583RBS said this type of service isnt acceptable and Mr and Mrs B should have been told it was 
only main branches that hold stock of travellers cheques. RBS also said sorry for the way 
Mr and Mrs B were  spoken to.
Disappointed and frustrated by RBS security and fraud prevention measures
This section  covers several issues Mr and Mrs B have mentioned,  specifically:
A phishing email they received was forwarded  to RBS on 28 August 2018  but Mr and 
Mrs B never received a reply.
An attempted fraudulent transaction happened  on their account but RBS didnt  tell 
them about  this, a neighbour did.
Unhappy with security  questions asked and they dont feel the process is secure.
Also unhappy with how they were dealt with in branch when discussing these issues.
The branch  manager counting cash in front of them near a window which  anyone  
could see in to.
Concerns about the account  being  hacked again, and the subsequent conversations 
on this.
A phishing  email is one which says its from your bank or another  institution and is used by 
fraudsters to gain information needed to access peoples accounts.  Mr and Mrs B forwarded 
the phishing email to RBS on 28 August 2018  but never received a reply  from them  about  
this.
Later, on the same day, a neighbour  came  round  and asked if Mr and Mrs B had paid money  
to his wife. Mr and Mrs B said they hadnt, and they tried to log on to their online banking but 
couldnt because  itd been locked.  They  called  up RBS and were  asked to go to the branch 
to prove  their identity.  Mr and Mrs B say RBS never told them  about the attempted 
fraudulent transactions  and the only way they found out about it was due to their 
neighbour.
In branch, after Mr and Mrs B proved their identity, they were  able to get back into their 
online banking. They were told only one card had been blocked and asked if the other  cards  
should be blocked with replacements ordered. Mr and Mrs B were  concerned  at this and felt 
there was a lack of security.  So, they say later on the same day they called  up to ask about 
this and say they were  hung up on. 
The following  day Mr and Mrs B went back into branch, to discuss  what  happened. They 
attempted to record the conversation, but say RBSs adviser rudely shouted  no at them,  
refused to make eye contact or explain why theyd  said no. So, Mr and Mrs B asked to speak 
to the branch manager.
They say 6-7 minutes later someone  came out and took them to a room  and asked how they 
could help. Mr and Mrs B say this person hadnt introduced themselves and when they 
pointed this out the person said sorry, and explained  they were  the branch manager.  Mr and 
Mrs B asked if they could  record this conversation  but say they were told no again without an 
explanation. Mr and Mrs B say they wanted to check their standing orders  and direct debits 
would be met  but say the branch manager replied saying he couldnt  give any guarantees 
about payments  being made.
Because of this, Mr and Mrs B were concerned RBS wouldnt honour payments on their 
accounts or cards. So, asked to withdraw  £5,000 in cash. Having taken this money from the 
Ref: DRN61658584branch counter, Mr and Mrs B were then taken back to the room,  where  the money was 
counted. 
Mr and Mrs B left the branch with their money and noticed that the room theyd been in had 
window blinds open onto the street. Mr and Mrs B say this is one of the worse  examples of 
lax security theyve ever seen.
The same day, Mr and Mrs B say they had a letter from RBSs credit  cards department in 
their in tray they hadnt  opened.  This showed Mr and Mrs Bs details may have  been  
compromised again.  They got in touch  with RBS, asked a number of questions about  how 
this had happened  and RBS told them  they couldnt say. Mr and Mrs B say because  of this 
they cancelled  their overseas trip as they felt itd be a big risk where RBS hadnt provided 
any reassurance they could access their money.
Following this, Mr and Mrs B had conversations about reinstating  their account and are 
frustrated by what they perceive to be a lack of security.
RBS provided a lot of detail across a number  of responses to this point, so Ive summarised 
each point:
Phishing email  RBS wont usually  contact a customer whos alerted them to this 
unless theres a risk. RBS said there  was no risk at this point.
Attempted fraudulent  transaction   RBS said they did try and contact Mr and Mrs B 
on the phone, before he got in touch. And no fraudulent transactions  were 
successfully carried out.
Security questions  RBS provided a substantial  response to the concerns Mr and 
Mrs B raised here. Amongst them, they explained they couldnt establish how the 
attempted fraud had happened.
Unhappy with how they were spoken  to in branch   RBS apologised for this, saying 
they would  expect a manager to introduce themselves and provide a more  detailed 
explanation about  whether their standing  orders  and direct debits would be paid.
Counting the money  near the window   Again, RBS said sorry for how this was 
handled.
Concerns about being hacked again and subsequent conversations   RBS again 
said sorry for any failings and provided detailed explanations. And while  they 
understood Mr and Mrs B were concerned, RBS didnt advise them to cancel the trip, 
so they wouldnt  be prepared to refund any of the costs claimed for missing  it.
CHAPS payment made  which Mr and Mrs B were charged for, but payment never received 
by the beneficiary  bank
On 4 April 2016  Mr B went into a branch to make  a CHAPS payment into his pension. 
Mr and Mrs B have  provided a copy of the statement from the bank where Mr Bs pension is 
held showing the account details.
Mr Bs money didnt get transferred  to his pension  so he went  to his branch to find out why. 
He says he was told quite rudely that he must have got the receivers account details wrong. 
He says he asked  the cashier  to check the account  details where the money was sent  but 
was told it wasnt possible.  He then called RBS,  and says he was told it was possible to 
show where the money was sent.
Mr B has asked  for a refund of the £20 fee but has been told that isnt possible.
Ref: DRN61658585RBS said they wouldnt  recheck the details provided by Mr B. RBS added the payment was 
returned by the other bank who wont discuss why theyve done this. So, because no bank 
error was made, they say they wont refund the £20 fee.
RBS ignores Mr and Mrs Bs complaints
Mr and Mrs B have  raised concerns about  their complaints being ignored by RBS.
When RBS have replied  to Mr and Mrs Bs complaints,  theyve ultimately paid a total of £550  
compensation for their service failings  across the personal and company accounts. RBS 
have also said sorry on many occasions for the issues Mr and Mrs B have experienced.
Our investigators response  to these issues
In summary,  she couldnt say RBS had handled everything badly due to the passage of time 
but accepting  Mr and Mrs Bs version of events where appropriate she felt £275  half of the 
£550 paid for complaints about  a personal  and company account   was fair.
She also explained we dont award compensation for the amount of time spent on 
complaints at someones professional hourly rate.
Mr and Mrs Bs response to our investigators  assessment
Mr and Mrs B didnt  agree with the outcome. Ive summarised their key concerns as I see 
them:
They said theyd spent in excess of 250 hours dealing with all these issues  and had 
been cost a lot of money as a result of RBS  failings.
The proportion of the £550  compensation for the business account  has never been 
clarified.
Having completed  a calculation, it could be argued that only £75 of the compensation 
of £550 was for the personal accounts.
Following RBS  responses Mr and Mrs B provided a detailed  response back, asking 
54 questions which have  been  ignored by the bank.
Mr and Mrs B say RBS not answering questions and ignoring  them  hurts intensely and really 
all they want is a response to the outstanding questions  to draw a line under this.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I think its important to firstly explain Ive read and taken into account all of the information  
provided by both parties in reaching my decision. If Ive not reflected something thats been 
said its not because  I didnt see it, its because I didnt deem it relevant to the crux of the 
complaint. This isnt intended as a discourtesy to either party, but merely to reflect my 
informal role in deciding  what a fair and reasonable outcome is. This also means I dont think 
its necessary to get an answer, or provide my own answer, to every question  raised unless  
its relevant to the crux of the complaint. I realise that will be disappointing  to Mr and Mrs B, 
as thats one of the things theyve specifically asked  for. But, as Ive said above, my remit is 
to provide a fair and reasonable answer  in all the facts of the case.
Ref: DRN61658586I also need to explain that where  information is missing, or incomplete,  as some information  
is in this case, that Ill need to make  my findings  on what  I think is more likely than not. I 
realise this may not be satisfactory to both sides, and particularly Mr and Mrs B who take a 
forensic approach  to their complaints.
Finally, I note RBS objected to us considering  some  of the complaint points first raised  in 
2014. But, Im satisfied we can consider all of the issues. The reason for this is because, 
RBS have said they accept Mr and Mrs B did raise their complaint in 2014.  In accepting this, 
then they must also accept that all of the complaint  points raised in this complaint were 
raised in time.
Being told in November 2009 Mr and Mrs B had a balance of over £5,000  in the account, but 
it was actually £500
Our investigator accepted Mr and Mrs B were  told in early November 2009 about this  but 
found the reasons for the charges being  incurred  didnt happen until December 2009  so 
Mr and Mrs B had time to review their account  balances and rectify any issues.
Like our investigator,  and as RBS have said on other parts  of the complaint Mr and Mrs B 
have raised, Ive seen  no reason to doubt what theyve said.
So, in accepting Mr and Mrs B were, more likely than not, told what their outstanding  
balance was incorrectly  I have to also conclude it was reasonable for them to rely on that 
information.
But, I think that only goes  so far. The charges werent incurred until December 2009,  which  I 
think gave Mr and Mrs B enough time to have realised what  had happened. So, I wont be 
ordering RBS to refund these charges.
Trying to log into internet  banking  in April 2013 and RBS saying Mr B may have forgotten  his 
password which  he found rude
I note RBS have  acknowledged  due to the passage of time they cant confirm exactly what 
happened, but it sounds frustrating from the timeline Mr and Mrs B have given.
I have the same issues  RBS dont have the records to show what  happened.  Taking what 
Mr and Mrs B have  said at face value,  I dont think I can agree RBSs adviser was rude in 
asking / suggesting  Mr and Mrs B may have forgotten  their password. I would expect this to 
be a very common reason  why people have problems logging  in  so I cant reasonably say 
RBS were wrong to have  suggested it as a possible reason for the issues.
Having to go into branch as RBS didnt answer  their phone on many occasions
I understand Mr and Mrs Bs frustration   particularly as long-standing customers of RBS 
where theyre used  to being able to call and carry out their transactions.
But, this does come  down to the type of service RBS wishes to provide  and I can see RBS 
have explained  theyve introduced centralised  call centres so their branch staff can focus on 
providing service to customers in branch.  
Ref: DRN61658587This isnt something I can interfere with as it comes  down to how RBS wants  to run their 
business. But again, if I accept what Mr and Mrs B have said at face value, this many calls 
not being answered does  sound like an awful lot. And its not clear  to me why Mr and Mrs B 
would continue calling a number if theyd been  told itd no longer be answered. So, I accept 
its possible  in the absence of information  to know exactly whats  happened   RBS havent 
done enough here.
Ill be considering  whether  RBS have done  enough  to put this right under the putting things 
right section later on in this decision.
Poor service received in relation to travellers cheques
Mr and Mrs B are frustrated they had to go to a branch to find out if they held travellers  
cheques or not. RBS have said their centralised  call centres wont know this information.
I dont find that particularly unreasonable, as the information is likely to change  on a regular 
basis. I also dont find it unreasonable that an RBS branch may need to order in travellers  
cheques if they dont happen to stock them at that moment  in time.
And I think the comment by the RBS cashier,  about leaving things a bit late was very 
unfortunate  given  the reason Mr and Mrs B were  needing to go away was due to a friend 
passing away.
Disappointed and frustrated by RBS security and fraud prevention measures
This section  covers several issues Mr and Mrs B have mentioned,  specifically:
Phishing email  RBS wont usually  contact a customer whos alerted them to this 
unless there a risk. RBS said there  was no risk on this point.
Attempted fraudulent  transaction   RBS said they did try and contact Mr and Mrs B 
on the phone, before he got in touch.
Security questions  RBS provided a substantial  response to the concerns Mr and 
Mrs B raised here. Amongst them, they explained they couldnt establish how the 
attempted fraud had happened.
Unhappy with how they were spoken  to in branch   RBS apologised for this, saying 
they would  expect a manager to introduce themselves and provide a more  detailed 
explanation about  whether their standing  orders  and direct debits would be paid.
Counting the money  near the window   Again, RBS said sorry for how this was 
handled.
Concerns about being hacked again and subsequent conversations   RBS again 
said sorry for any failings and provided detailed explanations. And while  they 
understood Mr and Mrs B were concerned, RBS didnt advise them to cancel the trip, 
so they wouldnt  be prepared to refund any of the costs claim for missing it.
Ultimately, its down  to RBS whether to acknowledge phishing  emails or not, so I cant  say 
theyve done anything wrong  here.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that theyve no record of RBS attempting  to contact them  about  the 
fraudulent transactions. I cant know for certain what happened,  but the most  important thing  
is RBS stopped the attempted transactions. This is as Id expect   and Mr and Mrs B were 
able to speak  to RBS about this attempted fraud quite  promptly. 
Ref: DRN61658588Mr and Mrs B take a very serious  approach to their online security and dont feel RBS do 
enough. But, again, this comes back to RBS procedures which  I cant interfere with and, in 
this case, did stop any attempted  fraudulent transactions.
Like Mr and Mrs B, as well as RBS, Id generally  expect  someone to introduce themselves in 
branch, and explain what they can do to help matters. I can see RBS said sorry for this and 
theyd provide feedback to the individual. So, I wont be asking them  to do anything more  in 
relation to this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
In relation to counting  money at a window which people  could  see through into the room 
RBS also said sorry for this. And I do note Mr and Mrs Bs concerns that this is still 
happening  but this does  relate  to RBSs procedures,  so isnt something I can interfere with.
I understand Mr and Mrs Bs viewpoint on cancelling their trip is that, the only reason they 
had to do it was because RBS couldnt give any guarantees theyd pay their standing orders 
and direct debits. I can understand their concerns as, at this point, theyd had a number of 
problems regarding fraud on their account. But, I cant agree RBS need to cover  these  costs.  
Mr and Mrs B chose  to cancel their trip, they werent  required to by RBS.
Mr and Mrs B have  also raised concerns over conflicting information being  given about 
which card was used  for the attempted fraud, that cards hadnt been  cancelled when they 
should have been, and issues over online banking registration / screens presented  when 
trying to log in. Overall it does seem  as though Mr and Mrs B have, at times, been given 
some poor service.
CHAPS payment made  which Mr and Mrs B were charged for, but payment never received 
by the beneficiary  bank
Mr B says he entered the correct details for this transfer of funds from his account to his 
pension account  with another bank.
RBS have said the other bank have told them they returned the payment but wouldnt 
provide a reason. RBS also said they didnt enter  the details so theyre not responsible  for 
this.
Ive considered this and decided not to uphold this part of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Accepting that Mr B did enter the correct details,  and that the payment was returned by his 
other bank  for reasons  they wouldnt explain to RBS  I cant hold RBS responsible.
I note Mr and Mrs B have said their other bank said they never  received  the payment. Its 
difficult to know what happened, but its possible the payment never reached Mr Bs other  
bank  or it did, and theyve made  an error in telling him it didnt.
Either way, I dont have  enough information  to safely conclude RBS are responsible  for the 
CHAPS payment not succeeding  so I wont be asking  them  to refund  the £20 fee.
RBS ignores Mr and Mrs Bs complaints
Its clear Mr and Mrs B feel RBS have ignored  their complaints on many occasions and 
havent provided answers to all the questions theyve asked.
Ref: DRN61658589But, as our investigator explained,  I cant  consider  a complaint about  a complaint. So, 
beyond reflecting what Mr and Mrs B have  told us, theres nothing I can say on this topic.
My overall summary
In reading the above I think its fair to say Mr and Mrs B have, at times, been on the 
receiving end of some  poor service. Much of which RBS have said sorry for and provided 
some compensation.
In isolation, its possible Id have decided an apology would have been enough for the 
majority of the issues Mr and Mrs B have experienced  if each issue was raised when it 
happened and addressed  by RBS promptly. Cumulatively, Im comfortable its appropriate 
for compensation to have been  paid.
Putting things  right
Ive already outlined that RBS have paid compensation for the complaint issues addressed 
above. Specifically,  £550 for the issues mentioned, plus other issues  related to the company 
complaint.
Ideally, I too think  itd have been  helpful for RBS to have dealt with the complaints from 
Mr and Mrs B separately to Mr Bs company  account. This would have meant Mr and Mrs B 
would know the proportion of the compensation was paid to what  account.
Mr and Mrs B have  made a number  of arguments about the breakdown  of the compensation 
 saying in the company complaint its likely most  of it was for the personal complaint, and in 
this complaint, that the majority was for the company  complaint.
The ombudsman in the company complaint  concluded that, even if only 50% of the £550 
relates to the company complaint she didnt agree this meant RBS hadnt paid enough. 
Taking a holistic view of all the concerns Ive addressed above, I also cant  say that if 50% of 
the compensation was specifically directed to Mr and Mrs Bs personal complaint that 
wouldnt be enough. So, I wont  be ordering RBS to pay any more compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision
Mr and Mrs B provided further  comments on my provisional decision which, for simplicity, 
Ive included their general thoughts here, and thoughts about specific events below.
Mr and Mrs B have  said Ive not made any mention of their 52-page  letter. Im sorry its come 
across that way. Much of their 52-page letter relates  to the issues Ive addressed  so for 
those issues that do relate to the complaint points Im considering Ive taken into account 
what theyve said in the 52-page letter. 
I havent though considered their complaint RBS havent answered the 54 questions theyve 
asked in the 52-page letter as that cant  form part of this complaint. Mr and Mrs B also 
mentioned a charge of £34.77 in this letter, and separately in another complaint about  RBS 
not closing down their accounts when asked. I can see weve  made arrangements to 
consider the issues  not covered in this decision in a separate complaint.
Mr and Mrs B also say RBS will charge account  holders for every single mistake   plus their 
time to deal with the error  but when the bank makes a mistake its a one-way situation. 
Ref: DRN616585810And its the arrogant  manner in which RBS have dealt with them that makes  a mockery of 
their Here for you strapline. Mr and Mrs B say this has led to the stress being  
overwhelming, as they cant get proper  compensation and RBS just dont care.
RBS didnt reply by the deadline set.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Being told in November 2009 Mr and Mrs B had a balance of over £5,000  in the account, but 
it was actually £500
Mr and Mrs B didnt  provide any further  comments on this point  so Ive seen no reason to 
change my thoughts  on this section and wont be ordering RBS to refund any charges.
Trying to log into internet  banking  in April 2013 and RBS saying Mr B may have forgotten  his 
password which  he found rude
Mr and Mrs B didnt  provide any further  comments on this point  so Ive seen no reason to 
change my thoughts  on this section and cant say RBS have acted inappropriately.
Having to go into branch as RBS didnt answer  their phone on many occasions
Mr and Mrs B said in this section they werent told by RBS that phone calls were  now being  
handled centrally.
As I said in my provisional decision its possible  in the absence of having  information to 
know exactly what happened  that RBS hadnt  done enough here.  So, Id consider in the 
putting things right  section whether  they needed to do more on this point.
Poor service received in relation to travellers cheques
Mr and Mrs B didnt  provide any further  comments on this section. So this still comes down 
to RBS procedures  which I cant interfere with  and accepting what  theyve said at face 
value, I think it was an unfortunate comment by RBS cashier.
Disappointed and frustrated by RBS security and fraud prevention measures
In this section I addressed  the following:
Phishing email  RBS wont usually  contact a customer whos alerted them to this 
unless theres a risk. RBS said there  was no risk at this point.
Attempted fraudulent  transaction   RBS said they did try and contact Mr and Mrs B 
on the phone, before he got in touch. And no fraudulent transactions  were 
successfully carried out.
Security questions  RBS provided a substantial  response to the concerns Mr and 
Mrs B raised here. Amongst them, they explained they couldnt establish how the 
attempted fraud had happened.
Ref: DRN616585811Unhappy with how they were spoken  to in branch   RBS apologised for this, saying 
they would  expect a manager to introduce themselves and provide a more  detailed 
explanation about  whether their standing  orders  and direct debits would be paid.
Counting the money  near the window   Again, RBS said sorry for how this was 
handled.
Concerns about being hacked again and subsequent conversations   RBS again 
said sorry for any failings and provided detailed explanations. And while  they 
understood Mr and Mrs B were concerned, RBS didnt advise them to cancel the trip, 
so they wouldnt  be prepared to refund any of the costs claimed for missing  it.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  provide any further  comments regarding the phishing  email.
In relation to the attempted fraudulent transaction Mr and Mrs B have said given the number 
of issues with RBS it seems reasonable to say theyre just saying theyve called.  I take on 
board their point, but as I said in my provisional  decision the key thing is the transactions  
were stopped. So, whether RBS did or didnt call wouldnt, in my view,  have  any impact on 
Mr and Mrs Bs case because theyve not been negatively  affected by what  happened  
because the transactions were stopped.
Mr and Mrs B didnt  say anything further  about the security questions section, or about the 
money being counted near a window. But did about how they were  spoken  to in the branch 
as the manager didnt  provide them with his name.  It was only at the end when the meeting 
was finished Mr and Mrs B asked for his name, and he produced his business  card.  I can 
see RBS said sorry for the branch managers  conduct overall, and I think  thats sufficient so I 
dont require them to do anymore here.
Mr and Mrs B also said the manager  couldnt  guarantee  the payments out of their account  
and it was this comment  by the manager  that was the fundamental reason for them  
cancelling the holiday. Mr and Mrs B said that if payments didnt go through  then that would  
have been a real worry. And while trying to quantify the cost of the trip is one thing, the direct 
consequences of the advice was the huge  amount  of stress and fear of being stuck  abroad 
with payments not going through. I do take on board all of Mr and Mrs Bs points.  But, I 
remain of the opinion it was their choice to cancel the trip. Theres no evidence RBS told 
them to cancel the trip, nor have Mr and Mrs B directly  said they did. I accept this has 
caused them  stress, and Im genuinely  sorry to hear that, but I dont think  RBS need to do 
anymore here.
Mr and Mrs B have  provided further comments about which  card was used to access the 
account for the attempted  fraudulent transactions and the information  given  here. They say 
RBS have ignored their concerns. Ive accepted, in my provisional decision,  that it seems  at 
times Mr and Mrs B have been  given poor service by RBS for these points. As Ive 
mentioned above,  its not my role to get an answer to every  question,  its to consider what  I 
think a fair outcome is for the issues raised.
CHAPS payment made  which Mr and Mrs B were charged for, but payment never received 
by the beneficiary  bank
Mr and Mrs Bs comments are incomplete  in this section  but theyve said RBS cashier 
checked the account details, and Mr Bs bank  confirmed  the details were  correct. So, I think 
theyre saying the payment should  be refunded  which  I can understand. I do take on board 
Mr and Mrs Bs points.  But, to uphold this element of their complaint Id have be satisfied  its 
more likely than not RBS made an error.  And, as I said previously,  I think  its possible the 
Ref: DRN616585812payment never reached Mr Bs other bank, or if it did theyve given him the wrong 
information. So I wont order RBS to refund this fee.
RBS ignores Mr and Mrs Bs complaints
Mr and Mrs B said while  RBS apologises  on many occasions they tie these apologies  to the 
compensation payments. But, there  are many more instances where  RBS have ignored 
issues, dismissed them out of hand, or just viewed them as a service issue.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Bs frustration with RBS but as Ive said above I cant  consider a 
complaint about  a complaint.
Putting things  right
Ive outlined my overall thoughts on what I thought RBS had to do to put things right in my 
provisional decision. Ive considered everything  Mr and Mrs B, as well as RBS, have said  
particularly around  how Mr and Mrs B have been made to feel by RBS and the overall stress 
theyve experienced.  
And having done so, I remain satisfied the compensation already paid to Mr and Mrs B is a 
far way to resolve  this complaint.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2021.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6165858