complaint
Mr A complains that Wilfred  T. Fry (Personal Financial Planning) Limited advised him to invest  in 
an unregulated  collective investment scheme  (UCIS) which was unsuitable for him.
background
Mr A was a client of Wilfred  T. Fry for a brief spell in the early nineties and then consistently 
between 2001  and 2014. It advised on and arranged numerous investments for him across this 
time and the two parties were  in regular communication. A non-exhaustive timeline of 
interactions and key communications is set out in my provisional findings  which  are attached  
below and form part of this final decision. 
Wilfred T. Fry categorised  Mr A as a retail client and predominantly provided  an advisory service 
as evidenced  by its own records from the time. 
In March 2009, Wilfred T. Fry sent its clients (including Mr A) an international bulletin that 
included a fact sheet on the EEA Life Settlements  Fund (the EEA Fund). In the same  month,  it 
identified a mis-match between how it had categorised  Mr As attitude to risk compared to how 
Mr A viewed the level of risk he was willing to take  particularly given Mr As objectives centred 
around retirement planning.  To rectify this, it agreed  that Mr As portfolio should  reflect  a 
conservative attitude to risk. It issued a recommendation report in April 2009 which categorised  
Mr A as a conservative investor. 
Following receipt of the EEA promotional material, Mr A asked Wilfred T. Fry if it would be a 
suitable addition to his portfolio. Wilfred  T. Fry determined the EEA Fund would be suitable for 
Mr A and issued a report in May 2009  recommending he invest $50,000 in the Fund. It 
described the Fund as medium risk  rating it three out of five. The covering email  told Mr A 
that the report was a mirror of his earlier  report in terms of attitude to risk, objectives and 
timescales with the only difference  being reference to the EEA fund  However, the report 
categorised Mr A as having an Adventurous  Plus  attitude to risk. It does not appear Mr As 
attention was drawn to this change. 
In October  2009, Wilfred T. Fry recommended Mr A make a second investment into the EEA 
Fund of $100,008.  He was categorised as having a conservative attitude to risk in the 
accompanying report.
In early February 2010, Mr A instructed Wilfred  T. Fry to invest  sales  proceeds from another 
fund into the EEA Fund  amounting to a further $120,188.04. Between receiving this instruction 
and the investment going live, the (then) Financial Services Authority (FSA) highlighted its 
concerns about  traded  life insurance policies (TLIPs) and how they had been marketed to 
investors. The day after this announcement, Wilfred  T. Fry sent Mr A an execution only form 
and referred to it as a compliance form while processing his investment. Wilfred T. Frys 
covering email did not explain  why it had opted  to process the investment as execution  only 
and Mr A was not required to confirm receipt  of or sign the form. 
On 1 March 2010,  the same day that Mr As third investment into the EEA Fund  went  live, 
Wilfred T. Fry wrote  to Mr A about  the potential problems with TLIPs. It highlighted that there  
was no evidence to suggest there was anything wrong with the EEA Fund  itself (which was 
based on such policies), but went  on to say that Mr A might want to reduce his exposure.  It sent 
a follow  up email to Mr A a few weeks later setting out the key risks highlighted by the FSA. It 
repeated that there were  no concerns with the Fund  itself, but it would feel more  comfortable if 
Mr A reduced its exposure. 
Mr A asked whether  Wilfred T. Fry still considered the Fund  as low risk and asked for a 
proposal for re-allocation  of the funds into conservative income  producing investments as he 
was wary  of the equity market. In response,  Wilfred T. Fry sent a recommendation report  
recommending he reduce  his exposure to the EEA Fund by $200,000  Mr A was categorised 
as a conservative investor.  Wilfred T. Fry recommended that Mr A continue  to keep some funds 
Ref: DRN6590352in the EEA Fund. Mr A did not act on the recommendation report   he has since  said the 
recommendations were  heavily weighted towards  equities and his investment strategy since  
before April 2009 was to invest  in non equity-based funds. He has also explained he was happy 
with the performance  of the EEA Fund and as Wilfred T. Fry had not, in his opinion, raised 
concerns with the Fund itself, he opted to keep his portfolio as it was. 
In August  2010,  Mr A met with Wilfred T. Fry and discussed the EEA Fund. Mr A says he recalls  
Wilfred T. Fry telling him to stick with the Fund and that it did not have  any concerns with the 
Fund itself.  But the notes  from the time also suggest that Mr A was told he had too much  in the 
Fund and an element  of caution must be considered. The notes went  on to say that illiquidity 
was a factor and that Mr A took the points on board. Shortly after the meeting,  Mr A invested  in 
the EEA Fund for a fourth time  amounting to an additional investment of $42,670.72. 
Wilfred T. Fry processed the investment but in doing so it told Mr A that investing  for a fourth 
time was against its advice and that the additional  investment would  be processed on an 
execution only basis. 
At the end of August  2010, Wilfred  T. Fry provided  an update  on the EEA Fund which  cited three 
key areas  of concern. It informed investors, including  Mr A, that the time to move  on had now 
arrived.  Mr A did not reduce his holding in the Fund  following  this update.  
In December 2011, Wilfred  T. Fry wrote to inform  Mr A that the EEA Fund had been suspended. 
The Fund remained suspended until 2013. At this time investors could choose to either remain 
invested via continuing shares or to gradually redeem their investment by placing their funds into 
run off. Mr A, under advice from his new financial adviser, decided  to keep 60% of his funds 
invested and opted for 40% to be placed  in run off. 
Following an announcement from the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA)  in September 2014, Mr 
A brought  a complaint to our service.  In summary,  he complained that Wilfred  T. Fry failed to 
make him aware of the risks associated with UCISs and that its advice to invest was unsuitable. 
He says he was nothing more than a conservative, retail investor. 
I issued provisional  findings on this complaint in November  2019. Having considered  all of the 
evidence provided  from both parties I upheld the complaint  in part. 
I concluded that Wilfred T. Fry had breached its regulatory duties in promoting a UCIS to a retail 
investor. I also concluded that its recommendations in April and October 2009 were unsuitable 
when Mr As attitude to risk and investment objectives were  taken into account. I did not agree 
with Mr As assertion that the third investment was recommended to him. He was sent and 
seems to have received  an execution only notice that I believed he had the capacity to 
understand and he was not provided  with a recommendation report  which  was Wilfred T. Frys  
usual practice when recommending its clients invest. However, I did not think  it was fair or 
reasonable to conclude  that investment three  should  be considered in a vacuum or that the 
presence of an execution only notice automatically alleviated  Wilfred T. Fry of any responsibility. 
I found that Mr A only became aware of the EEA Fund as a result of Wilfred T. Frys  actions in 
early 2009  and without this, or its subsequent recommendations, I did not think  Mr A wouldve 
approached Wilfred  T. Fry in February 2010 and asked it to invest in the EEA Fund. I also 
commented that the third investment was made before Wilfred T. Fry had communicated any 
concerns to Mr A about the EEA Fund or its (lack  of) suitability for him. I concluded that any 
losses from investment three  were  a consequence  of Wilfred T. Frys  previous failings when 
promoting a UCIS to a retail client and providing  unsuitable advice the year prior.
In late March 2010, Wilfred  T. Fry recommended Mr A withdraw  $200,000 from the EEA Fund  to 
reduce his exposure given the risks it and the regulator had communicated  to him. Mr A chose 
not to follow  this advice and instead kept his full holding in the Fund. As a result, I concluded 
that Wilfred  T. Frys  advice to withdraw  funds  should  be taken into account  when calculating 
compensation. In practical terms, this means removing $200,000 from the calculation as of 25 
Ref: DRN6590352March 2010 when Mr A received the report and chose not to follow  the advice to reduce the risk 
his money was exposed  to. 
Mr As representatives said they did not think they could reasonably hold Wilfred T. Fry 
responsible for the fourth investment and I agreed. By the time Mr A chose  to make his fourth 
investment into the Fund he had been  made  aware of the regulators concerns with TLIPs and 
Wilfred T. Fry had told him to reduce his exposure by $200,000. He was also aware that Wilfred  
T. Fry no longer recommended the Fund to its clients, that there  was the potential  for significant 
capital loss  and that investing for a fourth time would be against its advice. So in contrast to 
investment three, I did not believe that Mr As decision  to invest  for a fourth time was a direct 
consequence of Wilfred  T. Frys  previous errors. And instead,  any losses that flow from 
investment four are a consequence of Mr As decision to go against the advice of his financial 
adviser and with the knowledge that the regulator  had broad concerns with the underlying 
investment. 
I also reached a finding  on Mr As actions once the fund suspension was lifted. As a result of 
Wilfred T. Frys failings in 2009 and on-going recommendation  reports  up until the Fund was 
suspended, Mr A would  always  have had a portion of his portfolio invested  in the EEA Fund on 
the day it was suspended   irrespective of his move  to a new financial adviser. And he wouldve 
been unable  to take any steps to mitigate that position until the suspension was lifted in 2013  
and his funds  put into run off in 2014.  So I concluded that Wilfred T. Frys  liability did continue  
past 2014. 
However, Mr A chose to keep 60% of his investment in continuing  shares as he considered this 
would mitigate his position.  While  I could understand Mr As decision, it does mean that Mr A 
voluntarily kept his money exposed to the risks of the EEA Fund  despite  the warnings he had 
received. As the decision to keep 60% of his money  in continuing shares  was made  following 
advice from a new adviser and Mr A seemed  content with this decision,  I concluded  that it would 
not be fair or reasonable to hold Wilfred T. Fry liable for this portion of the investment (60%)  
from the date the new advice  was implemented in 2014.  
In calculating the compensation, I felt it important  to take into account  Mr As well documented 
aversion to equity  investments. Accordingly,  I recommended the FTSE All Stocks  Gilts Index as 
the benchmark. I considered this to be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared to take 
some risk to get a higher  return whilst  limiting  their exposure to the equities  market. 
 
Wilfred T. Fry responded to my provisional findings  to say they would accept the 
recommendation but would seek to pay the compensation in dollars as it was a dollar-based 
investment with redemptions being calculated and paid in dollars.  
Mr A responded to say that he wanted to be paid the compensation  in sterling as he did not 
want to be subject to any fees when converting the payment from dollars to sterling. He also set 
out that he disagreed with my decision to exclude  the continuing shares selected in 2014  from 
the calculation.  He explained  that in having  continuing  shares, he would receive  redemptions  
every three months (if cash was available)  and if the holder was at the top of the queue,  the full 
amount would be redeemed. But with run off shares, any redemption is equally shared amongst 
all run off shares. Mr A says that as a result of his decision,  his continuing shares  have now 
been substantially  redeemed but that he will probably have to wait several  more  years for the 
run off share  redemptions  to be completed. He did not think this point had been  fully addressed 
in my provisional findings. 
Neither party disagreed or provided  any more  comments on my core conclusions  that Wilfred  T. 
Fry was responsible for the losses that flowed  from its actions in 2009 but that it could not 
reasonably be held responsible for Mr As decision not to reduce his exposure in March 2010 or 
his fourth  investment in August of that year. 
As both parties have  responded  and the deadline set out in my provisional  findings has now 
passed, it is appropriate for me to issue my final decision on this complaint. 
Ref: DRN6590352my findings
I have carefully reconsidered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it in part. I have set 
out my reasoning  below  and attached my provisional decision which  forms part of this final 
decision. 
I provisionally upheld  Mr As complaint in relation to investment  one, two and three  with detailed 
rationale as to why set out in my provisional decision. I did not uphold  Mr As complaint in 
relation to investment four, with reasons for that conclusion also set out in my provisional 
decision. As neither party has disagreed with my provisional findings and having reconsidered 
all the available  evidence  on this complaint, I see no reason to deviate from that decision. So it 
follows that I uphold  Mr As complaint in relation to investments  one, two and three.  
I set out in my provisional decision that I intended to reflect Wilfred T. Frys advice  in March 
2010 that Mr A should reduce his exposure in the Fund by $200,000. As neither party disagreed  
with this provisional finding,  I see no reason to reach  a different conclusion. So it follows that the 
compensation I set out below, will take into account  the advice that Mr A remove $200,000 in 
March 2010 and that he chose not to do so. 
While neither party disagreed with the substantive findings set out in my provisional decision, 
Mr A did not agree  with my assessment of his actions after the fund suspension was lifted. So I 
have gone on to consider that further  below. 
Mr As investment decisions post fund  suspension
Mr A has explained why he chose to leave 60% of his funds  in continuing shares  in 2014. 
I can fully appreciate why Mr A chose to do what he did  including his rationale around  
redemptions. However, while Mr A has said this decision has enabled him to substantially 
redeem his continuing shares, this does not change  my provisional findings. 
In choosing to leave 60% of his investment in continuing shares,  Mr A was choosing to keep his 
money exposed to the risks associated with this Fund. Mr A made  this choice after being notified  
by the regulator and his prior financial adviser  of the risks associated  with TLIPs  and that he 
should remove his holdings from the Fund. So I do not think  it would be fair or reasonable to 
hold Wilfred T. Fry responsible for any losses associated with the portion of Mr As investment 
that he chose  to place in continuing shares  in 2014. 
I remain of the opinion that Wilfred T. Fry is responsible for any losses associated  with the 40% 
Mr A put into run off shares in 2014. This was Mr As first opportunity to remove his monies from 
the Fund given that Wilfred  T. Fry continued  to recommend he have a small holding in the fund 
up until it was suspended in 2011. He was unable to mitigate  this position until 2014 and his 
only route to remove his investment from the Fund was to place his shares into run off. So it 
follows that Wilfred T. Fry would  continue  to be responsible for any losses that flow from this 
portion of his investment. 
Having carefully considered the parties  respective  responses to my provisional decision,  I 
remain of the opinion that I am partially  upholding it. I have  set out below  the steps Wilfred T. 
Fry should take to compensate Mr A. 
Fair compensation
In determining what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr A
as close to the position he would  probably now be in if he had not been  given unsuitable
advice. In doing so, I intend to take into account:
Wilfred T. Frys advice that Mr A remove $200,000 from the fund;
Mr As decision to invest  for a fourth time against  Wilfred  T. Frys advice; 
Ref: DRN6590352That this was a dollar based  investment and
The decisions Mr A implemented on 1 January  2014 as a result of his new IFA  this
means there  are two calculations.
If Mr A was not given  unsuitable advice, I think he would have invested  differently. It is not
possible to say precisely what he would have done,  but I am satisfied that what  I have  set
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Mr As circumstances and objectives when he
invested.
What should Wilfred T. Fry do?
To compensate Mr A fairly,  Wilfred T. Fry must:
Compare the performance of Mr As investment with that of the benchmark  shown
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the
investment. If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is
payable.
Wilfred T. Fry should  also pay interest  as set out below.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Calculation one
This includes all investments into the EEA Fund  made up to and including  25 March  2010:
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
EEA Life 
Settlements 
FundStill exists* FTSE All
Stocks  Gilts 
Indexdate of all 
investments 
made up to 
and including 
25 March
2010date of the 
advice  to sell
 25 March
2010.8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
* Mr A has submitted a redemption request for his full holdings in the EEA fund. But to my knowledge, he is yet
to receive his final redemption payment. For this reason, I have  recorded the status as still exists.
Actual value
This means  the actual value of the investment on 25 March 2010  relating solely  to the
amounts invested  up to and including that date.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth on 25 March 2010  had it produced a
return using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr A paid into the investment up to and including this date should be
added to the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment before 25 March 2010
should be deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it
ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if
Wilfred T. Fry totals all those payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead of
deducting periodically.
Ref: DRN6590352Calculation two
To cover the amount  of Mr As investments made  after the 25 March 2010.  For clarity this
excludes the $200,000  as of 25 March 2010 and the fourth  investment. The calculation also
includes a reduction  from 1 January 2014  of 60% of Mr As investment.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
EEA Life 
Settlements 
FundStill exists* FTSE All
Stocks  Gilts 
Index25 March
2010date of my 
decision.8% simple  per 
year on any 
loss from the 
end date to the 
date of 
settlement
* Mr A has submitted a redemption request for his full holdings in the EEA fund. But to my knowledge, he is yet to 
receive his final redemption payment. For this reason,  I have  recorded the status as still exists.
Actual value
This means  the actual value of the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
Less $200,000  that Wilfred  T. Fry recommended he withdraw on 25 March 2010;
Less the value  of investment four; and
Less 60% of Mr As investment from 1 January 2014.
Any additional sum that Mr A paid into the investment should  be added to the fair value
calculation at the point it was actually  paid in. This excludes any payments in connection
with the $200,000 Mr A was recommended to remove from 25 March  2010, the fourth
investment or his continuing 60% investment from 1 January 2014.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should be deducted from the
fair value  calculation at the point it was actually paid (up to and including the date of
settlement) so it ceases  to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
Wilfred T. Fry should  not deduct any payments related to the $200,000 Mr A was
recommended to remove, the fourth  investment or his continuing  60% investment from
1 January 2014.
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if
Wilfred T. Fry totals all those payments and deducts  that figure at the end instead of
deducting periodically.
If, after following these steps, Wilfred  T. Fry identifies a loss in calculation  one, it should  add
this to any loss identified in calculation two. Similarly, if calculation  two results in Mr A
making a profit, any loss identified in calculation  one can be offset  against  this.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted income with some growth and was willing to accept some  investment
risk.
Ref: DRN6590352The FTSE All Stocks Gilts Index  is an index of all non-index linked UK gilts. It would
be a fair measure for someone who was prepared  to take some risk to get a higher
return whilst  limiting their exposure to the equities market.
The additional interest is for being  deprived  of the use of any compensation money
since the end date.
I do not think it would be fair to allow Wilfred  T. Fry to benefit from any redemption
payments Mr A received on his 60% continuing  investment  post 1 January 2014 so I
have not made any provisions for it to do so in these calculations.  This flows from my
decision to cap its liability in 2014 to the 40% that remained invested.
Mr A has requested that the compensation be paid in sterling as he does not want  to be subject 
to any fees when converting  the currency. However,  as this was a dollar based investment, and 
redemptions were paid in dollars,  Wilfred T. Fry has said it will pay the compensation in dollars.  
As Mr A would always have received dollars from this fund, I am not going  to direct Wilfred T. 
Fry to pay the compensation in sterling.  
My Final  decision
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs  that I consider appropriate. If
I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000,  I may recommend that Wilfred  T. Fry
(Personal Planning) Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award: I uphold the complaint  in regard to investment one, two and
three. I consider that fair compensation  should be calculated as set out above.  My
final decision  is that Wilfred T. Fry (Personal Planning) Limited should pay the amount
produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000 plus any interest set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation exceeds
£150,000, I recommend that Wilfred T. Fry (Personal Planning) Limited pays Mr A the
balance plus any interest on the balance as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Lucy Wilson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6590352Copy Provisional Decision
Complaint
Mr A complains that Wilfred T. Fry (Personal Financial  Planning) Limited  advised  him to invest  in an 
unregulated collective investment scheme (UCIS) which was unsuitable for him.
Timeline and background  to the complaint
Mr A was a client of Wilfred T. Fry for many years. It advised on and arranged numerous investments for 
him, and the two parties communicated regularly  across  this time. Both parties have  pointed to these 
interactions in order to add context to their submissions. So, in order to provide  clarity to the events that 
have led to this complaint  being  made and the interactions between the two parties,  I have put together 
the below timeline.
This is not an all-encompassing representation of the dealings between Mr A and Wilfred T. Fry. 
Instead, it details what I consider to be the key events that have led us to today as well as relevant  
pieces of correspondence that help illustrate  the relationship and interactions between the two parties.
                                 conservativeit would seem reasonable to now look at a portfolio  that
fits into a conservative strategy.
It is unclear what caused  Wilfred T. Fry to identify this mis-match. But having  
done so, it emailed Mr A to say that as his objectives had his retirement in mind 
(which he was initially aiming to do within  two years of March  2009), his portfolio  
should be amended to reflect his conservative objectives and attitude to risk.
14 April 2009 Wilfred T. Fry sent a recommendation  report to Mr A. The reason given for the 
report was Review of portfolio to assess income  provision  and risk profile. 
The report categorised Mr A as having a conservative  attitude to risk and did 
not include the EEA Fund.
At the time, Wilfred T. Fry defined  conservative  as:
A balanced portfolio giving exposure to all asset classes with a view to 
accepting some short-term volatility  to give access to higher returns.
19 April 2009 Mr A emailed  Wilfred T. Fry, referred to the international bulletin and asked 
if the EEA Fund  would be a suitable addition  to his portfolio.
5 May 2009 Wilfred T. Fry emailed Mr A and enclosed  a new recommendation report  
recommending he invest $50,000 in the EEA Fund which  it described as
medium risk  rating it three out of five.
The covering email told Mr A that the report was a mirror of his earlier  report  in 
terms of attitude  to risk, objectives and timescales with the only difference being 
reference to the EEA Fund and its tax treatment. The report categorised Mr A 
as having an Adventurous Plus attitude  to risk.
Adventurous plus was defined by Wilfred T. Fry at the time as:
I/we will accept higher  risks for higher returns with associated ongoing 
volatility. The portfolio will have significant exposure to equities and similar  
assets.
1 July 2009 Mr As first investment  in the EEA Fund went live, following Wilfred  T. Frys 
recommendation report dated 5 May 2009.
15 October
2009Mr A asked Wilfred T. Fry to make  a second investment  into the EEA Fund 
of $100,008.
Ref: DRN659035215 October
2009Wilfred T. Fry sent Mr A a recommendation  report that included the 
recommendation that he increase his holdings in the EEA Fund. Mr A was 
categorised as having a conservative  attitude to risk in that report.
1 December
2009Mr As second  investment  in the EEA Fund went live, following Wilfred T. Frys 
recommendation report dated 15 October 2009.
23 December
2009Another recommendation report was produced due to additional investments 
placed into existing  funds. Mr A was categorised as having  a
conservative attitude to risk in that report.
9 February
2010Mr A instructed Wilfred T. Fry to invest his sales proceeds from another fund 
into the EEA Fund   amounting to a further $120,188.04.
24 February
2010The (then) Financial Services  Authority  (FSA)  highlighted  its concerns about  
traded life insurance policies (TLIPs) and how they had been marketed  to 
investors.
25 February
2010Wilfred T. Fry sent Mr A an execution  only form and referred to it as a
compliance form while processing  his third investment. Wilfred T. Frys 
covering email didnt explain why it opted to process the investment as
execution only rather than compiling a recommendation report. Mr A
wasnt required to confirm  receipt  of this note nor did he need  to sign it.
1 March 2010 Mr As third investment in the EEA Fund went live, following his email of
9 February 2010.
1 March 2010 Wilfred T. Fry wrote to Mr A about the potential problems with TLIPs. It
highlighted that, while  there was no evidence  to suggest there was anything 
wrong with the EEA Fund (which was based on such policies), Mr A might want 
to reduce his exposure.
17 March
2010A follow up email was sent to Mr A to set out the key risks highlighted  by
the FSA. Wilfred T. Fry did say that there are no concerns  with the fund itself. 
But notwithstanding that, it went on to say that it would feel more comfortable if 
Mr A reduced his exposure.
17 March
2010Mr A emailed  Wilfred T. Fry asking, This fund was recommended by you
as low risk is this still your view? In a follow up email the same day,
Mr A asked for a proposal for re-allocation  of the funds into conservative,  income  
producing investments as he was still wary  of the equity market.
25 March
2010Wilfred T. Fry sent a recommendation  report (dated 23 March 2010)
recommending he reduce  his exposure to the EEA Fund by $200,000. The 
reason behind the report was the reinvestment of a portion of Mr As existing 
EEA Fund  holdings. Mr A was categorised  as having a
conservative attitude to risk in that report. The recommendations were  not 
acted on.
Mr A told us he was unhappy with the recommendations  given as he considered  
them heavily weighted towards equities. He explained that his investment 
strategy since before  April 2009 was to invest in non-equity- based funds so as to 
avoid market  volatility. He also explained  he was happy with the performance of 
the EEA Fund  and as Wilfred T. Fry had not, in his opinion, raised  concerns  with 
the fund itself, he opted  to keep his portfolio  as it was.
Mr A didnt communicate his rejection of the 25 March  2010  recommendation 
to Wilfred T. Fry nor did he ask for alternative funds to be recommended.  
Instead, he remained invested  in the EEA Fund.
Ref: DRN659035217 August
2010Mr A met with Wilfred T. Fry and discussed the EEA Fund. Notes were
made by Wilfred T. Fry and Ive quoted  the key sections below:
He is very happy with the performance of EEA
I brought him up to date with the current position  on recommending non FSA 
authorised funds. I explained  that we cannot recommend them and EEA and 
Aurum fall into this category. I said that provided he is comfortable with EEA then 
he should keep it but I emphasised that we have  reservations that there is too 
much in this one fund and whilst all the attributes of the EEA Fund seem to say 
stay with it, an element of caution must be considered and illiquidity is always a 
factor that could come into play in the future.  He took these points on board
I updated Mr As risk profiling and he confirmed that he falls into the 
conservative category.
Mr A says he recalls  Wilfred T. Fry telling  him to stick with the Fund and that it 
didnt have any concerns with the Fund itself. He suggests that one of the 
advisers talked about how much he liked the Fund.
19 August
2010Mr A emailed  a request to invest in the EEA Fund for a fourth time 
amounting to an additional  investment of $42,670.72.
20 August
2010Wilfred T. Fry emailed to let Mr A know  that investing for a fourth  time in
the EEA Fund  was against its advice and that the additional  investment would  
be processed on an execution  only basis.
31 August
2010Wilfred T. Fry provided an update on the EEA Fund  citing three key
risks/areas of concern.  It informed  investors that the time to move on has 
now arrived.
1 September
2010Mr As fourth investment  in the EEA Fund went  live, following his email of
19 August 2010.
6 November
2010Mr A emailed  Wilfred T. Fry requesting alternative recommendations for a
large proportion of his existing EEA holdings.  The recommendations
were not acted on. Mr A said his concern  was the ability of the alternative 
investments to match the performance of the EEA Fund  while staying  away from 
equities.
17 April 2011 Wilfred T. Fry generated  a recommendation  report for the purposes  of a
financial review. Mr A was categorised as having a conservative attitude  to risk 
in that report.
22 November
2011In response to a query from Mr A, Wilfred  T. Fry said it had no concerns
with the EEA fund itself but now steered clear of UCIS.
8 December
2011Wilfred T. Fry wrote to inform Mr A that the EEA Fund had been
suspended.
The fund remained  suspended  until 2013. At this time, investors were provided with the option of 
either remaining  invested via its continuing shares or to gradually redeem their investment by placing 
their funds in run off. Mr A, with the help of his new financial adviser, decided  to keep 60% of his 
funds invested and opted for 40% to be placed in run off.
Following an announcement from the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) in September  2014 that 
investors in TLIPs may wish to make  a complaint  if they believe they were  mis-sold  the investment, Mr 
A registered  a complaint with Wilfred  T. Fry and this Service. In summary, he complained that Wilfred 
T. Fry failed  to make  him aware  of the risks associated with UCIS and that its advice  to invest was 
unsuitable. He says that he was nothing more  than a conservative investor.
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and concluded that the first two recommendations  were  
unsuitable for Mr A and that he had only invested for a third time due to the previous unsuitable 
advice. He didnt uphold Mr As complaint about the fourth  investment as he was satisfied Wilfred T. 
Fry had made it clear  that the investment  would be against its advice.
Ref: DRN6590352To compensate Mr A, the adjudicator recommended that Wilfred T. Fry compare the EEA fund 
against the then FTSE WMA  Stock Market Income Total Return Index. But that it was allowed  to 
remove $200,000 from the calculation because  it suggested Mr A remove that amount on 23 March  
2010.
Wilfred T. Fry disagreed with the outcome and suggested benchmark used by the 
adjudicator for several reasons. In summary, it said:
It didnt think that its initial recommendation  was necessarily unsuitable  as the EEA
Fund made up a small part of Mr As wider portfolio and it matched his request for a non- 
equity-based dollar investment;
While  it recognised that Mr A was a retail  investor,  it believed that he fell into one or two of the 
exemptions to the rules  that concerned  the promotion of UCIS;
It considered the second recommendation an endorsement of Mr As request to invest 
further money into the fund;
It maintained the third investment into the EEA Fund was execution  only so it doesnt 
consider it is responsible  for any losses that flowed from the money invested on that 
occasion.
Mr A acted  against its advice by selling some  of his portfolio (funds it previously 
recommended) and reduced the diversification it had created by investing  the proceeds  into 
the EEA Fund;
It agreed that it should be given  credit for its positive advice to Mr A to remove $200,000  but it 
didnt consider  the benchmark chosen by the adjudicator to be a fair method of compensation. 
It points to Mr As aversion to equity markets and suggested  a benchmark  heavily weighted 
towards bonds and cash;
It thought Mr A missed opportunities to mitigate his losses  both in March 2010 when it 
recommended he remove $200,000  and in 2013 when the suspension of the EEA Fund was 
lifted. So, it wanted this to be taken into account should  the case be upheld.
As the complaint couldnt  be resolved, its been passed to me for a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive carefully considered all of the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend to uphold the complaint 
in part. Ive set out my reasoning  below.
The EEA fund is a UCIS  this is accepted by both parties. A UCIS  is an investment that isnt regulated 
or authorised  by the FCA (then FSA at the time of investment). So it isnt subject to the same 
requirements as a regulated  collective investment scheme  for example, restrictions on the types and 
spread of assets it contains. And it cant usually be recommended or promoted to an ordinary retail 
investor.
Wilfred T. Fry accepts that it sent an international bulletin in April 2009 which contained  a promotion  
relating to the EEA Fund. I can also see from an email it sent in March  2009 that it had added  the 
Fund and other  UCIS to its recommended list.
Section 238 of the Financial Services and Markets  Act (FSMA) prohibits the promotion  of
UCIS to the general public;  unless  an investor falls within certain exemptions.
Wilfred T. Fry has already  told this service  that it accepts Mr A was a retail client (this is additionally 
supported by its Terms of Business documents). It also acknowledges that it doesnt  have any 
documentation from the time to show that it discussed the exemptions with Mr A or that it satisfied 
itself that he fell within one of them.  As its not been able to provide evidence on this point, I think its 
reasonable to conclude that it didnt  take steps at the time to ensure  that it was permitted to promote 
this Fund to Mr A. But Ive gone on to consider whether  this breach  made  a difference.
Wilfred T. Fry has suggested  that Mr A could have been categorised as falling  within two of the eight  
exemptions relevant  at the time (Rule  4.12 COBS). The first being:
Ref: DRN6590352a person  who is already  a participant in an unregulated collective investment scheme; or a person 
who has been, in the last 30 months,  a participant in an unregulated  investment scheme.
However, Wilfred T. Fry hasnt  been able to provide  any persuasive evidence  that Mr A had prior 
experience of UCIS before investing in the EEA Fund, so I dont agree that it can be reasonably  
argued that he fell within this exemption.
The second  is:
a person  in relation  to whom the firm has undertaken an adequate assessment of his expertise, 
experience and knowledge and that assessment  gives reasonable assurance, in light of the nature 
of the transactions or services envisaged,  that the person  is capable of making his own investment  
decisions and understanding  the risks involved.
Wilfred T. Fry has spent  time showing this service  how Mr A proactively tracked his investments to 
suggest that Mr A was a sophisticated investor, capable of making his own investment decisions 
and understanding the risks involved.
While I accept that Mr A had been  investing for some time by 2009,  he hadnt invested in something 
as complex and as speculative as a UCIS and the vast majority of his investments were made 
because of his reliance on financial advice.  I also havent seen  any evidence that the advisor took 
time to undertake an adequate assessment of Mr As expertise, experience  or knowledge  prior to 
introducing him to the EEA Fund. So, I dont think Mr As prior investments and keen interest in the 
performance of his portfolio means he had enough knowledge and investment experience to 
understand the risk associated with investing  in a UCIS or that Wilfred T. Fry had satisfied itself that 
this was the case.
I also havent seen any evidence  to suggest the remaining exemptions could have applied  to
Mr A. So, I do think Wilfred T. Fry breached its regulatory duties  in promoting the EEA fund to Mr A. 
Im not persuaded  Mr A wouldve pursued the Fund independently had this not happened, not least  
because he was unaware of it. It was the promotion  by Wilfred T Fry that made  Mr A aware of the 
fund and started  the chain of events that have led us to the where we are today.
As Ive found  Wilfred T. Fry breached its regulatory duties towards  Mr A, I could stop here and look 
at the remedies afforded to Mr A in such a scenario. But Wilfred T. Fry went  on to recommend this 
Fund to Mr A on two occasions  so Ive gone  on to consider this next.
Investment  one  recommended in May 2009
Both parties agree that advice was provided in the run up to investment one. This is also 
supported by the recommendation report generated in May 2009 and the Services and Costs 
Disclosure Document which says:
We will advise and make recommendations for you after we have assessed your needs.
At the time, the relevant  rule (COB 9.2) required Wilfred T. Fry to take reasonable steps to ensure 
that a personal recommendation  was suitable for its client. It also required Wilfred T. Fry to:
obtain from the client  such information  as is necessary for the firm to understand the essential 
facts about him and have a reasonable basis for believing that the specific transaction to be 
recommended, or entered into in the course of managing:
(a) meets  his investment  objectives;
(b) is such that he is able financially to bear any related  investment risks consistent with his 
investment objectives; and
(c) is such  that he has the necessary experience  and knowledge in order to understand the risks 
involved in the transaction or in the management  of his portfolio.
So, Wilfred T. Fry needed  to gather enough information to ensure Mr As needs,  objectives  and 
attitude to risk were  understood and then tailor its recommendation accordingly.
Ref: DRN6590352To decide whether  Wilfred T. Frys advice  was suitable, I need to consider what  Mr As needs, 
objectives and attitude to risk were at the time.
Ive been provided with significant amounts of contemporaneous documentation from both parties. 
This documents Mr As own opinions  as to his needs and risk appetite  in the lead up to this 
recommendation, as well as the perspective of Wilfred  T. Fry.
Throughout his relationship with Wilfred  T. Fry, and his communication with us and his other financial 
advisers, Mr A has consistently referred to himself  as a retail investor who,  while  planning for 
retirement, had a conservative attitude  to risk.
While its clear Mr A actively followed his investments  and was willing to take some risk with his 
money, this wasnt without  caution - his wariness  of volatile markets/investments is well documented.  
Ive seen emails  between  the parties dating as far back as late 2008 in which  Mr A speaks of his 
nervousness of the stock  market since the financial crisis that occurred that year; a theme that 
seemed to influence his investment decisions  throughout the rest of Mr As time with Wilfred T. Fry. 
Mr A often rejected recommendations  that seemed  weighted towards equities in favour of different 
asset classes  that he perceived to be less volatile.  Mr A also regularly spoke of his impending 
retirement being an influence behind his investment  decisions.
The vast majority of Wilfred  T. Frys  documentation  mirrors this, with most of its 
recommendation reports prior to and after the May 2009 advice categorising Mr A as
conservative. His objectives  consistently captured his desire to create a tax efficient  portfolio of 
assets in the run up to retirement, producing growth over the period and then to deliver retirement  
income.
Taking into account Mr As documented aversion  to volatile markets, his consistent objective of 
planning for retirement and the contemporaneous notes from both parties in 2009 categorising him as 
having a conservative attitude to risk, Im satisfied  that Mr A was a conservative investor. Im not 
persuaded by Wilfred  T. Frys argument that Mr As interest in tracking his investments speaks to him 
wanting to take additional  risk with his money  particularly as the majority  of its own documentation 
also classified Mr A as having a conservative  attitude to risk.
In March  2009, a discrepancy between Mr As self-perceived appetite to risk versus Wilfred T. Frys 
categorisation was identified.  In an email  to Mr A, Wilfred T. Fry noted  that its risk categorisation had 
recorded Mr A as having an adventurous plus attitude to risk  one of its highest categories.  But it 
noted that Mr A referred to himself as conservative. And it agreed that, as his objectives  centred 
predominantly on retirement planning (which  it recorded as being  between one or two years away), his 
portfolio strategy should  be conservative.  This is how his attitude to risk was categorised in the April 
2009 recommendation  report.
Despite the correspondence  in March and April, the May 2009 recommendation report recorded Mr A 
as having an adventurous plus attitude to risk and his anticipated retirement date was pushed back to 
2013. Its unclear why these changes were made or why Wilfred T. Fry thought Mr As attitude to risk 
and retirement plans  had changed so substantially in the space of a month.  I can also see that despite 
amending Mr As appetite to risk from conservative  (from  the April 09 report)  to adventurous  plus (in 
the May 09 report), Wilfred T. Fry emailed  Mr A to tell him that the only difference  to the 
recommendation was that it now included  the EEA Fund and that everything else, including his attitude 
to risk, mirrored that recorded in the earlier report. From reading the two reports, this was an 
inaccurate statement  to make.
Mr A didnt comment  on the change  to his attitude to risk. But given what Wilfred T. Fry had said about 
the report  mirroring the categorisation issued  in April, his attention may not have been drawn  to the 
change  particularly as all subsequent recommendation reports returned to categorising Mr A as 
having a conservative attitude to risk.
The documentation from the time shows the EEA fund was presented to Mr A by Wilfred  T. Fry as 
being a medium  risk investment  rated three out of five for risk. The product  was described as being  
a stable long-term investment, removed from equity markets with growth  projections of 8% per 
annum. It was suggested that the asset class wouldnt be affected by the volatility experienced in 
other investments/markets and the promotional materials from the time (which were sent to Mr A) 
described the Fund as a low risk, uncorrelated investment solution which could  diversify portfolios  
to reduce risk but maintain  reward But this was a UCIS  - a complex product with inherent risks 
that wasnt  subject to the same restrictions as an FCA (then FSA) regulated collective scheme.
Ref: DRN6590352The regulator  has generally regarded UCIS as being characterised by a high degree of volatility, 
illiquidity or both. They  are usually regarded as speculative investments,  and in practice, rarely 
regarded as suitable for retail investors. In relation to the EEA Fund in particular,  given the nature 
of the underlying  product and its connection to advances in medical  science, accurately predicting 
its longevity was difficult and illiquidity would  be a constant risk factor. In addition to this, the Fund 
was based on US life policies and didnt have the usual  protections afforded to UK regulated 
investments. Im not satisfied that Wilfred  T. Fry adequately  took these risks into account when 
deciding to recommend this fund to Mr A.
Its not impossible  that a conservative portfolio could include a small element  of higher risk funds   as 
long as they are suitably offset  by low risk elements.  Wilfred T. Frys own reports  from the time 
suggest that an ideal portfolio for a conservative investor included 10% in higher risk funds. But the 
reports from the time show that the proposed portfolio mix being  recommended to Mr A included 40% 
and 48% of his portfolio  being invested in higher risk funds.  And while I accept  that the make-up  of 
each individual investors portfolio will be different, I think its clear  that Mr As portfolio didnt have 
enough low risk elements to hedge against the EEA fund or to bring  it in line with Mr As stated  risk 
profile. Nor do I think  Mr A was made adequately aware of the risks associated  with investing in a 
UCIS and more specifically, TLIPs.
As a result,  I intend to conclude that Wilfred T. Frys advice to Mr A to invest  $50,000 into the
EEA fund in May 2009 was unsuitable.  The fund represented a higher degree of risk than Mr A 
was willing to take with his money  and the nature  of the fund didnt  match his needs and objectives 
at the time.
Investment  two  recommended in October 2009
In October  2009, following an email from Mr A seeking to make another investment in the
EEA fund, Wilfred T. Fry recommended that he increase his exposure by a further $100,008.
Wilfred T. Fry has suggested  that as Mr A initiated this investment, it didnt provide advice and it 
has submitted  several arguments for this. But Im not persuaded  by these.
While Mr A initiated this investment, Wilfred T. Fry endorsed his decision by carrying out a suitability 
assessment and generating a recommendation report. The report  was accompanied by another  
Services and Costs Disclosure Document confirming  that Wilfred T. Fry was providing advice. The 
report itself says Wilfred T. Fry recommends Mr A top up his holdings  in the EEA Fund.  So Im 
satisfied that Wilfred T. Fry provided  advice  when facilitating this transaction.
In light of this, the same requirements  as those above apply to this investment  Wilfred  T. Fry had 
to ensure it gathered  enough  information about Mr As needs, objectives  and attitude to risk to allow 
it to tailor a suitable recommendation and it should not have
endorsed Mr As intentions to make further investment into the EEA Fund if it hadnt done this. 
Having carefully considered the second investment, I dont think  Wilfred T. Fry met its obligations on 
this occasion either.
I cant see that much,  if anything, had changed between May and October when it came to Mr As 
needs, circumstances  and objectives   other than the fact that Wilfred  T. Fry had returned to 
categorising Mr A as having a conservative  attitude  to risk. So, for the same reasons  Ive already 
given in regard to investment one, Im not persuaded this was a suitable  recommendation  which is a 
finding I think is only compounded  by the fact that the recommendation increased Mr As holding in the 
fund and reduced  the diversification of his portfolio.
Investment  three   February to March 2010
The parties  disagree  as to whether Wilfred T. Fry recommended Mr A to invest in the EEA
fund for a third time.
Mr A says he thought  he had an ongoing advisory  relationship with Wilfred T. Fry and that he was just 
adding to a fund that had already been recommended  as suitable for his needs and circumstances.
Wilfred T. Fry disputes that it provided  advice and has sent us the execution only notice it emailed  
to Mr A whilst the investment was going through.
Ref: DRN6590352Ive carefully considered the arguments from both parties, and while I can certainly see Mr As point, 
Im currently  minded to conclude that this was an execution only sale. Mr A prompted the 
investment by instructing  Wilfred T. Fry to increase his holding in the EEA fund. Wilfred  T. Fry 
carried out this instruction  without  compiling  a recommendation report, which was its usual  practice 
for advised sales, and didnt  provide any assurances that the additional investment was suitable  for 
Mr A and his wider portfolio.
The execution only notice it sent contained the following statement:
The following items have  been purchased  on your instructions without  the provision  of advice 
by us.
I accept  the notice didnt require Mr As signature, but this doesnt make the notice invalid.  From  what  
Ive seen of Mr As interactions with Wilfred  T. Fry, I think he was in a position to be able to 
understand the content of this notice  its wording  was relatively clear  and unlike Mr As other  
investments into the EEA fund, Wilfred T. Fry didnt  provide him with a recommendation report.  I can 
also see he replied to the email notifying him that the transaction would be execution only and that the 
notice was attached  so Im satisfied  Mr A received the notice.
Taking this all into account, I dont currently think that Wilfred T. Fry provided advice  in 
connection with the third investment.
Wilfred T. Fry doesnt think I should be commenting  on the execution only transactions  in this case as 
it didnt advise  Mr A to invest for the third and fourth time. But both advising  on investments and 
arranging (bringing  about)  deals in investment are regulated activities. So, Wilfred  T. Frys actions in 
arranging the third and fourth  investments  mean I can look at a complaint about  these transactions. I 
should also note that execution only is not a way around regulation as a means  to sell inappropriate 
investments whilst absolving oneself of any liability. So, I do intend to comment on both execution 
only sales.
Ive already concluded that Wilfred T. Fry didnt  give Mr A advice  in relation to the third investment. 
This means  that it didnt need to check if the investment was right for Mr A nor was it required to tell 
Mr A not to make the investment.
However, I need to consider whether Mr As decision to make the third investment  was wholly or 
mainly as a result of Wilfred  T. Frys  defective advice in relation to the first and second investments 
in 2009. Because if it was, then Wilfred T. Fry might be responsible for losses flowing from the 
investment even though Im concluding it didnt give advice on that occasion.
I am satisfied Mr A was only aware  of, and actively  involved in, the EEA fund due to Wilfred  T. Fry 
promoting it to him in early  2009 and subsequently advising him to invest. So, I dont think  it would be 
fair or reasonable to look at this investment in isolation.  And given Mr As well documented 
conservative attitude to risk and general  investment objectives, I find it highly unlikely  that he 
wouldve approached Wilfred  T. Fry in February 2010 out of the blue and instructed it to invest 
$120,000 into the EEA fund.
The fund was an unregulated and speculative  investment subject  to volatility  and illiquidity  the 
opposite of what Mr As recorded investment objectives and appetite to risk suggest  he wanted.  
Instead, Im persuaded that Mr As request to invest for a third time only happened because  Wilfred  T. 
Fry had incorrectly promoted and recommended the fund to Mr A previously. Ive also taken into 
account that the third investment was made before Wilfred T. Fry had communicated any concerns to 
Mr A about the EEA fund or its (lack of) suitability  for him.
Put simply, whilst I dont agree Mr A was entitled to believe he had an on-going advisory relationship  
with Wilfred  T. Fry, I am not persuaded  he would have invested in the EEA fund for a third time but for 
its actions  in 2009.
For this reason, Im not persuaded that the switch to execution only means I should  treat this 
investment as though it took place in a vacuum and disregard it when considering what compensation 
would be appropriate  for Wilfred T. Frys failings in March  and October 2009. Particularly  as the FSA 
had notified the industry of its major  concerns with TLIPs before  this investment went live and instead 
of sharing this knowledge with Mr A, Wilfred  T. Fry sent an execution  only notice and merely referred  
to it as a compliance  requirement.
Ref: DRN6590352Taking all of this into account, I intend to conclude  that any losses Mr A suffered from investment 
three, were  a consequence of Wilfred T. Frys previous  failings  when promoting  a UCIS to a retail 
client and providing unsuitable advice to Mr A in May and October 2009.
Wilfred  T. Frys advice to remove  $200,000 from the EEA Fund
In an email  on 17 March  2010, Wilfred T. Fry made Mr A aware of the regulators concerns with 
TLIPs. It also told him that it would feel more  comfortable if he reduced his exposure to the EEA fund.
Mr A received  and replied  to this email and asked for alternative  investments to be recommended. 
Wilfred T. Fry answered this request and emailed a recommendation report setting  out alternative 
investments eight days later.  It also recommended that he remove
$200,000 from the EEA fund. Mr A didnt take up the opportunity to remove his funds and instead 
remained invested in the EEA fund.
Mr A has explained  that, because  he was given assurances by Wilfred  T. Fry on the
1 March 2010  and 17 March  2010 that the EEA fund itself didnt  have any warning signs,  he was 
happy to remain invested due to the return  he was seeing. He has also explained that the alternative 
recommendations were equity based, so he didnt want to go ahead with them  given his concerns  
about the volatility of such markets.
Mr A was perfectly entitled  to remain  invested despite  the warnings  he had been provided with. 
But, it wouldnt be fair to hold Wilfred  T. Fry responsible  for that decision.
By 17 March  2010, Mr A was now equipped  with the knowledge that Wilfred T. Fry was no longer  
recommending the EEA fund, that the regulator viewed TLIPs as complex products with inherent 
risks (eight of which were specifically listed to Mr A) and that there was the potential for significant 
capital loss. This same  email suggested Mr A reduce his exposure  and in its follow up email 
containing the alternative recommendations, Mr A was told that Wilfred T. Fry recommended that he 
reinvest $200,000 elsewhere.
Mr A says that he was told there wasnt anything wrong  with the EEA fund at this stage, just wider 
concern about TLIPs. But Im satisfied that the correspondence  Wilfred T. Fry sent to Mr A in March 
2010 was sufficiently  detailed for him to know that it had changed its view of the EEA fund and that 
reducing his exposure was its recommended  course  of action. I accept  that it didnt highlight  specific 
problems with the EEA fund to Mr A at this stage, but as the EEA fund involved TLIPs, I think  Wilfred 
T. Fry did enough to put Mr A on notice that having a large exposure to the fund wasnt 
recommended.
So, taking  this into account,  I intend to conclude that the compensation I set out later in this decision 
reflects Mr As decision to remain fully invested despite  Wilfred T. Frys correspondence. In practice, 
this means removing $200,000 from the calculation  on 25 March 2010 to reflect  that Mr A was given 
sufficient opportunity to mitigate his losses by this date and he chose not to.
August  2010 - Investment  four
Mr As representatives  have  said they dont think they can reasonably  seek  to hold Wilfred T. Fry 
responsible for this investment, and I agree.
Mr A emailed  Wilfred T. Fry instructing it to make a further $42,670.72 investment into the EEA fund. 
In response, it sent Mr A an email containing an execution  only notice and made him aware that in 
making the investment,  he would be going against its advice. Like investment  three, Im satisfied Mr 
A would have understood the contents  of the execution only notice. And the statement that the 
investment was against  Wilfred T. Frys  advice is unambiguous, in my opinion.
Mr A says he decided to invest following  a meeting in August 2010 at Wilfred  T. Frys offices in which  
he believes he was told to stick  with the EEA Fund.
The meeting records from the time support  Mr As comments that he was told to stay with the fund if 
he was happy with it and that it continued  to perform well. But this statement cant be read in isolation.  
As Ive set out above,  the notes also record Mr A being told that caution was needed, he had too 
much in the fund, that illiquidity was a credible risk factor and that it no longer recommended the fund.
Ref: DRN6590352So Im not persuaded  by Mr As comment that he made the fourth investment on the basis that 
Wilfred T. Fry continued to recommend the fund to him in this meeting or that it suggested he make 
a further  investment.
Its also important  to note that, by the time Mr A made his fourth investment  into the EEA fund, he had 
been provided  with information that ought reasonably to have made  him aware of the true risks 
associated with TLIPs. He had also been told by Wilfred T. Fry that it had broad concerns and no 
longer recommended the fund.
Ref: DRN6590352K821x#15So, in contrast  to investment three, I dont  believe Mr As decision to invest  for a fourth  time, was a direct 
consequence of Wilfred T. Frys previous  errors. Instead, any losses that flow from investment four are a 
consequence of Mr As decision to go against the advice of his financial  adviser.
So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont intend to uphold  Mr As complaint about  investment 
four.
Mr As actions once  the fund suspension  was lifted
The fund suspension was lifted in 2013. At this point, investors  were given the option to place their 
investment into run off shares or to remain invested. If investors didnt  respond in time, their funds  would 
be kept in continuing  shares. Investors opting for run-off shares  would receive automatic  redemptions as 
and when the fund had adequate cash reserves. Those who chose continuing  shares could apply for 
redemptions as and when they were  given the option.
Following advice from his new IFA, Mr A opted to keep  60% of his investment in continuing shares and to 
put the remaining 40% in run-off shares. Mr A has explained that this decision  was made  in the hope that 
the short  period of maturities stated in the funds factsheet in 2013 would prove correct and that his 
investment would be returned in full.
Despite keeping 60% of his investment in continuing shares,  Mr A believes his decision  to remain  
invested was a conscious  attempt to mitigate any potential losses. Hes also added that in one instance,  
following an irrevocable redemption request, the fund reduced the net asset value, and Mr A received 
less than what  he thought  he would  receive. This put him off submitting  a redemption request in 2015,  as 
he says the fund was selling policies at a considerable discount.  While I can understand why Mr A felt he 
was acting  prudently, this does mean Mr A voluntarily kept his money exposed to the risks of the EEA 
fund despite the warnings  he had received from Wilfred  T. Fry and the regulator.
Wilfred T. Fry may be of the opinion that its liability  ends on the date Mr A moved to a new IFA. While, 
Im not able to comment in this decision on the suitability of the advice  Mr A received from his new IFA, 
I do have to take into account any continuing  losses Mr A incurred as a result of Wilfred T. Frys earlier 
advice.
Ive already concluded that Mr A only invested in the EEA fund due to Wilfred T. Frys  failings in 2009. 
And while it recommended Mr A withdraw  $200,000 from the fund in March 2010, it didnt recommend 
that Mr A withdraw his full investment in the fund at this time.  In April 2011, while still acting as Mr As 
financial adviser,  Wilfred T. Fry compiled another recommendation report  which continued  to 
recommend a portion  of his funds be invested in the EEA fund and it didnt  change  its position  on this 
prior to the fund being suspended.
So as a result of Wilfred T. Frys failings in 2009 and on-going recommendation  reports, Mr A would 
always have had a portion  of his portfolio invested in the EEA fund on the day it was suspended  
irrespective of his move to a new IFA. And he wouldve been unable to take any steps to mitigate  that 
position until the suspension  was lifted in 2013 and his funds  placed in run off in 2014.
So, I do intend to take into account the 40% Mr A put into run off shares when calculating fair 
compensation for this complaint.
Regarding the 60% left in continuing shares, this decision  was made following  advice from Mr As new 
IFA and given his testimony detailed above, it seems Mr A was content with this level of exposure. So, 
it would not be fair or reasonable for me to hold Wilfred T. Fry liable for this portion  of his investment 
from the date this new advice was implemented  (1 January 2014).
Ref: DRN659035219Fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr A as close 
to the position he would probably  now be in if he had not been given unsuitable advice. In doing so, I 
intend to take into account:
Wilfred T. Frys advice  that Mr A remove $200,000 from the fund;
Mr As decision to invest for a fourth time against Wilfred T. Frys  advice; and
The decisions Mr A implemented  on 1 January 2014 as a result  of his new IFA  this means 
there are two calculations.
If Mr A wasnt  given suitable  advice,  I think he would  have invested differently. It is not possible to 
say precisely what he would have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below  is fair and 
reasonable given Mr As circumstances  and objectives when he invested.
What should Wilfred T. Fry do?
To compensate Mr A fairly, Wilfred T. Fry must:
Compare the performance  of Mr As investment with that of the benchmark  shown below  
and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual  value of the investment.  If the 
actual value  is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Wilfred T. Fry should also pay interest as set out below.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Calculation one
This includes all investments into the EEA Fund made up to and including 25 March 2010:
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
EEA Life 
Settlements 
FundStill exists* FTSE All 
Stocks Gilts 
Indexdate of all 
investments 
made up to 
and including
25 March
2010date of the 
advice  to sell
 25 March
2010.8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
* Mr A has submitted a redemption  request  for his full holdings in the EEA fund. But to my 
knowledge, he is yet to receive his final redemption  payment. For this reason, Ive recorded the 
status as still exists.
Actual value
This means  the actual  value of the investment on 25 March 2010  relating solely to the amounts 
invested up to and including that date.
Fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth on 25 March 2010 had it produced a return  
using the benchmark.
Any additional sum that Mr A paid into the investment up to and including  this date should  be added to 
the fair value  calculation at the point it was actually  paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment before 25 March  2010 should be 
deducted from the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  
any return in the calculation from that point  on.
Ref: DRN659035220If there are a large  number of regular  payments,  to keep calculations simpler, I will accept  if Wilfred T. 
Fry totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead  of deducting periodically.
Calculation two
To cover the amount of Mr As investments made after the 25 March  2010.  For clarity  this excludes 
the $200,000 as of 25 March  2010 and the fourth  investment. The calculation also includes a 
reduction from 1 January 2014 of 60% of Mr As investment.
investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
EEA Life 
Settlements 
FundStill exists* FTSE All 
Stocks Gilts 
Index25 March
2010date of my 
decision.8% simple per 
year on any loss 
from the end 
date to the date 
of settlement
* Mr A has submitted a redemption  request  for his full holdings in the EEA fund. But to my knowledge, 
he is yet to receive his final redemption payment.  For this reason, Ive recorded  the status as still 
exists.
Actual value
This means  the actual  value of the investment at the end date.
Fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  using the 
benchmark.
Less $200,000 that Wilfred T. Fry recommended he withdraw on 25 March 2010;
Less the value of investment four; and
Less 60% of Mr As investment from 1 January  2014.Any additional  sum that Mr A paid into 
the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation at the point it was actually paid in. 
This excludes any payments  in connection with the $200,000  Mr A was recommended to 
remove from 25 March  2010, the fourth investment or his continuing 60% investment from 1 
January 2014.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investment should  be deducted from the fair value 
calculation at the point  it was actually  paid (up to and including the date of settlement)  so it ceases to 
accrue any return in the calculation from that point  on.
Wilfred T. Fry should not deduct any payments related to the $200,000 Mr A was recommended to 
remove, the fourth investment or his continuing  60% investment  from
1 January 2014.
If there are a large  number of regular  payments,  to keep calculations simpler, I will accept  if Wilfred T. 
Fry totals all those payments and deducts that figure at the end instead  of deducting periodically.
If, after following these steps, Wilfred T. Fry identifies a loss in calculation one, it should add this to any 
loss identified in calculation two. Similarly,  if calculation  two results in Mr A making a profit,  any loss 
identified in calculation one can be offset against this.
Ref: DRN659035221Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr A wanted income with some growth and was willing to accept  some investment risk.
The FTSE  All Stocks Gilts Index is an index of all non-index linked  UK gilts. It would be a fair 
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return whilst  limiting 
their exposure to the equities market.
The additional interest is for being deprived of the use of any compensation  money since the 
end date.
I dont think it would be fair to allow Wilfred T. Fry to benefit  from any redemption payments Mr A 
received on his 60% continuing investment post 1 January 2014 so I havent made any provisions  
for it to do so in these calculations. This flows from my decision to cap its liability  in 2014 to the 
40% that remained invested .
My provisional decision
Where I uphold a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate.  If I consider 
that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that Wilfred T. Fry (Personal Planning) 
Limited pays the balance.
Determination and award:  I uphold the complaint in regard to investment one, two and three.  I 
consider that fair compensation should be calculated as set out above. My provisional  decision is 
that Wilfred  T. Fry (Personal Planning) Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation 
up to the maximum of £150,000  plus any interest set out above.
Recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation of fair compensation  exceeds
£150,000, I recommend that Wilfred T. Fry (Personal Planning) Limited pays Mr A the balance  plus 
any interest on the balance as set out above.
Lucy Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6590352