K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains about her treatment by UCB Home Loans Corporation  Ltd in respect  of her 
mortgage. She complains  that it has given her misleading and confusing  information, not 
assisted her in financial  difficulty, charged  too high an interest  rate and reneged  on a 
promise to convert the mortgage to repayment terms. Miss T is represented by a third party  
Ill call Mr W, who is acting on behalf  of a charity  connected with her former employment.
background
Unfortunately, Miss T has been unwell and unable  to work for many years. Around ten years 
ago, her mortgage was converted  from capital  repayment to interest only to reduce the 
monthly payments  to assist her. Shes  in receipt of disability related benefits and also gets 
support for mortgage interest (SMI),  the government benefit (since  2018, a loan) that 
contributes to mortgage interest payments.
The SMI payments were at one point more than the monthly repayments. But SMI is set by 
the government  by reference to a notional interest  rate  its not directly  related to what 
Miss T pays on her mortgage. As the government reduced the SMI rate over time,  its 
contribution to Miss Ts mortgage also reduced. Miss T paid the difference herself.  But in 
2015, when the SMI contribution reduced  further,  and Miss T didnt increase the amount she 
was paying, the mortgage started  to go into arrears. 
At the start of 2016, UCB re-calculated Miss Ts monthly payment. It did this because the 
balance had increased because of the arrears  meaning more interest was charged   and 
so the monthly  payments needed  to be adjusted to keep the mortgage on track. But the 
amount Miss T was paying  to the mortgage  didnt change, so the arrears  rose further.
UCB wrote to Miss T. It said there were arrears on the account  which Miss T says she was 
unaware of. She rang UCB, only to be told there  werent  arrears.  Then she received further 
letters, contacted  UCB  again, and made a small payment  of the amount it told her she 
needed to make  to clear the arrears.  But that was wrong, and the mortgage continued to 
be in arrears.
With the assistance of Mr W and his charity, Miss T complained. There  followed a lengthy 
correspondence and series of discussions with UCB. In summary, Miss T and Mr W were 
concerned that:
Miss T had been on UCBs  standard variable rate (SVR) for many  years,  and the 
SVR was high compared to other rates available in the market. And it hadnt fallen in 
line with falls in the Bank of England base rate. The result was that Miss T had paid 
far more  interest than she should fairly have done;
UCB wouldnt allow Miss T to take out a new interest rate product while her account  
was in arrears  and in any case, its products werent competitive;
She had around  seven years of her mortgage left, with no prospect of repaying the 
capital at the end of the term. She wanted UCB, or its parent company Nationwide 
Building Society, to offer her a repayment mortgage at a much lower interest rate so 
that she could  pay off her mortgage  over time;
She didnt understand that she was in arrears, or why, and couldnt  get a sensible 
answer from UCB. At times it said she was in arrears, at times it said she wasnt, and 
said the arrears were varying  amounts. If it just told her accurately what she needed 
to pay, she would pay it and there wouldnt be any arrears;
Ref: DRN60122012Because of the arrears, Miss Ts credit file had been affected,  meaning she couldnt  
re-mortgage elsewhere. She was trapped with UCB.  And her credit on other matters  
had been affected  too.
Miss T brought her complaint to us. While  it was with us, Mr W continued  to discuss the 
mortgage with UCB.  UCB took into account  the history of the mortgage and the issues that 
had gone wrong.  It took into account  Miss Ts particular circumstances and her long term 
health conditions,  as well as her income  and expenditure.
There was a series of discussions, by phone and email, between  Mr W and a senior member 
of UCBs staff Ill call Mr K. He said UCB would consider:
To reduce the interest rate Miss T was paying  from the SVR to a fixed  rate of 1.7%  
for the life of the mortgage;
To consolidate the arrears into the mortgage  balance;
To extend the term of the mortgage  from seven to seventeen years.
Theres an issue about a further aspect of this. It began with a call between Mr W and Mr K. 
Mr W recorded that call. He hasnt provided us with the full call recording, but he has 
provided an edited extract of just over one minutes duration. In that extract  Mr K says that 
the mortgage could be converted to repayment  terms as well, and the reason for the 
extension to seventeen years was to make it affordable, at the lower rate, for Miss T to pay 
off the mortgage  in that time. 
Mr K then sent Mr W an email confirming the discussion. Ive seen that email.  Mr K said:
As I confirmed during our call today, Ms [T]s case is scheduled to be discussed at a 
case review committee tomorrow morning. The approach that were  asking the 
committee to endorse, is to extend the current mortgage term by a further 10 years  
(17 years in total); in conjunction with a reduced  interest rate of 1.70% over the 
extended term. This would reduce the monthly  payments  to c. £320 per month, which 
would be affordable based  on our assessment of Ms [T]s income and expenditure.
I will contact you tomorrow morning to let you know the outcome and to discuss next 
steps
Mr W responded:
May I please confirm  that this proposed  solution  - I understand that it remains to be 
ratified or amended tomorrow - will consolidate Ms [T]s existing debts into a single 
repayment mortgage fixed for the term of the mortgage?
The reference to existing debts was to the two sub-accounts  of Miss Ts mortgage,  which  
would be consolidated into one. Mr K replied:
Yes thats correct
The next day, Miss Ts mortgage was discussed  by UCBs committee. The minutes show 
that the proposal discussed was for an extension and rate reduction on interest  only terms  
not repayment terms  and that was agreed  by the committee.
Ref: DRN60122013Mr K then emailed Mr W to confirm the outcome of the committees discussion  which was 
that the interest rate would be reduced  to 1.7%  fixed for an extended  seventeen year term. 
But it would stay on interest only terms.
In the meantime, Mr W had told Miss T that her mortgage would  be converted to repayment 
terms, have the payments  reduced and the term extended, and she would be mortgage free 
after seventeen years.  
Mr W replied to Mr K saying that the offer had been  made and accepted on the basis that 
Miss T would be offered a repayment  mortgage with a monthly  payment  of £320 and that 
she would  be mortgage free by the end of the revised seventeen  year term. That offer had 
been made, had been accepted, and should be implemented. He said that Miss T had been 
very distressed when  hed told her that UCB  had gone back  on its word.
Mr K said he hadnt made a firm offer, as hed always made it clear he was discussing a 
proposal which would then go to UCBs committee to consider  not making an offer on 
behalf of UCB. He said that converting  the mortgage  to repayment terms  even at the lower 
rate of 1.7%,  and with a ten year term extension   would increase Miss Ts payments to over 
£1,000 a month, which UCB didnt consider affordable.
Miss T, and Mr W on their behalf, said that Mr K had clearly offered a repayment mortgage 
over seventeen years,  paying £320 per month, with the mortgage  cleared after that time. If 
that wasnt now the case, then UCB  and Mr K had lied. It should  be required to reduce 
Miss Ts mortgage balance to allow that to happen.
Our investigator didnt  think there was a firm offer in place. He thought what  UCB had 
offered was fair, and that converting the mortgage  on the basis  Mr W and Miss T wanted, 
and that they said UCB had offered, would involve UCB writing off over £150,000  which  he 
didnt think was a fair thing to ask it to do. 
He said UCB  should backdate the 1.7%  interest rate to 2016, and should remove  all reports  
of arrears from then onwards from Miss Ts credit  file. He said this was because it had been 
confused about what she should pay, and he thought she would have paid the right amount 
if asked. He said UCB should pay her £600  compensation for the distress  it had caused  
because of the confusion over the arrears and payments. 
Miss T and Mr W didnt  accept that. They  didnt  think the compensation was enough. And 
they said UCB had lied repeatedly, and should  be made to honour what it had offered. They  
also said the 1.7% interest rate should be backdated  to 2009, when Miss T first became 
unwell  the resulting overpayments would reduce the amount UCB  had to write off. 
UCB accepted the investigators recommendation. It agreed to implement the rate reduction,  
arrears capitalisation  and term extension and credit  record update immediately, without 
waiting for an ombudsmans decision.  But there were further problems in it doing so; Miss T 
continued to be sent arrears  letters,  which she found  distressing, and received calls about 
the arrears from an agent.  And there was some delay in implementing  the new mortgage. 
These issues were resolved in the end, but they are part of the issues  I will consider in 
setting out what  I think  is fair in all the circumstances.
I issued a provisional decision, setting  out my initial thoughts on the case  and inviting the 
parties to respond.
Ref: DRN60122014my provisional findings
In summary,  I said:
Miss T has been paying  UCBs SVR for many years. While it does offer new interest 
rates, theres no evidence Miss T asked  for one.
While  theres  never been a regulatory  obligation  on a lender to pro-actively contact its 
customers to invite  them to apply  for a new rate, there is developing  good  industry  
practice to do so, notably following  work done  by the Financial Conduct Authority and 
UK Finance  in 2018. But in this case, thats  been overtaken  by UCBs offer of a 1.7% 
fixed rate backdated to 2016   which is far lower than the rates in its standard 
product range. 
Miss Ts mortgage reverted to the SVR following  the end of her previous product. 
This was in line with the terms and conditions and the mortgage  operated  as it was 
supposed to.
I could understand  why Miss T felt trapped, as she had an interest only mortgage and 
relied on benefit income, so was unlikely to be able to move her mortgage to another 
lender. But that was because her circumstances had changed since  the mortgage  
was taken out, which  while unfortunate  wasnt  because  of anything UCB  had 
done, and couldnt  have  been  foreseen when the mortgage was taken out. UCB 
hasnt stood in the way of Miss T moving her mortgage to Nationwide, or any other 
lender. 
While  UCB is ultimately owned  by Nationwide Building Society, theyre separate  
firms, separately  regulated. Nationwide isnt party to this complaint, and in any case  
couldnt simply take over Miss Ts mortgage without carrying out the full affordability  
assessment and assessment of interest only repayment strategy required by the 
mortgage rules. I didnt think I could fairly require Nationwide to take over Miss Ts 
mortgage as part of this complaint.
UCBs SVR is higher than the Bank of England base  rate, and higher than fixed and 
tracker interest rates offered by Nationwide and other lenders. But its not out of line 
with other lenders SVR rates.  Each lender has various considerations to take into 
account when  setting the level of the SVR.
I therefore thought  that UCB  hadnt done  anything wrong  in charging Miss T the 
interest rates it had  though, in light of her particular  wider circumstances, I thought  
its offer to implement  a 1.7%  fixed rate going forward (backdated  to 2016) was a fair 
one.
As regards the discussions between Mr W and Mr K, I considered all the evidence  
both the email exchanges,  and an extract of a call recording  Mr W had given us.
Having done  so, I concluded  that Mr K didnt  make a firm offer to Mr W. He set out a 
proposal, which it was always clear was subject to consideration  and agreement  by 
UCBs committee. 
However, I agreed with Mr W that the proposal Mr K initially made  was that UCB  
switch Miss Ts mortgage from interest only to repayment  while reducing the 
interest rate to 1.7% and charging  around  £320 per month.
But I thought  that was clearly a mistake on Mr Ks part in his discussions with Mr W. 
That wasnt the proposal actually put to the committee, and it wasnt what the 
committee decided to offer to Miss T. A repayment mortgage  at £320 per month 
wouldnt be anywhere near enough  to clear the mortgage balance even over the 
extended term. Requiring UCB to do this would involve it writing  off around £150,000.
Mr K made a mistake,  which unfairly  raised  Mr Ws  and through him, Miss Ts  
expectations. I didnt  think he was acting dishonestly, or lying,  as suggested by Mr W. 
Ref: DRN60122015But the mistake was corrected a few days later when the right proposal  was relayed 
to Miss T via Mr W.
I dont think UCB  was obliged to honour Mr Ks mistake.  It was never  a firm offer, and 
Mr K didnt  suggest it was. Its not something  UCB would have in fact ever have 
offered, and not something it could fairly have been expected to have done. 
Where a mistake is made, my view was that a fair remedy  is to correct  the mistake   
not insist it be honoured. The mistake didnt cause Miss T any financial loss, though  it 
did cause her upset when she learned  of it. 
If the proposal communicated by Mr K had only ever been  to extend the term, reduce 
and backdate the interest rate and fix the monthly payments  as was the actual offer 
UCB made  I would have thought, and do think, it to be a fair and generous one.
However, theres no doubt the mistake did cause  Miss T upset. This compounded the 
upset and distress she felt though repeated errors  over the years  about whether or 
not she was in arrears  and what her balance should actually be. I thought these 
errors were mainly caused by the failures of UCB  staff to understand how SMI works. 
And during  the life of this complaint UCB  has caused further  upset through  mistakes 
around whether  Miss T is in arrears  and what was reported to her credit  file, and 
delays in making changes. 
In all the circumstances, I thought  £1,200  was fair compensation in addition  to the 
actions UCB has already  taken  of reducing the interest rate, extending the term and 
correcting Miss Ts credit file.
the responses to my provisional  decision
UCB accepted my provisional decision. But Mr W on Miss Ts behalf didnt. He said:
When Miss T originally took out her mortgage with UCB,  she was financially astute  
and chose UCB for speed of completion. At the time, UCBs rates were in line with 
the rest of the market, and it is only since 2009  that its rates have been higher than 
the rest of the market. But from 2009, while it did offer new interest rates, they were  
only marginally lower than the SVR and so not worth applying for. UCB,  and through  
it Nationwide, has therefore profiteered from vulnerable customers  like Miss T who 
are no longer able to move their mortgages elsewhere.
UCB has made a series of errors and lies since 2011. I should  set out a full timeline  
of every error since 2011 in my final decision,  and should  also set out a full history of 
the interest rates UCB has charged.
Miss T didnt ask to be moved  to a lower rate before October 2017. But that was 
because UCBs fixed rates were only marginally lower than the SVR, and she felt 
ground down by all its errors over the years. The exploitatively high SVR left her 
without money for food and household bills, and without  the mental energy to ask for 
a better  rate. Any interest rate offered should  be backdated to 2009.
It was inaccurate to suggest Mr K was a member of UCBs staff  he wasnt, he was 
a member of Nationwides staff. And his proposal was considered  by a Nationwide 
committee. This shows that UCB  and Nationwide arent  separate entities, separately 
regulated, as Id said. They are one and the same  company  and its disingenuous to 
suggest otherwise.
Mr W had only provided an extract of the recording of the call he had with Mr K. 
However, we could have asked him for the full recording,  or asked UCB for it.
Nationwide told our investigator that documents werent available but then sent to 
Miss T when she made  a subject access request  which  is further evidence  of it 
lying.
Ref: DRN60122016Mr K is a very experienced  and senior member of staff. He offered a repayment 
mortgage three times, in a call and in two emails. He knew exactly what  he was 
saying and its not possible he didnt know the difference  between an interest  only 
and a repayment mortgage. The only possibilities are that he is incompetent or a liar 
and I should make  a clear finding  which of those  two is the case.
Miss T has no means  of repaying the mortgage capital at the end of the term. She 
was offered a repayment mortgage  and Nationwide must  offer a repayment mortgage 
to comply with mortgage regulation.
Miss Ts SMI claim is now a loan which must be repaid when the property is sold,  
making it harder to have any equity or buy another property.   
A further  incorrect report of arrears  was made to Miss Ts credit file in March 2019, 
which should be removed.
Mr W said he was prepared to come and discuss Miss Ts situation in person  with us, 
or round a table with Nationwide, and to provide any further material  that might be 
needed.
The right solution is for the lower interest rate to be backdated  to 2009, with all 
additional payments written off, and then the mortgage converted  to repayment terms 
at a cost of no more  than £400  per month.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything Miss T, and Mr W on her behalf, has said very carefully. I do 
understand how difficult the last few years have  been for her, and I dont  underestimate how 
distressing its been for her to have to struggle to pay her mortgage.
Although I have considered everything, I dont think its necessary to itemise  or set out a 
detailed timeline  of every incident or every  disputed event over the years. Ours is an informal  
service, and my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances. That 
means its appropriate for me to take a step back and look at everything  in the round. Its a 
matter for me to decide what I consider particularly relevant or important, but I dont think  it 
would be helpful  to focus on every  detail when setting out my reasons  though I stress 
again that Ive considered all the evidence. I agree that UCB has made  errors  in how its 
communicated with Miss T about  her mortgage.  But I havent seen any evidence  that its lied 
 I think its more likely to be mistakes  than active dishonesty. Nevertheless, as I set out in 
my provisional decision, theyve had a substantial impact on her and I still think £1,200 is fair 
compensation.
I take the point  that UCBs interest  rate products arent particularly attractive, compared to 
those of other lenders (including  Nationwide),  though they are, and generally  have  been,  
lower than the SVR.
Generally speaking, a lender offers its customers new interest  rate products either to attract  
new customers or retain existing customers.  UCB  doesnt take on new residential lending 
and hasnt done so for some years. So it hasnt priced its products at a level to make  them  
attractive in the market.  However, unlike many  closed book lenders it does still offer products 
to its existing customers who choose  to apply.
Miss Ts mortgage, like most mortgages,  was sold on the basis  of an initial interest  rate that 
reverted to the SVR.  The same  is true of the later further borrowing. So it was always  
Ref: DRN60122017envisaged that Miss T would go on to the SVR at the end of her rates; thats  how, 
contractually speaking,  the mortgage  was supposed to work.
Im aware that its a general expectation  that most borrowers wont go on to the SVR; theyll 
either take a new product with their existing lender, or switch  lender. But while thats a 
general expectation and how many customers  behave, its not  and never has been  a 
contractual or regulatory requirement to offer new products when old ones expire.
UCB has continued to offer new products. That was a commercial  decision it made   and so 
was the level of the rates it offered. Each lender has its own commercial  appetite, and prices 
its products according  to that appetite. Relevant  factors include the desire  to attract  or retain 
business, as well as the cost of funding the mortgages lent, and the risks presented by the 
types of mortgage  in the book.
Its not my role to set a lenders interest  rates. That depends on a range of commercial 
factors, some of which Ive set out. My role is to decide whats  fair in all the circumstances. 
The rules  of mortgage regulation say that a lender shouldnt take advantage of borrowers 
who cant move their mortgages elsewhere, for example  by charging them higher interest  
rates. But UCB hasnt  done that; it offers the same products to all its residential  mortgage 
customers. 
Other than that, theres  no rule about what level an interest rate should be set at, and I dont 
think I can fairly say that UCBs  rates are too high and that it should  charge less. It treats all 
its customers the same, it continues to offer new rates even though it isnt trying to attract  
new business, and the rates it offers are less than the SVR. The level of the particular rates 
it offers is a matter for its legitimate commercial judgement.
Miss T and Mr W have  made a comparison  between  the rates  UCB  offers  and the rates  
Nationwide offers. I understand the point theyre  making, but I dont think thats a relevant 
consideration. I know Mr W doesnt agree, but its a fact that UCB Home  Loans Corporation 
Limited and Nationwide Building  Society are separate firms.  They have different company 
numbers and different  entries in the FCAs Register.  Its true Nationwide  owns  UCB. But that 
doesnt make them  the same  firm, any more  than it makes Lloyds Bank and Halifax  the 
same firm.
The FCAs regulations   including MCOB 11.8.1 E, the provision I referred to above  are all 
directed at a firm. 11.8.1 E says a firm shouldnt treat borrowers who cant  move their 
mortgages less favourably than those who can where they otherwise share similar 
characteristics. But the comparison is to be made  between groups of borrowers  within a firm, 
not groups of borrowers across  firms.  The comparison is to be made between groups  of 
UCB borrowers, not between borrowers of UCB  and borrowers of Nationwide.  
Therefore theres  nothing  in the FCAs rules  that says that one firm has to offer the same or 
similar interest rates as another firm. And theres nothing that says the rates of one firm have  
to be set at the same  level, or by reference to, another firm  even where  one firm owns  
another. Nationwide and UCB are different lenders with different mortgages. When UCB 
took on new borrowers, it had different lending criteria and took on different sorts of 
borrowers to Nationwide  Miss Ts further borrowing, for example,  seems to have been 
taken on a self-certified  basis. As a result,  they attracted and still have different sorts of 
business, and have different prices as a result. Thats not unfair, and I dont  think  a 
comparison between the two can be meaningfully or fairly  made.  
Ref: DRN60122018As for the SVR itself,  it remained at the same level from 2010 until the more  recent  changes  
to Bank  of England base rate, when it changed in line with them. Changes to base rate are 
one of the factors UCB can take into account   according to the terms and conditions   
when setting the SVR. But the SVR doesnt have  to track base rate by any particular  margin.  
The level of the SVR isnt out of line with the SVRs other lender charge. The same  reasons 
Ive given for why its not a fair comparison to look at Nationwide  and UCBs fixed  interest 
rates apply to their SVRs, so I dont  think  its unfair  that UCBs SVR isnt the same as 
Nationwides.
Taking all that into consideration, therefore,  I dont  think the interest rates UCB has charged  
Miss T from time to time are unfair.  As Mr W has acknowledged, shes been able to apply for 
new rates,  but didnt  think it was worth doing so or didnt  feel able to do so. I dont think  UCB 
can be held responsible for that.
And in any case,  UCB has now  taking account of Miss Ts particular circumstances, and 
everything thats happened  over the last few years  offered Miss T a bespoke rate of 1.7%, 
fixed for the remaining (extended) term of the mortgage. This means Miss T will be protected  
from interest rate rises for the next 17 years. I think thats fair. And its agreed to backdate  
the rate to 2016 as well. Given what Ive said above  about the fairness  of the SVR and its 
available products over the years since Miss T reverted to the SVR, again  I think  thats fair 
and I dont therefore intend  to ask UCB to backdate it further to 2009.
Turning now to the discussions with Mr K, first of all Ill make clear  that Im aware and accept 
that hes employed by Nationwide.  I referred to him as a member  of UCBs staff in my 
provisional decision because in my view when discussing Miss Ts mortgage with Mr W he 
was doing so as a representative of UCB. His precise employment status doesnt change 
that. UCB  is owned  by Nationwide, and its not uncommon for members of staff of one 
company in a business group to work across other  companies in the group. That doesnt 
change my conclusion  that UCB and Nationwide are separate firms   and while  Mr K is 
directly employed by one, he can still act on behalf of the other. Im satisfied  that it was in his 
capacity as a representative  of UCB that he spoke to Mr W, and Im satisfied that their 
discussions were on the basis that Miss Ts mortgage would be varied with UCB, not moved 
to Nationwide. 
For the same reasons,  I dont attach any significance to the fact that the committee that 
considered Miss Ts mortgage was described as a committee  of Nationwide. Nationwide  is 
UCBs parent company. Its not unusual for certain processes, functions and posts across a 
group to be centralised, with decisions made  which affect different firms  in the group. 
Miss Ts mortgage is with UCB. Its always been with UCB. Nationwide is a separate  firm, 
and shes not a customer of Nationwide. Her mortgage cant  simply be moved to a new firm 
as an administrative process;  the new firm  whether Nationwide  or any other lender  would 
have to comply with its regulatory obligations on taking on new mortgages.
Since I issued my provisional  decision, the FCA has brought  new rules into force. A new 
section of MCOB, 11.9, says that lenders  can choose to operate  a modified assessment of 
affordability and interest only repayment  strategy  to facilitate  borrowers  switching to active 
lenders who can offer more competitive rates. Its more likely that Miss T will be able to 
move her mortgage if she applies to a lender  (whether Nationwide  or elsewhere) that 
chooses to operate this process  that may be something on which  shed like to take 
financial advice. I dont  know  whether Nationwide will choose to take on borrowers  under 
MCOB 11.9, and as its not a party  to this complaint I cant require it to do so. But that might  
Ref: DRN60122019be something for Miss T to explore in the future  if she doesnt  want to stay with UCB, even 
on the low interest rate its now offered.
Its for me to decide what evidence I consider relevant. I havent requested the full recording 
of the call between  Mr W and Mr K since I dont consider it necessary to do so  as I said in 
my provisional decision, I accept what Mr W says about this; that Mr K did say that he would  
propose switching  Miss Ts mortgage to a repayment basis.  That much is clear  from the 
emails, and is confirmed  on the extract I do have.
But I dont think Mr K made a binding  offer to Mr W on behalf of Miss T. I think its clear that 
Mr K was setting out a proposal, which he would take to the committee  but which  was 
subject to the committees agreement. I dont think he was unclear  about  that, or deceived 
Mr W about it. And I think Mr W understood that at the time.
Its not for me to decide whether, as Mr W suggests,  as a matter  of law there was a binding 
contract due to offer and acceptance. Matters of law are for the courts to decide  but I take 
the law into account  in deciding what I think is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
And I think its clear that Mr K was setting out the proposal he intended  to take for discussion 
to UCBs committee   he was not making  a formal offer on UCBs behalf.  So I dont think  it 
would be fair to treat it otherwise.
But I agree  with Mr W that Mr K was contemplating a switch  to a repayment mortgage, not 
an extension on interest only terms. He says so on the call extract and confirms it in 
response to Mr Ws email  request for clarification.
So I agree that Mr W was given the expectation  that UCBs committee would  consider  
converting Miss Ts mortgage to repayment  terms, with a payment  of £320 per month, over a 
remaining term of seventeen years and with the arrears capitalised. Mr W relayed that 
expectation to Miss T. If he was more positive in explaining it to Miss T than as a proposal 
for consideration, or did so before  the decision was confirmed, I dont think  Mr K can be 
blamed for that.
The committees minutes seem to me to show that it didnt consider exactly  that proposal.  
The minutes record a discussion about  extension on interest only terms  theres no mention 
of conversion to repayment. So it doesnt appear that Mr K was right when he said that was 
what the committee would consider.  But I dont  think that means he doesnt know  the 
difference between  interest only and repayment, or that he was either incompetent  or a liar, 
or that I must choose between  those two alternatives. Its perfectly possible for anyone, 
however senior  and experienced,  to make a simple honest mistake,  and I think  thats most 
likely to be what happened. 
However, I dont think Mr Ks failure  to relay accurately  what  the committee would discuss 
means that UCB  should  now agree to convert  Miss Ts mortgage to repayment terms over 
seventeen years at £320 per month.
If UCB were to convert the mortgage  to repayment terms, the monthly payments would 
increase to around £1,100. That wouldnt be affordable for Miss T.
If it were to do so while keeping the mortgage  payments down  to £320, for the mortgage to 
be paid off by 2035 would  require  UCB  to write off over £150,000 of the mortgage capital. 
That wouldnt be fair to UCB, in my view. Although Miss Ts personal circumstances are very 
difficult, the root cause is Miss Ts illness  not UCBs actions. Miss T did borrow the 
Ref: DRN601220110mortgage capital  and, all other things being equal,  should pay it back. And, as with any 
borrower facing financial  difficulties or who is vulnerable, UCBs obligation is to explore how 
or whether the capital can be repaid in a sustainable  fashion  which wouldnt generally 
mean it has to write it off. 
I think Mr K made a mistake. I cant say for sure, of course, but I think its more likely to be a 
mistake than a lie. I cant see that its likely  UCBs committee would ever agree to a proposal  
to write off over £150,000  and I dont think it can fairly be expected to. I cant  see why Mr K 
would dishonestly suggest otherwise when, ultimately, the power to make that change  
wasnt in his gift and he had nothing to gain by doing so.
I think its more likely that there was some  confusion. I think  its likely Mr K was exploring 
both options to decide what  was most  appropriate.  And its fair to say that if the interest  rate 
was reduced to 1.7%, that would help Miss T pay it off over the extended  term even if it 
stayed on interest only  it would reduce the monthly payments to below the maximum she 
could afford,  meaning she would be able to maintain  the payments and possibly overpay 
each month. But formally  converting the mortgage  to repayment terms would create a 
contractual payment of around £1,100 each and every month, which  is more than it seems  
Miss T can afford.
So its possible Mr K got some of these  possibilities  confused  when he suggested a 
repayment mortgage with payments of £320  per month. I cant  say for sure,  but that seems 
to me to be most likely.
I dont think UCB is obliged to honour  this proposal. It was never  a firm offer. Its not 
something it ever would, or could have been  expected to, agree to. Clearly a mistake was 
made in communicating to Mr W exactly what UCB  would consider  but when a mistake is 
made, in my view the fair thing to do is to correct the mistake,  not insist  the mistake is 
honoured. 
Mr W, and via him Miss T, was given the expectation that UCB would consider a proposal  
that, in reality, it would  never have agreed to. They shouldnt have been  given that 
expectation. But it hasnt  caused Miss T any financial  loss; it simply  for a few days  left 
her with the expectation that she might be better off in the future than she had been  in the 
past. And the correct proposal does  that too, even if not to the same extent.
I dont agree with what Mr W has said about  MCOB 11.6. Rule 11.6.49  requires lenders to 
review with borrowers what their repayment  strategy is, and whether its still on track  and 
where its not, to discuss reasonable  steps to address  the situation. This rule only applies to 
mortgages taken  out after April 2014 (which  doesnt  include Miss T), though bearing in mind  
guidance the FCA issued in 2013, I think this represents good practice in all cases.  But 
nothing in this rule  or any other  part of the rules   requires  a lender to convert a mortgage  
from interest only to repayment as part of this review. Thats  always an option   but only 
where its affordable  and sustainable to do so. I dont think  the rules  require UCB to convert 
the mortgage to repayment terms; I think they require it not to do so unless Miss T can 
sustain a mortgage on that basis.
Its clear that, as things  stand, it wouldnt be affordable for Miss T for that to happen. And I 
dont think it would be fair to require UCB to reduce the monthly  payments to below £400 on 
a repayment basis to make it affordable  since, as Ive set out above, that would require it 
to write off a very large portion of the mortgage  capital.  Even if the term was extended far 
beyond the ten years UCB is offering, the payments  would exceed that amount. 
Ref: DRN601220111I do understand that this leaves Miss T in a difficult position. Shes  got around seventeen 
years left on the mortgage, and doesnt  expect  to be able to repay the capital at the end of 
the term. Mr W points  out that her equity is being eroded by her SMI claim  but UCBs not 
responsible for that; it was a government policy decision to convert  SMI from a benefit to a 
loan in 2018, and not something UCB  or I  have any control over.  And I dont think  UCB 
can be fairly expected  to write off part of the capital because of it.
Nevertheless, because  of Miss Ts illness and personal circumstances, shes  in a most  
unfortunate situation. UCB has reduced her interest rate and extended  the term. I think thats  
fair, and should  give her some time and space to explore the options open to her. She might 
want to take specialist professional financial advice to see what  might  be available to her, or 
what choices she might need to make  between now and the end of the term. I can readily 
understand why she might not want to consider some of those  choices and what  they might  
mean for her. But they will have to be faced  sooner or later.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. If it hasnt already 
done so, UCB Home  Loans Corporation Limited  should, if it hasnt already:
Reduce Miss Ts interest  rate to 1.7% backdated to March  2016;
Extend the mortgage term to January 2036;
Remove any arrears reported to Miss Ts credit  file since  March 2016;  and
Pay Miss T £1,200  compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6012201