K820x#14Complaint
Mrs A complains that Liverpool  Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) has unfairly  
refused a claim on her legal expenses insurance policy.
Where I refer to LV, this includes its agents  and claims handlers unless otherwise stated. 
Background
Mrs A runs a business from a building in her garden.  She had a dispute over the 
construction of that building and so she made  a claim under her legal expenses  policy to 
pursue action against the builder. 
LV declined the claim as the policy doesnt  cover activities relating  to a business.  But Mrs A 
says she specifically told LV about her business  when  she took out the policy and she was 
led to believe shed  be covered. 
As Mrs A and LV were  unable to agree, the complaint  was brought to our service.
Our investigator was satisfied that LV had declined the claim correctly. She said the legal 
expenses policy was a residential one and cover didnt extend to activities of a business 
nature. She also didnt  believe the policy had been  mis-sold as details of what  the policy  
covered had been made available from the point of sale. 
Mrs A disagreed, so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs A says her claim should  have been covered, because her policy  included  business use. 
And if the legal expenses  part of her policy didnt in fact cover her for business, that wasnt 
made clear to her, so the policy was mis-sold. I will deal with these two issues separately. 
The claim
The legal expenses  policy  document sets out what is and isnt covered. It says there is cover 
for contract  disputes  directly resulting from a breach of a contract  to buy or hire goods or 
services for private use. So its clear the cover only relates to contracts for private matters, 
not business disputes. This is confirmed by an exclusion that says a claim will not be paid if 
it relates to an activity  for profit or business. 
The dispute  Mrs A wanted  cover  for concerned a contract for the construction  of a building 
which would be used  as a business venture and a source of income. It wasnt  a contract  
entered into for private  use. In these circumstances,  Im satisfied  the claim isnt covered  
under the terms  of her legal expenses policy.
Mrs A says she was told by LV that her claim was covered under the policy  when she called 
them. The call handler did say there was cover for contract claims. But the legal expenses 
cover is managed on LVs behalf by a claims  handler, and claims are made by calling the 
legal advice helpline run by a firm of solicitors.  When they considered  the claim, they 
Ref: DRN68071142explained to Mrs A that it wouldnt  be covered  under the policy terms. Although  someone at 
LV did indicate  that contract claims  were covered, this was general advice on what  the policy  
provides cover for; it didnt mean her claim would be covered, when the policy  terms made it 
clear that it wouldnt.
The sale of the policy
Mrs A took out buildings and contents insurance with LV through  a price comparison site. I 
can see she referred to her business during  the sales process.  And LV added  endorsements 
to the policy  to reflect this. 
So I appreciate her home insurance policy did note that she used  her home  for her business, 
and her home insurance would include business  use (subject to certain limits).  But she 
added the home  legal  expenses as an additional  extra to her policy. And the terms relating 
to the additional legal  expenses cover are set out separately. 
As Ive said,  the legal expenses document says the cover for contract disputes is only for 
contracts about personal matters, not business  activities. LV didnt provide  any advice or 
recommendation to Mrs A, who bought  her policy online. In these circumstances, the 
information provided should be clear  and not misleading. In my judgment, the information 
was clear  it showed that her home insurance  did include an element  of business use, but 
her legal expenses  cover did not. And so I agree with our investigator that the policy  wasnt 
mis-sold.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6807114