K820x#14complaint
You will see that the name of the business  on this complaint has changed. This is because 
AXA France  IARD (AXA France) is now responsible for it. To keep things simple,  Ill refer to
AXA France  as the seller in my decision.
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in
1998. Miss L says AXA France mis-sold her the PPI.
background
In my provisional decision sent in October  2019  I explained why I didnt think  this complaint  
should be upheld.
I said that AXA France had to make Miss L aware that the PPI was optional and gain her 
consent before adding  it to her card. I couldnt be certain what was said at the time Miss L 
applied for the PPI, and there  is limited  information available. But Miss L took out the PPI 
several months after applying for the card. So I thought she would  have been  aware  the PPI 
was optional, and she chose to have it. Although given the time thats  passed  I could 
understand why she may not remember this.
AXA France  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss L so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Miss L got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information AXA France gave Miss L about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I thought she chose  to take out the PPI knowing the other means  she 
had to make  her repayments.
Miss L told us she was a student at the time she took the PPI and was working part time. 
Miss L also provided evidence of her being  a student. Based on this our adjudicator didnt
think the policy was suitable for her.
Although when I looked at the information provided  by Miss L to support her being a student
at the time she took the PPI the information  did not cover the date the policy  was sold. There
had also been  some contradicting information about whether Miss L was a student at the
time the policy was sold or not. We requested  further information from Miss L but we didnt 
received a response.
Based on what I had seen  of Miss Ls circumstances at the time I couldnt say she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so I thought  it would have 
been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I 
didnt think better information  about  the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
I gave Miss L and AXA France time to respond to my provisional decision, but no further  
information was provided.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But as neither side responded with 
anything further  for me to consider I see no reason to come  to a different  decision to that 
explained above.
Ref: DRN67441732my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020. 
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6744173