K820x#14complaint
Mr F has complained about Allianz  Insurance Plc. He isnt happy about the way a claim was 
settled under his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr F was involved in an accident with another driver and he thought the other  driver  was at 
fault. He didnt claim on his policy as the cost was under his excess.  Allianz looked into 
things as the other driver  had made  a claim but settled liability in favour of the other driver.
So Mr F complained to Allianz  and then this service.  He didnt  think  he should  be held 
responsible and at worst it shouldve been  split 50/50.
Our adjudicator looked into things for him but didnt uphold his complaint. He didnt think  that 
Allianz had acted unreasonably  in settling the claim the way it had.
As Mr F didnt agree the matter has been  passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, and despite my natural 
sympathy for Mr F, I dont  think  that Allianz has done anything wrong. Ill explain why.
I can understand Mr Fs frustration as he was at the scene of the accident and knows what 
happened. But Allianz wasnt  and it has to form a view on the evidence it has before it. 
To decide what is fair and reasonable in this complaint, I have considered  everything  that 
Mr F and Allianz have provided. As has been explained Allianz has the right to take over the 
claim. And to decide whether to take the third party to court  or to settle a claim as it has in 
this instance.  
Legal proceedings are time-consuming, expensive  and the outcome can be very uncertain.  
So it will not always be commercially  sensible to take legal action  against  the third party.  But 
this service generally looks into whether an insurer has acted  fairly  and reasonably  in 
deciding whether to settle a claim.
I expect insurers to make a reasonable assessment, based  on a clear understanding of the 
evidence and the circumstances of the accident.  I have carefully considered  all the 
information provided by both sides and how Allianz  has handled Mr Fs claim. And Im 
satisfied that it has carried  out a reasonable  investigation  into the claim, and took into 
consideration all of the available  evidence. 
Cases like this are really  difficult to determine without any independent witnesses or 
evidence. Allianz  did try and defend Mr F and there was some  suggestion  that the matter 
couldve been finalised on a split liability basis. But even if it was settled 50/50  Mr F would 
still have a fault claim against him. And given the road layout, the way the cars have came  
together and the lack of independent evidence I dont think I can say it has acted unfairly.
Ref: DRN62750332my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6275033