K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr G says 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him the PPI.
background
Mr G initially bought the policy in 1997  when he applied  for a credit card. Our adjudicator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. Mr G disagreed  so the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr Gs signed credit card application  form shows a tick in a box confirming that he 
wanted the PPI. Ive seen what Mr G has said about not needing to sign separately  to 
confirm his selection. But Mr G didnt need  to tick the box at all if he didnt want  the 
cover and he appears to have known this because he didnt tick the box to request card 
protection. So overall and having carefully  thought about everything, I think that Lloyds 
made it clear that Mr G didnt  have  to take out the PPI and he chose to take it.  
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr G so it had to check  that it was right for him. Based  
on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For example, he 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. I also think that its more likely  than not Mr G had a need  for the cover   bearing 
in mind it wouldve  proved more  reliable than relying on help from family and it wouldve 
paid out in addition to any sick pay he may have received.   
Im open  to the possibility the information Lloyds gave Mr G about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But I think he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for him if something  went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put him off taking out the cover  in the first place. 
All of the above means  Lloyds  doesnt  have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:  
When the policy was sold,  Lloyds expected to get a high level of commission and profit  
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr G about that. 
Because Lloyds  didnt  tell Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN68806442Ive thought about everything Mr G has said. But these  points  dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds Bank Plc does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6880644