K820x#14complaint
Ms M says Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Ms M applied for a mortgage in Lloyds in November in November 1994. The mortgage  
started in June 1995, at which point the MPPI  policy also started. Ms M paid a monthly  
amount for the PPI policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I think Lloyds made  Ms M aware that she had a choice about buying the MPPI, and that she 
chose to take it. Ms M says she wasnt aware  of the MPPI policy,  and she didnt need it. Ive 
seen a copy of Ms Ms mortgage application form and it includes a separate  section  on 
MPPI, with a box to be ticked to include it. The box appears  to have been ticked, and Ms M 
has signed the form. So I think its more likely than not that Ms M chose to take the policy,  
and knew about  it  even if she cant now remember that.
Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Ms M, and it seems to have been right for her based on 
what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. When Ms M referred  her complaint to this 
service she said shed  have been  entitled  to at least a years  full sick pay if she was too 
unwell to work. But when she initially raised  her complaint with Lloyds she said she wouldnt 
have been entitled to sick pay. I dont know whats correct but even  if Ms M was entitled  to 
sick pay of some sort, I think its unlikely shed  have been entitled to a year of full pay if she 
was too unwell to work.  Ms M has also noted  she couldve relied on her husband  to make 
her mortgage repayments if she couldnt  work  for any other  reason. But I still think the policy 
couldve been useful,  as it wouldve paid out for up to a year if shed lost her job, in addition  
to any other  means  that she mightve been  able to rely on.
Having considered everything, I think Lloyds made a suitable  recommendation. The MPPI 
policy wouldve paid out for up to a year if Ms M had been  to unwell to work  or if shed lost 
her job. I accept shed have received some sick pay, and her husband mayve helped her if 
shed need him to, but relying on family  cant always be guaranteed,  especially with paying 
something as important as a mortgage.  
I think Lloyds couldve explained the cost of the policy at the point of application better than it 
did  although  I note it was shown on the mortgage  offer before the policy  and mortgage 
actually started. But even  if it had been  clearer about the cost, I think  Ms M would still have 
bought it. 
Ref: DRN65411812Its possible Lloyds didnt  point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But having 
considered the closest policy document available to the time this one was sold, I think its 
unlikely that Ms M wouldve been  affected by any of those things. 
I want to reassure Ms M that Ive thought carefully about everything shes said. But having 
done so, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold this MPPI policy to her.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6541181