K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Amtrust International Underwriters DAC incorrectly turned down a claim
on his mechanical  breakdown  insurance policy.
background
Mr B took his car into a garage to have its MOT test completed. During the test the garage
noticed the rear coil springs had broken and needed replacing. The garage contacted
Amtrust who rejected  the claim. They  said as the fault had been  identified during routine
servicing and maintenance it wasnt covered. Because  of this Mr B complained.
Amtrust reviewed Mr Bs complaint and didnt  uphold it. They said the policy  specifically
excluded faults  reported during servicing and maintenance. Mr B didnt agree, he said the
MOT test isnt maintenance  and is a test to ensure his car is roadworthy. Mr B brought  his
complaint here.
I issued a provisional decision on 26 November 2019 as I disagreed with our Investigator. In 
it I said: 
Mr Bs policy  covers  him for the mechanical breakdown of covered parts. The suspension is
listed as a covered  part and the terms and conditions say all suspension components are
covered. Amtrust appears to have  accepted  its a valid claim but relied on an exclusion to
turn down the claim.
The exclusion Amtrust  have relied  upon  says the policy doesnt  cover Any items or parts
which have not actually failed, or parts replaced or reported during routine  servicing  and/or
maintenance. The fault with Mr Bs car was noticed during a MOT  test, Ive therefore looked
at whether this falls into routine maintenance and if Amtrust have applied the term fairly.
The MOT  testing guide says the purpose  of the MOT test is to ensure that cars (and other
vehicles) are checked at least once a year to see that they comply with roadworthiness and
environmental standards. As its a test rather than a service or repair Im not persuaded that
a MOT test would be fall into this exclusion.
Even if I was, I dont think Amtrust are applying the term in a fair and reasonable way. I say
this because the purpose of the policy is to cover the mechanical breakdown of covered
parts. And Amtrust havent  provided anything to show why theyd  be prejudiced by the fault
being noticed during  routine maintenance rather than when the car was being  used.  I also
dont think they would  be able to show why it would make a difference  to the claim whether
the fault was identified  during routine maintenance or use. So, Im not satisfied its fair for
them to rely on this exclusion to turn down Mr Bs claim.
As Amtrust  didnt pay Mr Bs claim he paid £276 for the repairs and provided an invoice to
show this. As Im satisfied  its not fair and reasonable for Amtrust to turn down Mr Bs claim
they should pay him this amount, minus any excess.  Also,  as Mr B has been without the
money Amtrust should  add 8% simple  interest  per year from the date he paid for the repairs
until the date it makes payment.
Mr B responded and accepted my provisional  decision. Amtrust responded and didnt accept  
it. Amtrust said a MOT  test is routine maintenance and that without the MOT test the fault 
wouldnt have been identified. They said thats  why they offer separate  MOT  cover. 
Ref: DRN67037052my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent looked into Amtrusts reasons  for whether a MOT test is routine maintenance 
further as I dont think it makes a difference for the reasons explained  above.  I understand 
Amtrusts said the fault wouldnt have been  identified without the MOT test, but this doesnt  
change the fact there was a fault which would have been covered by the policy if Mr B had 
noticed it at a different time. 
Amtrust also havent shown what difference the fault being  identified during normal  use 
compared to routine  servicing and maintenance makes. Im also not satisfied that by selling 
MOT cover that it means  this exclusion  is being applied in a fair and reasonable way in this 
case. I therefore see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above my final decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require 
Amtrust International  Underwriters DAC  to pay Mr B £276, less the excess. They  should  
also add 8% simple interest per year to the amount they pay calculated from the date Mr B 
paid for repairs until the date they make payment1. 
They should  do this within 28 days  of us telling them Mr Bs accepted my decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 If Amtrust International  Underwriters DAC considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
take off income  tax from the interest, it should tell Mr B how much its taken  off. It should also give   Mr 
B a certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs 
if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN6703705