K821x#15complaint
Mr B says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 57 loans Sunny provided to Mr B between  November 2016 and 
October 2018. Mr Bs borrowing history  for the first 10 loans is set out in the table below. The 
remaining loans Mr B took out were for between £50 and £150. Loan 57 was taken out on 5 
October 2018 and repaid on 31 October  2018.
In its final response,  Sunny told Mr B that it did not uphold his complaint.  It explained  that it 
had carried out credit and affordability checks each time it gave Mr B a loan and the 
amounts advanced  were  assessed as being affordable over the term of each loan. 
Later it said it now recognised that the manner  in which the customer  used the product  may 
have indicated they were not when looking at the usage overall, using the credit for short 
term borrowing needs. It partially agreed to uphold the complaint from the time Mr B took out 
loan 17.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Bs complaint and thought the loans from loan 5 onwards  
shouldnt have been given. She said that as Sunny had offered to put things right from loans 
17 onwards she had not investigated these loans and asked Sunny to put things right as it 
had offered to do and in line with our approach. 
But Sunny hadnt gone far enough and she also thought that by loan 5 Mr B had three  
outstanding loans and this ought  to have alerted Sunny to the possibility that Mr B might  be 
having problems  managing his money. By the time Mr B took out loan 7, his overall pattern 
of borrowing  suggested  he had become reliant  on short  term loans. Sunny did not agree with 
this view. As the parties  are not in agreement  the complaint was passed  to me to make a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN67254552the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr B could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint. Ive decided to uphold this complaint  
from loan 5 onwards.  I will explain why.
When Mr B took his first four loans  it was still early on in the lending relationship with Sunny. 
As I said above, early  in the relationship it wouldnt be unreasonable for Sunny to rely on the 
information Mr B provided.  So when Sunny  gave  Mr B loans  1-4 I think  it was still entitled to 
rely on the information hed given without looking into it further. I can see Mr B told Sunny his 
income was around  £1200 per month  and his expenditure wasnt  particularly  high so at this 
point, on the face of it loans 1-4 would likely have appeared  affordable.
When Mr B took out loan 5, I think Sunny should have done more. At this point Mr B had 
been borrowing  the same  amounts for a while, around £100, and he still hadnt  repaid loans 
2, 3 and 4 when he took out loan 5. This meant he was now paying  more per month to repay 
this loan and looking at Mr Bs circumstances it looks as though he told Sunny his income 
had reduced to around £1083. And Ive also seen a copy  of Mr Bs bank statements from the 
time. It appears as if he also had further  commitments to repay another loan, so he likely 
would have had 5 short term loans outstanding at the same time. When it gave loan 6, Mr B 
still had loans 3, 4 and 5 outstanding. Mr B repaid  loan 3 on the same  day he took out loan 7 
but he still had loans 4, 5 and loan 6 outstanding at the same  time.  On balance considering 
all the circumstances  when it gave Mr B loan 5, 6 and 7, Sunny should  have  realised Mr B 
might be having problems managing money.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
Ref: DRN67254553was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
8. I say this because:
At this point Sunny ought to have realised Mr B was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr B had taken out eight loans within seven months and Mr B had been 
indebted to Sunny  for the whole time. On many occasions he hadnt repaid his 
previous loans before he took out his next borrowing. So Sunny ought to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr B was having to borrow further  to cover the 
hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Bs 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr Bs first loan was for £100  and loan 8 was also for the same  amount. But this time 
he was also repaying outstanding amounts for loans 5, 6 and 7 so the amount he 
was paying was increasing.  At this point  Sunny  ought to have known that Mr B was 
not likely  borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in their income but to meet an 
ongoing need. 
From  loan 8 onwards  Mr B was provided  with a new loan within  days of settling a 
previous one and on many  occasions Mr B was still making repayments for his 
previous loans in addition  to the new loan hed taken out. 
Mr B wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 57 was 
taken out almost two years after Mr Bs first. And it was for the same amount. Mr B 
had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an 
extended period.
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from loan 8 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans and the length of time over which Mr B borrowed was likely  to 
have had negative  implications on Mr Bs ability to access  mainstream  credit  and so 
kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 5-7 and loans 8-57 and Sunny should put things 
right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loans 5-57;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 5,6 and 7 from Mr Bs credit file;
Ref: DRN67254554the number  of loans taken from loan 8 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 8-57 should be removed from Mr 
Bs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Bs complaint. Elevate Credit  
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.. 
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6725455