K822xthe complaint
At the end of April 2018 TSB experienced IT problems. As a result of these problems,  Mr B 
was sent a total of seven replacement debit cards  which didnt work properly. In April 2019, 
after an incident at a TSB branch, TSB said Mr B would need to close his account.
Mr B has said this caused him a number of issues. Specifically, during the period when his 
debit cards were not working properly Mr Bs car broke down. Because his card was not 
working at the time, Mr B has said he was unable to get his car recovered, and it was then 
stolen after it had been left at the side of the road for around a week.  Mr B says this has also 
caused knock-on  effects with his car insurance.
Mr B also says that when  he had to close his account, and switched to a different bank, 
there were problems with his new account  that meant he had no access to his money for 
some time. Mr B is unhappy that he continued to receive letters from TSB about returned 
direct debits and charges  on his account  after it was supposed to have been  closed.
In addition, Mr B says he has been unable to pay bills  which means  he incurred fees,  
spent time and money trying to resolve all the issues hes had, and a payment from one of 
his tenants, made to his TSB account,  went missing.
TSB offered to pay Mr B £300 to recognise the impact the issues  with his debit cards had. 
Our adjudicator thought this was fair, and didnt think TSB could be held responsible for the 
problems with Mr Bs car or any issues resulting from the problems with the new account he 
opened when  his TSB account was closed. Mr B didnt agree,  hes noted that everything 
thats happened has had a significant impact on him, and feels  TSB should pay more  
compensation to recognise this. 
This case has now been passed  to me to decide.  
what Ive decided and why
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After doing so, I think the £300 compensation TSB has already offered is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint, and Ill explain why.
I can see that Mr B was sent several  cards  over an extended period of time. The expiration  
dates on the cards meant they didnt always work as they should, and I appreciate  that this 
will have been worrying and inconvenient to him. I also appreciate  that he spent quite some  
time trying to sort this issue out with TSB. But even  with the issues  with his debit cards,  it 
seems Mr B was able to make some card payments  and withdraw  cash, so he was able to 
use his account  for at least some of this period.  
I dont think TSB can be held responsible for what happened to Mr Bs car. Mr B has said it 
broke down  on 11 April and because his debit card was not working he couldnt arrange  for it 
to be recovered  from the layby  it was in. It had been  stolen when he went  back to recover it. 
I dont doubt that Mr B may not have been  able to use his card to pay for recovery on that 
day, but I cant hold TSB responsible for the actions of the third party  who stole the car. I 
also note that Mr B withdrew  all his money from his TSB account  on 13 April, I understand 
Ref: DRN64190202that was so he could open a new account  with another bank, but its not clear  why he 
couldnt use some of that cash  to arrange  for the car to be recovered  earlier  than he did.
Regarding the closure of Mr Bs account,  TSB is within their rights to close  any customers 
account if they feel the relationship with that customer  has broken down.  And, in any case,  
while TSB said they would be asking Mr B to close his account,  they didnt say this had to 
happen immediately  and instead Mr B was able to arrange for the account  to be switched  to 
a different bank. This account switch  was timetabled  to happen on 26 April, which is why 
Mr B continued to receive letters  about  direct debits  and charges on his account after the 
incident on 13 April.  And I note that all the charges that were applied to Mr Bs TSB account 
after the 13 April were  waived or refunded.
Mr B has said he then had issues accessing his money with his new bank; again this is not 
something that I can hold TSB responsible for. The actions of Mr Bs new bank are not 
something that is within TSBs control.
Weve also not been given anything  to show any financial costs that Mr B may have 
incurred, other than the issues  Ive already addressed above. Mr B has said hes had issues 
paying bills, and incurred  costs from making  phone  calls to TSB. But without evidence to 
show those call costs, or to show that any missed bill payments were the responsibility of 
TSB, I dont think it would be fair to ask TSB to cover those costs.
Lastly, Mr B has said a payment from one of his tenants was made to TSB after his account  
should have been closed.  Ive seen Mr Bs account  statements and there  is no evidence to 
show this payment reached his TSB account. This means it would be very difficult  for TSB to 
trace the payment,  because  they havent been involved at any stage of this payment 
process. When a payment  has been  sent and has gone missing, it is the sending bank 
(Mr Bs tenants bank  in this case) that should trace the payment; because  it knows  where 
the payment was sent and what reference  numbers were used. TSB does not have access  
to the sending banks systems, so would not be able to trace the money.
Mr B says he wants fair compensation for the worry and stress TSB has caused  and I can 
understand his strength of feeling. But taking everything into account, I think the 
compensation of £300 TSB has already offered is fair compensation for what has happened 
here.
putting things right
To put things right TSB should:
pay Mr B £300 for the impact the IT issues had on him.
Ref: DRN64190203my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
TSB Bank plc should put things right by doing what Ive said above  if it hasnt already done 
so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6419020