K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complained about advice given by Easy Financial Planning (EFP),  an appointed 
representative of WSW  Financial Services Ltd. This was to transfer her pension benefits  to a 
SIPP. The funds were  then used to invest in Harlequin overseas property development. The 
investment has failed and most of the pension money has been  lost. 
background
I issued a provisional decision for this case on 26 April 2019, a copy of which is attached  to 
and forms part of this final decision.
WSW has now been placed into liquidation.  They received my provisional decision and did 
not have any further comments  to make.  They asked for a copy  of the decision to be sent to 
the liquidator.
Mrs D accepted the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As there are no further  substantive 
arguments, there is no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I therefore  uphold the 
complaint for the reasons given in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. WSW Financial  Services  Ltd must calculate Mrs Ds loss and pay 
redress as set out in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61190902Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs D complained about advice given by Easy Financial  Planning (EFP), an appointed representative  
of WSW Financial Services Ltd. This was to transfer her pension benefits to a SIPP.  The funds  were 
then used to invest in Harlequin overseas  property  development. The investment has failed and most 
of the pension money  has been  lost. 
background
Mrs D transferred her pension plans into a SIPP to invest in Harlequin.  She did this after her husband 
had also transferred his pensions and invested in Harlequin. Mrs D told us that she didnt think  her 
pensions had been doing very well and she thought that she had to move them into something else to 
improve them.
EFP sent a report to Mrs D on 31 May 2012. This explained that Mrs D had been introduced by 
Choices Financial  Solutions Ltd. She was interested in investing  money from her personal pension 
and [name  of employer] pension  scheme in Harlequin  overseas property using a SIPP.
EFP summarised Mrs Ds situation. She was a housewife. Her only asset is shown  below her pension 
benefits with transfer values of just under  £15,000 each. EFPs advice was not to transfer the 
benefits. The [name  of employer] scheme was guaranteed. There were many risks in transferring.  
The personal  pension was covered by regulation and investing  in Harlequin was not. EFP also 
recommended that Mrs D should not invest in Harlequin because of the risks.
Mrs D signed a typewritten  letter explaining  that she had read the report  and was instructing EFP to 
proceed with the transfer.
EFP sent an addendum to their transfer options report on 26 June 2012.  This reiterated their advice 
not to transfer Mrs Ds pension benefits and not to invest in Harlequin. The aim of the report was to 
summarise Mrs Ds current situation and objectives and to facilitate a transfer of her pension benefits 
to a SIPP  with Guardian.
The SIPP application form was signed by Mrs D and witnessed  by [name of mortgage broker]
As part of our investigation we asked  Mrs D which  businesses she had dealt with. She explained that 
their mortgage broker put Mr and Mrs D in touch with Choices. He then introduced them  to Spectrum 
who referred them to EFP for advice about transferring pension benefits.
Mrs D confirmed  that they did not receive any payment from anyone  concerned with the transfers.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account  relevant  law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
EFP is an appointed representative of WSW. The principal was responsible  for the actions of its 
representative. The complaint has correctly been set up against WSW Financial Services Ltd.
The regulators rules apply to firms carrying  out regulated business. There  are principles which set out 
a general statement of the fundamental  obligations  of firms.  There  are more  detailed  rules that firms 
Ref: DRN61190903have to comply with. One of these is COBS 2.1.1; the clients best interests rule. This says that a firm 
must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
COBS 9.2 required  a firm to gather information about its client to enable it to give suitable  advice. Any 
advice it gave  had to be suitable for the clients circumstances. There is no dispute that EFP gave 
advice to Mrs D. That advice was not to transfer  her pension benefits or invest  in Harlequin. I agree 
that was suitable advice for Mrs D.
EFP recognised that the transfers and investments were not suitable. It said that the transfer could 
result in the loss of the entire  pension, which would be disastrous for Mrs Ds retirement . It is apparent 
that EFP did not believe  Mrs D was a high net worth client; nor did it believe she was a sophisticated  
investor. She did not have experience of investing in unregulated funds. Mrs D was recorded  in the 
documentation as having  an ultra-speculative attitude to investment risk. EFP noted  that the transfers 
and subsequent investment was one which not even an ultra-speculative investor  would entertain.
I agree with the advice that EFP gave to Mrs D not to transfer her pensions; or invest in Harlequin. 
The question is therefore whether EFP should have processed the transfers against their own advice.
The letter Mrs D signed in June 2012 was addressed  to EFP. It explains that Mrs D had read the 
report advising her not to transfer. She went on to ask EFP to arrange  the transfers anyway. In my 
view, this letter should  have  given  some indication of the reasons why Mrs D wanted to ignore the 
advice. I think as a minimum EFP should have checked whether Mrs D understood the risks and why 
she wanted  to transfer against their advice.
In this case, the pension benefits being transferred  were a large part of Mrs Ds assets. Its clear she 
could not afford to take any risk with this. And this was after her husband had also transferred his 
pension benefits  to invest in Harlequin. Suitable advice  was not to transfer. I think  they should have 
understood why Mrs D was prepared to ignore the advice.
The documents passed  to EFP recorded that Mrs D was prepared to be ultra-speculative. That is not 
consistent with her existing investments. And I think more importantly  she was not in a position to 
accept any risk with her pension.  In my view,  EFP should  have made  further enquiries to understand 
why Mr D wanted  to invest in Harlequin.  
Clearly, EFP was aware that accepting this type of business came with some  risks. That appears to 
be the reason for calling the regulator to discuss the approach. The result of that conversation  
appears to be that the call handler at the regulator  thought accepting  the business  would not be in 
breach of any rules. There was a moral dilemma about completing business  that was not in the 
clients best interests.
I have carefully considered  how I should approach  this issue.  The regulator  issued guidance for the 
industrywide review  of pensions in 1994.  That guidance  explained how firms should assess cases 
involving insistent clients. The guidance only applied to cases that fell within  the review period which 
finished in June 1994. But, the approach  set out in that guidance can be applied to this case.
The guidance specifically dealt with the review of insistent  clients. It explained that firms  should be 
alert for any signals such as unusually high numbers  of insistent  clients or the use of technical or 
standard phrases  by investors.
EFP told us that from 2010  they received  33 enquiries  from clients who wanted to invest in Harlequin 
or a combination of investments. They gave advice to 30 clients; all of whom were advised not to 
transfer their pensions. Of these 18 insisted  on acting  against the advice. That appears to me to be a 
high number  of cases.
The adviser  at WSW clearly  recognised that this was a risky transaction. He called the regulator  to 
discuss the approach. The discussion with the regulator was about  one case. It also involved 
transferring from a final salary pension scheme to a SIPP.  Ive listened to the call, which  concluded by 
Ref: DRN61190904saying that the decision  how to proceed was a moral one. I take it to mean the adviser  thought 
transferring the pensions was not suitable for the consumer  involved. The question was whether EFP 
should arrange the transfers.
In my view the moral  dilemma was about acting in the clients best interests. This is one of the 
conduct of business  rules. EFP had already advised against the transfers.  It is clear to me that the 
adviser realised the transfer was not in Mrs Ds best interests.
It is clear that a number of transfers were referred to EFP. Weve been told this started  in 2010.  By the 
time Mrs D transferred her pensions, I think EFP should have had concerns about  the process.
EFP told us it decided to stop taking  business  on an insistent client basis. This was after the regulator  
issued an alert about  transferring monies  to SIPPs  to invest in unregulated products. They  took the 
view this was a change to the position  outlined to them  in August 2011.
The regulator  recently  issued guidance about insistent clients.  I have tried not to take this guidance  
into account  in reaching my conclusion. But, I think this guidance reflects the principles and rules  that 
were in place at the time Mrs D transferred her pension to the SIPP.
The advice from EFP was not to transfer.  I think it was clear that this was a high risk strategy. But, I 
am concerned  about  the high number  of insistent client cases. This is something I would not have 
expected to see. It isnt clear exactly how many cases had been completed on this basis by the time 
Mrs D transferred  her benefits. I think its likely that there had been more than one or two of these.
I accept that EFP advised  against  the transfers.  But I think  the crucial point is whether they acted in 
their clients best interests. EFP was only paid if the transfers completed.  This is a conflict  of interests 
and I cannot see how that was managed. This is a significant  factor in my decision making.
EFP was aware  that the transfers were  unsuitable for Mrs D. And that the transfers were  likely to 
leave Mrs D significantly worse off in retirement. In my view, EFP should have known that the adviser 
at Spectrum  or the unregulated  firm selling the investments was instrumental in the decision being  
made by Mrs D. I think it should have  refused  to process the transfers. It clearly wasnt in the clients 
best interests. I consider EFP to be responsible  for any losses Mrs D has suffered.
It is possible that Spectrum could have some liability for the losses suffered. It is also possible that 
other parties could have  some liability. But in my view,  the investments could not have been made if 
WSW had treated Mrs D fairly. If WSW wishes to take action against  any other party  to recover some 
of the losses it may ask Mrs D to co-operate; that is if Mrs D is compensated in full.
WSW referred to other cases investigated by this service. They  say those cases  have similar facts  
and so should  reach similar  outcomes. I have considered those cases. They were resolved at the first 
stage of our process  after an adjudicator  gave an initial  view. There  are some  differing facts  in the 
cases. One of the important things is that I am aware that there were a large number of similar cases. 
I think  its likely all of these cases  were  investigated without that knowledge. It is therefore possible 
that those  cases could have  been decided  differently by an ombudsman.  In any event, I am not bound  
by previous decisions  that have been made.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mrs D as close to the position she would  now be in if WSW had acted in her best 
interests. I think that she would have kept her final salary and personal pension benefits. 
Ref: DRN61190905what did WSW do to contribute to Mrs Ds loss?
EFP was paid commission of 3% for setting up the SIPP. It split this equally with Spectrum. EFP was 
also aware that an unregulated business was involved. It also dealt with all of the administration for 
setting up the SIPP and the investments.
WSW was required  to act in the best interests  of its client. This is the moral dilemma referred to 
when it spoke  to the regulator. If WSW had acted in the best interests of its client, it should have 
refused to process the transfer.
The transactions would not have been  made but for the involvement of WSW. Ultimately, I regard  
WSW as being responsible for the transactions which occurred.
did EFPs actions cause the loss?
WSW knew that the money transferred into the SIPP  would be invested in Harlequin. WSW realised 
that the investments were unsuitable. It exposed Mrs Ds pension fund to significant risk.
the role of Spectrum
Spectrum was clearly involved in the advice to invest the pension funds. But, the transfer could not 
have been made unless WSW was involved.
the role of the unregulated firm selling  the investments
Investments were sold to Mrs D by an unregulated  firm. Any complaint about that firm cannot  be dealt 
with by this service. One of the purposes  of regulation was to provide consumer protection. I think it is 
appropriate that if losses are suffered the consumer should be compensated for the actions of the 
regulated firm. Being a regulated adviser comes with responsibilities.  If WSW wants  to take an 
assignment of any rights  Mrs D may be able to give against any third parties it may do so; if 
compensation is paid in full.
the role of the SIPP provider
It is possible that the SIPP  provider could have prevented the investments  being made. But, I think the 
primary reason  for the loss was the actions of regulated firms giving  advice to Mrs D. Again if WSW  
wishes to take an assignment of any rights of action against the SIPP  provider in may do so; if 
compensation is paid in full.
the role of Harlequin and those  involved  with Harlequin
I am aware  that there is currently an investigation into the actions of those associated  with Harlequin. 
WSW could argue that any losses were not its fault and that it cannot reasonably  be held responsible  
for the loss. However, it does not necessarily  follow  that it would  not be fair or reasonable to conclude  
that WSW is responsible for Mrs Ds loss.
The outcome of any proceedings  that may arise is not yet known and may be some way off. I am not 
in a position  to make any judgment about the conduct of those  involved in the management of 
Harlequin. But I acknowledge that it may be relevant to how I determine fair compensation for Mrs D. 
And I can understand why WSW considers that other parties are responsible, either wholly or in part, 
for Mrs Ds loss. I have considered that very carefully, along with more general issues of causation 
and foreseeability.
How a fund is managed is an inherent and foreseeable risk. But where there may have been fraud in 
connection with the running of a fund then this might mean there has been a break  in the chain  of 
causation. This break  might mean that its not fair to say that all of the losses suffered  by a consumer 
flow from the unsuitable advice.
Ref: DRN61190906In my view, there  is no doubt that Mrs D would not have made  the investment  if WSW  had taken the 
appropriate action. There is enough evidence  here for me to conclude  that WSW was not acting in its 
clients best interests.  I think that fair redress means that it should  compensate Mrs D for the loss of 
her pension  fund. That includes the investment loss that could not have happened, but for its advice.
I think that the losses were foreseeable. These were high risk investments. They were unusual 
holdings, operating in a very specific  way and without a track record.  They  were  complex investments 
that were not easy to understand. They  could suffer large losses, the nature of which  would be difficult 
to predict  or estimate at the outset.
I am satisfied that Mrs D would  not have invested, but for the actions  of WSW.  In my view,  it is fair to 
assess compensation on our usual  basis  aiming to put Mrs D in the position she would have been in 
but for the unsuitable  advice - despite any arguments around any fraud breaking the chain of 
causation.
what should WSW do?
My aim is to put Mrs D in the position she would now be in if she had received suitable  advice. I think 
that she would have:  a.) kept her existing pensions; b.) wouldnt have invested in Harlequin; and c.) as 
a result wouldnt  have opened the SIPP  (and now be subject  to ongoing SIPP fees).  In setting  out how 
to calculate fair compensation my objective is to address these  three issues.  That is what Im trying to 
achieve.
There are a number of possibilities and unknown factors  in making an award. While  I understand 
Harlequin could allow WSW  to take over the investment from Mrs D that is now unlikely.
All the variables are unknown  and each may have an impact on the extent of any award  I may make. 
The facts suggest its unlikely that the property will be completed and unlikely that the contract  and 
any future payments  would be enforceable. While its complicated to put Mrs D back  in the position 
she would have been in if WSW  had acted in her interests, I think  its fair that Mrs D is compensated 
now. I dont think I should wait and determine each and every possibility  before making  an award. 
What is set out below is a fair way of achieving this.
WSW should calculate fair compensation by comparing  the value of Mrs Ds pensions,  if she had not 
transferred, with the current value  of his SIPP. In summary:
1.Calculate the current  value of Mrs Ds PPP,  as at the date of calculation, if it had not been 
transferred to the SIPP.
2.For the final salary  scheme;  review this transfer in line with the methodology issued 
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
3.Pay a commercial  value to buy Mrs Ds Harlequin Property  investment.
4.Obtain  the actual  transfer value of Mrs Ds SIPP on the date of calculation, including 
any outstanding charges.
5.If there is a loss caused  by either transfer redress should be paid.
In addition,  WSW should:
6.Pay five years worth  of future  fees owed by Mrs D to the SIPP.
7.Pay Mrs D £250  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN61190907I have explained how WSW  should carry this out in further detail  below.
1.Calculate the current  transfer value of Mrs Ds PPP,  as at the date of calculation,  if it had not 
been transferred  to the SIPP.
It should be assumed that the PPP would have achieved a return equivalent to the change  in the 
FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (formerly the FTSE  WMA Stock Market  Income 
Total Return  Index). That is a reasonable proxy for the type of return that could have been achieved if 
suitable funds had been chosen.
WSW should assume that any contributions  or withdrawals that have  been made would still have 
been made, and on the same dates.
2.For the final salary  scheme;  review this transfer in line with the methodology issued 
by the Financial Conduct Authority in October 2017.
This calculation should carried out as at the date of my final decision;  using the most  recent financial  
assumptions published (at the date of that decision). This should be undertaken or submitted to an 
appropriate provider  promptly following  receipt of notification of Mrs Ds acceptance of the decision.
WSW may wish to contact the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mrs Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which  will take into account  
the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mrs Ds SERPS/S2P entitlement.
3.Pay a commercial  value to buy Mrs Ds Harlequin Property  investment.
The SIPP only exists  because  of the investment in Harlequin. In order for the SIPP to be closed  
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the Harlequin  investment needs to be removed from the 
SIPP. I understand  this can be done. However, I understand that is now unlikely.
The valuation  of the Harlequin  investment may prove difficult, as there is no market for it. To 
calculate the compensation,  WSW should agree an amount with the SIPP provider  as a commercial 
value, and then pay the sum agreed  plus any costs  and take ownership of the investment. If WSW is 
unable to buy the investment, WSW  should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating 
compensation (including in step 1 above).
4.Obtain  the actual  transfer value of Mrs Ds SIPP on the date of calculation, including 
any outstanding charges.
This should be confirmed by the SIPP provider. It should include the value of any money  paid for the 
Harlequin investment if that can be sold.  If the Harlequin investment  cannot  be removed from the 
SIPP it should  be given  a nil value to calculate  the compensation.
This transfer value should be divided  in the same proportion as the transfer values received from the 
PPP and final salary  scheme. The relevant proportion  should  then be compared  to the values 
calculated in 1 and 2 above. 
5.If there is a loss caused  by either transfer pay redress.
If the either calculation  demonstrates  a loss, the compensation  should, if possible, be paid into Mrs 
Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. 
The compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
Ref: DRN61190908If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should  be paid 
directly to Mrs D as a lump  sum. Had it been possible to pay the compensation  into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable  income. Therefore  the compensation  may be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mrs Ds marginal  rate of tax in retirement. Mrs D is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The notional allowance  should  equate to a reduction in 
the total amount  equivalent  to the current basic  rate of tax. However, as Mrs D would have been  able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the notional  allowance should be applied  to 75% of the total amount.
Simple interest should be added at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my decision until the date of 
payment. Income  tax may be payable  on this interest.
6.Pay five years worth  of future  fees owed by Mrs D to the SIPP.
Had WSW acted in Mrs Ds best interests I dont think there would  be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mrs D 
continues to pay the annual SIPP  fees if it cant  be closed.
I think WSW  could take over the investments to allow  the SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest way 
of putting Mrs D back in the position she would  have  been in. But I dont  know how long that will 
take. Third parties are involved and we dont have  the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that WSW pay Mrs D an upfront lump  sum equivalent to five 
years worth of SIPP  fees (calculated using the previous  years fees).  This should  provide a 
reasonable period for the parties to arrange for the SIPP to be closed. There are a number of ways  
they may want to seek to achieve that. It will also provide  Mrs D with some confidence that she will 
not be subject to further fees.
In return for that, WSW may ask Mrs D to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the net amount 
of any payment she may receive from the Harlequin investment. That undertaking  should allow for 
the effect of any tax and charges on the amount  she may receive from the investment.  WSW will 
need to meet  any costs  in drawing up the undertaking. If WSW asks Mrs D to provide an 
undertaking, payment  of the compensation  awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
7.Pay Mrs D £250  for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mrs D has been caused  some distress by the loss of her pension benefits. I think that a 
payment of £250 is appropriate to compensate for that distress.
my provisional  decision
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that WSW pays the balance.
I presently intend to uphold the complaint and to direct  WSW Financial Services Ltd to pay fair 
compensation as set out above.
If the amount produced by the calculation exceeds £150,000 then, in addition to the £150,000 plus 
interest I intend to recommend that WSW  pays Mrs D the balance plus simple interest at a rate of 8% 
gross a year.
Its unlikely that Mrs D can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the balance of the 
compensation owing to her after the money award  has been paid. Mrs D may want  to consider getting  
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN6119090