K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Thinc  Group  Limited wrongly advised them to invest £40,000 in 
an excessively risky bond in 2006 (split  equally between two funds).
background
The background and circumstances of this complaint are set out within  my provisional 
decision of 15 January 2020.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this decision.
Thinc disagreed with my provisional  decision,  and said:
The advice was given  13 years ago when the documentary requirements  were very 
different from today
Despite this, it does  not mean that Mr and Mrs Ws attitude to risk was not fully 
explored
The fact find records that they were  happy to take a caution  risk with this money and 
the suitability letter explains this
The AXA document sets out a range of risk attitudes including very cautious i.e. not 
willing to risk capital; Mr and Mrs W instead  chose cautious
Mr and Mrs W have  never claimed that they wanted or chose a risk-free investment
The 6% return I referred to was the middle  rate approved  by the regulator at the time; 
but this was not the aim of the funds, which was too provide some capital protection 
and some exposure to stock  market growth
While  I felt the Active Protector fund was complicated, it was for Mr and Mrs W to 
understand the charges, risks and operation of the fund, all of which  were fully 
explained
It remains satisfied that this was a cautious  investment and, as such, suitable for Mr 
and Mrs Ws objectives
They were informed  when the fund switched  their money  into cash
However, and as a compromise, it is happy  to provide compensation on the money 
invested in this fund; this would mean  that only 16% of Mr and Mrs W were invested  
at risk (in the other product)
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I did not suggest that the Active Protector fund was not a low risk investment. 
Instead, I felt Mr and Mrs W were  not in a fully informed position  to assess  the potential  
advantages and disadvantages  of this product given its complexity and the advisors 
apparent failure  to offer a fair comparison between  the potential returns, as shown by the 
illustration, and the guaranteed returns available at the time. 
For the reasons  previously outlined, I think it is unlikely that they would have chosen to 
invest in this product  if given a fair comparison between the regulators approved rate of 6% 
and the returns  available  via guaranteed fixed-rate  bonds at the time (including the relevant 
building society). While this product could have delivered a higher than 6% return, there was 
solid historic evidence behind the regulators decision to advise businesses that 6% was a 
fair and reasonable figure to use on investment literature of this nature. So if the advisor had 
Ref: DRN65430672fully explained  things, I think Mr and Mrs W would  have realised this was a reasonable basis 
for comparison.
Given Thinc  has agreed to compensation in relation to this part of Mr and Mrs Ws complaint, 
I have not therefore  dealt  with all the points raised  in relation to this product. But having  
thought about them, I am satisfied this part of the complaint should be upheld.
I have also considered Thincs argument  about the AXA Reserve fund and recognise this is 
a finely balanced  issue. But, having done  so, I still feel that Mr and Mrs W were not in a 
position to fairly decide whether to put any of their money at risk in this fund given their 
circumstances and financial position. Had they actively sought investment advice rather than 
merely been approached by a branch representative, I might have concluded otherwise.
But, taking  account  of the fact that they had no investment experience, appeared to have 
been content to keep  this new money  in secure  savings accounts,  did not seek risk-based 
investment advice and had no surplus income  after essential  expenditure, I think the advisor  
needed to have done far more to ensure  they wanted to risk any of their money  and that they 
fully understood  the potential implications of this. As, in my view,  there is insufficient 
evidence to demonstrate he did this, I dont  believe they were  able to fairly decide  to put any 
of their money at risk of falling in value.
I dont dispute  that this was a cautious risk product but note that at the time of the advice the 
funds most  recent annual  return was just 2.2%, less than half the industry  average,  and way 
below the returns  available  via risk-free products. Whats  more, it only had an 11% exposure 
to clearly risk-based assets,  all in property, with the rest of Mr and Mrs Ws money in cash  
and bonds. Much of this was invested in foreign  bonds, clearly posing currency risks, and 
with arguably limited scope to rise significantly above risk-free products. This meant, in my 
view, that to recoup the charges and potentially beat the returns  available  via risk-free 
products, the 11% of their money invested had to perform extremely  well. None of this was 
pointed out.
Finally, as I explained in my provisional decision, Mr and Mrs W were both at or fairly close  
to retirement, had no surplus monthly income  so had no means of replacing  any capital or 
lost interest (to try and keep pace  with inflation). Notwithstanding the regulatory 
requirements of the time, I am not persuaded that the advice fully considered all their 
circumstances, safely assessed  their attitude to risk or fully explained the risks with this 
recommended fund including the potential loss of capital and interest,  something  they would 
be unlikely to be able to replace.
I remain satisfied that it is fair to base compensation on the interest  Mr and Mrs W would 
have got on their £40,000 investment via Britannias own two year bond and to then use the 
Bank of Englands  bonds of 12 to 17 months  maturity in calculating  returns  for the remainder 
of their invested period.
Thinc must therefore calculate how much they would  have  earned  on this money  via this 
comparison as of the date of surrender/maturity.  If this shows  a loss it must pay this sum and 
then add 8% simple interest per annum to this figure up to the date of settlement of this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN65430673my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Thinc  Group  Limited to pay compensation as outlined  
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65430674provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Thinc  Group Limited wrongly  advised them to invest  £40,000 in an 
excessively risky bond in 2006 (split  equally  between two funds).
background
Mr and Mrs W were  aged  60 and 59 at the time of investment in 2006 and planning  to retire  at 65 and 
60 respectively. They had a modest joint income  but held £122,000 in deposit accounts, virtually  all of 
which came  from a family inheritance.
According to the documentation, their main objective was long term capital  growth with the chance of 
greater returns than a deposit-based account.  Their  attitude to risk was recorded as cautious. The 
bond literatures illustration was based on a growth of 6% a year over five years.
Mr and Mrs Ws representative said they had no previous investment experience and were  advised  to 
invest far too soon after receiving this money as a result of Mrs Ws mothers death,  adding:
They  were advised  to take too much  risk, especially  via one product, meaning this advice 
lacked diversification
While  the chosen fund included a limited  guarantee, they could still lose up to 20% of their 
money and would  have struggled to replace any lost capital (The advisor recorded that their 
monthly outgoings equalled their joint income)
An investigator at this service felt their complaint should be upheld, saying that neither  Mr nor Mrs W 
had any investment experience and the documentation alone wouldnt have  made  them aware of 
whether the two funds were suitable.
Thinc disagreed, saying that this service had regularly concluded  that the AXA Reserve fund was 
suitable for cautious investors looking for higher returns than a deposit account, and was described  as 
secure and cautiously managed.
The investigator then accepted that the advice  to invest in the AXA Reserve fund had not been  
unreasonable but still felt the other fund, the Protector fund, was not suitable, and that Mr and Mrs W 
had probably not been fully aware of the risk to their capital posed by this fund.
She noted that the Key Features document stated  that this fund protected 80% of the highest price  
that each  unit reached during the term of the investment but noted  that the fund was subject to 
becoming unprotected if the FTSE 100 fell by at least 25% in a business day.
Shed reviewed the recommendation letters and felt that the advisor hadnt explained how this fund 
worked or the circumstances in which the protected feature of the investment would  not apply.  Given  
Mr and Mrs W had never invested  in the stock market  before,  she thought  they would  have relied on 
the advice in the suitability  letter, which  she felt was inadequate, and as such  they were therefore  not 
in a fully informed position to decide whether to take this risk.
She concluded that Thinc should pay compensation on the money  Mr and Mrs W had invested in this 
fund (£20,000),  and by using  this services standard cautious risk formula.
Thinc disagreed, saying it believed  this fund was suitably  cautious and that this service had concluded  
as such  in previous decisions. It said the risk of the FTSE falling  by 25% in one day was very remote 
and that this hadnt even occurred  on Black Monday, which saw the largest fall in stock markets 
since the 30s.
Ref: DRN65430675It also explained  that the Protector fund had moved clients  assets into cash  in 2008,  after large  stock 
market falls, and that Mr and Mrs W had subsequently moved  all their money  into the Balanced fund.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, its important to note that Mr and Mrs W did not seek  advice and that this money had been 
kept in various deposit accounts since they received  it three years earlier. Instead,  they were 
approached by staff in their local building  society  who recommended  investing some of it.
Based on the fact find and suitability letter, I am not convinced that the advisor fully assessed whether 
Mr and Mrs W wanted  to take the risk of losing  any of their capital. There is, for example,  no evidence 
of a risk questionnaire having been completed or an explanation of how much capital  they were  
prepared to lose over the following five years. Given they had no investment experience  and, 
crucially, no surplus  monthly income, I think the advisor ought to have made  them fully aware of what 
risk they were taking  with any investment where they could lose money or guaranteed interest.
I also think  that he failed to fully explain the risks posed by the fairly  complex structured  element of 
the bond.  The limited capital guarantee came with higher charges than a standard  fund and these 
would inevitably be a significant drag on returns. In fact, the fund managers subsequently responded 
to a stock market downturn by moving  all the assets into cash  etc., effectively  ending any prospect  of 
decent returns. Ive seen no evidence  that the advisor  explained  this significant risk.
The basis of the recommendation  was to try and achieve greater returns  that that available via a 
savings account  - with this bond aiming  to deliver around 6% a year, which  would reduce to 4.6% a 
year after the charges were  deducted.  But this potential return  was no more than that available via 
numerous products where returns were guaranteed and there  were  no charges. At this time, Mr and 
Mrs W could  have got up to 5.5%  interest via various  building society Over 50s deposit accounts, 
although not guaranteed for five years. More significantly, numerous  banks and building  societies 
were offering three to five year fixed-rate bonds with guaranteed  rates of between  4% and 5% a year; 
the best offering  a five-year rate of 5.2% per annum.
According to Thinc, Mr and Mrs Ws building  society, Britannia, didnt offer any five-year fixed-rate 
bonds at the time; the longest being a two-year bond paying 4.95% interest a year.  But theres  no 
evidence that the advisor mentioned this product,  something which would have met their apparent 
objective of delivering greater returns than a standard savings account.
In fact, the advisor did not state  how much Mr and Mrs W were earning on their money via their 
various savings accounts and appeared to have made  no attempt to compare  this interest rate/s  with 
the potential returns via this bond or other fixed-rate bonds. Given  the above figures, I think this was 
something he ought to have done so that they could  make  a fully informed decision  about the 
advantages/disadvantages of risking getting no return on this sizeable portion  of their money  
compared to the guaranteed interest available via numerous  products.
Overall, I am not persuaded that Mr and Mrs W would  have invested any money in this bond if fully 
and fairly advised about all the considerations  above. I cannot  safely  say whether  they might  have 
invested this money, or a portion of it, in a different  low risk product. But, on balance,  I think they 
would probably not have risked losing any of their capital  but sought to invest  this money in a higher 
interest fixed-term savings product available at the time.
As there  is no evidence that they were actively looking to invest  this money in a five year bond, and 
their building  society  did not offer one, I think it is fair to base compensation on the interest they would 
have got via Britannias own two year bond and to then use the Bank of Englands bonds of 12 to 17 
months maturity  in calculating  returns  for the remainder  of their invested period.
Ref: DRN65430676I therefore  intend  to instruct Thinc to calculate how much  they would  have earned on this money  via 
this comparison as of the date of surrender/maturity. If this shows a loss it must pay this sum and then 
add 8% simple interest  per annum to this figure up to the date of settlement of this complaint.
my provisional  decision
I currently intend to uphold this complaint and instruct Thinc Group Limited to pay compensation as 
outlined above.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6543067