K821x#15Complaint
Mrs T has complained that HSBC  UK Bank Plc wont reimburse her for a cancelled hotel
booking.
Background
I issued my provisional conclusions on 22 May 2019 setting out the events leading up to this 
complaint and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Response to my provisional decision
Both parties  disagreed with my provisional  decision.
Mrs Ts response
Mrs T maintains that:
all transactions  on the internet have a 14 day cooling off period unless the consumer 
specifically signs a declaration separate and apart that says that you waiver that. 
£300 for her trouble  and upset is too low; it does not reflect the amount of time she 
has spent chasing HSBC for replies to her correspondence; or for the delay.
HSBCs response
HSBC didnt agree that it should  pay compensation for trouble and upset. It said it had 
resolved her complaint within two months and besides:
Mrs T based  her complaint on the wrong interpretation of consumer law
she didnt send  it a copy of the terms and conditions  for the booking,  as requested
it couldnt pursue  the chargeback without the terms and conditions
it waited two months for the terms and conditions and decided to close her complaint 
when it didnt receive them
two months was not an unduly lengthy period  in which to deal with her complaint
my provisional finding that she knew about  the cancellation policy,  or she ought 
reasonably to have  known  about it when she made the booking, proves this claim 
was misconceived from the start
Mrs T ought  to have known about consumer credit law because  of her professional  
background.
It also said £300 is too high a figure for any trouble  and upset it might have caused her.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  including the comments  made by both 
parties on my provisional decision. Having done  so, my decision remains the same  and for 
the reasons set out in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN68897372trouble and upset
Ive considered what HSBC had to say about  the way it handled this complaint. It believes it 
dealt with it within a reasonable period, after giving  Mrs T ample time to provide the terms 
and conditions for the booking. It says it is not responsible for any delay beyond 25 June 
2018 (the date of its final response letter).
Heres what happened.
Mrs T returned  the signed  declaration  form on 24 May 2018. 
HSBC asked her to send in the terms and conditions for the booking.
HSBC issued its final response letter on 25 June 2018.  The final response letter said 
(amongst other  things) 
Thank you for returning the completed  form however, there  wasn't enough evidence to allow  
us to dispute the transaction as the retailer confirmed although  the booking  is cancelled, the 
total amount will be charged.
Mrs T replied on 4 July 2018 and repeated  her claim  she was entitled  to a refund  
under consumer credit law
HSBC continued  to ask for the terms and conditions between  23 June and 26 July.
It sent a reiteration  letter on 26 July which said
We're sorry that you remain dissatisfied  with the bank's earlier  response.  Our letter  dated  25 
June fully addressed  the issues you raised.
In view of your comments, we've  reviewed the circumstances further and there  is little we 
can add to what has already been addressed. Our position has not changed since  our 
previous letter. Please  provide us with the retailer's Terms and Conditions as requested in 
our previous  letter before 13 August
Ive made  a finding that the chargeback  wouldnt have been successful anyway. But HSBC  
also knew that Mrs T was making  a claim under consumer  credit law. Yet, in none of its 
letters did it explain that the relevant law didnt  apply to a hotel booking.
This is why Mrs T chased HSBC for answers  to her questions. She said this was time 
consuming and additional  effort and I agree. She said if it had answered  her questions 
earlier then she could  have pursued other avenues.  
For these reasons, I consider that HSBC provided  her with a poor customer service from 
April to September 2018, which is when it first gave detailed reasons for rejecting her 
complaint. 
Ive taken into account HSBCs observation  that Mrs T ought to have  known about  consumer  
credit law. She hasnt  said this is her area of expertise and it would  be unreasonable  for me 
to make this assumption. 
A consumer  may complain to this service  if they feel a business has treated them  unfairly 
and unreasonably. However,  it doesnt follow that a complaint was misconceived, or without 
any merit, simply because it was rejected  by an ombudsman.  We consider what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the case. Similarly, a rejection of the main  complaint 
doesnt mean the consumer didnt experience any trouble and upset  with the bank.
Ref: DRN68897373My final decision
My final decision is that HSBC UK Bank  Plc is not liable for a refund of the cancelled hotel 
booking. However,  I am asking it to pay £300  for the trouble and upset caused by its poor 
service. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Razia Karim
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN68897374Copy of Provisional Decision
Complaint
Mrs T has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc wont reimburse her for a cancelled  hotel
booking.
Background
Mrs T booked  a hotel online  and paid for it with her debit card. She later cancelled the
booking the same  day. The online booking agent told her she wasnt entitled to a refund.
She contacted  HSBC and said she was disputing  the transaction. It sent her a form to
complete and asked for additional information so that it could raise a chargeback with the
hotel.
Correspondence between  Mrs T and HSBC  ensued but with no satisfactory  outcome. HSBC
said she hadnt sent it the terms  and conditions  for the booking. Mrs T maintained shed sent
all the information it had asked for, including the terms and conditions. In the meantime,  the
time limit for raising a chargeback expired.
Mrs T was unhappy with this outcome and brought her complaint to this service. She said
she had a statutory right to cancel the booking and claim  a refund and feels strongly that
HSBC should now reimburse her. She is also dissatisfied with HSBCs delay  in dealing  with
her chargeback request.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. She considered that HSBC  had followed the
chargeback procedure. And she concluded that the chargeback would not have been
successful because  of the hotels cancellation policy.
Mrs T disagreed with our adjudicators  view. She has asked for an ombudsmans final
decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im afraid I wont be
asking HSBC  to refund  the hotel  fees but I am asking it to pay compensation for poor
service. I will explain why.
Ill deal first with Mrs Ts claim that she has cancellation rights under consumer  protection
laws.
Mrs T paid for the hotel booking online. She says she had 14 days  in which she could cancel
the booking and she did so immediately on the same day. 
The relevant consumer protection law is the Consumer Contracts  (Information, Cancellation and 
Additional Charges)  Regulations 2013.  This law gives the consumer  cancellation  rights (a cooling off 
period) when  they buy goods or services at a distance over the phone, online, from a catalogue or 
face-to-face with someone who has visited their home.
However, the cancellation  rights dont apply  to every  purchase. There is a list of exemptions
and it includes hotel bookings or, more precisely:
the supply of accommodation.if the contract provides  for a specific date or period of
performance.
Im afraid this means that Mrs T didnt have a statutory  right to cancel the booking within  the
cooling off period.  For this reason, I cant ask HSBC  to reimburse her under this law.
Ref: DRN68897375chargeback
After Mrs T had authorised the transaction, HSBC  was obliged to honour the payment
instruction once it had received it. And as our adjudicator has explained, it cant recall a
payment even it is pending.
But it could raise a chargeback if Mrs T had a dispute with the hotel. And in this case, her
claim is that the goods or services were not received,  even though this was because she
had cancelled  the booking.
HSBC needed basic information about the booking before  it could raise the chargeback. I
can see she returned a form, which it asked her to complete. The form contains  key
information: price, hotel  and date of transaction. She also sent the bank a copy of the email
from the hotel confirming the cancellation.
But HSBC still didnt proceed with the chargeback  because she hadnt sent it the terms and
conditions for the booking. Mrs T maintains she did. She hasnt sent us the covering email or
letter enclosing the terms and conditions but whether she did or didnt, HSBC  didnt receive it
and I cant go any further on that matter.
However, HSBC already had sufficient information about the booking and it knew this
dispute was about a refund  for a cancelled  hotel booking. It could have searched online  for
the terms and conditions. Eventually, it did this because it sent the terms and conditions  to
this service with screenshots of the hotels details  from the booking agents website.
I accept its the consumers responsibility to provide the evidence,  which supports their
chargeback claim.  But I also think HSBC was merely ticking boxes when it delayed the
chargeback process  for want of the terms and conditions. Besides,  I consider that the
relevant question here was did Mrs T know at the time of booking she would  not get her
money back if she cancelled the booking?  The terms and conditions  alone  cant tell us if she
knew this at the time of the booking.
In the signed chargeback  form, Mrs T certifies that the retailer (hotel) did not properly
disclose or apply the cancellation policy.  She didnt  give any further details.  I think  HSBC
could have asked the hotel to show that it did disclose  and apply the policy.  And it could
have asked for evidence that she knew about the cancellation policy  before she made  the
booking. It didnt do this and left her waiting  for an answer.
But even if HSBC had pursued  the chargeback with the hotel, I dont think it would  have
been successful. This is because:
the cancellation policy is explained in the terms and conditions
the email from the hotel  confirming the cancellation says the total price  of the hotel
will still be charged.
HSBC provided a screenshot  from the website for this hotel.  It shows in bold that the
payment is non-refundable
HSBC told this service  that these were the reasons why it didnt pursue the chargeback.
Given this evidence,  I consider Mrs T knew about  the cancellation policy when  she made  the
booking. Or, she ought reasonably to have known about it. And, as its clear  this hotel
operates a no-refund  policy,  then I think the chargeback claim would  have been
unsuccessful. For this reason, I dont think its fair and reasonable  to ask HSBC to reimburse
the hotel costs.
However, I think HSBCs customer service was poor and it caused an unnecessary delay  by
waiting for the terms and conditions   a document it could get from the website. I also note
that, in its final response letter, HSBC admitted there were delays at the outset.
Unfortunately, this delay persisted.
Ref: DRN68897376Mrs T said there were  alternative  routes she could have pursued  if she had an earlier
response from the bank. She hasnt said what these were or whether they are lost to her
now. But I can see from her emails that she was frustrated by the communications from the
bank and the delay.
In these circumstances, I think  it is fair and reasonable for HSBC to pay Mrs T £300 her
trouble and upset.
I am sorry  Mrs T felt it necessary to bring  her complaint to this service. And I sympathise
with her frustrations  in trying to recoup her loss. I realise  this isnt the outcome she was
waiting for but I hope that the reasons for my decision are clear.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that HSBC UK Bank Plc should pay Mrs T £300 for the trouble
and upset caused by the delays in dealing  with her complaint.
Ref: DRN6889737