K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays   UK PLC (Barclays), Egg, at the time of the sale,  mis-sold her 
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
To keep  things simple,  Ive only referred to Barclays  in my decision.
background
Mrs C took out a PPI policy in connection  with a credit  card with Barclays  in July 2007 
through an internet application.  The cost of the policy  was 79p per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance.  The benefit  was 10% of the monthly outstanding balance  for up to a 
maximum of 12 months per claim for accident,  sickness and unemployment  - the policy also 
covered Mrs C for serious  illness and death.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mrs Cs complaint should be upheld.
Barclays  disagreed  with our adjudicator and so the complaint has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Barclays say they didnt advise Mrs C to take the policy  out and so didnt have to take 
adequate steps to ensure  the policy was suitable for her. From the screen  shots provided of 
the internet sale, it doesnt look like advice was given to Mrs C and there doesnt appear to 
be involvement from a representative.  So I dont think Barclays advised  Mrs C to take out 
the policy.  But they were  still under a duty to give Mrs C information in a way which  was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make a proper  choice as to whether or not 
she wanted to take the policy.
I dont think Barclays gave Mrs C clear information about the exclusions and restrictions 
relating to fixed term contracts  at the point at which Mrs C would have been given the option 
to take or refuse PPI.  Ive  seen the screenshots provided by Barclays  as to how and where 
the exclusions/restrictions would have appeared. Mrs C would have had to scroll down a fair 
bit before this information even became available. And there was no requirement on her to 
read this information  at the point at which she selected PPI.
Im satisfied if Mrs C had been given better information, she wouldnt have taken out the 
policy.  Mrs C has told us that she was on a fixed term contract  for two years.  Given  the 
nature of the employment and the type of contract Ms C was under, it is highly unlikely that 
she would  have been made  unemployed during the contract. So while  I appreciate the 
special notes that Barclays  have referred  us to - which  set out that Mrs C could have made  
a successful unemployment claim if she became unemployed  during her fixed term contract  
- Mrs C wouldnt have been able to make  a successful claim at the expiry of her fixed term 
Ref: DRN64186662contract. And in Mrs Cs particular circumstances, I think this is more  likely to have been 
what would  have mattered to her more.   
So, having  taken everything into consideration, I think Barclays mis-sold  Mrs C this PPI 
policy.
fair compensation
Barclays should put Mrs C in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out 
PPI.
A.Barclays  should  find out how much Mrs C would have owed when she closed her credit  
card account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Barclays  should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs C owed when she closed 
her account  and what she would have owed  if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Barclays  can  take off what  she 
got for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.Barclays  should  add simple interest  on the difference between what Mrs C would  have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Barclays  works out what Mrs C would have owed each month without PPI  
Mrs C paid more than enough to clear her balance,  Barclays  should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs C paid. And it should  carry  on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mrs C wouldve owed Barclays  something on her credit card. The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
D.Barclays  should  tell Mrs C what its done to work out A, B and C.
I know that Barclays  made an offer to refund some of the commission they received for   
Mrs Cs PPI premiums.  If this has already  been  paid to Mrs C, Barclays  can take off what  
she got for the commission  from the amount they owe her. 
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Barclays  to take off tax from this interest.  Barclays  must 
give Mrs C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Barclays UK PLC to pay 
Mrs C fair compensation, as outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Ref: DRN64186663Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6418666