K821x#15complaint
Mr T has complained about Calpe  Insurance Company Limiteds actions following a claim 
against his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Calpe includes its agents.
background
On 4 May 2018  Mr T was in an accident. He says that another driver ran into the back of his 
car and it wasn't  his fault. Calpe settled  the other drivers claim initially holding Mr T at fault. 
It said that as his policy has an all sections excess he needed  to pay it £3,000.
Mr T didnt  think  that was fair and brought his complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision 
on 4 December 2019. For ease Ive copied  my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill uphold it.   
It seems  that Mr T didnt  initially report the 4 May 2018 accident to Calpe.  He said there was 
only minor  damage to his car at the time. But a couple of weeks later, on 18 May 2018, he 
had another accident. Mr T did tell Calpe about that accident. 
It seems  that Calpe has then received a claim from the other driver for the accident  on 
4 May 2018.  But when  it spoke with Mr T about that accident, on 24 May 2018,  Calpe noted 
that Mr T accepted he was to blame for it. But it seems that the accident  he was talking 
about was the accident  on the 18 May 2018, which happened only the previous week,  and 
not the accident on 4 May 2018. 
Calpe doesn't  have  a copy of the phone call in which it asked for the accident  details. And 
its said that it would have made the accident  date clear. So its suggested the mistake was 
Mr Ts alone.  But on balance I think thats  unlikely. Mr T would have known  that he had a 
£3,000 all sections  excess on his policy. That means that for any claim against his policy  he 
would know that he could potentially have to pay up to £3,000.  And even if he wasn't aware 
of that I dont think Mr T would have  admitted  liability for a claim he knew wasnt  his fault.  So 
I think its more likely that Calpe didnt make it clear  which accident it was talking about.  As a 
result Mr T thought it was talking about the most  recent accident, which  he had told Calpe 
about, rather than an incident he hadnt previously reported to it. And I think if Calpe had 
been clear about  what  accident it was asking Mr T about then he wouldnt have told it he 
was at fault for it. So I think  the confusion that arose  was because of Calpes error.
I note that Calpe contacted the other driver on the same day it spoke to Mr T about  the 
accident, on 24 May 2018.  It arranged a hire car for her and for her car to be assessed to 
see if it could be repaired. In other words it incurred costs at that point because of its mistake 
in not being clear about which accident it was asking Mr T about.  If it had been clear which 
accident it was considering then Mr T would have told Calpe he wasn't to blame for the 
accident and I think it would have defended the claim  at that point. So it wouldnt have 
incurred any costs at that point.  But because  Calpe thought Mr T was accepting liability it 
didnt investigate further and ran up costs  settling the other  drivers  claim as a result.
Calpes told us that it incurred those costs  because Mr T didnt return its accident report  form 
promptly. But Calpe only sent the report form on 31 May 2018. That was a full week after it 
Ref: DRN68226262had offered a hire car and to cover the damage  costs for the other  drivers  car. So it had 
already committed itself to incurring  costs before it sent Mr T the accident report  form. Mr T 
said he didnt return the form promptly as he was away. But he did return it a few weeks  later 
explaining that he wasn't to blame for the accident. So I dont  think  its fair for Calpe to imply 
that it only incurred  the costs  because Mr T delayed in returning the report  form, when it had 
already committed to those costs  before  it sent him the form. 
Calpes said that even if it had received Mr Ts version of events  from the outset its likely 
that it would  have settled the claim on a 50/50 split liability basis.  But I dont find that 
argument persuasive. 
Its important that I make  it clear  that its not my role to decide whos at fault for an accident, 
as ultimately thats a matter for the courts. And, like all motor policies, Mr Ts policy  allows 
Calpe to settle claims as it sees fit. That means it doesnt require Mr Ts consent to decide  
how to settle a claim and it may make a decision  that Mr T doesnt agree with. But Ill look to 
see if its done so reasonably.
As Ive said above,  I think it was Calpes error  that led to it initially  accepting  liability  for the 
claim. And Mr Ts evidence, once it was clear which accident was involved,  has been  
consistent that the other driver crashed into the rear of his car while merging lanes. Calpe  
have said that, as there were no independent  witnesses,  the accident  would likely be settled 
on a 50/50 basis.  But Calpe instructed investigators  to look into the matter. They  interviewed  
Mr T and looked at the physical evidence, including the damage to the cars.  They  concluded 
that the other driver  was to blame. And having  considered that evidence myself,  from a lay 
perspective, I find that conclusion reasonable. 
Also, Calpe later defended a personal  injury claim from the other  driver,  because it felt she 
was dishonest. Her solicitors dropped that claim and Calpe said that it considered  trying  to 
recover its outlay from her, but chose not to do so because her financial situation  didnt  
make such  a recovery economical. I accept thats  the case. But if Calpe  had felt that it was 
going to be liable for the claim costs anyway  I dont think it would  have considered trying to 
recover them from the other driver in the first place. Its clear  that its decision  not to pursue 
that recovery was because it felt it had little prospect of success  and not because  at that 
time it thought Mr T was in any way to blame for the accident.
Calpes said that its recorded that Mr T wasn't  at fault for the claim.  But its usual for insurers 
like Calpe  to consider any claim where  the driver is considered at least  partially to blame as 
a fault claim. In other words, if it thought that Mr T was 50% liable it would record  the claim 
as a fault claim. So I think that if Calpe believed that Mr T was likely partially to blame  it 
would have recorded the claim as a fault claim.
Also, I note that there  were other  areas where,  if it had investigated the claim thoroughly,  its 
likely it would have concluded  that the other  driver wasn't being honest. For example it 
appears she wasn't truthful about  other claims shed made, injuries  arising from those and 
the extent of the damage to her car. And with further  investigation  I think  Calpe could have 
put up a robust defence of the claim. Of course I cant now say what  would have happened if 
the claim had proceeded to court, but I think there  was a strong possibility that it would have 
been settled in Mr Ts favour.  But because of Calpes initial  mistake  in settling the claim, that 
can't now happen. And I dont think thats fair.
I understand Calpe  thinks  that even if it had defended the claim its likely to have incurred 
some costs. And as Mr T has an all sections excess it would have required him to cover 
Ref: DRN68226263those costs up to his excess. But while Im mindful of Calpes terms and conditions, I think 
its fair to say theres  a general expectation that  as the insurer  Calpe will incur costs 
when assessing  and defending a claim.  And I think the evidence is persuasive Mr T isnt to 
blame for the accident,  so I dont think its fair for Calpe to ask Mr T to reimburse its costs.
Further, while Calpe has said its recorded  the claim as non-fault, its common  for insurers 
like Calpe  to record claims on a national  insurance  database as fault until its recovered  its 
outlay. I dont know if Calpe has recorded the claim on that national database. But if it has, 
unless it has already done so it should  ensure that its recorded it as non-fault  now, even 
though it hasn't recovered its outlay.
Also, Im aware that the handling  of this claim has been a source of distress  and 
inconvenience for Mr T. To address that I think it should pay him £250  compensation.
Calpe accepted my provisional decision. Mr T didnt  provide any further comment.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it. 
As neither Calpe nor Mr T raised  any objection to my provisional decision I see no reason to 
change it.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance  Company 
Limited to:
 Write  to Mr T to confirm it no longer requires him to pay the £3,000  excess arising  
because of the 4 May 2018  incident.
 Confirm  it has recorded the 4 May 2018  incident on any national database as 
non-fault or no claims  discount  allowed in Mr Ts favour.
 Pay Mr T £250 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.
Calpe should  take the above action within 28 days of us telling it that Mr T has accepted  my 
final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the compensation from the 
date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 January 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
1 If Calpe pays  interest and considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr T how much its taken  off. It should also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6822626