K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office Money)  blocked 
access to his savings  account without telling  him.
background
On 7 January  2019 Mr W opened an online saver account with Post Office  Money.  Over the 
next week he transferred  a total of £17,500 into it. But on the 14 January 2019 he found that 
he was unable to log into the account.  He tried to call Post Office  Money but wasnt 
successful. So he sent them  an email explaining he was having difficulty. 
Post Office  Money replied on 18 January 2019 with a telephone number for him to call. They  
also said that if he wanted to raise  a complaint theyd  need some further information. Mr W 
sent them this the same day. However he didnt hear anything  further  until 29 January  2019 
when Post Office  Money sent him another email.  They said hed been locked out of his 
account because  his 6 digit security number  had been entered incorrectly a number of times. 
They posted  him a new security  number and Mr W received this on 1 February  2019.
Mr W says he didnt use the wrong security number  when attempting  to log into his account.  
Hes upset he was left without access to his money for 18 days. And he feels he shouldve 
been notified the account had been  locked. He says he wasted a lot of time trying to contact 
Post Office  Money for help. 
In response to his complaint Post Office Money said that a number of unsuccessful attempts 
had been made to log into his account on 14 January 2019. And that he wouldve been  
prompted to contact them to receive a new security number  but they had no record hed 
done so. 
Our investigator looked at what had happened  and didnt  recommend the complaint be 
upheld. She felt Post Office Money had acted in line with their security  measures. Mr W 
disagrees with her view.  He still feels Post Office  Money shouldve contacted him to tell him 
what had happened. And he says he did try to telephone them,  but an automated  message 
directed him to go online. So the case has been passed to me to review.
Mr W was also concerned  that Post Office Money hadnt explained why a £5 direct  debit was 
taken from his account on 16 January 2019 and returned the following week. Our 
investigator asked Post Office Money  for some  more information about this, and relayed 
their explanation on to Mr W. Hes confirmed  that this answers  his concerns and I dont need 
to look at this complaint  point any further. So my findings will concentrate on the matter of 
Mr Ws account being locked, and the customer service he received from Post Office  Money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  Mr W will be disappointed, but Ive 
reached the same conclusions as our investigator  did here. Ill explain why.
Post Office  Money has told us that to log into their account customers  are prompted to enter 
digits from their 6 digit security number. If they enter  them incorrectly  3 times their account  is 
locked, and the customer needs  to call the customer service centre to be posted a new 
security number. This is set out in the FAQ section on the Post Office  Money  website. 
Ref: DRN68867062I appreciate Mr W feels strongly that he didnt  try to log into his account using the wrong  
security digits.  But Post Office Money has shown us evidence that on 14 January 2019 3 
attempts were made to log in online  using  the wrong  security number. Further  attempts were  
also made but the account had been locked at this point.  
I cant be certain whether  these attempts were made by Mr W or a third party. But Im 
satisfied Post Office  Money were following their security  procedures correctly when they 
locked his account - so I cant say theyve acted unfairly. I understand this was frustrating for 
Mr W. But Post Office  Money has this procedure  in place to protect customers accounts. 
Post Office  Money has shown us the message that wouldve been displayed  on the screen 
when the security digits were entered incorrectly. It gives the customer a telephone number 
to call if theyve forgotten  their log in details. They gave Mr W this same telephone number in 
response to his initial email telling them  he was having trouble  logging into his account.
Mr W says that he tried to call Post Office Money  for help, but only heard an automated 
message telling him he needed to go online.  Post Office  Money  doesnt have any record  of 
Mr W calling  their customer service telephone number. But they have advised that if he 
hadnt stayed  on the line and waited  to be connected to an advisor then his call may not 
have registered  on their system.
We asked Post Office  Money for details of the automated message customers  hear when  
they call the customer  service number. Theyve confirmed it advises that customers cannot 
apply for an online account over the telephone. And after this it goes on to provide  
customers with four options,  all of which connect them to an advisor. The first of these 
options is for receiving  an account balance or changing a 6 digit security number. The fourth 
is for all other savings account enquiries.
I have no reason to doubt Mr W tried to call Post Office Money like hes told us. But I think 
its likely  he misunderstood their automated message  and thought that they couldnt  assist 
him over the phone as he had an online account. I appreciate this was a very frustrating 
experience for him, but I cant fairly  and reasonably hold Post Office  Money  responsible for 
this. I think they took reasonable  steps to direct  him as to how to get help.
Mr W has explained that he did manage  to speak to Post Office Money after being  sent an 
email on 30 January 2019 titled keeping you safe and advising him to call them. He was 
told this email had probably  been  sent in error.  This email was sent around the time Post 
Office Money had taken  steps to arrange for a new security number  to be sent to him. So I 
agree with our investigator, I think its likely  this email crossed  over  with Post Office Money 
having taken action to help him get his account access  back. So its likely there wouldnt 
have been problems showing with his account at this point.
Mr W is unhappy that he wasnt notified his account  had been locked. I understand how 
distressing it must have  been when he couldnt access  it, especially as hed transferred a 
large amount of money  into it. But Post Office Money  has explained that its their policy  not 
to notify customers when their account has been locked for security reasons. I appreciate 
Mr W might  not think this policy  is fair. But this is a decision Post Office Money are entitled to 
make  and its not something our service  would look to interfere with. 
Ref: DRN68867063Mr W is also upset  by the length of time it took Post Office Money to respond to his 
complaint. I can see he confirmed he wanted  to raise a complaint on 18 January  2019. I 
appreciate that if hed had a quicker response  from Post Office Money then this issue 
couldve been resolved sooner. And I gather both he and his wife sent further emails about 
the matter chasing a response. But Im satisfied Post Office Money responded within the 
timescales businesses  have to follow when dealing  with complaints like this. So again, whilst 
I appreciate Mr W will be disappointed, I cant reasonably find that Post Office  Money  has 
acted unfairly or made an error here.  
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint for the reasons Ive outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019. 
Jenette Lynch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6886706