K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland Plc mis-sold Mr W and Miss B payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 1997 to cover  a 
mortgage.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr W and Miss B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. In reviewing  this complaint,  Ive checked  the possible ways  in which  the PPI might 
have been mis-sold. Ive also taken full account  of the comments made in support of the 
complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place about  22 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr W and Miss B have said they only have  a slight recollection of what happened and think 
that the adviser falsely implied that PPI was a condition  of taking the mortgage; this was 
because Mr Ws employment was not as secure as Miss Bs. Ive thought  about  this, but it 
wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened  unless there was reasonable supporting  
evidence of this. 
The problem I have,  in making a decision on this point,  is that I couldnt  know the exact 
words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were  said.  It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly set out the possible benefits of an insurance policy,  even if the adviser is partly 
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth  having. The 
closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative  to taking the 
policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it 
wouldnt be fair to say Bank of Scotland did something wrong  unless I had stronger evidence  
of this. 
I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr W and Miss B, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach  during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mr W and Miss Bs particular circumstances. However, finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  And it looks  to me as though a recommendation 
Ref: DRN62634802would have been a suitable  one, based on what Ive seen of Mr W and Miss Bs situation at 
the time:  
Its likely  Mr W (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mr W received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have  put off the time when Mr W and 
Miss B would need to fall back on any savings or other means they may have had for 
paying the mortgage and other  living costs. And I dont  have strong evidence that 
their other means of paying  their living costs was high enough to make the PPI of no 
use to them. So it looks likely the PPI would have put Mr W and Miss B in a more  
secure position, if theyd eventually lost income  due to long term sickness  or 
unemployment. 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation is likely to 
have been suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether  Mr W and Miss B took the PPI. 
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr W and Miss B would have been  affected by any of these. And theyd be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if her situation  
changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Miss B 
to accept or reject my decision before 27 December 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6263480