K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Zenith Insurance plc declined his claim when  his motorbike was stolen.
background
Mr C took out an insurance policy in May 2017 to cover his motorbike for social, domestic 
and pleasure use. The policy also covered him for commuting purposes.
Mr Cs bike was stolen outside  a temporary place  of residence. Mr C has said that he was 
staying at this place away from his home because he was working away  as he couldnt find 
work in his home town. 
The address  on the policy documents is where  he considered his permanent home to be in 
Scotland. Hes told us that this is where  he lives with his wife and children.
He works  in England and has confirmed that hed been staying at the temporary  
accommodation there on and off for a couple of weeks when the bike had been stolen.
Zenith declined  Mr Cs claim. It said in its response to Mr C that the policy didnt cover 
business use. It said in its response to Mr Cs claim that the vehicle  was stolen while  you 
were staying in temporary accommodation for a work placement. The bike was used to 
travel to work placements  at different locations and we werent advised of this use when you 
took the policy out.
Mr C responded to this letter saying it had got some  of the information wrong. He said that 
he wasnt on a work  placement  and that his job was permanent  and full time. Mr C has also 
given Zenith  a copy of a letter from his employer confirming this. 
Mr C made  a complaint  to Zenith  about the way his claim  had been  handled.  He was 
unhappy that the claim had been  declined and that Zenith had taken a long time to get back 
to him. Zenith issued  its response to Mr Cs complaint  and admitted that it took a long time to 
respond to his letter and it could have  dealt with the situation much  quicker  than it did, so it 
offered him £75.00. But it still didnt agree that the claim should be paid out.
Mr C didnt agree with Zeniths  response, so he brought the complaint to our service. Our 
adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the claim should  be 
reconsidered and that Zenith should  pay Mr C an additional £275 for the trouble and upset 
caused. She also thought Zenith  should consider reimbursing Mr C for the additional  
accessories that werent returned when  the vehicle was taken away.
Zenith didnt agree with the adjudicators opinion. It said that Mr C would only be covered 
when travelling between  home and a permanent place of work  and that because Mr C was 
travelling between temporary work and a temporary home then the theft of the bike wouldnt 
be covered under the policy. Theyve  also said that there underwriting criteria states  multiple 
postcode policies are unacceptable.  And that it should have been notified  of any changes  
that may affect  the cover   for example  postal  address, storage.
Because Zenith didnt agree, the complaint has been passed to me to make a decision on 
the matter.
Ref: DRN61726842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres been a lot of confusion on this complaint  about Mr Cs circumstances. And I think  its 
important to understand more about this to ensure a fair outcome on this complaint.
Zenith has sent information that it says shows an inconsistency in Mr Cs testimony  about  his 
living and work situation.  Zenith is under the impression that Mr C worked  at multiple  sites.  
Mr C says that he only worked at one site in England and would sometimes  go back to 
Scotland to work from home. 
Our adjudicator has spoken to Mr Cs employer. It has confirmed that since  August 2017, 
Mr C has only worked from England and this is his permanent place of work. So I think this is 
likely to be the case.  Mr  C has also confirmed that he doesnt  receive  any money  for 
mileage use from work. 
These two points are important when looking at this case. This is because Zenith thought  
Mr C was using the vehicle to travel  to different offices and its terms and conditions  state  he 
was only covered if he was commuting to a single place of work. Although  Mr C has said he 
would sometimes work  from home  in Scotland, I dont think it would  be fair to say this is the 
same as commuting to different offices. As presumably, the bike would be stored at Mr Cs 
permanent address on the policy  documents  while  he was working from home. And so I 
think Mr C was commuting to one place of work.
Mr C has also told us his employer didnt  pay any mileage  towards  his vehicle use. And 
because Im also satisfied  he was only using it to commute to one place of work, I dont think 
the bike was being used  for business purposes.
Zenith have referred  me to part of its policy  documents that says that it should be kept up to 
date with any changes  in address. But I can understand  why Mr C didnt notify  Zenith of this. 
Mr C was living at a temporary address when the bike was stolen.  The address on the policy 
documents was in Scotland  where  his wife and children lived.  So I think  he would have 
considered this to be his permanent address. And so I dont think it would be fair for Zenith 
to decline Mr Cs claim on the basis the bike wasnt stored at his home address at the time it 
was stolen.
Zenith says that multiple postcode policies are unacceptable. But I dont think  Mr C had 
multiple postcodes  as the address he was staying at was temporary.
As Ive already  explained, Zenith didnt uphold Mr Cs complaint. But it did agree to pay 
Mr C £75 for the poor service he has received. 
But I think Zenith should reconsider Mr Cs claim about the stolen bike,  reimburse Mr C for 
the accessories  that werent  returned  to him once the vehicle was scrapped and it should 
pay an additional £275 (on top of the £75 its already offered) for the trouble and upset 
caused to Mr C.
Ref: DRN61726843my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Zenith Insurance plc should put things right by reconsidering Mr Cs claim, reimburse  Mr C 
for the accessories that havent been  returned  to him and pay Mr C an additional  £275.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6172684