K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited  incorrectly calculated  his premiums 
following a transfer  from another  provider. And he says because of this, hes being charged 
too much. 
background
Mr L had medical insurance with another provider for many years, as did his wife. Ill refer to 
this provider as S. In 2016 S announced  it was withdrawing from the private medical  
insurance market. And AXA PPP took over its book of business. When Mr Ls policy 
renewed in October  2016, he was offered a policy by AXA PPP. 
AXA PPP said when calculating premiums it transferred  all customers  from S at a 70% no 
claims discount (NCD) level on its own policies. And, it took into account information 
provided by S about claims each customer had made in the last 12 months. 
In Mr Ls case, hed made a relatively high value claim with S in the previous year. AXA PPP 
said because of this, it had added a 50% increase to the premium  amount Mr L had been  
paying for his policy with S. 
Mr L complained to AXA PPP. He said his premiums  were too high and said he was paying 
much more for his policy than his wife had to pay for hers. He said he thought hed been 
disadvantaged due to the way AXA PPP calculated his premiums following the transfer of his 
policy from S. He said hed have been  able to reach a greater monetary amount of discount 
by not making  further claims against his policy with S, than the discount levels now available 
to him with AXA PPP going  forward. 
AXA PPP responded to Mr Ls complaint and said it didnt think  it had done anything  wrong. 
It said Mr L had already been  paying more than his wife for his policy  with S prior to the 
transfer. And it said as Mr L had made  a claim  in the previous year and his wife hadnt,  his 
increase would be larger. It also said Mr Ls policy had transferred  from S with the same 
underwriting terms, so it carried  an increased risk due to pre-existing conditions,  which  
means the premiums  are higher. 
Unhappy with AXA PPPs  response, Mr L brought his complaint to this service. An 
investigator here looked into what had happened, and said he didnt  think  AXA PPP had 
done anything  wrong. He said AXA PPP had applied the same  claims history and pricing 
policies to all of the policyholders transferring from S. And he didnt  think  that was unfair. 
AXA PPP accepted the investigators  view. Mr L disagreed. He said hed not been fully 
informed by S or AXA PPP about the use of a matrix to calculate  premium increases in 
relation to past claims. He said he thought he should have been treated in the same way as 
AXA PPPs existing policyholders. He said his new premium should have been similar to 
what he had paid to S, and AXA PPP should  then have reduced  his discount level from 70% 
to 59.5% due to his claims history. 
As Mr L didnt agree,  he asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman. And so its 
now for me to make a decision. 
Ref: DRN67187882my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
While I appreciate that it will come as a great disappointment to Mr L, having  reviewed this 
case Im in agreement with our investigator. I dont think AXA PPP has done  anything wrong 
and Ill explain why. As this complaint is about AXA PPP, I wont be commenting  on anything 
S has done.
If Mr L had been  able to continue his policy with S, his premium would have increased at his 
2016 renewal  due to the claims hed made the previous year.  However, I understand Mr Ls 
point that over time, he may have  been able to work  his way up to a higher  NCD  value  with 
S, if hed not made further claims.  With the AXA PPP policy,  hes been  set at a 70% NCD 
level from the outset,  despite  having  had a 50% increase against the premium he was 
previously paying  to S, due to his claims history. The maximum NCD available  with the AXA 
PPP policy is 80%, so in the longer-term, hes likely  to pay more for that policy than he might 
have done if hed continued with S. 
AXA PPP took on Ss customers on the basis of continuation of cover.  This meant the same 
underwriting terms and exclusions  applied as under the policies with S. But AXA PPP isnt 
obliged to charge  the same as S for its policies. 
Its up to an insurer to decide how much to charge  for its policies. Provided it exercises this 
judgement fairly and consistently, in line with its internal guidelines, its a matter  in which we 
wouldnt normally interfere. Were not a regulator and we cant  tell a business how much  to 
charge for its products.  
I wouldnt expect AXA PPP to provide policyholders with detailed,  commercially sensitive 
information about how it prices its policies. However, Ive seen evidence  of the increases 
AXA PPP applied to all policyholders  premiums in line with a matrix based on the cost of 
any claims made with S in the previous 12 months. The same increase would have been 
applied to any policyholder in the same situation  as Mr L. And AXA PPP has shown me that 
it set all policyholders transferring  from S at its 70% discount level. So on this basis,  Im 
satisfied that Mr L hasnt been treated unfairly  by AXA PPP.
Its unfortunate for Mr L that S decided to withdraw  from the market,  as it seems he was 
happy with his previous policy and the pricing structure of it. But it wouldnt be reasonable for 
me to say that the terms of AXA PPPs policy are unfair in comparison to that offered by S, 
as Ss customers didnt have to take up the cover offered by AXA PPP. Also, Im satisfied 
from the documentation Ive seen, that Mr L was provided with enough information by AXA 
PPP to allow him to make an informed  choice about whether he wanted  to continue  cover 
with AXA PPP. And there  was no guarantee given to him that the cost of the policy would 
remain the same. 
Im unable to direct  AXA PPP to offer a charging  structure that replicates the one Mr L had 
with S. I can understand why Mr L is unhappy with the ongoing cost of his policy,  but this 
doesnt mean that AXA PPP has treated him unfairly.
AXA PPP has explained  that its policy is structured differently to that provided by S. Its also 
explained how a variety of claims cost related  factors affected  the cost of the policy. So on 
balance, I dont think that it has treated Mr L unfairly by charging him more than S did for his 
Ref: DRN67187883policy. And Mr L has the option  to look for a policy elsewhere if he thinks his policy with AXA 
PPP doesnt  represent value for money  although he may want  to consider any 
consequences of changing insurance  provider on his cover  for pre-existing medical 
conditions.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint. And I make 
no award against AXA PPP Healthcare Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6718788