K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains 1 Answer  Insurance Services Ltd dealt with his request to cancel his 
commercial motor insurance poorly.  
 
background
In early 2018 Mr R arranged a commercial  motor insurance policy through 1 Answer.  In 
December that year he emailed 1 Answer to request it be cancelled.  Instead of arranging  for 
that it tried unsuccessfully to call Mr R to discuss what the final balance  would be. About a 
month later the policys monthly premium instalment wasnt paid. So it was cancelled by the 
insurer for non-payment. 
Mr Rs unhappy it took so long to cancel  the policy. He also says he wasnt told about and 
didnt agree to the policy being paid for through a finance agreement. He feels 1 Answer  
acted unlawfully by arranging one for him. And hes unhappy about how the premium  refund 
was calculated. 
In response to his complaint 1 Answer said it hadnt received his request to cancel the 
policy. It said hed been told during  the sale about  the rate of refund and that a finance 
agreement would be arranged. It also made  a successful request to the insurer  that it give 
Mr R a bigger refund.  That reduced what Mr R owed on the policy by about £750.
Our Investigator  didnt recommend 1 Answer do anything differently. He said Mr R has been 
told about the credit agreement and short period  refund rates  when he took the policy out. 
He accepted the policy hadnt been cancelled  straight away  but felt the delay was justified. 
Mr R didnt accept the assessment.  So the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to require  
1 Answer to do anything  differently.
Ive seen various emails  and records. 1 Answer didnt  cancel Mr Rs policy as hed 
requested. Instead  it tried calling him numerous  times. It wanted to discuss  the final balance  
before it passed  on his cancellation request to the insurer. But the calls went  unanswered. 
The policy was later cancelled by the insurer for non-payment. A finance agreement  
instalment wasnt paid.
The policy terms gave Mr R the right to cancel. They require him to instruct 1 Answer to 
cancel the policy  the terms  say 1 Answer will then ask the insurer to cancel. Theres  no 
requirement for Mr R to be told of, or to settle, any outstanding balance before cancellation.
I can understand why 1 Answer  might want to explain what Mr R owed or try to receive 
payment before cancelling  the policy. A few attempts at phoning  him would seem 
reasonable. But 1 Answer was still trying  to call him more than two weeks  later and after 
about 10 failed  attempts. It would have been  reasonable  to have tried a different course  of 
action. It should  have, as hed requested, cancelled the policy.  It could  then have emailed or 
written to Mr R about what he owed. So 1 Answer unfairly failed to follow  his instruction to 
cancel the policy.  He didnt meet the next payment. That resulted in the policy being 
cancelled for non-payment.  That wouldnt have happened if 1 Answer had cancelled it in 
reasonable time.  
Ref: DRN66061362If the policy was recorded  as being  cancelled by the insurer  for non-payment it might unfairly 
disadvantage Mr R. He might need to disclose that to future insurers.  But 1 Answer says the 
cancellation hasnt  been recorded against  him. So it says he wouldnt need to disclose it to 
future insurers.
Because 1 Answer  failed  to cancel the policy,  when Mr R asked it to, it was in place for 
longer than it should have  been.  That means  the refund  on his premium  was probably less 
than it would have  been. But 1 Answer has already done enough to make  up for that. It 
secured him an additional £750 premium  refund.
The insurer  initially  applied short period rates to calculate the refund. This is when the 
premium is weighted towards the beginning of the policy term on a sliding scale  rather  than 
being evenly spread  over it. The policy terms say a refund  will be calculated using short 
period rates.  But, following  1 Answers request, the insurer  agreed  to provide a refund  
proportionate to the period of the policy used. That reduced what  Mr R owed by about £750.
Mr Rs complained about the use of short period  rates  to calculate the refund. But the 
possibility of him not receiving a proportionate  refund was explained to him. That happened 
at various points  including during the policy sales call. The policy  terms explain that short  
period rates  will be used.  But in the end Mr R seems to have received a proportionate refund 
anyway. 
Mr R says he wasnt aware  of the finance agreement. I can see it was explained in the cover 
letter provided with his policy documents. Theres also a finance agreement  cover letter  and 
welcome pack addressed  to him. And the finance agreement was discussed in the policy 
sales call. So he was made aware of the agreement when he took the cover out. 
So whilst 1 Answers made  mistakes  its done enough to put things right.  That means  Im not 
going to make it do anything further  or say it cant require  him to pay any outstanding 
balance on the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making 1 Answer Insurance  Services Ltd do anything  
differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6606136