K821x#15Complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  because ERGO  Reiseversicherung AG (ERGO) hasnt paid a claim
for medical  expenses under their travel insurance  policy.
All references to ERGO include the agents it has appointed to handle claims.
Background
Mr and Mrs K held a travel insurance policy, provided by ERGO. The policy was bought over
the phone, at a cost of £899.49.
When buying the policy, Mr K declared medical conditions for himself  and declared high
blood pressure  on behalf of Mrs K.
Unfortunately, Mrs K fell ill while abroad  and was admitted to hospital.  On their return  to the
UK, Mr and Mrs K made a claim with ERGO for the costs of Mrs Ks medical  treatment.
ERGO said it hadnt been notified of the claim within 48 hours  of the incident,  as required
under the terms  and conditions of Mr and Mrs Ks policy. Furthermore, ERGO said Mrs K
had been admitted to hospital with acute congestive heart failure which  her GP confirmed
had been diagnosed around two months  before buying the policy.  As this medical  condition
hadnt been declared to it, ERGO  said Mr and Mrs Ks claim wasnt  covered by their policy.
Mr and Mrs K complained to ERGO, submitting Mrs Ks medical records and a letter  from
her GP dated August  2018. In the letter, Mrs Ks GP said the words cardiac  failure  werent
used in her medical  notes, so she may not have been aware she had this condition.
ERGO considered this information but didnt change its decision  that the claim wasnt
covered. ERGO said Mrs Ks medical  records showed impairment of left ventricular  function
as well as chronic neck  pain, anxiety and chronic  kidney disease  which  she hadnt declared
to it when buying the policy. ERGO also said Mrs K had been newly  prescribed  a second
blood pressure  medication before buying the policy.
Unhappy, Mr and Mrs K brought their complaint to our service.
Our investigator initially said she didnt think it would be fair to ask ERGO to cover  Mr and
Mrs Ks claim. But after reviewing further  information from both parties, she recommended
that ERGO should  settle Mr and Mrs Ks claim on a proportionate basis.
ERGO didnt  agree  so Mr and Mrs Ks complaint was passed  to me to decide.  I made  my 
provisional decision about the complaint in May 2020. In it, I said:
ERGO says this policy doesnt cover claims for pre-existing medical conditions unless these
conditions have been declared to and accepted by it. But I dont  think its fair or reasonable
for ERGO  to decline Mr and Mrs Ks claim based  on the pre-existing medical  exclusion set
out in their policy.
This is because Mr and Mrs K were  asked questions about their medical history by ERGO
when the policy was sold. So, I think the principles  set out in the Consumer Insurance
(Disclosure and Representations)  Act 2012 (CIDRA) are relevant and I think it would be fair
and reasonable to apply  these principles to the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN67457452CIDRA is designed to make sure consumers and insurers get an appropriate  remedy  if a
policyholder makes what is called a qualifying misrepresentation under the Act.
A qualifying  misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which an insurer has asked about. The standard of care required is that
of a reasonable consumer. One of the factors to be considered  when deciding  whether a
consumer has taken  reasonable  care is how clear and specific the questions asked by the
insurer were.
Mr and Mrs K bought their policy over the phone and Ive listened to the sales  call between
ERGO and Mr K from March 2018.  During this call, Mr K had a responsibility to make
accurate representations  about Mrs Ks health,  as well as his own.
Mr K was asked a number  of medical  questions by ERGO, which I think  were  clear and
specific. The questions included the following:
You must ensure  all conditions are declared for all travellers.  In the last 2 years have
you been waiting  for or had any consultations, investigations, test results  or checkups
for any medical or psychological  conditions?
Mr K answered no.
Mr K was also asked:
Have either of you been prescribed, have taken  or are taking any medication
including repeat prescriptions?"
In response to this question, Mr K declared medication for one of his own medical  conditions
as well as blood  pressure tablets for Mrs K.
Mr K was asked a further question:
These questions are for ever in your life  have  either of you ever had or received
any treatment or investigations  or tests for a heart attack, angina, chest pain or any
other heart conditions?
Mr K answered no.
In relation to Mrs Ks blood pressure medication, Mr K was asked:
How many medicines  does her doctor advise her to take for high blood  pressure?
Mr K can be heard checking with Mrs K before answering one.  He was then asked:
Has her dose increased or has she been prescribed a new tablet in the last six
months?
Mr K answered no.
Ive considered whether I think Mr K took reasonable care in answering these questions in
the way he did on behalf of Mrs K. In doing  so, Ive reviewed Mrs Ks medical records which
Ref: DRN67457453are available to me, the letter from her GP dated  August  2018  and what she has told us
about her medical  history. Ive addressed  each  medical condition  which  ERGO  says wasnt  
declared to it in turn.
Congestive heart failure
Mr and Mrs Ks claim form included  a medical certificate  completed  by Mrs Ks GP. This
says Mrs K first consulted her doctor  with congestive heart failure in November 2017 and
was diagnosed with the condition in January 2018.
Mrs Ks medical records show she was referred to a cardiologist in November  2017  for
urgent investigations  after presenting with ankle swelling, shortness of breath, wheezing and
reduced exercise tolerance. Heart  failure  was noted by the GP to be likely. The results of the
eventual tests carried out in December 2017  were bi-ventricular function with mild general
impairmentno significant abnormal valve pathology.
The results  of these  tests were explained  to Mrs K by a GP other  than her own in January
2018. The results  were noted  to be better  than expected  and Mrs K was said to have mild
LV impairment only.
The letter from Mrs Ks GP dated  August 2018  says Mrs K saw a different GP in January
2018 when congestive heart  failure was diagnosed. This letter  goes on to say;
On further  examination of  medical  records it appears that the notes show  that Dr
 explained there was impairment of left ventricular  function but the specific words
cardiac failure were not used as far as I can tell from reading the other  doctors
notes. It is therefore reasonable to accept  that she was not aware  that she had
cardiac failure and therefore did not declare it...
Mrs Ks medical records show no indication she was told she had congestive  heart  failure.
But Mrs K was referred to a cardiologist  four months  before buying the policy  and received a
diagnosis of ventricular  impairment two months  before the policy was taken out and I think
Mr and Mrs K needed to tell ERGO about  these  things.
I understand Mr and Mrs K say the doctors visit in November 2017  wasnt initially  for
anything to do with Mrs Ks heart. Mrs Ks medical  notes  from that day say the GP explained
her symptoms were coming from her heart  rather than her lungs. However, Mr and Mrs K
would have been aware Mrs K was seen by a specialist for further  investigations the
following month. Mrs Ks contemporaneous medical records say she was told she had
ventricular impairment  in January 2018.  Overall,  taking  all of the circumstances into account,
Im satisfied Mrs K was likely to have been  aware  she had a problem with her heart.
I think a reasonable  consumer  would have realised these were  issues ERGO would want to
know about in response to the questions asked when the policy was sold. So, I dont think
Mr K took reasonable care in answering  ERGOs questions in the way he did and I think  he
should have told ERGO  about Mrs Ks referral  to the cardiologist  and impaired ventricular
function diagnosis.
Chronic neck pain
Mrs K told us she suffered  neck pain following a car accident in the past.  Her medical
Ref: DRN67457454records show she was referred  for investigations  in relation to this in September  2015.
This was more than two years before the policy was purchased, and it doesnt appear that
Mrs K was on medication for neck pain when the policy was sold.  This means  I dont think
Mr K needed  to tell ERGO about this issue in response to the questions  he was asked about
Mrs Ks health.
Anxiety
Mrs Ks medical records mention anxiety in November 2017,  August 2017 and August 2014.
Her records show she had been taking medication relating to this for more than 35 years,
and was given  a repeat prescription four months before the policy  was sold.
Mr K was asked whether  he or Mrs K were prescribed any medications  including  repeat
prescriptions  and I think Mr K should reasonably have told ERGO about Mrs Ks
prescription medication for anxiety in response to this question.
Chronic kidney disease
Mrs K told us she never had this condition. ERGO says Mrs K was being  closely monitored
for the condition but acknowledges her medical history doesnt  show any discussion with her
GP about  chronic  kidney disease.
I note theres an entry  in Mrs Ks medical  records from August 2017 mentioning the
possibility of CKD  (chronic kidney disease).  But I havent seen any evidence  that Mrs K
had chronic kidney disease or was undergoing any tests or investigations  specifically related
to that condition. Im satisfied that, from Mrs Ks perspective, any tests being carried  out by
her GP were no more  than routine urine  sampling.
So, I dont think Mr K failed to take reasonable care with regard to this condition when
answering ERGOs questions.
Blood pressure medication
Mrs Ks medical records from March 2018  show she visited the doctor to discuss increasing
the dosage of her existing  blood pressure medication on her return  from holiday.  Mrs K was
also prescribed new blood pressure medication  on the same day which,  again, she was due
to start taking when  she returned from abroad. This doctors visit took place on the same  day
the insurance policy was purchased.
I understand, at the time Mr and Mrs K bought the policy, Mrs K hadnt yet started to
increase her medication.  I also understand, following advice given to her on her admission to
hospital abroad, Mrs K didnt end up ta the newly prescribed medication.
However, the question  Mr K was asked was whether Mrs K had her blood  pressure
medication increased or had been prescribed a new tablet  in the last six months. Mr K
answered no but, based on the information contained in Mrs Ks medical records,  I think it
would have been reasonable for him to have  answered yes.
In summary  therefore, I think  Mr K made  a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA in
relation to the following  for Mrs K;
A cardiologist referral  and impaired ventricular function;
Ref: DRN67457455Prescription medication  for anxiety;
A second blood pressure medication.
As Mr K made a qualifying misrepresentation, ERGO is entitled to apply the relevant remedy
available to it under the relevant legislation.
The remedy  available to ERGO under CIDRA  depends on whether the misrepresentation
was deliberate or reckless, or whether  it was careless. If the misrepresentation was
deliberate or reckless  then ERGO would be entitled to avoid the insurance policy,  decline
Mr and Mrs Ks claim and keep the premium  they paid for their policy.
Since the complaint has been  with our service, ERGO has said it believes Mr and Mrs Ks
misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless due to Mrs Ks symptoms of a heart  condition
and her referral to a cardiologist.
In order for a qualifying  misrepresentation to be deliberate or reckless  under CIDRA, the
consumer must;
know that a misrepresentation is untrue or misleading, or not care whether a
misrepresentation is untrue or misleading;  and
know that the misrepresented issue was relevant to the insurer, or not care whether
the issue was relevant  to the insurer.
Ive considered everything ERGO  has said about  Mr and Mrs Ks qualifying
misrepresentations in this case, but Im not satisfied these  were deliberate  or reckless.
I understand Mrs K was referred to a cardiologist but, given  the content of the GP notes from
January 2018,  the GP letter from August 2018 and what Mrs K has told us, Im satisfied
Mrs K thought nothing  serious had been  found.
Mrs Ks medical records indicate  she had been taking prescription medication for anxiety for
a long time and she had reduced the dose herself  but wasnt keen  to change this. There is a
suggestion that she was told by her GP to continue with the medication rather  than coming
off of it entirely. In relation  to the changes to Mrs Ks blood pressure medication, the changes
werent immediate and werent due to take effect until Mr and Mrs K returned from abroad.
Based on these circumstances, Im not satisfied its fair or reasonable to conclude  that 
Mr and Mrs K made a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation.
This means  I think  Mr and Mrs Ks qualifying misrepresentations were careless. So, under
CIDRA, ERGO is entitled to proportionately reduce the amount it pays  for their claim, based
on the higher  premium  it would have charged  if Mrs K had also declared the following;
A cardiologist referral  and impaired ventricular function;
Prescription medication  for anxiety;
A second blood pressure medication.
When responding to my provisional decision, ERGO  should  provide confirmation of the total
amount Mr and Mrs K would have  been  charged  for their policy if the above  had also been
declared. ERGO should then calculate what percentage of Mr and Mrs Ks claim is payable
in line with the formula set out under CIDRA.
Ref: DRN67457456Im aware Mr and Mrs K will be anxious  to know how much of the claim ERGO is responsible
for paying. Based on the information which ERGO has provided showing  the premium  Mrs K
would have paid if she had declared  all of the medical conditions  it initially thought she
should have, Id expect ERGOs calculations to show it should be paying at least 51% of the
outstanding medical bills.
In its final response letter  addressing Mr and Mrs Ks complaint, ERGO said it wasnt  notified
about this claim as quickly as it should have been.
The terms and conditions  of Mr and Mrs Ks policy say;
For medical emergencies: if you are taken  to hospital as an emergency by
ambulance or other emergency service,  you will need to make  sure that you or a
travelling companion call us within 48 hours.
The policy goes on to say;
To comply with the Terms and Conditions of the insurance you must contact us as
soon as possible. You MUST obtain  our prior authorisation  before incurring any
expenses over £350, except in the case of emergency
Id generally expect a policyholder  or someone  on their behalf - to contact  their insurer  as
soon as reasonably  possible in the event of a medical emergency  abroad. I understand
contacting ERGO wouldnt have  been Mr Ks first priority when Mrs K was initially taken ill
and the hospital told them theyd contact  their insurer.  But Mrs K was in hospital for just
under a week before returning  to the UK on her original flight so I think  Mr and Mrs K would
have had a reasonable  opportunity  to contact ERGO directly about  the situation,  as their
policy requires them to do.
Having said that, I havent seen any evidence  of what ERGO would have done differently if
Mr and Mrs K had contacted them as they should have. ERGOs final response  letter  to
Mr and Mrs Ks complaint says it wouldnt have  repatriated Mrs K back to the UK any sooner
if it had managed the claim. So, I dont think ERGO has been financially disadvantaged by
Mr and Mrs Ks failure to contact it about  their claim as soon as possible.  This means I dont
think its fair or reasonable for ERGO to rely on this policy condition  to decline Mr and
Mrs Ks claim.
I dont think ERGO has acted fairly and reasonably in turning down Mr and Mrs Ks claim in
its entirety and Ive thought about what impact  this has had on them.  Im satisfied Mr and
Mrs K have experienced distress and inconvenience as a result of being repeatedly chased
for debt collectors for an outstanding debt, not all of which they are responsible for. So, I
think a payment of compensation  in the category which this service  considers modest is
warranted in the circumstances.
So, my provisional decision was that ERGO should pay Mr and Mrs Ks outstanding bills on 
a proportionate basis and pay them £300  compensation  for the distress and inconvenience  
they experienced. 
Mr and Mrs K accepted my provisional decision.  When doing so, they made some further 
comments about the cardiac issues Mrs K experienced  and explained why they had not 
been able to contact ERGO directly while they were abroad. 
ERGO responded  to my provisional decision with evidence that, if it had been told about 
Ref: DRN67457457Mrs Ks other medical issues,  it would have charged an additional premium of £623.01.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive noted Mr and Mrs Ks additional comments,  but I dont intend to change my provisional 
findings. 
ERGO has calculated what percentage of Mr and Mrs Ks claim it thinks  is now payable,  but 
I dont think it has done so correctly. 
CIDRA sets out a formula for calculating what proportion of a claim should  be paid by an 
insurer in the event of a careless misrepresentation. This formula is: the premium  actually 
charged divided by the total higher premium, multiplied by 100. 
The premium actually  charged in this case is £899.49. The total higher premium  which  
should have been charged  is £1522.50  (£899.49 plus £623.01). 
This means  ERGO must pay 59.07% of Mr and Mrs Ks claim (£899.49  divided by £1522.50, 
multiplied by 100). 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint in part. 
ERGO Reiseversicherung  AG must do the following:
pay 59.07% of Mr and Mrs Ks claim;
pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs K 
experienced. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 July 2020.
Leah Nagle
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6745745