K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  about the way National House-Building  Council  (NHBC) has handled 
the claim they made under  their building warranty for defects associated with their newly  
built home. 
background
Mr and Mrs B purchased their new build  home  in May 2014 which came with an NHBC 
Buildmark 10 year warranty. The snags that occurred during the first year or so were notified 
to the builder who attended  to deal with them. When the builder stopped  attending, Mr and 
Mrs B made a claim under their warranty.  In all, 8 claims were made, the second of which 
was brought in September  2015 and was initially dealt  with by NHBC under section 2 of the 
policy  its resolution  service  and NHBC issued a Resolution Report in February 2016. In 
March 2016 NHBC took over responsibility for the claim from the builder. 
Mr and Mrs Bs home was the subject of numerous  visits and works over about a 5 year 
period. At times, delays  occurred and works  were  left incomplete. Many  of the structural 
defects identified in the Resolution Report  for the second claim remained outstanding. In 
early 2018,  there were  discussions between Mr and Mrs B and NHBC about  what  work 
needed to be done. Meeting notes and a proposed list of actions were given to Mr and Mrs B 
in March 2018. Further discussions followed as Mr and Mrs B felt that certain issues  that 
needed remedying had been left off the list. 
NHBC responded in early  May 2018 providing  comment on the issues associated with 
creaking to the first floor of the house.  NHBC instructed contractors and chased  them  to 
commit to a start date through June 2018.  The contractors confirmed a provisional start date 
of 23 July 2018 but that then slipped to late August when a job overran. 
Mr and Mrs B were  sent a rough schedule of works  in August 2018  but they felt it lacked 
necessary detail and that certain  items were missing  altogether. A revised schedule was 
sent a little after along with an agreed  programme of works with a start date agreed of 13 
September 2018 works to be completed by 23 October 2018. As per the agreed programme, 
an engineer was to be instructed to carry out further  investigations. He attended on 27 
September but didnt send his report until 26 October. Some of the works  the contractors 
were engaged to carry out were dependent on the engineers findings  so they were unable 
to complete the works within the agreed timeframe. So they stopped  attending from 9 
October 2018 pending further instruction. 
Mr and Mrs B felt that the engineers inspection  hadnt been  sufficient specifically  because  
the bathroom hadnt been inspected as agreed, nor had some of the flooring been  fully lifted. 
In addition, the engineer had only investigated  the creaking to the second floor, not the first, 
because this was the only area of creaking discussed within  the report. 
Unhappy with the lack of progress, the delays and the failure to stick to the agreed schedule, 
Mr and Mrs B complained to NHBC.   
NHBC looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. It noted that they had complained  before and 
that it had issued its findings into their previous complaint in October 2017. So it said it could 
only look now at events  that had occurred since then. NHBC acknowledged that Mr and 
Mrs B were  still in a position where they were uncertain about what  works had taken place 
and what the contractor had been instructed to attend to do. It said the claims team had 
been notified of Mr and Mrs Bs concerns,  particularly relating to what works had been  
Ref: DRN68991882agreed, what had been carried out and how things  were progressing. And it said that the 
claims team were  in discussions  with the contractors. 
NHBC also said it accepted there  was a dispute  about the works  to the first floor and that the 
claims team were  seeking  clarification from the contractor.  Mr and Mrs B had also 
complained that theyd  not received a copy of the engineers report  theyd been promised but 
NHBC said all such reports  were for internal  use only and couldnt be disclosed. It said 
feedback had been provided to the relevant department about the misinformation about the 
sharing of the report. NHBC said that itd asked the claims team to update Mr and Mrs B as 
soon as possible about how matters were to progress. It also said an addendum resolution 
report would  need  to be produced now the engineer had provided his report to ensure the 
correct schedule of works  was put together. It said it was confident  that once this was done it 
would be clear what works NHBC would and wouldnt be seeing to. 
Finally NHBC  offered Mr and Mrs B a goodwill payment of £500 in recognition of the 
incorrect information theyd been given about the report and for the delays theyd 
experienced since October 2017.  
Unhappy with the outcome of NHBCs review of their complaint, Mr and Mrs B complained to 
this service a week or so later.  They  said they remained  unhappy  that the works were 
unfinished and that the agreed timetable for doing so had not been kept to. Mr and Mrs B 
said that whilst there  mayve been  some delay as a result of needing to wait for the 
engineers report,  there were other non-related works that couldve proceeded in the 
meanwhile. 
Around the same time a senior  NHBC manager visited  Mr and Mrs B to discuss the claim. A 
second final response letter was then issued  in mid-November 2018 in which NHBC 
acknowledged the unacceptable  delays and said it was making sure the claims handler was 
doing their utmost  to ensure progress on their claim. NHBC  said it was pleased  to note that 
works had resumed and a plan of action had been  provided to them. And it said it 
understood the required works to the second  floor were in the process of being finalised and 
that it would  soon be in a position to provide them with an update on how things  would 
progress with the first floor. It said that update was due no later than 26 November 2018. 
NHBC went on to say that whilst the claim had moved on, some uncertainties remained, 
namely in relation to the provision of alternative  accommodation  and what would happen 
with the first floor. It also apologised for the strain  that had been placed on Mr and Mrs Bs 
family by the claim. 
Our investigator looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and issued his findings in April 2019. 
He recommended that the complaint was upheld. For the delays Mr and Mrs B had 
experienced he recommended that NHBC pay them further compensation of £500 (in 
addition to the £500 already offered in October 2018). He noted  that Mr B had said he felt he 
should be compensated for loss of earnings but said that wasnt  something  this service 
awarded compensation for. 
Mr and Mrs B replied  to our investigator and said they didnt accept his findings.  They  said 
the recommended compensation  didnt  fairly  reflect the trouble and upset theyd  been  
caused or the fact that the delays had caused Mr B to lose £43,000 in earnings. They also 
said that whilst they had received a daily disturbance allowance from NHBC, that was paid 
for their two children (who had had to move out of the house) and that theyd received 
nothing for themselves. They  also said that our investigators recommendations didnt  
Ref: DRN68991883resolve the problem  they had with NHBC getting  the work  completed sooner rather  than 
later. 
NHBC replied  and said that if Mr and Mrs B had accepted our investigators findings  then it 
wouldve accepted  them too. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can only look here at what happened  in relation to Mr and Mrs Bs claim between October 
2017 (when NHBC issued  its previous final response letter) and mid-November 2018 when it 
issued its second  final response letter in relation to their complaint about the ongoing  delays 
and confusion about what works  were  to be carried out. Ive seen Mr Bs emails to our 
investigator and I know that, at least until April 2019, they were still experiencing delays and 
issues with the claim.  But whilst I fully understand Mr Bs ongoing  frustration, Im afraid that I 
can only look here at what  happened  up to and including NHBCs letter  of mid-November  
2018. Anything that Mr and Mrs B remain  unhappy about after that point  will first need to be 
raised as a new complaint with NHBC so that it can have the chance to investigate. 
It seems  to me that, to a certain degree, NHBC has lost control of this claim. Consequently 
some avoidable  delays have resulted which have caused Mr and Mrs B a significant  degree 
of trouble and upset.  
Having reviewed the file Im unclear  why the engineer wasnt  instructed to report ahead of 
the contractors starting work. Obviously if a proportion of the contractors works were  
dependent on an engineers report then it would be prudent  to obtain the report  before works  
commence. So its reasonable to think that the delay  caused by the contractors having to 
pull off site in October 2018 (as a result of not knowing  what  the engineer  would recommend 
was required) couldve been avoided  if the claim had been handled better; the contractors 
couldve carried out the necessary works  as scheduled thereby  avoiding an un-necessary  
delay. 
I can see that that the engineer was instructed  to assess the cause of the noisy  floors  but 
confined his inspection  to the second  floor only. And I can see from an internal email in early  
November 2018  that NHBC accepted that the instruction it gave the engineer  wasnt detailed 
enough so that the inspection didnt achieve all that was necessary.  This meant  that NHBC 
was still reviewing  into December 2018   what to do about the issues  with the first floor. 
Its not unreasonable to think the delay  in deciding what to do about the first floor was also 
an avoidable  one. There was discussion about  it in May 2018 so its unclear to me why a 
decision still hadnt been taken on what to do about  the creaking to the first floor in 
December 2018.  
Then I can see there was a period of about two months in the spring of 2018 where Mr and 
Mrs Bs emails  went unanswered.  And there was a delay in the contractors committing to a 
definite start date. Mr and Mrs B had to wait 4 months before any works commenced (only  to 
have them halt again whilst the engineers report was pending).  
Ref: DRN68991884Having reviewed the photographs and read the reports its clear to me that this is a complex 
claim. And complex claims can take longer than normal to resolve;  thats to be expected. It 
will take a while to fully assess  the damage, devise a schedule  of works, engage contractors 
etc. But complex claims take careful management so that avoidable  delays dont  occur. 
Where there are avoidable delays, this service can recommend  consumers are financially 
compensated for the trouble and upset  that flows from them.  
I can see that NHBC offered Mr and Mrs B compensation of £500  in its final response letter  
of 12 October 2018. Its unclear to me if this was ever paid to them.  I dont think  that 
compensation of £500 fairly  reflects the level of avoidable upset and inconvenience Mr and 
Mrs B have experienced during the period in question. They  have explained that family life 
has been disrupted and that their children have  had to move out until the works are 
completed. And NHBC  itself accepted in its second final response letter that Mr and Mrs Bs 
claim had been  subjected to unacceptable delays. 
When deciding what fair compensation  to make a business pay, I have to have regard to this 
services approach to such awards.  I think that payment of a further  sum of £500 (in addition  
to the amount of £500 already offered in November  2018), taking the full amount of 
compensation paid for the trouble and upset  caused between October 2017 and October 
2018 to £1,000, is fair in all the circumstances. It is also in line with awards made by this 
service in similar circumstances. I am glad to note that NHBC agreed  that it wouldve paid 
this amount if Mr and Mrs B had accepted  our investigators findings. 
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B dont think a further amount of £500 fairly reflects  the trouble 
and upset that theyve been  caused. And I know that Mr B has recently said to our 
investigator that he believes the claim has cost him £43,000 in lost earnings. But I have  to 
have regard to the warranty terms, this services  approach to such  awards  and all the 
circumstances of the complaint. The warranty terms make no provision for loss of earnings 
and Im not aware  that Mr B has specifically raised the issue  of lost earnings with NHBC or 
provided it with any evidence. Without  NHBC  having  had the opportunity to consider any 
claim for lost earnings, or any evidence that such occurred, I cant reasonably consider 
Mr Bs recent claim for lost income  here.
Mr and Mrs B mentioned that the disturbance allowance theyd received was for their 
children who had moved out of the home, not themselves (NHBC paid £25 per day for each 
of their children for the disturbance of having  to move out for 39 days  up to 30 November 
2018). Ive not seen any evidence that the house,  during the period in question, was without 
the essential services  of a kitchen and/or a bathroom. This service can require a business to 
pay consumers a disturbance allowance (typically  at a rate of £10 per adult per day) but will 
only do so where they have been left without the use of essential services and Im afraid Ive 
not seen any evidence that they were. 
I understand Mr and Mrs Bs frustration  that an award of compensation doesnt  make their 
claim move forward or resolve  any ongoing problems they are having with NHBC. But this 
service is unable to become involved with the actual  handling of insurance  claims. We can 
only look to see if an insurer has treated its policyholder fairly and reasonably in the way it 
has handled their claim.  For the reasons Ive given above, I dont think  that NHBC has 
treated Mr and Mrs B reasonably and I think overall compensation of £1,000 is fair 
compensation for the avoidable  trouble  and upset Mr and Mrs B experienced from October 
2017 to November 2018. 
Ref: DRN68991885my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I require National House-Building 
Council to pay Mr and Mrs B compensation of £500  (in addition to the £500  they were  
offered in October 2018) for the trouble and upset they were caused by the way their claim 
has been handled. If National House-Building Council has yet to pay the £500 it offered Mr 
and Mrs B in October 2018 then it should now pay them a total of £1,000 in settlement of my 
award. If National  House-Building  Council has already paid Mr and Mrs B £500  then it need 
only now pay them £500.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 May 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6899188