K820x#14complaint
Miss W complains that Dallas Insurance Consultants (trading as Homematch, The Property 
Experts) mis-sold  her a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in 
2007 when she applied for a mortgage.
background
Miss W complained that she only wanted unemployment cover,  but she was told she had to 
buy accident, sickness and unemployment cover together. She said she didnt need  the PPI 
because she had other insurances  as part of her employees benefit, and she had savings. 
She said the policy was unsuitable for her needs.
She later discovered she could have bought unemployment cover alone,  and so she 
complained the PPI policy had been  mis-sold.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Miss W disagreed  with our adjudicators view 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ws case.
Having done that, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I know  this will be a disappointing 
result for her, so Ill explain why.
Miss W says she did not know she could have bought the option of unemployment cover  
only. She said she made it clear to the adviser about  what she wanted,  but she was told she 
could only buy accident, sickness  and unemployment cover.
I looked at the recommendations  made by the adviser, the Certificate  of Insurance  and the 
Key Facts Illustration.  All the documents showed  Miss W was buying  a full PPI policy  with all 
aspects of cover. And the advisers notes recorded she had requested full cover. However, I 
did not see any evidence  on the documents that the PPI was a compulsory requirement for 
the mortgage. So if Miss W indicated she only wanted unemployment  cover, I think  she 
could have refused  the policy offered. So as she had a choice, I think the policy was 
probably shown  to be an optional product. 
Dallas Insurance Consultants and Miss W agree  this was an advised sale. For advised 
sales, Dallas Insurance Consultants had to make sure the policy  was suitable  for Miss Ws 
needs and it had to give her enough information  which was clear,  fair and not misleading  so 
she could make her own decision. 
I think the policy probably was suitable  for Miss W because  she was eligible to buy PPI, it 
seemed affordable at the time and she wasnt affected by the main  things  the policy didnt 
cover (the exclusions). I then looked  at Miss Ws financial  circumstances  at the time to see 
if the policy remained suitable for her.
Ref: DRN64845812I noted Miss W said she had savings and good  employee benefits which gave her income 
protection insurance and good sick pay. But the PPI could have paid out for a maximum of 
18 months on a successful claim, leaving her savings for other  expenses. And her employee 
benefits would only have lasted for as long as she was an employee with that company. So I 
think PPI could have  been a useful  benefit  for her because Miss W borrowed funds against a 
large and long-term  financial  commitment, which was secured on her home.  I think having 
the security that Miss Ws mortgage repayments would be made if she was unable to work 
would have been important to her. So I dont think her savings and employee benefits made 
the policy unsuitable.
Miss W said she had other insurance  policies  for life cover and critical illness  cover. But 
these policies cover  different life events. So I dont think  this made  the PPI unsuitable  
because the PPI covered other  insurance  events. 
I also looked at the information she was given about the policy  to see if Miss W was able to 
make an informed decision about it. I dont know exactly what was said during the meeting 
about the cost and benefits of the policy, and looking at everything  Ive been given, its 
possible that information wasnt as clear as it should have been. But having decided Miss W 
chose to take out the PPI - it looks like she wanted this type of cover.  And  for the reasons 
Ive explained  above - it looks like the policy could have been useful for her if something 
went wrong. So I dont  think more detailed cost and benefits information  would have put her 
off from buying PPI.
I also noted she wasnt affected by the exclusions in the PPI policy  - so I dont think she 
would have changed her mind  about  PPI if shed  got more  detailed information  about them.  
As Ive said above,  it looks like the policy  was affordable for her so I dont think more  
detailed information  about the PPI would have put Miss W off from taking out the cover.  
Taking everything into account,  I think it was clear the policy  was optional - so Miss W didnt  
have to buy the policy if it wasnt exactly what she wanted. I think it was suitable for her and I 
think she was given  enough information  about  it. So I am not going to uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Miss Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 October  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6484581