K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that the appointed  representatives of Legal & General Partnership  
Limited (L&G) mis-sold them a mortgage. Mr and Mrs S would  like the fees and charges to 
be refunded.
background
Mr and Mrs S re-mortgaged  in 2006  through a recommendation from an L&G appointed 
representative. The recommendation  was to consolidate their debts in a new mortgage  and 
to pay an early repayment charge (ERC) to exit their existing  mortgage.  The ERC on their 
present mortgage  product was £1,755 and became payable if the existing  mortgage  was 
redeemed by 22 December 2006.  The remortgage completed in March 2006. 
The client  review recorded  that Mr and Mrs S had the following debts:
A credit card with a balance of £4,000 on which Mr and Mrs S were  paying £220 per 
month.
A credit card with a balance of £1,900 per month and interest at 18.9% on which  Mr 
and Mrs S were paying £100  per month.
A credit card with a balance of £500  with interest  charged at 29.89% on which Mr 
and Mrs S were paying £30 per month.
A credit cad with a balance of £300 with interest charged at 21% pa on which Mr and 
Mrs S were paying  £20 per month
Mr S had an overdraft facility with a balance of £1,200 and interest at 16% which he 
was repaying at £20 per month.
Mrs S had an overdraft facility with a balance of £500 and interest at 16%  which  she 
was repaying at £20 per month
There were also a number of fees to pay. Along with the mortgage L&G sold Mr and Mrs S a 
wills package. L&G offered to refund the mortgage  interest Mr and Mrs S paid or would  pay 
on the money raised to purchase  the will (£464.13)  until 27 March  2027 which  is the date the 
mortgage is to be repaid.
Our adjudicator examined the sales process and issued his view.  He didnt believe that the 
mortgage recommended  was unsuitable or that the legal  and legal administration  fees were 
unfair. He also felt that L&Gs  offer in respect of the wills package was fair. But he expressed 
the following  concerns:
He  felt that Mr and Mrs S shouldnt  have been  advised to  incur an ERC ; and
Although our adjudicator thought that some  of the debt consolidation was 
appropriate, he felt that consolidating the low balance  credit cards (of £500  and 
£300) and overdrafts  was unfair.
So, overall, our adjudicator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld and set out a 
process to calculate  the redress for the inappropriate  ERC  and debt consolidation.
L&G disagreed. In respect of the ERC, overdrafts and credit  cards,  it felt that Mr and Mrs S 
wanted to make immediate savings and so incurring the ERC was justified.
Ref: DRN68223562my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2006, L&G recommended a re-mortgage  to Mr and Mrs S part of which raised  money for 
them, part paid off debts,  part repaid the existing mortgage and the remainder was for fees. 
Looking at the mortgage recommended,  although the sourcing information highlights  other  
deals, I believe that the deal with the chosen  lender  was the beat available in the 
circumstances. Im also satisfied that Mr and Mrs S were aware of and accepted the legal 
and legal administration fees to complete this mortgage and that these were properly 
charged. 
I have issues with the extent of the debt consolidation and the payment of the ERC. The 
client review provides a snapshot of Mr and Mrs S and their familys finances in early  2006. 
After payment of their mortgage,  living expenses and payments towards their unsecured 
debts they still had £321 per month  excess income. They had reached  the limits on their two 
largest credit cards. There is a note in the review that tries to explain why this is - apparently  
the credit  card debts  increased because of home improvements. The picture  I have is not of 
a family  drowning in debt but one that had issues with a number  of credit cards and could do 
with consolidating  the cards with the largest balances.
It clearly made sense to consolidate the credit  cards with the high interest and high balances 
but as our adjudicator points out the consolidation of those with the new mortgage would 
have given a saving of £143.49 per month which would  have meant  the overdrafts could 
have been paid within 12 months rather than tied into a long term mortgage.  Given  the 
disposable income of Mr and Mrs S it also doesnt seem reasonable to tie in the low balance  
credit cards so that they are paying these over the lifetime of the mortgage.  
The other issue is the payment of the ERC  and whether it was good advice to drawdown the 
mortgage immediately  or wait until the end of the year when there would be no ERC 
payable. L&Gs view is that it was reasonable to advise Mr and Mrs S to pay the ERC  in 
March 2006 to get the advantages of the new mortgage  rather  than waiting until December 
when they could have moved their mortgage  without paying that charge. The ERC was 
£1,755. L&G says that as Mr and Mrs S were on their limits on two credit cards and 
approaching the limit on two overdrafts it meant that it was reasonable for the adviser to 
recommend that they access the new mortgage  early. 
L&G says that Mr and Mrs S were overspending.  Mr and Mrs S both had overdrafts. Mr Ss 
agreed limit was £1,500 and the balance was £1,200 expected to stay the same. Mrs S had 
an overdraft of £500 expected to rise to the agreed  limit of £1,000.  L&Gs point is that the 
reality of the situation  was that Mr and Mrs S were struggling financially and were worse off 
than appears on the client  review  which  shows  a surplus of £321. L&G says that taking  out 
the new mortgage immediately was good advice as it moved Mr and Mrs S from 
overspending each month to a positive disposable income of £578.01. 
But, clearly  the overdrafts werent at the limit and Ive no history as to how they arose and 
whether it indicates  continued overspending  or not. This was a family with three  children 
living at home and I would expect the overdraft at the beginning of the year, just after 
Ref: DRN68223563Christmas, would be worse than the rest of the year so may indeed have reflected a once in 
a year situation. That I believe to be a reasonable expectation and so, I dont believe it was 
reasonable for L&G to have included these overdrafts in the debt consolidation. 
As I say above, the picture I have is not of a heavily indebted couple  who had urgent need of 
the debt consolidation.  There  were  some advantages in the debt consolidation but L&G 
should have been more  selective in the recommendation of what  was to be included in it and 
not adopted the broad brush approach that it did. The payment of the ERC would have been 
a heavy payment  to Mr and Mrs S and even more  so as it became consolidated in the 
mortgage.  Mr and Mrs S would certainly have benefited from the remortgage,  so L&G was 
entitled to its fee for arranging it. But there clearly would have been  more benefit in waiting  
until December and I believe  that that is what L&G should have recommended.  
On that basis, I intend to uphold this complaint. I dont believe that L&G provided  suitable  
advice to include the low balance credit cards and overdraft in the debt consolidation and I 
believe that L&G should have recommended that Mr and Mrs S wait to remortgage until a 
time when  they didnt  have to pay an ERC. I set out how L&G should  set this right below
In respect of the wills package that L&G sold, I dont consider that it was mis-sold to Mr and 
Mrs S as they may have benefited from making  a will. But I believe that it was unsuitable  
advice to fund it through  the mortgage.  So I agree with the offer contained in L&Gs letter  of 
20 December 2018 to refund the interest  paid for this expenditure.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and that Legal & General Partnership Services 
Limited should:
Calculate the amount  Mr and Mrs S have paid as part of the mortgage in respect  of 
the two low balance  credit cards and the two overdrafts to date.
Calculate the amount  of these debts still outstanding on their mortgage balance.
Calculate the amount  it would have  cost to pay off the debts had they not been 
consolidated, assuming  that the payment  amounts and interest  rates shown in the 
client review stayed  the same.
Add together the first two figures and deduct the third and pay the result as a lump 
sum to Mr and Mrs S.
Calculate the ERC and the interest  paid on it for the life of the mortgage.
Pay this as a lump sum to Mr and Mrs S.
Pay the offer made by L&G to Mr and Mrs S in its letter of 20 December 2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 July 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6822356