K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Coventry Building  Society  (Coventry)  mis-sold them a payment
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 1993 when they took out a further advance on their
mortgage which started in 1981. They amended  their PPI in 1995  and 2004  when they took
out additional advances and in 2008  when they paid off some  of their mortgage  and needed
less cover.  They applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in branch.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr S for accident, sickness, and unemployment subject to its
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £250 a month towards Mr and Mrs Ss
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £15 a month. The
cost and benefit changed with each amendment to the policy.
At the time,  Mr S tells us he was employed as a painter and decorator,  although  records
from 1995 show that he had been a postal operative  for 26 years. He has told us he was
entitled to 12 months  full sick pay. This is unusually high, especially  given  the sector Mr S
worked in, and I havent seen any evidence of this. Mr S would  have been  entitled to
statutory redundancy pay and says he didnt have any other means of repaying their
mortgage should he have been unable to work. Mr S has said he was in good  health at the
time of the sale.
Coventry has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account  finally  closed in July
2011.
Mr and Mrs Ss representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their
behalf. However, for ease of reference,  I will refer to its representations as being Mr and Mrs
Ss from now on.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In
summary, Mr and Mrs S says:
Coventry failed to meet the sales  standards  which applied at the time. In those
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on
handling PPI complaints  under DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs S
believes there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the
most common reasons  people are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Coventry should have
told Mr and Mrs S about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Coventry should have
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs S
Ref: DRN62579202and the impact they would  have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the
time it would  be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the mis-sale complaint  both parties have seen and provided
their responses to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators
opinion.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision. I 
issued my provisional decision on this case in January 2021. I invited all parties to submit  
any comments or further evidence they wished me to consider before I made  my final 
decision. None  of the parties had anything further to add, so I see no reason to depart from 
my provisional conclusions which I set out below. 
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ss. I dont intend to set that
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
This sale took place  in 1993 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC)
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG).
The credit agreement continued to run until 2011.That means the unfair  relationship
provisions set out at s140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment
in Plevin1 about s140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about  the
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in the light of the Plevin
judgment, also apply.  I will come back to this later on.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code.
Ref: DRN62579203The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of
intermediaries like Coventry at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI Code and
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ss case.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so
Coventry was required  to take into account the provisions  in DISP App 3 as if they were
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of
this complaint, are:
- If Coventry gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given
their needs  and circumstances.
- Whether Coventry gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely information
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,
including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and
exclusions.
- If, having considered  these questions, I determine  the complaint about  the alleged
mis-sale in favour of Mr and Mrs S, I must then go on to consider whether and to
what extent Mr and Mrs S suffered  loss or damage  and what I consider would
amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage.
Ref: DRN62579204- If I conclude  Mr and Mrs S has not suffered  loss or damage and I propose  no award
for the alleged mis-sale, I must then go on to consider whether, in all the
circumstances (and taking into account  sections  140A and 140B of the Consumer
Credit Act, the Supreme  Courts decision in Plevin, and the FCAs guidance at DISP
App 3), Coventry should have disclosed  the commission it received - and if it didnt,
what would  be fair compensation in all the circumstances.
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S
and Coventry, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss alleged  mis-sale complaint. I have 
also considered  the issue  of non-disclosure  of commission  and Ive decided that Coventry 
should have disclosed  the commission it received. My findings  are set out below.
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
Coventry had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  Given over 27 years have
passed since the sale its not surprising  that neither party has been able to provide all of the
documents used  at the time. Mr and Mrs S havent suggested the PPI was added  without
their consent  or that they were told they had to have it. And Coventry  have been able to
provide a copy of the application form Mr S completed to agree to buy the PPI which
indicates the PPI is optional.
Mr and Mrs S suggest they were  pressured or rushed by the advisor. They  havent  told me
what happened to make them feel that way, or why they continued with the PPI over the
following 11 years, making various  amendments during that time, if they didnt want  it. So I
dont think I can safely rely on what theyve said here.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs S knew the policy was
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
did Coventry provide  advice?
Both Coventry and Mr and Mrs S agree that advice was provided during this sale.
This means  Coventry had to advise  Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and skill, in
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Coventry took to establish  whether the policy  was a suitable
recommendation for Mr and Mrs S. It seems Mr and Mrs S cant remember clearly what
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This
is unsurprising in respect of a sale during a meeting.  The adviser had some  limited
information about Mr and Mrs Ss financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence
to show the adviser  took steps to establish  whether Mr S would have been caught  by the
significant exclusions and limitations which might have meant  the policy did not fully meet
their needs.  For example,  there is nothing to suggest Coventry considered whether Mr S had
any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Coventry did all it should have
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs S given their
Ref: DRN62579205circumstances. So Im not persuaded Coventry  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Coventry did all it should  have done to make sure the policy was
suitable for Mr and Mrs S, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
Mr S met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Mr and Mrs S had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ss ability to 
continue to meet their mortgage repayments would have been put under strain if Mr 
S was not working for an extended  period of time  even  allowing for the employment  
benefits Mr S is likely to have been  entitled to.
The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs S.
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs S.
There was nothing  about Mr Ss employment  or occupation which  would have made
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical
conditions that could have affected his ability to claim. There were also no additional
restrictions on cover for mental health  or back problems.
While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim,, 
it still provided useful  cover given Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Coventry  gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what
Coventry was recommending to them and make and informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S were given a broad  description of
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if
Mr S was unable to work through  accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs S
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Coventry  gave sufficient
information about about the exclusions or limitations  before  Mr and Mrs S agreed to take out
the policy.
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs S Im not persuaded
Coventry did enough to present information  about the policy  it was recommending in a way
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  Coventry  gave Mr and Mrs S all of
the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether  to
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs S has raised a number of
general points  with regard to the requirements  on a business when providing information in
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like theirs.  Ive considered
Ref: DRN62579206these carefully and summarised them  as:
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means  the business should  have
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs S consider to be poor value  and
the fact that much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.
- The common law duty of utmost good faith means  the business shouldnt  have just
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further
and explained  the significance of them  to them.
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ss views  on this. The duty of utmost good  faith in
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the
way Mr and Mrs S have suggested.  And taking into account the law, industry codes  and
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  its fair and
reasonable to conclude  that Coventry ought  to have  done either.
what effect did Coventrys shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Coventry didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mr and
Mrs S. So I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr
and Mrs S suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or
not Mr and Mrs S would have still taken  out the policy, had Coventry  done  things  properly.
While Im not persuaded Coventry took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs S, I have found that the policy  was
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs S suffered loss or
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Coventry had explained things
properly, Mr and Mrs S would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs S say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs S had some  interest  in taking out
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when Coventry advised them  that there was a
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  Mr
S was unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded
they wanted that product.  But they made  that decision  based on incomplete  information,
meaning what they thought they were  getting  is not exactly  what  they got.
Ref: DRN62579207As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances at
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them. As 
Ive also already explained the information about some aspects of the policy, such as the
limitations and exclusions  wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs S knew  they would have to pay
something for the policy, it doesnt appear Coventry told them the exact  premium  at the point
Mr and Mrs S applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems  likely Mr and Mrs S would
have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a number of
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale, its
likely they would have  raised that with Coventry at the time or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs S would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr S had experienced
in the 12 months  prior to the policy start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr S
wasnt a permanent employee;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of
the mortgage.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused
Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the
policy.
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr S was eligible for its benefits
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to
suggest Mr S wouldve been  caught  by any of the significant exclusions  Mr S didnt have
any pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think they
had some good reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence
to support that claim.
Coventry may not have told Mr and Mrs S that any claim they made would be limited  to a 12-
Month period.  This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped for  
but they likely had limited  other means  to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs S would still have  thought a policy that
Ref: DRN62579208paid up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments  would  have been of benefit to them and would
help them manage the consequences  should Mr S be unable  to work in the
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure their home was
not placed at risk and might potentially help preserve  Mr Ss sick pay or redundancy money
for other use. Indeed,  Mr and Mrs S did benefit  from the policy when  Mr S made a
successful claim  for unemployment in 2006.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr S was made  redundant, or unable  to
work through  accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely  than not Mr
and Mrs S would  have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on
cover.
Mr and Mrs S say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make it clear
that, where a significant failing is identified, it should  be presumed the consumer wouldnt
have taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  say we
should follow this other  than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the
approach I have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be
presumed Mr and Mrs S would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption.
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ss
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and
Mrs S found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred.
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if
they had not bought the policy.
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those
Ref: DRN62579209circumstances, to conclude Coventry  should  pay Mr and Mrs S compensation, as that would
put them in a better position than they would have been in if everything had happened as it
should have done.
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think Coventry  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some
of Coventrys statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion the reason why
Coventry failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what  it did or didnt say in the
information it provided  but because the overall  information Coventry  gave Mr and Mrs S, in
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to
expect it to have  met in 1993 when providing information about  an insurance policy.
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs S says a court might take if it were to find
Coventry negligently misrepresented the contract  to them  and about  the remedy a court
might award if it were  to find that Coventry  had been in breach of its duty of utmost good
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if everything had happened as
it should have  done.
So I dont  propose  to uphold the mis-sale  element of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
However, having considered the overall mis-sale, I must now go on to consider whether the
non-disclosure of commission  resulted  in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what compensation  it would be fair to award to Mr and Mrs
S to remedy  that unfairness.
non-disclosure of commission
Ive considered the effect of section  140A  and B of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme
Court decision  in Plevin v Paragon and the FCAs rules and guidance for businesses about
handling PPI complaints  set out at DISP App 3 (as I referred to earlier)  in the light of that
case.
Section 140A (1) and (2) of the Consumer Credit Act states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  agreement
if it determines that the relationship between the creditor and the debtor arising  out of the
agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement)  is unfair  to the debtor
because of one or more  of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights under the
agreement or any related  agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either before or
after the making of the agreement or any related  agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall have
regard to all matters it thinks  relevant (including  matters relating to the creditor  and
matters relating to the debtor).
Mr and Mrs S have  made a number  of representations about the impact of the Plevin
judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.  In
Ref: DRN625792010summary, Mr and Mrs S said that:
- Coventry failed to tell them  about the high commission and profit-share rates paid,
the low claims  ratio (the proportion of the premiums paid by policyholders  used to
pay claims), and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover; and
- If Coventry had told them about  those things, they would not have taken out the
policy, so they should  get back all the money  they paid by way of premium  for the
policy.
Ive considered those  representations carefully.  In doing so, Im mindful  of the following:
- When  selling insurance, the relevant  insurance  codes did not specifically require
Coventry to tell Mr and Mrs S about commission or about the claims ratio (nor, for
reasons Ive already explained,  did the duty of utmost good faith require that). As the
FCA said when introducing its rules and guidance to businesses  for the handling of
PPI complaints in the light of the Plevin judgment, the failure to disclose commission
was not in breach of the industry codes and would not  in and of itself  have  been  a
breach of FCAs Principles for Businesses. Those Principles  include a requirement
on businesses to pay due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them  fairly 
(albeit as I set out earlier the Principles are not relevant  in this case.)
Where a court determines under section 140A that the relationship between the
creditor and the debtor arising out of a credit  agreement (or the agreement taken with
any related agreement)  is unfair to the debtor because of (among other things)
anything done,  or not done, by or on behalf of the creditor, the court  has a range of
powers available to it under section 140B. Those powers include altering the terms of
the credit  agreement or any related  agreement,  requiring the creditor  to repay  sums
paid by the debtor, and to reduce or discharge any sums payable.
The Supreme Court considered whether the non-disclosure of high commission
levels might  produce an unfair  relationship in the case  of Plevin. In that case,  the
Supreme Court concluded that that the non-disclosure of commission  could lead to
an unfair relationship.
Following the Plevin judgment (and the uncertainty that it created), the FCA issued
rules and guidance to businesses for the handling  of PPI complaints that included a
complaint about  undisclosed commission. That guidance (which is contained in DISP
App 3) came into force in August  2017 and was preceded by a policy  statement
(PS17/03, issued in March 2017) and two consultation papers (CP15/39  and
CP16/20). The respondents to those consultations included consumer groups,
businesses, claims management companies  and trade associations, and the final
rules and guidance took account of their views.
In PS 17/03, the FCA said that in publishing  this guidance for firms, it had used [its]
regulatory judgement to create a framework  that [it] believe[s] will reduce uncertainty
and enable firms to take a fair and consistent  approach to handling  PPI complaints.
This will help ensure the best outcomes for consumers  at the earliest  stage in the
complaints process  [Page 6 para 1.8]
In broad terms, the FCAs guidance and rules  for businesses handling PPI
complaints require businesses to consider complaints about PPI using  a two-step
approach as set out in DISP App 3. Broadly speaking, at step 1, the firm should first
Ref: DRN625792011consider whether the businesss conduct of the sale failed to comply with FCAs
rules or legal  requirements.  Where failings are identified,  the business  should
determine the way the consumer would have acted  if the breach  or failing had not
occurred (i.e. whether  or not the consumer  would have  bought the policy) and then
determine appropriate redress - if any. It is at this step, for instance, where the
presumption in DISP  App 3.6.2E  which I have  already addressed  above   may
apply.
Where the business  concludes   as Coventry did in this complaint   that the
consumer would have  bought PPI, it must  then go on to assess, at step 2, whether
any failure to disclose commission and profit share gave rise to an unfair relationship
under section 140A, in which case the business  should go on to determine the
appropriate remedy - if any.
As a starting point,  the FCAs rules  and guidance require businesses to presume  that
the failure to disclose  commission  gave rise to an unfair relationship where  the
business expected commission and profit share to be more  than 50% of the cost of
the policy (the FCA referred to this as the tipping point in its consultations  and
policy statement). Usually, in those  circumstances, the FCAs rules and guidance require 
businesses to refund the amounts paid by the consumer  in commission  and profit share 
above 50% of the policys cost, plus interest. While  this presumption of an unfair relationship  
is rebuttable, I note that Coventry has not sought  to rebut it in Mr and Mrs Ss case. In fact, 
Coventry made an offer or payment to Mr and Mrs S in 2018, calculated in line with the 
FCAs guidance.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Given that Coventry didnt  tell Mr and Mrs S about the high levels of commission  and profit
share paid in this case, I think its likely a court would  determine that the relationship
between Coventry and Mr and Mrs S was unfair  under  section 140A. As Ive mentioned
above, the FCAs rules  require Coventry to determine appropriate  redress in those
circumstances, and I have  had regard to those  rules below in deciding  what  compensation it
would be fair to award Mr and Mrs S in order to remedy  that unfairness.
With respect to the claims ratio, I cant say with any degree of certainty  whether a court
would conclude that Coventrys failure  to disclose  information about the claims ratio also
meant there  was an unfair relationship. But in some respects, commission  and the claims
ratio are two sides of the same coin  the fact that a relatively small amount of the premiums
is required to pay claims is what permits the high commission and profit  share payments.
And I accept   although I cant be sure  theres a possibility that a court might take a similar
view about the claims  ratio when considering a claim  under section 140A. But since  Ive
already found  that its likely a court would say that Coventry should have told Mr and Mrs S
about commission, and the claims ratio involves a similar concept, I dont think  the failure to
disclose the claims ratio as a separate matter affects my overall conclusion about whats fair
in this case.
So, taking into account:
- the likelihood (in my view) that a court would determine the relationship  between
Coventry and Mr and Mrs S was unfair under section 140A because it didnt tell
them about  the high levels of commission and profit share paid in this case;  and
Ref: DRN625792012- the regulators complaint  handling  guidance  for businesses,
I dont think Coventry acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Mr and Mrs S insofar as
it failed to disclose  the high commission and profit  share  paid out of the premiums  in this
case.
Redress to remedy that unfair relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy
the unfairness I have  identified.
Ive thought carefully about whether fair compensation means Mr and Mrs S should get a full
refund of the premiums they paid to put them  in the position they would have been in if they
hadnt taken the policy out, or a full refund of the commission and profit  share Coventry
received, or a refund of the commission paid above  a certain point   for example by taking
the approach  set out in the FCAs rules and guidance (as has already been  offered by
Coventry).
As Ive mentioned  above, Mr and Mrs S says that they should get a full refund of all the PPI
premiums they paid. In summary, Mr and Mrs S says that the high level of commission
(and/or the low claims ratio)  together with the policys limitations  and exclusions  meant
that the PPI policy  generally represented  poor value for money for them. I should therefore
find that Mr and Mrs S would not have purchased the policy had they known  of the level of
commission  and accordingly, they should receive a refund of all the PPI premiums they
paid.
I have thought carefully about these representations  and am mindful  of Lord Sumptions
observation in Plevin (at paragraph 18 of his judgment) where he said:
Any reasonable  person in [Mrs Plevins] position  who was told that more than two thirds  of
the premium was going to intermediaries,  would  be bound to question whether the insurance
represented value  for money, and whether it was a sensible  transaction to enter into. The
fact that she was left in ignorance in my opinion made the relationship unfair.
However, I note that the Supreme Court made no specific finding about  whether the
consumer in that case (Mrs Susan Plevin) would (or would not) have purchased  the PPI
policy had the commission  been disclosed to her at the time of her purchase. The Supreme
Court simply did not address the question of causation. I do not therefore consider that the
Plevin judgment necessarily drives  me to the conclusion that Mr and Mrs S suggests it does
 i.e. that they necessarily would not have purchased the policy  had the level of commission
been disclosed to them at the time.
I have also borne in mind  that the overarching question for the court would be what  steps are
required to remedy the unfairness, and that, under  section 140B, the court would have a
wide range  of powers available to it in order to do so under the lending  relationship  in
question. It does not, for instance,  follow that because Coventry did not disclose the high
level of commission to Mr and Mrs S, the court would necessarily order  Coventry  to return  all
the premiums Mr and Mrs S paid for the policy. Nor does it follow  that the court  would
necessarily find that Mr and Mrs S would not have purchased the policy but for Coventrys
failure to disclose the high commission.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an
Ref: DRN625792013ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for Mr
and Mrs S in order to remedy the unfairness  arising from the fact Coventry did not disclose
the high level of commission to them before they purchased  the policy.
The FCAs  guidance to firms following the Plevin  judgment
In considering what would represent  fair compensation for Mr and Mrs S, I have, as I stated
earlier, had regard to the FCAs guidance to firms for handling PPI complaints involving a
complaint about  undisclosed commission. I think the FCAs guidance is an important
consideration for me to take into account, and I will now explain how I think  the FCAs
guidance affects my decision  on this issue.
As I explained above, the FCA consulted extensively between 2015 and 2017 on the
question of how firms should handle PPI complaints involving a complaint  about undisclosed
commission in the light of the Plevin judgment. In the exercise  of its regulatory judgment,  the
FCA established the two-step approach  I summarised above. According to the FCA, the
purpose of this approach was to allow firms to take a fair and consistent approach to
handling PPI complaints  involving undisclosed commission.
The FCA explained why it decided to exercise its regulatory judgment  in the way it did in
paragraphs 4.68  4.70 of PS17/3.  These paragraphs state as follows:
The two step approach - The approach to assessing merits
4.68 Some responses from industry,  and from CMCs and consumer bodies, maintained their
broad support for our proposed structuring  of the new rules and guidance concerning  Plevin
as a separate second step within our existing  PPI complaint handling rules and guidance,
seeing it as a sensible and proportionate approach.
4.69 However, some  industry  respondents maintained and amplified their concerns about
our view (at paragraph 5.69 of CP15/39) that, in some marginal cases, a firm may conclude
at Step 2 that not disclosing commission over 50% was the straw that broke  the back of the
sale as a whole,  and that, overall, the customer would  not have bought the PPI if given
better information, including about  the commission, at point of sale. These responses argue
that our view:
inappropriately blurs  the lines between two very different sets of circumstances
is confusing and contradictory from the consumers perspective
will result  in uncertainty and disorderliness, as CMCs will use it to try to get any Step
2 uphold upgraded to a Step 1 uphold, increasing the length and complexity of
handling for firms and delaying redress to consumers
imposes disproportionate costs on firms and the Financial Ombudsman Service  who
will need  to operationalise such hybrid assessments as standard  in their processes
despite the small number,  we say, whose outcomes will change  in practice.
4.70 Conversely, some responses from consumer bodies and CMCs  maintained and
amplified their previous  concerns that we are artificially and wrongly separating  the issues at
Step 1 and Step 2, when these should be considered together. Specifically, they said that:
We had mis-understood the relevant  case law and disregarded relevant
considerations from the Plevin judgment, and ignored the findings of the Competition
Commission that the non-disclosure of commission was a central plank of the sales
strategy employed by most lenders.
The question of unfairness under s.140A is not a narrow  test of commission. Instead,
Ref: DRN625792014it is a wide one in the round, so any sales failings at Step 1, or other issues of
unfairness or inequalities  of knowledge  such as poor value from a low claims ratio,
should also be considered at Step 2, in particular by the Financial Ombudsman
Service, which has to consider all the circumstances anyway, not just s.140A.
Conversely, Plevin says failure to disclose commission  is unfair   which  presumably
also makes it a breach  of FCA principles 6 and 7  and that the customer  did need to
be told about poor value, and it explicitly cites unfairness arising from undisclosed
poor value.  So it is wrong  for our proposed structure  to imply (and Financial
Ombudsman Service decisions to assert) that the non-disclosure of high commission
and poor value was not relevant for causation and potential  mis-selling  or
assessment at Step 1. Our proposed  approach paid lip service to this, allowing that 
undisclosed commission may be the straw that broke the back  of the sale as a
whole, but said these are marginal cases that will be few and far between 
whereas in reality,  they are the norm.
As proposed, Step 2 assumes Step 1 has been  fairly carried  out, but we cannot
reasonably assume  that, given the continued  poor complaint handling by firms. And
the approach  itself incentivises lenders not to concede a mis-sale, and to instead
redress more cheaply at Step 2.
Our response
We have carefully considered this feedback. However, we see no reason to change our
previous views or position.
Plevin deals with the specific question of whether an unfair  relationship between lender and
borrower was created  by undisclosed  high commission on the PPI. This question is different
from, and narrower than, the principal question behind our existing rules and guidance for
firms, which  is: did the conduct  of the firm that sold the PPI fall so short, at point of sale,  of
what we would expect  under our Principles and ICOB(S) rules, that it made the sale
substantially flawed?
We still believe the two-step approach reflects this difference  appropriately and fairly for
complainants and firms. An alternative approach which merged considerations about
undisclosed commission into the existing rules and guidance  about  mis-selling  to create  a
single test would not be appropriate because:
We do not consider  the non-disclosure of commission in PPI sales  to have been  a
breach of our ICOB(S) rules, and it is unlikely in and of itself to have been in breach
of our Principles, whereas  we do consider the various sales failings set out in the
existing rules and guidance to be so.
It would  lead us, and firms, into difficult considerations  of whether a consumer would
still have bought the PPI if they had been  told about  the level of commission.  This
difficulty is compounded  by the fact that complaints about PPI increasingly involve
older, pre-2005  sales,  of which some will be eligible to be considered at Step 2.
Additionally, if we were to force firms  to make these assessments it would result  in
complaint outcomes which  would be both arbitrary and inappropriately all or nothing.
It could give too little  nothing   to many consumers who had suffered an unfair
relationship, and too much  full return of premium and interest  to many consumers
who had benefitted  from the PPI cover. (See paragraphs 4.87-4.105 below for further
discussion of our approach to redress.)
We would, anyway,  have to leave scope for a PPI complaint where undisclosed
commission may be relevant to be assessed  by a lender that did not sell the PPI and
Ref: DRN625792015could not assess  if it was mis-sold under  our existing rules..
This extract makes it clear that the FCA specifically considered  representations  from
consumer bodies  and claims management companies which are very similar to the
representations which Mr and Mrs S is now making  i.e. that the existence  of an
undisclosed high level of commission means that I should find that Mr and Mrs S would not
have purchased the policy had they known about  the level of commission at the time they
bought the policy.
However, I note that, in the exercise of its regulatory judgment,  the FCA decided that it
would not be appropriate to merge considerations about undisclosed commission into the
existing rules and guidance about mis-selling. This is why it created the two-step approach
for firms handling PPI complaints summarised above. And as part of that two-step  approach,
the FCA said that impact  of the undisclosed commission  and the compensation required to
remedy the unfairness caused by that undisclosed  commission  should generally be
considered at step 2.
Turning now to consider  what  the FCAs guidance says about  how firms should calculate fair
compensation to remedy the unfairness caused by undisclosed commission at step 2, I am
mindful that the FCAs guidance on this issue was also the product of extensive  consultation
and deliberation. The following extract from para 4.104 of PS17/3  (omitting the footnotes)
explains the FCAs position:
Concerning the core logic of our proposed approach to redress, we note [] the
courts might  take a variety of approaches to redress on individual  cases. However,
we remain of the view that our approach,  centred on the return  of that portion of
undisclosed commission plus profit share that exceeded the tipping  point, is fair and
appropriate. As we have  explained (see our response under paragraph 3.27 above),
we are exercising our regulatory judgement  about appropriate assessment and,
where appropriate, redress of relevant PPI complaints in light of s.140A-B, taking
account of Plevin.  In doing so, we are seeking  to ensure fair and consistent complaint
handling. We consider our approach  to redress to be a reasonable starting
presumption, which fits well with the central importance Lord Sumption gave to the
notion of a tipping point.
For these reasons, although  it was the remedy in Plevin ordered  by the Manchester
County Court, we do not agree that our general  approach to redress should be the
return of all the commission  that was not disclosed.  Also, the consumer, who,  as
would generally  have been  established at Step 1, was not mis-sold, had a need for
the protection offered  by the policy and enjoyed  the benefit of that protection  before
complaining. So it is fair and reasonable for the lender to keep  some  of the
commission from the policys distribution (i.e. the portion under the tipping point).
Nor do we agree that our approach to redress should be the return  of all the
premium(s) paid by the consumer. Adopting this approach  would dissolve any
meaningful distinction between a mis-sale  and an unfair relationship under s.140A,
and thus between our existing  Step 1 and proposed  Step 2. In our view, it would
(even more  than the return of all commission) give excessive redress to the
consumer who had enjoyed the benefit  of that protection before complaining. We
consider it is fair and reasonable for the consumer to have still paid for the
underwriting of the policy and for some of the commission from the policys
distribution (i.e. the portion  under  the tipping  point).
Ref: DRN625792016We do not agree that our approach to redress at Step 2 inconsistently evokes
hypothetical scenarios or, in general  or for historic interest specifically, implies any
assumption that the customer would have searched for or bought  an alternative PPI
policy that was cheaper  by the amount of the excess commission  over the tipping
point. So we do not need to take into account whether such  alternative cheaper PPI
policies existed or were  available to the consumer.
Rather, as stated above, our approach simply seeks to redress  the customer  for that
element of undisclosed excess commission and profit share  which created the unfair
relationship under s.140A.  It is in that specific sense, of our approach not second
guessing what the consumer would have done  had they been  told of the commission,
that we meant that our approach was different from the but for logic at Step 1. We
did not mean that our overall  approach  to redress had no element of restoring the
consumers financial position to what it would have been without the undisclosed
excess commission.
Lastly, we note that our approach to redress has to be viewed in the round, as a
package. Responses from CMCs and consumer  bodies have focused on aspects
which they believe depart  from Plevin and are ungenerous  to complainants,  such as
the presumptive 50% tipping point and redress based on the excess  over it.
Responses from industry  have focused  on aspects  which they believe depart from .
So we consider that, overall, our approach is balanced and will give redress, in
aggregate and to individuals,  that is fair and proportionate in light of the detriment
identified and described by the Supreme Courts judgment.  ..
In essence, therefore,  the FCAs guidance  to firms for calculating fair compensation in a
case like Mr and Mrs Ss (involving a regular premium policy)  is that a firm should pay a sum
equivalent to the commission and profit share that is in excess of 50% of the policys cost,
together with interest. According to the FCA, compensation calculated in this way would
fairly remove the element of unfairness caused  by the existence  of the undisclosed high
commission.
my conclusion
Taking all these considerations  into account,  and having carefully  considered Mr and Mrs Ss
representations, my conclusion is as follows:
- Where  a court determines  that the relationship between a creditor and debtor is
unfair under section  140A,  the court is empowered to make a variety of different
types of orders under  section 140B in order remedy that unfairness.
- Mr and Mrs S have urged me to conclude that because Coventrys failure to disclose
the high level of commission (and/or profit share) made their relationship with Coventry 
unfair, I must  find that they wouldnt have purchased the policy had they known about these 
matters at the time they purchased the policy.
However, I do not accept  Mr and Mrs Ss suggestion. As I said above, I recognise it
is possible that had the level of commission been disclosed to Mr and Mrs S at the
time of the sale, they might have decided not to purchase  the policy. At the same
time, however, I am mindful of:
i. the FCAs observation  in PS17/03  (which  I have quoted above) that the
existence of undisclosed commission question raises difficult considerations
of whether a consumer  would still have bought the PPI if they had been told
about the level of commission; and
Ref: DRN625792017ii. the fact that there are a variety of other ways to fairly remedy the unfairness
caused to Mr and Mrs S by the failure to disclose the high level of commission
I am not, as Mr and Mrs S suggests, driven  to conclude that they wouldnt have purchased  
the policy but for Coventrys failure  to disclose the level of
commission.
I am also mindful that the FCAs guidance  to firms for handling complaints about the
non-disclosure of commission  requires a firm to refund some of the money paid for
the PPI policy  in order to remedy  the unfairness  caused by the failure  to disclose the
level of commission. I also think that refunding  some  of the money paid for the PPI
policy in this way is an order  which the court could, in the exercise of its discretion,
make under section 140B  in order  to remedy any unfairness.
Overall, and on balance,  I therefore  think it was fair for Coventry  to calculate
compensation in line with the FCAs guidance for handling complaints about the 
nondisclosure of commission and profit share, and thus return  some of the money  Mr
and Mrs S paid for the PPI policy. This is because, in my view,  this:
i. fairly removed the source of the unfairness; while:
ii. leaving Mr and Mrs S with the policy Ive concluded above they would have
taken out if Coventry  had met its obligations when acting as an insurance
seller  but with lower  commission  and profit share  levels.
In other  words, by compensating  Mr and Mrs S in line with the FCAs guidance at
step 2, this effectively  reduced the overall cost of the policy by an amount equal to
the excess undisclosed high commission (and/or profit share) which is the very
source of the unfairness for the purposes of section 140A.
I think that compensating Mr and Mrs S in this way was a fair and reasonable
outcome because it left them with the policy I believe they would have still taken  out
(for the reasons  I explained above) while fairly  compensating them for the unfairness
caused by the existence  of undisclosed high commission.
Taking all of this into account,  I therefore  consider that Coventrys offer of payment of an
amount equivalent  to the commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy
costs, in line with the FCAs  guidance to firms was fair in all the circumstances. If Coventry 
has already paid Mr and Mrs S compensation on this basis,  I do not consider  it should  do
anything further.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion,
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set
out above, I do not uphold  the mis-sale element of Mr and Mrs Ss complaint or
make any award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided
that Coventry Building Society should  pay Mr and Mrs S an amount equivalent to the
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  cost,  if it hasnt already
done so. If Coventry  Building Society has already paid compensation on this basis, I do not
currently consider that Coventry Building  Society should do anything more.
Ref: DRN625792018Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  by 9 April 2021
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6257920