K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook Bank Limited,  
which they used  to pay for some fascias and soffits, was mis-sold to them, theres  been  a 
breach of contract by the supplier and the agreement isnt enforceable.  Theyre being helped  
with their complaint  by a representative.
background
Mr and Mrs B electronically signed a fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook in May 2016 
to pay for some  fascias and soffits.  The purchase order  showed  that the balance  due was 
£2,396 but the statement  from the supplier and the loan agreement  show that the amount of 
the loan was £2,369.  The supplier has stopped trading so Mr and Mrs B say that its unable 
to provide them with the ten year guarantee for the fascias  and soffits.  They  also say that the 
inducement offered by the supplier  for them to enter  into the agreement was unfair.
They complained to Shawbrook in July 2018 about those issues  but it didnt uphold  their 
complaint. They werent  satisfied with its response so they complained to this service.  The 
investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think  that 
Shawbrook had done anything wrong  
Mr and Mrs Bs representative, on their behalf, has asked  for this complaint to be considered 
by an ombudsman. He has responded in detail and says, in summary, that there were 
blatant breaches of the Financial Conduct  Authoritys  regulations,  Mr and Mrs B were 
coerced into entering  into a regulated  credit  agreement, there have been breaches of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  and the agreement  is wrong which is proof enough  that it cant be 
a fair and reasonable document or outcome.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The purchase order shows that Mr and Mrs B ordered goods and services  which  had a cash 
price of £2,973  but that they chose to pay for them using a loan agreement  for which  they 
received a subsidy  of £477. That reduced  the price to £2,496 and they paid a deposit of 
£100 so the balance was £2,396. Their  representative says that they were coerced into the 
agreement by an unfair inducement. But Im not persuaded  that theres enough evidence to 
show that they were  offered an unfair inducement or that they were coerced into entering 
into the agreement. 
There is clearly  a discrepancy between the balance due shown on the purchase order  of 
£2,396 and the amount  of the loan shown  on the receipt from the supplier and in the loan 
agreement which is £2,369. I consider it to be likely that the discrepancy arises  from an error 
in copying the amount from the purchase  order to the loan agreement  but I note that both 
of those documents were signed  by Mr B. The amount of the loan is less than the balance 
due so Mr and Mrs B have benefitted from the error. Mr and Mrs B entered into the loan 
agreement, were supplied with the fascias and soffits and Im not persuaded that the error 
makes the agreement unenforceable. I understand that Mr and Mrs B have made the 
payments required  under  the agreement.
Ref: DRN66931472Mr and Mrs B say that the supplier provided them  with a ten year guarantee for the fascias 
and soffits but that its stopped trading so the guarantee is no longer valid which  is a breach 
of contract. I dont  consider  that the supplier stopping trading is a breach  of contract in these 
circumstances. But if Mr and Mrs B have issues with the fascias and soffits which would  
have been covered under the guarantee they may be able to claim against Shawbrook - so 
they should contact it about any such issues. 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that Shawbrook has breached  any 
applicable laws or regulations or that it has acted incorrectly in its dealings with Mr and 
Mrs B. So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require 
it to refund  to Mr and Mrs B any of the money  that theyve paid to it  or to take any other 
action in response to their complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6693147