K822xcomplaint
Mr A brings a complaint on behalf of his late mother-in-law, Mrs Ds, estate  that Lloyds Bank 
General Insurance Limited overcharged her for her home insurance policy.  
background 
Mrs D took out a home insurance policy with Lloyds  in branch in 2004. The policy  auto-
renewed every year until 2016  when Mr A noticed  Mrs D had been offered renewal by Lloyds 
at £601.43. Mr A complained to Lloyds on Mrs Ds behalf. He said she had been  paying too 
much for her home insurance over the years  and that the policy  she was paying for provided  
more cover than she needed. Mr A said that Mrs D was vulnerable and that Lloyds was 
exploiting her. Mrs D decided not to renew and took cover out with another  insurer for just 
over £100.  
Lloyds looked  into Mrs Ds complaint and said that the premiums  had been calculated 
correctly. It said that, on average, Mrs Ds premiums had increased  by 8.89% part of which 
was due to an increase  in the rates of insurance  premium tax. It said at the point of sale the 
policy included unlimited  buildings  cover and £50,000 of contents cover which was later 
changed to unlimited cover as well across  all such policies. Lloyds said it couldnt comment  
on what had been  discussed at the point of sale due to the passage  of time but it said Mrs D 
wouldve been sent a welcome pack setting out the key facts  and giving her a 14 day 
cooling off period in case she changed  her mind. Thereafter  she was sent a renewal 
invitation each  year which she didnt have to accept if she didnt think  it reflected  the cover  
and service provided. 
Unhappy with Lloyds  findings, Mr A brought  a complaint to this service  on behalf  of Mrs D. 
Our adjudicator investigated her complaint and, following her involvement, Lloyds said it 
would make Mrs D a financial  offer in order to settle her complaint. Lloyds offered to refund a 
portion of the premiums Mrs D had paid together with compensation for some time she didnt 
have the money  and compensation of £100 for any trouble and upset caused.  All in all 
Lloyds said it would  pay Mrs D a total of £1,123.01. Our adjudicator initially thought Lloyds 
offer was fair but Mr A replied to say he thought  it was inadequate. 
Mr A said Mrs D had endured financial hardship  and had gone  without in her later years so 
he thought compensation of £100  didnt reflect the distress shed suffered. He said she was 
a vulnerable pensioner and that the premiums she was charged caused  her financial 
distress. Mr A said Mrs D had taken out loans to help with her financial hardship and he sent 
a copy of her will to our adjudicator which showed  that was the case. He thought that £1,000  
was a fairer amount. He also thought that Lloyds should refund a greater proportion of the 
premiums Mrs D had paid over the years. All in all he thought  Lloyds should pay total 
compensation to Mrs D of £2,874.
In light of the additional evidence put forward by Mr A, our adjudicator asked  Lloyds to 
increase its offer of compensation for trouble and upset caused to Mrs D to £250 from the 
£100 originally  offered.  She also told Mr A that shed asked Lloyds to increase  the amount 
itd offered. 
Lloyds didnt reply  to our adjudicators proposal  so the complaint has passed  to me for a 
decision.
Ref: DRN60519102my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not for me to tell Lloyds what price it needed  to charge Mrs D for her home insurance. 
Thats for it to decide, based in part on the risk of Mrs D needing  to make a claim and its 
wider commercial requirements. These will include the cost of it selling the policy  in branch.  
But I can intervene if I think Lloyds  treated Mrs D unfairly in the way its priced  her policy.  
Following our adjudicators investigation  of the complaint, Lloyds offered to pay Mrs D 
£1,123.01. This amount was made up of a partial  refund of her premiums  from 2008, some 
compensation for the time she didnt have the money and £100 compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused.
I know that Mr A says Mrs D couldve made  a saving throughout the life of the policy and that 
Lloyds offer should be based on a refund of a portion of the premiums  from the time the 
policy started. But its difficult to work out what saving a consumer  wouldve  made  over the 
years. Just because a consumer has recently identified a much cheaper policy, doesnt 
mean thats the price they wouldve  paid over the intervening period. Insurers  are entitled to 
reassess the risks they are presented with at renewal  and set the price  accordingly. And Mrs 
D mustve accepted the policy   at the price offered  when she first took it out. 
Mrs D had the benefit of cover for her home  from Lloyds, and I note that she did make a 
claim. When a consumer makes a claim,  it typically affects the premium at the next renewal. 
Thats because the fact a claim has been made  affects the insurers  perception  of the risk it 
is being asked  to take on. And the greater the risk the more the insurer  will usually charge 
for it. Of course  insurance is there  to provide cover for unforeseen events but when claims 
are made, insurers are entitled to take them  into account when  deciding  what price  to charge 
for cover at the next renewal. Thats not something this service  would normally  interfere with. 
In deciding what fair compensation should  be, Ive taken into account the premium  history 
and Mrs Ds personal circumstances.  Since  this complaint was passed to me Im pleased to 
note that Lloyds agreed to our adjudicators suggestion to increase the element of 
compensation for trouble  and upset caused  to £250 from the £100 it originally offered. Ive 
thought about Mrs Ds circumstances  particularly  her financial hardship and the upset that 
caused her  and think that compensation of £250  more fairly reflects  the upset  she was 
caused during  her lifetime. 
Part of Mrs Ds complaint is that she was mis-sold her policy.  And that it provided  her with 
cover she didnt need at a cost she didnt need to pay. Unfortunately, due to the passage  of 
time since the sale was made, theres  insufficient information available for me to say that this 
was the case.  
Mr A said Mrs D was paying for cover  she didnt need  such  as for contents in a garage or 
outbuildings, office contents and equipment cover and valuable goods  cover.  But these 
covers were  provided as part of the overall  product rather than policy add-ons; they were a 
standard part of the policy  that attracted no additional premium. Any policy  that is tailored to 
a consumers specific needs can sometimes significantly increase the price. Typically  there  
is a more in-depth application process  and sometimes a home visit from the insurer. All of 
which could significantly add to the cost. If Mrs D had been  asked  to pay extra for add-ons 
Ref: DRN60519103she didnt need,  then I would likely say that shed been treated unfairly. But she wasnt. So I 
dont think Lloyds has done anything wrong. 
Mr A has said he thinks Mrs D was exploited by Lloyds  because she was older and 
vulnerable. Hes said that he hopes this service can look into the way Lloyds was selling 
insurance as maybe other vulnerable people had been targeted too. What  this service looks  
at is individual  consumers complaints.  But where our decisions find wrongdoing on the part 
of a business, it is generally required  to learn  from that and amend its conduct accordingly.  
Generic complaints  about insurance  practices need  to be directed to the industry regulator, 
the Financial Conduct Authority. Although  Mr A should rest assured that his concerns on 
behalf of his late mother-in-law are being looked at more generally by the regulator in light of 
the increased number  of similar complaints that this service  has received against various 
members of the industry, a lot of which  are from vulnerable customers.  
I appreciate that the amount Lloyds has offered may not be as much  as Mr A hoped for. But, 
when considering complaints about insurance pricing, calculating compensation isnt an 
exact science.  Thats  because theres  no set price that insurers charge for cover and its very 
difficult to determine  what saving a customer may have  made  and what its fair for a 
business to have charged. But Ive looked carefully at Mrs Ds case  and, when deciding  what  
fair compensation should be, Ive thought about  her premium history, personal 
circumstances and our approach to these types  of cases more generally. Having done so, I 
think that the increased compensation offered  by Lloyds  of £250 (up from £100)  added to the 
portion of premiums  Lloyds has offered  to refund (plus interest)  is fair taking into account the 
particular circumstances  involved.
Finally, as a little time has now passed since Lloyds made its offer to settle Mrs Ds 
complaint, the portion of it that relates  to compensation for the time Mrs T has been without 
the money (in other  words, interest  at this services usual rate of 8% simple per year)  will 
need to be updated to reflect the further  passage  of time. 
my final decision
Lloyds has already made an offer to resolve  this complaint, which  now includes an increased  
amount of £250  for trouble and upset  caused. I think this is fair in all the circumstances. 
So my decision is that I uphold this complaint and that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance  
Services Limited should pay Mrs D £1,273.01  in settlement of her complaint together with 
the additional interest that has accrued on the premium refund element of the offer at this 
services usual rate of 8% simple a year from the date it made the offer to the date it pays  
Mrs D. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6051910