K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Bank of Scotland  plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy  in 1998 alongside a loan.
background
Mr N took out a loan for £1000 for a period of 24 months. At the same time he took out a 
single premium PPI policy. The policy cost £110.46  and cost of the premium was added  to 
the loan. It would have covered Mr N if he couldnt work because of an accident  or sickness 
for the term of the loan, or if he lost his job for up to 12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr N disagreed  with this view.  
He says he doesnt remember being  asked  if he wanted the PPI during his application  for his 
loan and it wasnt explained to him. If it had been he would have declined it. He asked that 
his complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ns case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Although  I appreciate Mr N will be disappointed with 
my decision  I will explain why.
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr N had an option  about taking the policy out and 
if he knew it was being added. Mr N says he doesnt remember being asked about whether 
he wanted it. Thats understandable as he took the policy out nearly 21 years ago.
Halifax cant provide  the actual  agreement  Mr N completed when he applied  for his loan and 
the PPI. Thats not unusual  as businesses arent  required  to keep records indefinitely.  But it 
has sent me examples of the type of form that would have been used. And I think these  
forms represented what he would  have likely  seen  at the time. I can see that Mr N would 
have had to choose to take out the PPI on his application by signing a box to say he wanted 
it. If he didnt want  it he could have  declined it. And I think the costs of the PPI would have 
been set out separately to the loan amount on the loan agreement.  So I think he likely would 
have read the form before  signing it and understood that he was taking out the cover  
knowing he could refuse it if he didnt want it.
I think Halifax recommended the policy. That meant it had to make  sure it was right for 
Mr Ns circumstances. It also had to give Mr N enough clear  information so he could decide 
for himself whether or not to take it out.
Looking at Mr Ns circumstances I think it was right for him. I say this because he was 
eligible for the policy and wouldnt have been  affected by any of the main things the policy  
didnt cover such as an unusual employment  situation or a medical condition which he 
already knew about.
Mr N says he didnt need the PPI as he was entitled  to sick pay from his employer  and had 
some savings. He says he would have received six months full sick pay followed by six 
Ref: DRN62602022months half sick pay. But this policy would have  covered him if he couldnt work because  he 
had an accident  or he was off sick for the full term of the loan  so for longer than his sick 
pay would  have lasted  and in addition to any he did get. And if he lost his job it would have 
also covered him for potentially longer than his full sick pay from work and meant  he could 
have used any savings  or redundancy  pay for other essential living costs. So I still think he 
might have found it useful  if things  went  wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think the policy was unaffordable.
Although this policy wouldnt have offered a proportional refund if he cancelled  the policy 
before the end of the term of the loan, I cant see that he would have intended to pay back 
his loan early when he took it out.
Halifax also had to give Mr N enough clear information so he could decide for himself 
whether or not he wanted the cover. I think the application form he likely completed would 
have set out the costs separately. Its possible that not all the information was as clear as it 
could have been. But as I have found he likely  chose the cover  and for much the same 
reasons as I have found it was suitable for Mr N, I still think he would have chosen the policy  
even if hed had clearer or better information.  
Overall, I dont  think Mr N lost out because of anything  Halifax  did wrong  and I dont uphold  
this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6260202