K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Yorkshire  Building  Society mis-sold them payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
In 2001 Mr and Mrs M took out PPI when they arranged their mortgage. The policy  covered 
Mr M in the event of accident, sickness and unemployment. 
When Mr and Mrs M took out further  borrowing on their mortgage account later on, each 
time they also made amendments to the PPI they had set up. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr and Mrs M disagree.  
Their main complaint  is that they were  never  given  the option to decline the policy. They  told 
us Mr M was in a secure job role and they had sufficient income to cover their repayments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why I say this. 
Mr and Mrs M took out their mortgage in one of the building societys  branches. I dont know  
exactly what they were told about PPI during  their meeting. It wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Mr and Mrs M to recall exactly what was discussed at the time as this was so long 
ago. So what they say isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint  
about how they were  sold this PPI. I have to look at all the available information and decide 
what I think is most likely.  
I cant see anything mentioned on their mortgage application that wouldve made  them think 
that having PPI wasnt  optional.  
And they completed  a separate PPI application  to have the cover for Mr M. They  filled in 
details of the mortgage and the amount of benefit  required. They  also selected the type of 
cover they wanted  from a range of possible options  and the excess period. Both 
Mr and Mrs M signed the completed form.
Their mortgage  offer said: Mr M has chosen  to take out mortgage payment insurance  
(this is what  Yorkshire Building  Society  called its PPI). 
Taking all this into account, I find that Yorkshire Building Society made Mr and Mrs M aware  
that having PPI was optional. Although its understandable  if theyve  forgotten this now,  
I think at the time its likely that Mr and Mrs M understood it was up to them  to apply for 
cover for Mr M. And they wanted to have the benefits that PPI offered. 
Yorkshire Building Society says it didnt advise Mr and Mrs M to have the policy. But it still 
had to make  sure that they had enough information  to make a proper decision about  whether 
PPI was right for them. 
Ref: DRN61817462I can see why Mr and Mrs M mightve wanted  to have  PPI and how it couldve been  useful to 
them in their particular  situation. 
When they opted for cover for Mr M only he was in paid work. So I think its likely that 
Mr and Mrs M mightve found it difficult to keep  up their mortgage monthly  repayments  in the 
long term if Mr M wasnt working. 
Mr M told us that he was entitled to 6 months  full sick pay from his employer. But I think  he 
still couldve  benefitted from having the PPI. 
At the start Mr M had accident,  sickness and unemployment cover.  So each time he made  a 
successful accident  or sickness claim the policy wouldve paid out in addition  to any 
employment benefits for the benefit  period  Mr M selected. This couldve been useful at 
whats likely to have been a difficult time if Mr M mightve had additional costs as a result  of 
illness or disability.  
No job can be guaranteed  to be secure indefinitely. PPI wouldve also covered him if he lost 
his job unexpectedly and he was unemployed. 
Repeat claims were possible under the policy giving Mr and Mrs M long term cover for their 
mortgage. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs M had some savings at the time. But I dont  know if 
they wouldve always had savings to rely on if Mr M wasnt working. And the policy paid out 
for longer than its likely  the amount of savings theyve mentioned would've lasted if theyd 
had to rely on these  to cover outgoings  when  he was unable  to work.
Looking at all the information Ive seen  I think its fair to say that Mr and Mrs M couldve 
benefitted from having PPI that covered their mortgage monthly  repayments  alongside any 
other means. Their  mortgage was a big financial commitment and having PPI in place  
provided dependable protection for their home. I think this couldve been  an important 
consideration for Mr and Mrs M at the time.  
I dont know how much information Mr and Mrs M were given about the policy  exclusions 
and limitations. But I can see that Mr M was eligible  for the policy. And based on what 
theyve told us, he wasnt affected by any of the main things not covered under the policy.  So 
I dont think more information about  things  that didnt affect him wouldve made  any 
difference to Mr and Mrs Ms decision to take out PPI.
The PPI was free for the first six months. Yorkshire Building Society wrote to Mr and Mrs M 
when their mortgage was set up confirming what the payment arrangements for PPI would 
be. So Mr and Mrs M wouldve seen  what theyd have to pay to keep it running when they 
had to pay for the policy monthly. They couldve cancelled the PPI at any time without 
incurring any extra cost if they decided they didnt want to pay to keep it running. 
Its possible there mightve been  some failings in the way this policy  was sold.  But this isnt a 
reason for me to uphold  this complaint. I think Mr and Mrs M still wouldve decided  to buy the 
policy for Mr M even if theyd been better  informed as the policy  gave them useful protection. 
Ref: DRN61817463In November 2001 Mr and Mrs M completed  an additional loan application to borrow more 
money to pay for home improvements. Around the same time they also filled in a separate 
PPI application.  They applied to have some  extra  monthly benefit and to reduce  the level of 
cover theyd taken out for Mr M to unemployment  only. 
Looking at the paperwork they completed, it appears that they wanted  PPI to cover  their 
increased borrowing   but I think they mightve  reduced the level of cover  to keep the 
insurance costs down. As far as I can see their circumstances  were  broadly the same.  The 
policy gave Mr and Mrs M the long term protection they already had set up for their original  
mortgage. 
Mr M continued to be able to take advantage of the benefits the policy offered in the event 
he became unexpectedly  unemployed.  So I dont  find this PPI was mis-sold to them. 
Mr and Mrs M took out a further advance in September 2002. Ive seen the application they 
filled out to buy some additional  PPI to cover their extra borrowing. And they did the same 
thing again in July 2003 when they increased the amount of monthly benefit the policy  would 
pay out each month  to protect their bigger  mortgage  monthly  repayments  following another  
loan application.
Looking at the paperwork they signed  to increase their cover  each time, I think its more  
likely that Mr and Mrs M agreed the extra cost as they wanted the PPI benefits to cover all 
the borrowing  on their mortgage account. And I can understand  why. As far as I can see 
their circumstances were broadly the same  whilst  they were increasing their mortgage 
borrowing. The additional  PPI gave  Mr and Mrs M the security  and peace of mind  that their 
mortgage monthly repayments were protected if Mr M lost his job. 
So, I can see why Mr and Mrs M mightve  felt PPI was useful. 
Taking all their circumstances into account, and looking  at the benefits the PPI offered them, 
even if there  were failings  in the way Yorkshire Building Society sold PPI to Mr and Mrs M, 
I think its unlikely that better information wouldve put them  off having it. 
So I dont  find theyve  lost out as a result of anything that Yorkshire Building Society mightve 
done wrong when it sold them PPI. And theres  nothing it needs to do to put things right. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6181746