K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Nationwide Building  Society  has refused to refund four transactions 
she made on her debit card for two photography  and modelling contracts. 
background
Mrs M entered into two modelling and photography  contracts for her daughter with suppliers 
Ill call J and K in 2016.  She used her Nationwide  debit card to pay J £50 in April 2016, and 
to pay them  £262.50  and £250  in May 2016. Mrs M also used her card to pay K £550 in May 
2016. All of these  payments were  made  for the goods and services to be provided under J 
and Ks respective contracts with her. 
 
In July 2016, Mrs M contacted M and K asking for a refund  of the payments shed made. 
She said she was unhappy with the quality of the photos both had provided, and her 
daughter wasnt given the modelling contracts  she was promised  by either supplier. She also 
explained that she thought shed been the victim of a scam. She then sent letters  to J and K 
later the same month  as she hadnt heard  back from either of them.  In these letters,  Mrs M 
reaffirmed how dissatisfied she was with the products J and K had sold her and that neither 
of them  had met the conditions of the contracts. 
Mrs M then contacted Nationwide to ask for a refund. She says she told Nationwide  about 
the poor quality  of the photos  and that the full packages hadnt been delivered  which  
included a guarantee that her daughter would be given modelling contracts. She reiterated 
her concerns  about being the victim of a scam.  
Nationwide wrote back to Mrs M saying they werent  able to help her as the card scheme 
chargeback rules didnt  cover Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act so they couldnt  get 
involved in complaints about quality  of goods  or services. 
Mrs M contacted Nationwide again as she wasnt happy. Nationwide didnt reply so she 
contacted them again in September  2016.  Nationwide said they werent able to proceed with 
the disputes as this had been raised  more than 120 days since  the transaction dates. 
Mrs M then called Nationwide  the following month as she remained unhappy with 
Nationwides position. And she wrote  to Nationwide again highlighting that her account  with 
them had now gone overdrawn  because  Nationwide wouldnt refund the money that had 
been paid to J and K. 
I sent Mrs M and Nationwide my provisional  decision on 11 February  2020.  I explained  why 
I thought the complaint should  be upheld. An extract of my provisional findings are below:
Mrs M contacted Nationwide in July 2016  and explained to them  that the goods and services 
to be supplied under  the contracts with J and K hadnt  been  provided. She said neither 
supplier had given  her what they had promised. As Mrs M paid for these goods and services 
with her debit card,  and wanted  the amounts refunded, Ive thought about whether 
Nationwides response to her request was fair. 
I think the chargeback  process is relevant here.  A chargeback is the process by which  
payment settlement disputes are resolved  between  card issuers and merchants, under the 
relevant card scheme  rules. What this means here is that Nationwide can in some 
circumstances ask for a transaction  Mrs M made  to be refunded. One of those 
Ref: DRN61523172circumstances is where  theres  a problem with the goods or services supplied  by the 
merchants Mrs M paid.
A chargeback isnt guaranteed to result  in a refund. First there  needs  to be a right to a 
chargeback under the card scheme  rules. And any chargeback can be defended by the 
merchant if it doesnt  agree.  If a chargeback is defended, the card issuer  can ask the card 
scheme provider to decide whether  a refund  should be given.  
There is no strict obligation for a card issuer to raise a chargeback when a consumer asks 
for one. But I would consider it good practice  for a chargeback to be attempted  where the 
right exists and there is some prospect of success. So Ive had this in mind  when thinking 
about whats fair and reasonable in this case.  
Nationwide have given  several reasons why chargebacks werent or shouldnt have been 
raised. But having thought  about  everything  theyve said and the card scheme rules 
applicable at the time,  I think Nationwide could and should have raised chargebacks.  Ill 
explain why.
Nationwide says Mrs Ms dispute was about the quality of the services she received. In other 
words, she was unhappy with the quality of the photographs. While  that did form part of her 
complaint about  both J and K, its clear  she raised other concerns too. Specifically, this was 
that guarantees about work and modelling  contracts hadnt materialised and it appears she 
was concerned J and K were both operating  a scam. So it seems some  of the services she 
paid for werent  received or as described.
According to the card scheme rules,  Nationwide could have raised chargebacks  under the 
reason code goods or services not as described or goods or services  not received. In 
some of its correspondence with our service Nationwide  appears  to have also accepted it 
could have raised chargebacks for this reason. But it says it didnt do so because  Mrs M had 
only said she was unhappy  with the quality  of the photographs.
Ive reviewed Nationwides  contact notes and I dont  agree. Although its not clear exactly  
how Mrs M explained her concerns, the notes say that Mrs M said she was unhappy  
because the full package  of the product was not delivered. Further,  Nationwides notes say 
Mrs M is distraught, feels like she was miss-sold and that she told them  her daughter  was 
offered a contract  for modelling at the end of the whole  ordeal.  There  are also references to 
Mrs M talking about the transactions being fraud. So I think Nationwide was aware of the 
full extent of Mrs Ms concerns when she first raised her disputes  about J and K. 
Nationwide says they werent  given any evidence about what  was meant to be received 
under the terms  of both contracts  from J and K. This means that any chargebacks would  
have been too weak anyway and would have likely failed. But what Mrs M said is evidence. 
And if Nationwide thought  they needed  more  or different evidence, they should have asked 
her for it  but they didnt.  Instead it repeatedly told her she had no right to a chargeback  
either because it wasnt  covered or that she was out of time. 
It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mrs M to know what  she should have to provide for 
Nationwide to process a chargeback. And in any event, Nationwide repeatedly told her one 
couldnt be raised. I think the onus was on Nationwide to tell Mrs M what it needed.  But it 
appears it didnt do this because it had already dismissed the idea of chargebacks being 
raised. 
Ref: DRN61523173Mrs M doesnt  have a copy of the relevant contracts  anymore due to how much time has 
passed. But I think its likely she would have had these  to hand when she contacted  
Nationwide in 2016. In the absence of the written contracts, Ive thought carefully about 
everything Mrs M has told us about  what happened, the other available  evidence  and wider 
circumstances at the time. 
Mrs M has been consistent in her testimony throughout that her daughter  was promised 
modelling contracts from both J and K and that she didnt receive other  goods  and services  
under the contracts, namely portfolios and additional photo shoots. She set this out in her 
initial communications with Nationwide and Ive seen copies of complaint letters Mrs M sent 
to both suppliers which  also raise the same concerns. 
In these letters Mrs M says shes not satisfied  with the products that have been offered but 
that both suppliers havent  kept  to the conditions of sale. Mrs M has explained these 
conditions of sale were  the modelling  contracts  she says she was promised. Mrs M also 
reported what had happened to Action Fraud and appears she mentioned fraud  to 
Nationwide too. This shows her strength  of feeling about what she says the supplier 
promised and failed  to provide. I also think its likely  Mrs M imparted that same  strength of 
feeling in her discussions with Nationwide when  she told it she had been the victim of a 
scam. 
I think Mrs M made it clear she felt she had been  scammed. So Nationwide didnt do what I 
would have expected them to do. That was to ask Mrs M to provide further  evidence  to help 
support her verbal evidence shed given them. I dont agree with Nationwide that the 
evidence (or potential available  evidence)  would have been  too weak to present for a 
chargeback. This is because it didnt ask her for the relevant evidence at the time  which  it 
should have done. And I think she had already given strong verbal  testimony that she may 
have been scammed.
Overall, Im persuaded Mrs M could have likely provided Nationwide with sufficient  evidence  
(such as copies of the contracts) for them to have raised the chargebacks. Im also satisfied 
that a chargeback right existed for the transactions Mrs M was disputing  and that she had 
raised her concerns  in the required  timeframe. 
So I think that Nationwide deprived Mrs M the potential opportunity of getting her money  
back. I accept its possible  that J and/or K might have defended the chargebacks, and it isnt 
Nationwides role to decide the underlying  dispute. Based on the copies of complaint letters  
to J and K that Mrs M has provided  to us, neither J nor K appears to have replied to her 
despite her contacting them on more  than one occasion. Nationwide  also hasnt provided 
any persuasive evidence  to make me think the chargeback would likely have failed. Taking  
this into account  and Mrs Ms compelling  testimony  and both suppliers lack of response,  
I think there was a reasonable chance of success had chargebacks been attempted  and 
I think its more likely than not she would have received her money back. 
Having taken everything into account, I think Nationwide didnt act fairly. This is because  
they could and should have raised  the chargebacks when  Mrs M first contacted  them about 
her disputes.  And, had they done so, I think Mrs M would have stood a more  than likely 
chance of having her money refunded. Not only that, because  Mrs M made an allegation of 
being a victim of a scam,  raising chargebacks could have potentially  alerted the card 
scheme to a more widespread issue. 
Ref: DRN61523174This leaves  me to decide  what a fair resolution would be. I think Nationwide  should refund 
the four payments  that were paid to J and K in 2016.  And pay 8% simple interest per year on 
these amounts from the date they were  paid to the date of settlement as Mrs M was 
deprived of the use of these monies. 
Mrs M has said that she went overdrawn  on her Nationwide  account because the four 
payments werent  refunded. She first raised  the dispute with Nationwide  in July 2016, so that 
is the earliest opportunity for her to have received a refund. But her account didnt go 
overdrawn until December 2016.  This was due to a cash  withdrawal she made. 
It could be argued that the payments that could have been refunded by chargeback  didnt 
affect Mrs M going overdrawn because other transactions made by her meant she would 
always go overdrawn. But having said that, I think had the payments  to J and K been 
refunded, Mrs M would not have gone overdrawn in December 2016 bearing  in mind these 
payments comfortably exceeded the amount Mrs M went overdrawn  by. So I think  
Nationwide should  refund any overdraft  charges  it applied  from the point that Mrs M notified  
it about the dispute in July 2016.
Mrs M says that she shouldnt have to pay the £10 account fees that Nationwide has applied 
each month. This is because she says she asked to close the account but was told if she did 
shed be unable to make a claim about her payments to J and K. Having thought  carefully 
about this, I dont think it would be fair to ask Nationwide to refund those account fees. 
This is because Nationwide made it clear to her early on and on numerous occasions  that it 
wouldnt be processing her claim.  So I think Mrs M could have closed  the account prior to 
December 2016  (when she went overdrawn) as she was aware Nationwide werent 
processing her claim anyway. Prior to December 2016, I can see she was actively using  her 
account, so for this reason  I dont think it would be fair to recommend her account fees are 
refunded between July 2016  and December 2016.  This is because shes had some benefit 
by using the account. 
It seems  Mrs M stopped using  the account  after the cash withdrawal in December 2016. The 
account was £213.28 overdrawn.  Apart  from one small transaction  a few months later, the 
rest of the balance  increased due to overdraft charges and her monthly £10 account fee. 
The debt rose to £444.46  before Nationwide defaulted the account in July 2017. 
Although I think Mrs M could have done  more to avoid the account accruing further debt and 
going into default, I think Nationwide should remove  any adverse information  recorded on 
Mrs Ms credit file as a result  of her being overdrawn since December 2016  including the 
default. This is because  had the payments to J and K been refunded, her account would 
never have  likely gone overdrawn in the first place. 
Finally, Im satisfied that Nationwides failure to act fairly caused Mrs M a great deal of stress 
and caused her to spend a lot of time contacting Nationwide. It also incorrectly  told her a 
chargeback couldnt be raised and that she was out of time. I realise Mrs M could have 
helped her situation after December 2016  by making repayments towards the overdrawn 
balance which may have avoided collections activity. But Ive also considered that the 
situation only arose due to Nationwides repeated  failure  to respond appropriately to her 
reasonable chargeback requests. And the way it dealt with her concerns I dont think  was 
helpful or fair. 
Ref: DRN61523175I note that Nationwide told us they wanted to offer Mrs M £50 because  they didnt handle  her 
complaint properly when she tried to contact them in April 2017. However, Mrs M was 
caused further distress  by Nationwides overall handling of the situation. Taking into account 
all the circumstances,  I think  a payment of £150  to Mrs M is fair and reasonable.
Mrs M accepted my provisional decision but Nationwide  didnt. In summary, it said:
It accepted it should  have  asked  for a copy of the contract  when Mrs M first raised  
her concerns. It also accepted that £150  compensation for any distress  and 
inconvenience caused was fair. 
Mrs M accepts she received photos from both J and K but was unhappy with the 
quality of them. Quality of goods was not a valid dispute  Nationwide  could have 
raised at the time under the relevant chargeback rules. Therefore Nationwide  could 
only be held responsible for the portion of the contract that wasnt  delivered  the 
modelling opportunity.  
It wouldnt be fair to refund interest and charges  on the account from July 2016 
because Mrs M could  have closed the account  or attempted  to maintain  a zero or 
positive balance. As Mrs M appeared to just be living off her savings, it seems  she 
would have gone overdrawn in the near future anyway.  Mrs M went overdrawn 
because she didnt  manage her finances  appropriately. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. However, Ill 
address the additional points Nationwide has raised. 
Nationwide says a portion  of Mrs Ms contract  was provided to her when she received  the 
photos. It therefore considers that, at best,  Mrs M should only receive  a partial  refund 
accounting for what she did receive. It also says it wasnt  able to dispute the quality of the 
photos via the chargeback process.  But I think Nationwide has missed the crux of the issue  
here. 
While Mrs M has said she wasnt happy with the quality of the photos, it appears shes  said 
this to demonstrate  her overall belief that she was a victim of a scam. It seems clear  that 
what induced Mrs M into the contracts  with the two suppliers werent  just the photos   it was 
the opportunity  to have a modelling contract with guaranteed work. The photos  were simply 
one element of signing  up to the services.  
If I consider  what was promised as part of each contract overall,  its clear  the services  
werent as described  or received. While Mrs M did receive some  goods, she has provided 
evidence to show she sent the photos  back to both J and K when she initially requested her 
money back. It seems  that the relevant  chargeback rules would require her to attempt to 
return any goods back to the supplier first in any event. And just because  she received some  
goods or services  that doesnt automatically mean she couldnt  or shouldnt receive a full 
refund. As she had returned the photos, I think its still fair and reasonable that Nationwide 
ought to have attempted to chargeback the full amounts she paid out to both J and K. 
Otherwise she would be left in an unfair position, having paid for something she was no 
longer in possession of. For the reasons I set out in my provisional  decision, I still think 
(despite her initially having received  the photos) its more likely  than not she would have 
been successful  in getting all of her money  back. 
Ref: DRN61523176Mrs M says Nationwide told her she needed  to keep her account open in order for her to 
receive a refund from the chargeback. While its not clear if that is what Nationwide told her, 
it appears from Mrs Ms actions that this is what she believed to be true. It seems  she did 
stop crediting  money into the account and gradually spent her available funds over the 
course of several  months. But as soon as the account went overdrawn she stopped  using 
the account almost  entirely (except  for one transaction). The rest of the overdrawn balance 
was made  up of interest and charges on the account. 
Mrs M says she continued her regular banking elsewhere at this time. And this seems likely 
given there  was no spending  on the Nationwide account. I think  had Nationwide  robustly 
pursued the chargeback as it should and Mrs M received her money back,  I dont believe 
she would  have gone overdrawn. Thats because it doesnt appear she was relying on the 
Nationwide account  to manage  her day to day expenses. 
I accept Mrs M could  have done  more  to mitigate her loss by crediting the account rather  
than allowing it to go overdrawn. But taking into account all the circumstances in this specific 
case, I think it would be unfair for Mrs M to have  to now repay those interest  and charges 
(except for the £10 monthly account  fees) and to have adverse information  on her credit  file. 
This is because had everything  gone as it should  I dont believe  she would have been in that 
position, as the payments she made to J and K comfortably exceeded the overdrawn  
balance.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Nationwide  Building  Society  
to:
Refund the four payments Mrs M made  to J and K in 2016;
Add 8% simple interest per year on these refunds, from the date of each payment to 
the date of settlement;
Refund any overdraft  charges  and interest  Mrs M incurred on her account  with 
Nationwide for any overdrawn balance from July 2016 onwards. 
Remove any negative  information Nationwide recorded on Mrs Ms credit file as a 
result of her being overdrawn  from any point  after July 2016; and
Pay Mrs M £150 for the distress and inconvenience Nationwides actions have 
caused her.
If Nationwide  considers tax should be deducted  from the interest part of my award,  it should  
provide Mrs M with a certificate showing how much tax its taken off, so she can reclaim that 
amount, assuming she is eligible  to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6152317