K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Santander UK Plc didnt pursue a chargeback  request  for him.
background
Mr A drove a black  cab in London. He has told us that he made debit card payments from 
his Santander  account to the licensing authority between 2012 and 2015 to pay for his 
licence. He now considers that this contract  was fraudulent, because the licensing authority 
also granted a private hire operators  licence to a ride sharing firm so that it could operate  in 
London during that time. Mr A has raised a detailed legal argument,  which  he says shows 
that a private  hire operators licence should  not have  been granted  to this ride sharing firm. 
And he asserts that, in turn, undermines the contract  he entered  into for a taxi licence. He 
said that contract was based on a lie, by the licencing authority, that the ride sharing firm 
was operating lawfully. So he wanted Santander  to get back the money he had paid.
Santander wouldnt process Mr As chargeback request. It said he was simply out of time to 
bring a chargeback request. And it told him that he had made a payment to the licensing 
authority, but now disputed the legitimacy of the contract, so it wouldnt raise this complaint 
as fraud.  It said the chargeback rules  class this as a technical dispute, not fraud. He would 
need to contact the authority or its regulators if he disputed the contract he entered  into.
Mr A said that he thought  it was part of the banking code  that Santander should have to 
reverse transactions when fraud was committed.  He said this wasnt any different to a 
person stealing  his card and using it without  authorisation. But our adjudicator  said that we 
couldnt look at what the licensing authority had done, to decide whether that was fraud. We 
could only look at what Santander had done,  in refusing Mr As chargeback request. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Santander had told Mr A that his 
transactions with the licensing authority wouldnt be treated as fraud,  because  hed accepted  
that he made those  payments. And he was out of time to bring a chargeback complaint. Our 
adjudicator said that hed checked what Santander  had said about the time limits, and it was 
just too late now to make a chargeback  request for these transactions. 
Mr A didnt agree with that. He said that the evidence  didnt come to light until the end of 
June 2018, so he thought  that it wasnt fair for Santander or us to expect a chargeback to 
have been made already. He also said it wasnt fair that the merchant  (which  was the 
licensing authority) could  get away with fraud if it could lie and deceive the consumer for 540 
days, so a chargeback would be out of time.  
He wanted to know if there was still a time limit on fraudulent transactions  if the account  
holder was unaware, and couldnt prove at the time of purchase, that it was a fraudulent 
transaction. He said that the bank  must  take responsibility for this transaction, as it has a 
duty of care to its customers  to ensure that merchants dont lie or mislead  consumers into 
making and taking a financial decision which is fraudulent and a scam.  And he sent us a 
long document  containing  email correspondence, which  raised a number of questions about 
the lawfulness of the ride sharing firms operations in the UK. 
Mr A said he was asking us to make  a decision on whether the transactions  between  himself 
and the licensing authority  were  fraudulent or not. He said that he was tricked into making 
those payments. And he said that if that transaction was fraudulent, he would expect 
Santander to pay the money back. 
Ref: DRN65081382Our adjudicator said that Mr A cant set the questions that we have to answer. Its for our 
service to decide whats relevant in a complaint. We dont allow either the consumer or the 
financial business to direct the way in which we conduct our investigations. Doing that would 
compromise our impartiality and independence. 
Mr A said that wed asked if he had any questions, and then when hed raised  further 
question, wed refused  to answer  them. He wanted  his case to be passed  to an ombudsman  
for consideration, so the case came  to me for a final decision.
Mr A continued to send  us information  which he said showed that the ride sharing firm was 
still operating unlawfully.  He said he shouldve been one taxi driver out of 25,000, but had 
ended up competing  with 70,000 other  drivers.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusions  
as our adjudicator  on this complaint, and for broadly the same reasons.
Id like to start by saying  that I appreciate how very strongly Mr A feels about  this complaint, 
and the actions of the licensing authority. But those  actions are only tangentially related to 
this complaint. I have  to assess what Santander  has done, and seek  to provide a fair and 
reasonable outcome to the complaint that Mr A makes about Santanders actions. I cant 
provide for changes  at the licensing authority. Thats not part of our role here.  Nor can I hold 
Santander responsible for what the licensing authority may have done. 
There are two issues in Mr As complaint against  Santander. One is whether he can make a 
chargeback request for the transactions he made  between  2012 and 2015, to pay the 
licensing authority  for his black cab licence. The answer to that is, unfortunately for Mr A, 
very straightforward. Its just too late now for him to do that. 
I know that Mr A says that he couldnt have known  within the relevant deadline that the 
contract hed entered into was fraudulent. But even if I were to agree with Mr A that the 
contract were fraudulent, and also agree that there was no way Mr A couldve known that, 
that still wouldnt make any difference. The longest time after a transaction is entered  into 
that a chargeback request  can be raised  is 540 days. Theres  no scope to extend  this time 
just because Mr A didnt realise earlier that something was wrong. And these rules  arent  set 
by Santander   they are made  by the card scheme  provider whose symbol  is on Mr As card.  
Santander has no control over them, and no discretion to let Mr As request go ahead. 
For those reasons, Im satisfied that Santander didnt do anything wrong when it turned 
down Mr As chargeback  request. 
The second  issue  is whether Mr As transactions should be refunded, because they were  
fraudulent. He says that he wants us to make  a decision  on whether the transactions were  
fraudulent, because he thinks if they were, then Santander has various duties to protect him 
from fraud, and that it should also return the money that he has paid. 
Its not my role here to reach a view on whether  the licensing authority has acted in a 
fraudulent manner. I can only assess the information that Mr A has provided to Santander,  
and see whether it has responded fairly and reasonably to that.
Ref: DRN65081383Mr A has said that what happened  to him is just the same as someone stealing his card and 
using it without his authority.  So he thinks Santander  should give his money  back, in the 
same way as it would if someone had stolen his card. I just dont agree with Mr A that this is 
a fair comparison. I think there are a number of problems with the argument hes making.  
Perhaps the clearest example is that if Mr A didnt  tell Santander  for several  years  that his 
card had been stolen and money taken as a result, then it wouldnt pay the money back for 
that either.  
The terms and conditions  of Mr As account  from the time set out that if Mr A wants 
Santander to refund any disputed payments to his account, then he has to tell it about those 
problems within 13 months  of the date of the transaction. If he doesnt do that, for whatever 
reason, he wont get his money back.  
I dont think its unfair  for Santander to have a 13 month deadline for reporting problems with 
a transaction.  And I dont think its unfair for it to say that it wont  pay if the problem isnt 
reported during  this time. I still think thats true, even if Mr A didnt realise in this time that 
there was a problem.
Thats not quite  what Santander said to Mr A though. It didnt rely on this time limit. Instead, 
it said that it wouldnt treat this as fraud.  So Ive looked that that argument too. And I note 
that in this case, Mr A is making  a very complex allegation. He says that the licensing 
authority lied, and that this in turn makes his contract fraudulent.  I know  that Mr A very firmly  
believes that. But, in addition to its rules about time limits, I dont think its unreasonable for 
Santander to say that fraud hasnt actually  been proven yet in this case. This isnt as clear-
cut a case as someone having their card stolen.  So I think its reasonable for Santander to 
say that it cant make  the same assumptions that it would in case  where  card has been  
stolen. And that means that I dont think its wrong for Santander to decide, because  fraud 
hasnt been shown, that it wont  give Mr A his money back.  
I know that Mr A will be extremely disappointed, but I dont think his complaint against 
Santander should be upheld. 
Id like to set out clearly  that my decision in this case doesnt mean that Mr A has no way to 
pursue the arguments that he wants to make.  It just means that Santander  doesnt  have  to 
give him back this money. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6508138