K821x#15complaint
Mr R complained that MCE Insurance Company Limited unfairly cancelled his motorcycle
insurance policy and declined his claim.
background
After Mr Rs motorcycle was stolen he claimed under his policy with MCE. But MCE declined
his claim.  They said that when  hed taken out his policy hed deliberately  given them
incorrect information about the garage where  he kept his motorcycle.  They  said if theyd
known about that, theyd  have charged him a higher premium.
As a result, MCE avoided Mr Rs policy, meaning they treated it as if it hadnt
existed from the start. But Mr R said that hed hadnt  deliberately misrepresented about the
garage, but had just made a careless mistake.  But MCE  wouldnt change  their view so Mr R
brought his complaint to us.
The investigator recommended  that his complaint should be upheld.  He thought that Mr Rs
representation had been simply  careless and so MCE should  pay his claim less the
difference in premium. MCE disagreed  so Mr Rs case was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 1 August 2019 saying that I intended to uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. MCE made some further comments which I deal with below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we look
to see that they asked  a clear question, that the information given would affect whether the
insurance was offered,  and whether the person has acted carelessly, or deliberately  or
recklessly in not disclosing the information.
An insurer  assesses risk on the basis of the information given to them and they use that to
decide if they will offer cover. So MCE were entitled to rely on what  Mr R said to them in his
replies. MCE have told us that they would still have insured him if theyd known the true
position, but would have  charged him more.
MCE said that when  Mr R took out the policy he gave them  incorrect information and that
this was deliberate  or reckless. They said that theyd asked  him clear questions about  where
he stored his motorcycle, and that under  the Consumer (Disclosure and Representations) 
Act he had to take reasonable  care to give them accurate  and complete answers to those.  
They said theyd also sent him the policy document which included what  they meant by 
garage and it was up to him to check that. They said theyd later put it in an email too, but I 
didnt take any account of that, as we expect MCE to ask clear questions  when  the individual  
take out the policy, not afterwards.
In the recording  of the relevant call when Mr R took out his policy, MCE asked about  the
garage as follows:
MCE - Where are you going to keep both motorcycles?
Ref: DRN63116332Mr R - in the garage at home
MCE - is that garage brick, concrete, steel or stone?
Mr R - its brick
MCE - We class  a garage as a locked structure for housing motor vehicles
constructed of brick, concrete, steel or stone which is your private property. Anything
else outside of that description is not treated as a garage.  Can you confirm  your
garage meets these  requirements?
Mr R - it does indeed.
But when MCE investigated where Mr R kept his motorcycle they found that it didnt meet
their definition of garage, and refused his claim. MCE say that this was because it wasnt  a
locked structure  for housing motor vehicles . They said it was made  of steel and was
covered with a tarpaulin which was unlockable. 
So it wasnt  a garage as they defined  one, and they saw it more as Mr R keeping  his
motorcycle on private property. They said that if he had answered their questions  properly
they would  have charged him more for his insurance.
Mr R claimed  that he didnt know why he said the garage was brick, it was just a mistake.
But he didnt  think this was relevant  to his claim as his motorcycle  hadnt  been stolen from
his own garage  anyway, but from somewhere  away from his home.  But I did think that it was 
relevant and that MCE were entitled  to rely on his answers.
But I didnt think that one difference - whether it was built of brick or steel,  was the real issue
here. In fact MCEs definition of garage  includes both brick  and steel. Instead MCEs
concern, and reason for refusing his claim,  seemed to be more about the structure not being 
a locked  structure  for housing motor vehicles  constructed of brick,  concrete, steel  or stone.
Mr R describes the structure as a purpose built garage made by my father 35 years
previous. It is lockable with a steel exterior and a wooden  door covered in tarpaulin for
weather protection. I kept my motorcycles in there and have  never had any issues.
From the photos of the structure  I saw that part of the structure is tarpaulin and a lock is
visible, but whether  or not its lockable or there is a wooden door wasnt clear.  And that isnt
anyway a matter  for this Service  to decide.  What  is relevant is that I thought that MCE did 
ask Mr R clear  questions  about the nature  of his garage. And I thought  that if Mr R had been 
more careful in answering those questions, he would  have thought  about what  it was made 
of and that it wasnt made only of the materials MCE listed. If hed said that, I thought that 
would likely  have prompted MCE to ask more questions and decide that Mr Rs structure 
was not a garage in their terms.
Ref: DRN63116333But although  I didnt  think that Mr R answered  their questions correctly, I didnt think that his
answers were deliberately  or recklessly  incorrect. I thought they were careless instead. And 
so I agreed with the investigator - who clarified that in his opinion  hed meant  that the
misrepresentation was careless not reckless.
I agreed that Mr R failed to take reasonable care not to misrepresent when he answered
MCEs questions about his garage. And as MCE have said they would have insured  Mr R
anyway, but would have charged  him several  hundred pounds  more for his insurance,  I 
thought that they should reinstate his policy and settle his claim.  
However I thought  that the settlement should, in accordance with the remedies available 
under CIDRA, be on a proportionate basis. In other  words MCE may reduce any settlement  
amount in the same proportion that the premium  Mr R did pay bears to the premium  that he 
would have paid if he hadnt made the careless  misrepresentation.  I considered  that MCE 
should also add interest to that settlement amount, and remove  notice of the avoidance of 
his policy  from internal and external databases.
In their response to my provisional  decision,  MCE reiterated that they still felt that =s 
answers to their questions  about the garage were a deliberate misrepresentation, but I dont 
consider that they raised anything new and I think that my provisional decision did fully 
consider the issues.  And so I dont see any reason to change that decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision, its my final decision that I 
uphold this complaint and I require MCE Insurance Company Limited to do as follows:
pay the claim in line with the terms and conditions  of Mr Rs policy, but reducing any
total settlement  proportionately, in the same proportion that the premium  Mr R paid 
for his policy  bears to the premium  he should have paid. 
add 8% simple interest  to that amount from the date they decided to avoid  the policy 
to the date of settlement
correct all internal and external databases  and remove  any avoidance marker from 
his name  and give him written  confirmation  once  this has been done.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6311633