K821x#15complaint
Ms J complains about advice from MedDen Financial Services LLP (MedDen). Specifically 
that about £71,000 of her pension fund which  was invested into a bond which she considers 
was unsuitable.  
background
MedDen didnt issue any final response to Ms Js complaint. And MedDen hasnt provided us 
with any information  about the complaint. The adjudicator  reached  his view, issued on 30 
March 2020, based on the information  Ms J had supplied.  The adjudicator upheld the 
complaint. Ive recapped the background and the adjudicators findings. 
In 2017 Ms J had two personal pensions. Having  retired  at age 55, she planned to use the
funds in those  pensions to support her until she turned  60 and began receiving her
occupational pension. She met with a representative of MedDen on 29 June 2017  for advice. 
Her risk profile was four on a scale from one to ten or Lowest Medium.  The risk profiling 
document recorded that Ms J intended to begin  drawing  funds  from the pensions  under 
discussion, with the funds  expected to be exhausted  by 2030.
Ms J was given a report dated 1 August 2017 summarising MedDens advice. MedDen 
recommended that both plans were transferred to a new provider. Ms J would draw  an 
income of £45,000  per year from the fund. MedDens advice charge was £4,500 as an
upfront fee. Ms Js plans were said to be worth about £395,000, with 25% to be withdrawn 
as tax free cash. A discretionary fund manager  (DFM) was selected to manage Ms Js funds 
in line with her risk profile. The DFM  had an annual management charge of 0.96% (including  
VAT); the provider would charge 0.21% pa; and MedDen  0.75% pa so the total annual cost 
was estimated at 1.92%.
At some point later £71,000 was invested into a bond  the Delta Fixed Income Bond Series 
1 Tranche 1 (the bond). Ms J has said that very little information  was given to her about the 
bond. After discussions  with MedDen an email was sent to Ms J outlining  the bonds  
features. In brief:
The bond was due to pay a 2.5% coupon in October  that year. The value of the bond  
was guaranteed. 
These monies would  be distributed amongst the other asset  classes  in the portfolios.
No additional  monies would be added  to the bond holdings.
The bond had to undergo due diligence checks by two providers.
It was issued in assorted tranches  so the total holdings were still being  increased.
The bond would close when fully subscribed and then redeem  as per the redemption 
dates.
The holdings currently held with the DFM could be moved  at no cost to another 
provider. 
MedDen was currently reviewing holdings with clients with a recommended new DFM 
and the option not to hold on the existing platform which  would mean a slight 
reduction in charges.
On 14 October 2018 Ms J requested that the bond be sold once its coupon was paid. I think 
at about the same time she took advice from a new adviser. 
Ref: DRN62652712She then wrote a letter of complaint to MedDen in January 2019 when the bond was unsold. 
She was unhappy  with the advice shed been given and the service shed received. 
MedDen acknowledged the complaint in February  2019 but, as far as Im aware, didnt 
provide any formal response.  
Ms J tried, unsuccessfully, to sell the bond.  The provider wrote to her on 23 April 2019. It 
said it had passed  on her request to redeem her holding  to the issuer of the bond but 
redemption hadnt  taken place. The bond  had been  provided by Delta  Global  Securities Ltd, 
which was independent of the provider. The providers understanding  was that the bond  had 
no secondary market so it was dependent on Delta Global Securities Ltd repurchasing it in 
order to process redemptions. 
But the provider  added  that, having  looked into the matter further and reviewed the nature of 
the bond, it had decided  to offer the opportunity to redeem Ms Js holding in the bond by 
buying it from her. If Ms J wanted to sell the bond,  the provider would offer to purchase it 
from her in full on the basis that, for every £1 held in the bond, the provider  would pay £1 
plus interest at 1% over the Bank of England base rate from the date that the provider 
originally received Ms Js redemption request  to the date of payment. I understand Ms J 
accepted the providers  offer and the bond  was sold. 
In summary  the adjudicators findings were:
The advice to transfer was reasonable: Ms J wanted to take her tax free cash  and 
draw down  from her pension funds until her occupational pension scheme came into 
payment. That flexible approach couldnt  have been  achieved with her existing, older  
style, pension plans.  If Ms J had purchased an annuity it would have  been  paid over 
the rest of her life and wouldnt have paid enough  income to support her during the 
interim, five year period, shed specified.  
The investments  in the pension wrapper werent suitable. Ms Js risk profile  was 
Lowest Medium. For the bond,  the asset allocation  detailed  on MedDens risk 
profiling document  shows that around 51% of the fund should  have been invested in 
fixed income securities (or bonds), which are generally considered lower risk. 
But a bonds  risk is largely  defined by the business  it is secured  against. Bonds, in 
isolation, are not always low risk or suitable  for such investors. £71,000  would have 
been around 25% of Ms Js pension fund.  That much  of her fund shouldnt  have  been  
invested in a single asset of a blue chip company with a reliable  track  record  and 
Delta Global Securities  Ltd didnt qualify as that. The bond  wasnt traded on a 
recognised stock exchange and no secondary  market existed. 
The underlying  business seems to have been  under  the control of another entity  - 
Delta Crypto Ventures or Templar Capital Limited. The website says the company is 
focused exclusively on the groups  digital  and technology related investments, 
specifically digital  assets such as cryptocurrency, tokens  and ICOs, as well as 
cryptocurrency mining and blockchain technology.
The bond wasnt suitable. The underlying  business was based  on a volatile,  fledgling  
industry. Ms J was a low risk investor and was withdrawing funds each year. She 
should have been  invested  in low volatility  assets  that were  readily  realisable.  
MedDen might argue that the DFM was responsible and the investment was 
unforeseen. But the DFM selected wasnt in Ms Js best interests.  MedDen was 
charging Ms J 0.75% for ongoing advice and the DFMs charges were  stated to
Ref: DRN62652713be 0.96%  per year. Given that the DFM was actively managing Ms Js pension  in line 
with her risk profile, it wasnt  clear why MedDen was to be charging 0.75% per year 
and what service Ms J was to be receiving. The funds were  in drawdown and a lower 
cost solution should have  been recommended.
In summary Ms J would  have  transferred into a flexible plan to drawdown  her
pension over five years.  But the investments were unsuitable. 
The adjudicator  set out the methodology MedDen should follow to see if Ms J had 
suffered a loss. 
In response Ms J said the investment in the bond wasnt made  via the DFM but by MedDen 
itself. 
MedDen didnt respond to the adjudicators view. We emailed MedDen on 14 April 2020  
advising that the complaint would be referred  to an ombudsman. We received an automated  
out of office reply saying the recipient was away until 14 April 2020 but we didnt get any 
further reply.  We emailed MedDen again  on 1 October 2020 to say that an ombudsmans  
decision could be issued  imminently. We havent heard further. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, and in the absence of any representations at any stage of this matter  from 
MedDen, I agree with the views expressed  by the adjudicator and with the reasons he gave 
as to why Ms Js complaint should  be upheld.  
I note Ms Js confirmation that the bond  was outside  of the DFMs control. From what Ive 
seen  which is limited   MedDen recommended the bond. 
The suitability letter dated 1 August 2017 said that a DFM  would be used and that the DFM  
would choose  an appropriate asset allocation to suit Ms Js risk tolerance and the prevailing 
investment conditions. But there are handwritten notes  on Ms Js copy of the suitability 
report which refer to the bond and indicate that it is separate to and doesnt  form part of the 
assets under  the DFMs  control. 
Id also point here to the email which MedDen sent to Ms J about  the bond  on 12 August 
2018 and which is consistent with the recommendation to invest  in the bond having  been 
made by MedDen. 
I agree  with the adjudicator that the bond  wasnt suitable for Ms J. 
And, like the adjudicator, I dont know why, if a DFM was being  used,  MedDen  was taking an 
ongoing advice  fee too and recommending investments itself. I cant see that, in effect, 
paying twice represented good  value for money  for Ms J. 
MedDen hasnt supplied any information so I havent been able to look into other areas such 
as the instructions that MedDen gave the DFM; what MedDen told the DFM about Ms Js 
attitude to risk; what, if any, factfinding of its own the DFM did; or anything  else which 
MedDen might wish to point to in support of any argument that it isnt responsible  for any 
investment losses Ms J has suffered. 
Ref: DRN62652714I consider the redress methodology  the adjudicator set out was fair and reasonable. I think  
its fair to calculate Ms Js losses up to the time she moved to a new adviser with any loss at 
that stage brought up to date. And, as Ms J was able to sell the bond to the provider,  the 
payment that she received from the provider needs  to be taken into account. But, as the sale 
was after Ms J had a new adviser in place, the loss calculation for the bond should be done 
as at the date of the sale of the bond  with any loss again brought  up to date. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Ms J as close as possible
to the position shed  probably be in now if shed been given suitable advice. 
I think Ms J would have invested  differently. It isnt possible to say precisely  what  shed have 
done but Im satisfied  what Ive set out below is fair and reasonable given her circumstances 
and objectives  when she invested.
What should MedDen do?
To compensate Ms J fairly  MedDen should: 
Compare the performance of Ms Js investment with that of the benchmark  shown  below. If 
the fair value  is greater  than the actual  value, there  is a loss and compensation is payable.  If 
the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable. MedDen should 
also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, MedDen should pay into Ms Js pension plan, to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect  of 
charges and any available tax relief.  MedDen shouldnt pay the compensation into the 
pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing protection or allowance.
If MedDen are unable  to pay the compensation into Ms Js pension plan, it should pay that 
amount direct to her. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a 
taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Ms Js actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at her selected  retirement age. For example,  if Ms J is likely to be a basic rate 
taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the reduction would equal the current  basic  rate of 
tax. However, if Ms J would  have  been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction  
should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, MedDen  should pay Ms J £250  for the disruption to her retirement  planning.
MedDen should  also provide details of the calculation to Ms J in a clear,  simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If MedDen considers it is required by
HM Revenue & Customs  to deduct  income tax from that interest, MedDen should tell Ms J 
how much  it has taken  off. MedDen should also give Ms J a tax deduction  certificate if she
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN62652715investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
return on 
any loss
Ms Js 
pension (aside from 
the Delta 
bond)
Delta bondstill 
exists
   
  soldfor half the 
investment: FTSE UK
Private Investors 
Income Total 
Return Index;  for 
the other half: 
average rate 
from fixed rate 
bonds
 
  same  as abovedate of 
investment  
after 
transfer
   
    date  of    
investmentdate that Ms 
J took new 
advice  with a 
new financial 
adviser 
 
 
  date of sale from end date 
to date of 
settlement:
for half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK
Private 
Investors 
Income  Total  
Return Index;  
for the other  
half: average 
rate from 
fixed  rate 
bonds
  
   as above
actual value
This means  the actual amount of the drawdown fund from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  MedDen 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months maturity 
as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  as at the end of 
the previous month. Apply those rates to the investment on an annually compounded basis.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if MedDen totals  all those payments and deduct  that figure at 
the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive chosen this method of compensation because:
Ref: DRN62652716Ms J wanted income with some growth with a small risk to her capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable  return  without  risk to her capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair
measure for someone  who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Ms Js risk profile was in between, in the sense that she was prepared
to take a small level of risk to attain her investment  objectives. So, the 50/50  
combination would reasonably put Ms J in that position. It doesnt mean shed have 
invested 50% of her money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index
tracker investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Ms J could have obtained  from investments suited to her 
objective and risk attitude.
 
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. MedDen Financial  Services LLP must  redress  Ms J as Ive set out 
above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2020. 
Lesley Stead
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6265271