K820x#14complaint
Mrs T says she was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  when she took out 
a credit card in 2010. She was sold the policy on-line by Egg, but Barclays Bank  UK PLC is 
now responsible  for these  sales. 
Ill therefore refer mainly to Barclays for consistency.
background
I issued a provisional decision about this (summary attached)  in August 2019, setting out 
why I thought the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  And I asked both parties  to provide any 
further submissions or information to me within one month. 
Ive had replies from both parties so I can now issue my final decision.
my findings
Mrs T sent in certain copied pages of the terms and conditions of her credit card agreement.  
She says theres  no mention on these about PPI.
Im very grateful for the effort Mrs T has gone  to and Ive looked  carefully  at everything she 
sent in. But as Ive already explained  in my provisional decision, Barclays would have sent 
her other documentation  including a welcome letter  specifically about the PPI. 
I also said I was sent copies of her monthly  card statements which  regularly showed  charges 
for Card Repayment Protection on them. So Im afraid what Mrs T has sent in doesnt add 
anything to make me change my mind. The evidence is quite strong  that she would have  
been able to see she had PPI and as I explained in the provisional decision, she would have 
had to select PPI on her on-line application  form.
I also note that Mrs T hasnt been  able to provide any more details clarifying the fixed-term  
employment contract she says she was on at the time she applied for her credit card and 
PPI. Initially, this was a significant  aspect of her complaint about the PPI and I mentioned it 
in considerable detail  in my provisional  decision. 
I explained that what Mrs T had said about her job seemed to be inconsistent with the 
information she provided at the application stage. For example, her signed application form 
actually said shed been with her employer  for 6 years and 2 months and her quoted salary 
also seemed to strongly suggest that she was a full-time employee, rather  than a contract 
worker. I invited Mrs T to clarify this, but as she hasnt been able to my view remains the 
same. I think the policy was of use to her and she was eligible for it.
So having  reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  I think Mrs T selected  the 
PPI during her on-line  application. I think she would have been able to see such a policy had 
been set up as she would have been written to and the costs  were shown regularly on her 
statements. And Ive seen no evidence that she wasnt eligible under the PPI rules.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold.  So Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T. 
Ref: DRN68250972As explained in my provisional  decision (attached), Barclays  Bank UK PLC has already 
paid to Mrs T the commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. It doesnt need to do anything else.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T to accept 
or reject my final decision  before 10 October 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68250973summary  - provisional  decision
complaint
Mrs T says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy when  she took out a credit 
card in 2010. She was sold the policy on-line by Egg, but Barclays Bank UK PLC is now responsible  
for these sales. Ill therefore  refer mainly to Barclays for consistency.
background
Mrs T has already  been  paid some money for the commission Barclays received from selling her the 
PPI. However, our adjudicator who looked at this case  said the complaint about the PPI being mis-
sold in the first place should also be upheld. 
Barclays disagreed  it had mis-sold  the PPI and so the complaint has been passed to me for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, Im sorry to disappoint Mrs T, but I dont currently intend to uphold the complaint 
about the mis-sale on the evidence Ive seen. But Ill certainly look very carefully  at anything  else she 
wants to send  me.
Mrs T doesnt remember much about the sale.  I can sympathise  with this because it was quite  some 
time ago now.  However, she says she didnt  need PPI. 
Weve seen  quite a few similar sales to this and as a consequence, we have  a very good 
understanding of the procedures that were normally used. We know,  for example,  that consumers like 
Mrs T would have had to either agree to, or decline, the PPI when  they were  making their way 
through the on-line  form, before being allowed  to finish their credit card application. 
We no longer have access to Mrs Ts actual on-line credit  card form, but thats not unusual given the 
type of application and when it took place. Barclays sent us an example of the type of web-based  
application form Mrs T would have used when  she was applying for her card.  And because we now 
know PPI was added to her account, I think its highly likely she selected the yes option.
As well as this, Barclays  says Mrs T would have been sent a welcome  letter specifically  about the 
PPI. And I was sent actual copies of her monthly card statements  which regularly show charges for 
Card Repayment Protection on them. I think if she hadnt ever asked for the PPI she would  have 
wanted to know what these charges were for.
So I think theres a lot of evidence that points to Mrs T asking for the PPI with her new card and being 
able to see the cover  had been  set up for her on her account.
As a result  of information  subsequently provided  by Mrs T, our adjudicator thought the type of 
employment contract she had at the time might have made claiming quite difficult under  the policy 
rules. Mrs T says she was on regular fixed-term renewable contracts  at the time,  something the PPI 
policy had particular rules about.
But Im very aware this sale was all a long time ago. Whilst I dont doubt Mrs T now honestly and 
genuinely feels she was mis-sold  the PPI, Im afraid I dont currently agree that her employment 
situation is an issue for which we should uphold her complaint at this stage. 
Ref: DRN68250974This is because Ive looked at the details  provided by Mrs T at the time of her credit card application  
as recorded on Barclays system.  I consider the details  she provided to be a reliable and 
contemporaneous source, made at the time, in 2010. 
The details provided show that she said shed been with her employer for 6 years and 2 months and 
her quoted salary  also seems to me to suggest that she was a full-time employee,  rather than as she 
suggests where  substantial parts of the year werent  part of her pay. So I find the later information  
provided by Mrs T about  her job to be inconsistent with the information she provided at the application 
stage. I also think 6 years and 2 months would  be an unusually long time to be on the type of contract 
Mrs T says she was on. 
Having said that, Im very happy to look at any additional  information or evidence Mrs T can send me 
which comprehensively clarifies her employment and the type of contract  she had. But as it stands, 
what Ive seen  does tend to show she was eligible  for the PPI cover  and would have been able to 
make a claim if needed.
This wasnt an advised  sale and it was for Mrs T to decide for herself whether  or not she wanted PPI. 
Barclays duty was to provide clear enough information  for her to make an informed choice. Looking 
at the on-line form, I can see some ways  in which it could have been set out in a better way. But I can 
also see there  was a link to the terms and conditions, and the price of the cover was directly next to 
where she was asked  to make her choice about the PPI. The subsequent welcome letter  she was 
sent also explained the cost.
Looking at the other  aspects, I think at 79p per £100 of the outstanding  credit card balance,  the PPI 
appears to have been  an affordable charge. And whilst Mrs T said she already had some sick pay 
with her job, this doesnt  necessarily make the PPI of no use. It could have reduced her balance by 
10% a month for up to a year in the event  of a successful claim. I therefore currently think  the policy  
was of use to Mrs T. 
So even if I accept Barclays could have been clearer in certain aspects, I dont think  Mrs T would 
have done anything differently. I think the evidence  shows she wanted some protection and I dont 
think the employment  / contract issue changes anything at present.
This means  I dont currently think Barclays has to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs T. Its already 
paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to her because when  the policy was sold it expected to get a 
high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium).  To  put that right, 
Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI 
premium.  I think  that offer is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold. So Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs T. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has paid to Mrs T the commission  and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.  
Ref: DRN6825097