K820x#14Complaint
Mrs C complains that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA (PayPal) is holding  her liable for 
transactions from her PayPal account which she says she didnt authorise.
Background
Mrs C has a PayPal account,  which she says was used fraudulently to buy two smartphones  
costing £587.94.  The payment was made  in December  2018 and the phones were delivered  
to her former workplace  and signed for two days later. Other  disputed transactions  were 
made on the same day, but Mrs C was refunded as the merchants either couldnt prove 
theyd been delivered or didnt reply. Mrs C filed a dispute with PayPal in which she said she 
hadnt received  the phones. 
PayPal investigated  and decided not to refund the transaction.  They said the items were  
delivered to an address  registered to Mrs Cs account, there  was no evidence  of 
unauthorised access  to the account by a third party and the transaction was consistent with 
previous account  transactions. They offered a credit  of £50 on the basis  Mrs C might not 
have been aware  of the requirements of the Buyer Protection Programme.  
Mrs C was unhappy with PayPals response  and brought  a complaint to this service. Our 
investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ultimately,  he concluded that Mrs C authorised the 
payments. He noted that all transactions were made from the same device with the same IP 
address. For someone else to have made  the purchase the investigator  said theyd have 
needed access to the IP address, access to Mrs Cs PayPal log in details and access to the 
codes sent to Mrs Cs mobile  phone. He thought the most likely explanation was that Mrs C 
made the transactions but then realised they were being dispatched to an incorrect  address 
and attempted  to cancel all the purchases. The investigator felt this was supported  by the 
fact that Mrs C noticed the transactions and contacted all the sellers to stop the deliveries 
before reporting  the matter as fraud to Paypal. 
Mrs C didnt accept the investigators opinion and asked  for an ombudsman  to review her 
case, so its been passed  to me to consider. She said shes  been  the victim of fraud  and 
shouldnt be liable for the transaction. Mrs C would  like the cost of the phones to be refunded 
to her. Mrs C pointed out that the address the phones were  delivered to (her former 
workplace) used the same broadband provider so it was reasonable to say the same IP 
address would be used there. Mrs C also said that a large number  of previous PayPal log ins 
related to before Mrs C left her former workplace. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards; 
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to have been good  industry  
practice at the time. 
PayPals User Agreement says they wont hold a customer liable for unauthorised 
transactions so long as theyve not allowed  a third-party to have access to their PayPal ID, 
password or PIN which would allow a third party to make payments from the account. 
PayPals User Agreement says, 
Ref: DRN68852122you must not:
Reveal your account password(s) to anyone else, nor may you use anyone else's 
password. We are not responsible  for losses incurred by you including,  without 
limitation, the use of your account by any person other than you, arising as the result 
of misuse of passwords.
The agreement also says a customer wont  be entitled to any financial compensation if:
We can show  that the payment was made because you did not keep your account safe 
either intentionally or with gross negligence (for instance, you very carelessly chose to share 
your PayPal ID and/or password/PIN with someone else).
So I think its appropriate for me to decide whether I think Mrs C made or authorised the 
payments or allowed  a third- party access to her PayPal account. Having considered  the 
evidence I think its reasonable for PayPal to conclude that she authorised the payments. I 
say this because:
  The disputed  transaction  was made  from the same IP address that Mrs C consistently 
used.  PayPal has said this address was used 404 times between 2014 and 2019 and Ive 
seen evidence of its use on 16 and 17 December 2018. Mrs C has said the WiFi provider  
listed on the information logs from PayPal is the same  provider  that her former  work place 
uses, so its reasonable to say the IP address  could  have  been the same at her former 
workplace. But there  are other details that would be needed, like log in details and an access 
code  which Ive discussed below. So Im not persuaded this was the case. 
 To gain access to Mrs Cs PayPal account  her log in details would be needed. Mrs C has 
said nobody else had access to these details. And theres no convincing explanation for how 
a third party could  have known Mrs Cs PayPal login details.
 To make transactions  PayPal  says Mrs C was given a unique  visitor code. PayPal has 
provided evidence  from its systems  to show Mrs C used the same code 22 times between 
15 and 22 December 2018, but Mrs C only disputes the transactions  made on one day. Mrs 
C tells us nobody  else had access to the code, which was sent to Mrs Cs mobile  phone. 
Theres no convincing explanation for how a third party could  have known the unique code. 
 Theres  no evidence  to show that a third party had access  to Mrs Cs computer or mobile  
device. Mrs C says when  she orders on Ebay she uses one of these devices. Mrs Cs 
computer stays at home and her mobile  is locked with a code.
PayPal says Mrs C would  have received  an automated message on 17 December as part of 
its outbound campaign related to her account.  It says it no longer has a copy of the message 
as it was sent so long ago. Mrs C initially  said she received this message but has since told 
us there  was a misunderstanding and she didnt receive it. I havent relied on this information 
in reaching my conclusions. Whilst it would  have been helpful to review this evidence,  Im 
persuaded there is enough other evidence to satisfy me that Mrs C authorised  the payments. 
 The disputed  items were sent to an address that was connected with Mrs Cs PayPal 
account from June  2017. 
I appreciate I cant be certain  exactly what happened in this case. But overall,  I find the 
evidence doesnt  point to the transaction having  been made  by a third party without Mrs Cs 
knowledge or authority. Its difficult to see how Mrs Cs correct login details and visitor code 
Ref: DRN68852123might have been used without  her knowledge  or permission if she didnt tell them to anyone. 
In the circumstances, I think PayPal were  entitled to conclude that Mrs C authorised the 
payment. It follows that I dont think it would be fair for me to require them  to refund the 
transaction. If Mrs C has not accepted the £50 credit offered by PayPal and wishes to now,  
she should contact  PayPal directly. 
My final decision  
My final decision is that I dont require PayPal Europe Sarl & Cie, SCA to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  by 6 June 2020.
Jay Hadfield
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6885212