K820x#14complaint
Mr Ns complaint against Ambant Underwriting Services  Limited (Ambant)  is about the 
service provided under  his HomePlan insurance  policy.
background
Mr N took out a CORGI HomePlan policy in December 2016  to cover his central  heating  
system. The policy was administered by Ambant and, as the responsible business for this 
complaint, Ill refer to them throughout this decision. 
Alongside his insurance policy,  Mr N also paid for an annual  service. His boiler was serviced 
in July 2017 and July 2018. 
Mr Ns central  heating  stopped working properly in November 2018  and so he called to make 
a claim on his policy. The problem was eventually resolved by an engineer from another 
company. Mr N has made a separate  complaint  against the underwriter of his policy about 
how that claim was handled.  
Mr Ns annual cover  was due to end on 29th December 2018. Earlier  that month  Mr N 
noticed that Ambant had taken a direct debit  payment to renew  his policy. Ambant told him 
his policy  had been set to automatically renew.  But they agreed to cancel  his policy  and 
refund the premium  hed paid. 
Mr N complains that his boiler  services  were below the standard that should be expected.  
Our investigator has explained  to Mr N that we can look at the service he received in 2017.  
But we cant  look at the service in 2018, as it was separate to his insurance contract.
Mr N also complains that he didnt know his policy would be renewed automatically. He says 
he didnt receive  any letters  telling him his policy would renew with an increased premium.
Mr N would like to be reimbursed for the full cost of his HomePlan policy,  and compensated 
for the inconvenience  hes been caused.  
Our investigator looked into Mr Ns complaint. She didnt think  Ambant needed to do 
anything more. Mr N disagrees  and has asked for an ombudsman to make  a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N complains that the boiler  service in July 2017 was perfunctory.  He says the engineer 
spent five minutes on the boiler and ten minutes  unnecessarily bleeding the radiators. 
The purpose of the annual  service  is to ensure the boiler is operating  safely. I cant  be sure 
exactly what checks the engineer carried out on Mr Ns boiler, but Ive not seen any 
evidence he complained about the service at the time. Ive thought  about what  Mr N has 
said, but overall I dont  think  Ive got enough evidence  to say that Ambant failed to carry out 
the service properly.
Ref: DRN63011322Ive also looked  at Mr Ns complaint  about  the renewal of his insurance. Mr Ns policy  said he 
would be sent a renewal letter, including details of the premium,  at least 14 days  before the 
renewal date. As Mr N paid by direct  debit, his policy would be renewed  automatically unless 
he told Ambant he wanted to cancel it.
Ambant have provided a copy of their records for Mr Ns policy.  They indicate that a number 
of renewal letters were sent to Mr N. As Ambant hadnt heard anything  from Mr N, they 
renewed his policy automatically.   
Based on the evidence  Ive seen, I think Ambant sent Mr N the renewal letters. I cant be 
sure why he didnt receive them, and its very unfortunate that he didnt. But I dont think  I 
can hold Ambant responsible for that. 
Once Mr N realised his policy had been  renewed  he contacted Ambant and they cancelled  it. 
Ambant refunded Mr N the premium  hed paid, so he didnt lose out as a result of what 
happened. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr N was hoping for, but I wont be upholding his 
complaint. I wont therefore be asking Ambant to do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint 
against Ambant  Underwriting  Services Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6301132