K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny) was 
irresponsible to lend him money.
Mr B wants  Sunny  to refund the interest  that he paid on the loans and remove  any negative  
information about the loans from his credit file.
Mr B is represented in his complaint by a claims management company (CMC).
background
Mr B took out one running credit  loan and 29 instalment loans with Sunny between  August 
2014 and May 2018. 
Mr B says that he had become dependent on short term loans. 
Before this service became involved, Sunny offered to refund  the interest and charges that 
Mr B had paid on loan one. As Mr B had paid this on time, Sunny said that there was no 
negative information  to remove from his credit file.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny do more than it had offered so far. The 
adjudicator thought Sunny shouldnt  have agreed loan six and loans 10 to 30. She 
recommended that Sunny  refund the interest and charges that Mr B had paid on the affected  
loans.
The adjudicator recommended that Sunny remove any negative information about  loans  10 
and 11. And the adjudicator recommended  that Sunny remove loan six and loans 12 to 30 
entirely from Mr Bs credit file. 
Sunny didnt agree with the adjudicators  recommendation. It said Mr Bs loan repayments 
represented a small percentage of his declared monthly income  of £3,100.  
Sunny said that it offers customers  a flexible product which  means they can choose to 
borrow up to four loans  at a time.  Sunny didnt  agree  that having multiple loans  open  was an 
indication that the lending  was unsustainable for Mr B.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When Sunny  lent to Mr B, the regulator  was the Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) and the 
relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  The 
CONC carried guidance for lenders about responsible  lending.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
Ref: DRN61914752different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr B could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if they will need to borrow  
more money to afford the repayments.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Bs complaint.
Sunny has already offered  to put things  right for loan one. As this loan doesnt  appear to be 
in dispute, I dont intend saying much more about  it.
Mr B didnt disagree with the adjudicators opinion about loans two to five and loans seven to 
nine. Because  of this, I dont think there is any ongoing dispute  about these loans. So I wont 
be making a decision  about this lending.  But as the loans were  part of the borrowing 
relationship that Mr B had with Sunny, I will take them in to account  when  considering his 
other loans.
loan six 
Ive looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr B with a view to seeing if 
there was a point  at which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further  lending  was 
Ref: DRN61914753unsustainable or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should  have  realised that it shouldnt 
have given Mr B any more loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Bs case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
six.
Loan six was the sixth loan that Mr B had taken out in about 15 months. And it was for more 
than any of the earlier instalment loans. I consider that Sunny should have taken this as an 
indication that Mr B had become reliant  on short term lending. And that he was in all 
likelihood using  short  term loans for everyday living costs rather than to help with 
unexpected expenses.
There was then a gap of about  seven and a half months between repaying  loan six and 
applying for loan seven. I consider that this was enough to effectively break the lending  
chain. Subject to any other information or evidence to the contrary, it seems  reasonable of 
Sunny to treat loan seven  as the start of a new chain of lending.
loans 10 to 30
By loan 10, Mr B had three other  loans open with Sunny.  Rather than Mr B using the loans  in 
a flexible way as Sunny suggested to the adjudicator, it seems to me its more  likely that     
Mr B needed  to borrow more money  to try and fill the hole repaying his previous loans was 
leaving in his finances. I dont consider this was sustainable and Sunny  shouldve realised 
this.
Ive again considered the overall  pattern  of Sunnys lending  history. I think  that by loan 12 
Sunny shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful.  This was 
Mr Bs sixth loan in two months. And the pattern of overlapping  loans had continued. 
Each of the loans  that Mr B had taken had been repayable in instalments. But Mr B regularly  
paid the loans off earlier than planned. And then Mr B borrowed  again shortly after. I think 
that this pattern of frequent borrowing and repaying early indicated  that Mr B was having 
problems managing his money.  
By loan 12, Mr B had two earlier loans open  at the same time, which meant  that he had to 
make more than one loan repayment each month.  And Mr B took out loan 12 on the same 
day that he repaid  loan 11. 
Although the amounts Mr B continued to borrow sometimes fluctuated, he often  had more  
than one loan open at a time. And Mr B was borrowing up to three  times  in the same month.  
So Mr B wasnt making any real inroads into what he owed Sunny and his indebtedness  was 
being prolonged. This meant that Mr B had been paying large amounts of interest to, in 
effect; service a debt to Sunny  over a long period.
I think that Mr B lost out because Sunny lent loan six and then continued to lend money from 
loan 12 onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Bs indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
Ref: DRN61914754the extended period of time he owed Sunny money was likely to have had negative 
implications on Mr Bs ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept him in the 
market for these high-cost loans.
Overall, I consider that its fair to uphold Mr Bs complaint about loans six and 10 to 30.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges that Mr B paid on loans one, six and 10 to 30;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
remove any negative information  that it may have  recorded about loans six, 10 and 11; 
and
the number  of loans taken by the time of loan six and then loan 12 means that any 
information about loan six and loans  12 to 30 is negative. So all entries about these 
loans should be removed from Mr Bs credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Bs complaint in part and direct  Elevate Credit 
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6191475