K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a monthly premium payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 2008  in connection  with his mortgage.
background
In 2008, Mr B took out a PPI policy with his mortgage. The policy  was sold during a meeting 
with Santander.  The PPI provided  accident,  sickness and unemployment cover for Mr B who 
complained to Santander and then to this Service  about it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view and 
asked for the matter  to be looked  at again.
He said he felt pressured to buy the policy. No-one  told him it was optional   so he felt it was 
compulsory. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Having done that, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. I know this will disappoint him 
so Ill explain why.
Mr B said he felt pressured to buy the policy. And he didnt know it was optional  so he 
must have  thought it was compulsory. I looked very carefully into these complaint  points   
but unfortunately for Mr B, I didnt find evidence strong enough to support them.
Santander showed us some documents completed  around the time of the sale. They were 
all drafted in a way confirming the PPI was an optional  product which  Mr B had chosen to 
buy. I can see he says he was persuaded to buy the PPI, but that is not enough  in this case  
to show he was pressured to buy it. 
Santander said the sale was non-advised. For non-advised sales, Id expect Santander  to 
give Mr B enough information  which was fair, clear and not misleading  so that he could 
make his own informed  decision.  So I looked at the information hed been  given about the 
policy. 
Mr B didnt give us much  detail about this part of the PPI sale conversation. Santander  sent 
us the Key Facts document, the welcome  pack and the policy schedule which were all sent 
to Mr B. They all showed  the PPI cost and the type of cover  he would get. So I think there 
was enough information in this case for Mr B to make his decision about PPI.
I dont know how much information Santander  gave  Mr B about the things not covered by the 
policy (the exclusions  and limitations), but he was not affected by the main  ones.  So I dont 
think that any more  detailed information would  have put him off buying PPI. 
Taking everything into account,  Im not going  to uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN63877202my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6387720