K820x#14complaint
Miss H complains that Amigo Loans Ltd Amigo)
are still claiming a balance on a loan shes paid off
took money out of her account without telling her
should write off any amount outstanding as their interest is too high
have been  sending her son marketing letters despite his mental health issues
background
Miss H signed an agreement to be a guarantor on her sons  loan with Amigo  in March  2018. 
But her son became ill and couldnt  keep up with payments  so Amigo asked Miss H to make  
them instead. 
Miss H paid the loan off in full on 1 August 2018.  But was surprised  to be told by Amigo  that 
there was still £197.80 outstanding. She says they should waive this as theyve received 
enough and their interest is too high.
Shes also disappointed that theyve  continued to send marketing information to her son 
despite knowing about his poor mental  health.
She also says Amigo took a payment  from her account without notifying her.
Amigo explained that Miss Hs lump  sum payment wasnt enough to pay off the debt 
because, the day after she paid it, her sons direct debit bounced. So they explained that 
there was still £197.80 outstanding. They didnt feel they should waive this or that their 
interest was too high as they explained  the interest rates and payments  had been  clearly set 
out in the finance agreement Miss H signed  as a guarantor. 
They said they werent aware of Miss Hs sons illness  but now that they were  they would 
ensure that no further marketing material was sent to him. 
But Miss H wasnt satisfied with their response  so she referred  her complaint to this service  
and our investigator provided  her opinion. She agreed that, because a direct debit had 
bounced, there was still a payment to be made  on the account and she didnt think it would 
be fair to ask Amigo to cancel any debt that had been agreed  at the outset. She said she 
hadnt been provided with information  to suggest Amigo were aware of Miss Hs sons illness 
so she couldnt  expect them to have taken  any specific  action. But she thought  that now that 
they were aware  theyd  need to suspend  any marketing communication  and she confirmed 
they were happy  to do so. 
She went on to explain  that the terms of the finance agreement allowed Amigo to 
automatically take a payment from the guarantor 15 days  after the due date and thats  what 
Amigo had done.  She realised that Miss H had texted  them  the day before the payment was 
taken but Amigo  hadnt picked that text up in time. She said Amigo  had responded to the 
concerns Miss H had raised with them about  this but she noted  that Miss H hadnt returned  
their message. She didnt think it would be fair to suggest Amigo had done anything  wrong 
here as they had acted within the terms of the finance agreement.
Ref: DRN63425972But Miss H disagreed with the investigator  and she asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Miss H but I agree with the investigators view and for similar 
reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the balance of the account 
Ive reviewed the payment history on this account  and agree that because  a direct debit 
payment bounced  there is still an amount due.
I dont agree that amount  should be waived. Whilst I understand  that the interest is high on 
this loan, it is a loan Miss H agreed  to and the repayments and interest  attracted are clear in 
the agreement. It wouldnt  be fair, therefore;  to ask Amigo to reduce the balance but I see 
theyve been reasonable and suspended the interest  on the remaining balance. 
contact with Miss Hs son
I was very sorry to hear about Miss Hs sons problems and I can understand her concerns 
about him receiving  marketing information.
But Ive not seen evidence that Amigo had been  told about his ill health and it wouldnt 
therefore be fair of me to suggest they shouldve taken account of it.
Im satisfied that they now have and that theyve flagged his account accordingly.
removing money without consent
The terms of the agreement Miss H signed with Amigo gave them  permission to 
automatically take a payment from an authorised card. The terms say:
where the borrower fails to pay the full monthly payment on the due date we will  exercise 
the rights  under the card payment authority on the 15th day after the relevant due date 
So I cant say Amigo did anything wrong  when automatically taking money  from Miss Hs 
account to cover the missed payment.
And overall,  I dont  think Amigo  need  to take any further action here.
Ref: DRN63425973my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 June 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6342597