K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  Gain  Credit LLC (Lending Stream) lent her money  she couldnt afford to 
repay.
background
Miss S took out four instalment loans with Lending Stream. These  are:
Loan Date amount instalments
highest monthly 
repaymentRepayment date
1 17 November 2015 £100 6 £47.20 27 November 2015
2 28 November 2015 £100 6 £47.20 18 December 2015
3 18 December 2015 £490 6 £215.60 18 December 2016
4 11 February 2016 £370 6 £154.24 18 December 2016
When Miss S complained  to Lending  Stream that the loans werent affordable  it didnt agree. 
It says it was entitled to rely on the information Miss S gave about her income  and 
outgoings, and when it did so, along  with carrying out a credit check, it saw that the loans 
were affordable for her. 
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Ss complaint should not be upheld.  She says 
Lending Stream carried  out proportionate checks for loans 1-3. She said that it should have 
carried out further checks for Loan 4 but even if it did, she thought it would  have seen that 
Miss S could afford  this loan anyway.  
Miss S disagreed with the adjudicators  view.  As both parties  are still not in agreement, the 
complaint has come  to me to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. I will explain  why.
I think the overarching  questions I need  to consider  in deciding  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint are:
Did Lending Stream, at the time it lent, complete reasonable and proportionate  
checks to satisfy  itself that Miss S would  be able to repay in a sustainable way?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Miss S would  have been  
able to do so.
Taking into account the short-term purpose of the loans provided, did the overall 
pattern of lending  increase Miss Ss indebtedness in a way that was otherwise  
unsustainable or harmful?
Did Lending Stream act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
Ref: DRN61019632If I determine that Lending Stream did not act fairly and reasonably in its dealings with    
Miss S and that she has lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair 
compensation.
Lending Stream was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks to see whether    
Miss S could afford  to pay back the loan before it lent to her. Those checks  needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Miss S was borrowing  and the length of the 
agreement. But there was no set list of checks Lending Stream  had to do.
Miss Ss first loan was for £100 to be repaid in 6 instalments with the highest  repayment 
amount being  £47.20. Lending Stream says she told it she was earning £1900 and declared 
expenditure of £779. Lending  Stream also says it carried out a credit  agency check  that it 
says was satisfactory.  
I can see the monthly repayment  was a small proportion of Miss Ss declared disposable 
income, the instalment amount was low and this was her first loan. So for those reasons, I 
am satisfied  that the checks carried out by Lending  Stream for the first loan were 
proportionate.
Miss S asked for second loan of £100 shortly  after she repaid her first loan. This was to be 
repaid in 6 monthly instalments with the largest  monthly repayment being  £47.20.  Lending 
Stream again asked  Miss S about her income and outgoings for this loan to make  sure she 
could afford  it over the 6 instalments. 
Again, the information provided  by Miss S (£1200 income and £813  expenditure) for this 
loan would have  showed that the loan was affordable with her having enough disposable 
income to meet the monthly repayment.  I cant see anything that would suggest  to me that 
Lending Stream should have carried out further  checks over what  it had already done. 
Miss S applied for loan 3 on the same day she repaid her second loan. This was for a higher 
amount of £490.  Again Miss S said she had monthly  income of £1200  but at this time she 
self declared a lower  amount of £581 for her expenditure.  From the information Lending 
Stream gathered,  it would  have seen that Miss S would have been  able to afford the monthly 
repayment amounts.  So at this point I think it carried out proportionate checks  for loan 3 
also.
Miss S applied for loan 4 whilst she was still repaying loan 3 and I think by this stage  it would 
have seen that it was a possibility that Miss S was becoming reliant on the credit  it was 
providing. So I think it should have carried out further checks and in particular found out 
whether Miss S had any other short term lending commitments at that time. But even if it had 
done this, I think  it would have seen that the loan repayments were  affordable  for her. She 
did have a small amount  of other  short term credit at the time. But Miss S had self declared 
that her monthly earnings had gone up to £1900. This would have shown Lending  Stream 
that she had more disposable  income and enough  to meet her repayments for loans 3 and 4.
In conclusion, I consider  the affordability checks that Lending Stream made on Miss Ss first 
three loans  were proportionate and sufficient. I think Lending Stream should have carried out 
further checks when  it agreed to loan 4. But if it had done this, I think it would  have seen that 
Miss S would have  been able to afford the repayments on this loan anyway. So I cant say 
now that it was wrong for Lending  Stream to give these  four loans to Miss S. And so I cant 
require it to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN61019633my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss S to accept  or reject my decision before 
4 February 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6101963