K821x#15complaint
Mr S complained that Bulstrad Life Vienna Insurance Group iJSC (Bulstrad) refused to pay 
out his travel insurance claim, after he abandoned  his trip on the day of departure  due to an 
accident on the road preventing him from reaching the airport in time to catch his flight.
background
Mr S purchased an annual travel  insurance policy with Bulstrad, through a broker.
Mr S booked a 3-day holiday, and set out on the morning of the holiday to drive  to the 
airport. There was a serious accident on the journey, causing delays lasting a number  of 
hours. This meant Mr S was unable  to get to the airport in time for the flight. Mr S made 
enquiries with the travel  agent, who informed him there were  no other available  flights that 
day. So, Mr S returned home, having  never made it to the airport.  He abandoned  his trip.
Unable to take the holiday, Mr S made a claim on his travel insurance policy. Bulstrad 
declined his claim  Mr S was advised  missed departure claims are covered in specified 
circumstances only. And missing a flight because  of an accident wasnt one of those. Mr S 
responded, explaining  his claim was based on him missing his flight  because his car was 
involved in an accident  which is covered under  the policy. He further explained  his car 
wasnt physically involved in the accident, but became involved because it got caught up in 
the tailback on the motorway that resulted. This explanation was also rejected  by Bulstrad on 
the basis Mr Ss car was affected by the accident but not involved in it.
Mr S brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators reached the same conclusion   a 
reasonable interpretation of being  involved in an accident is that a car must be one of the 
vehicles physically involved in the crash. Mr S mentioned subsequent policies offered by the 
broker contained amended wording. And his claim would have been successful under these 
policies. But, our investigator explained these  policies  were underwritten by different 
insurers, and we could  only look at the wording  of Mr Ss policy.  Unhappy  with this, Mr S 
asked an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I want to begin  by looking at the wording of Mr Ss policy. The Summary of Cover  (the 
summary) lists various covered events,  including Cancellation and Curtailment, Missed 
Departure, Travel  Delay and Abandonment. What is covered under these events is set out 
in the Your Cover section of the policy.
Mr S has said Bulstrad  should consider his claim based on his interpretation  of what being 
involved in an accident means.  And  accordingly - Bulstrad should settle his claim under 
the missed departure section of the policy. Mr S thinks being involved includes being  
caught up in the after-effects of an accident, whereas Bulstrad says it only applies if the car 
he was travelling in was physically involved.
On this point, I agree  with Mr S. The net effect is the same  an accident caused Mr S to 
miss his flight  and I dont think its fair or reasonable  for Bulstrad to refuse a claim, in 
principle, based  on their own definition of being  involved  in an accident.  However,  in this 
Ref: DRN67651402case, a strict  interpretation  of the policy coupled  with the reasons for Mr S missing his flight,  
doesnt help Mr S.
The missed  departure section of his policy is the only part of Mr Ss policy that includes 
reference to being involved in an accident. It says the following:
- We will payfor necessary and reasonable travel and accommodation  expenses  
required to reach  your booked destination,  if you miss your booked  departure due to:
The vehicle you are travelling  in to reach your international departure point 
breaking down  or being involved in an accident or
This means  theres cover  for extra expenses to reach the intended  destination if the 
policyholder is involved  in an accident. It doesnt say it will pay out if the policyholder has to 
cancel or abandon their holiday because of being  involved in an accident. In Mr Ss case, he 
was stuck on a motorway  for many  hours.  And he abandoned his trip when it became clear 
he wouldnt  be able to get another flight that day. He didnt incur any extra  expenses  to 
reach his destination  that would allow a successful reimbursement  claim to be made under 
this section of the policy.
Ive also looked  at the cancellation and travel delay sections of Mr Ss policy, and these 
too dont provide a means for his claim to be successful. The cancellation  section provides 
for payment in the event  of a cancelled trip in a number of clearly defined circumstances 
only. These include death, jury service, redundancy, stolen passport or home emergencies 
It says nothing about cancelling because of unavoidable  travel delays. And, whilst  the travel  
delay section does  provide a payment for an abandoned trip, this is only where  there has 
been a delayed flight departure of at least four hours.  And not because of a delay in 
reaching the airport.
However, notwithstanding the above, I think it would produce  a fair and reasonable outcome 
on this case if Bulstrad  paid something  towards Mr Ss claim. Here, its clear  Mr S 
abandoned his holiday rather than seek to find alternative flights  to his destination the 
following day. The holiday  was for only three days. And I can understand why he decided not 
to do this. But it looks like he could have  still gone the next day. And, if he had booked  new 
flights to reach his destination  the following day, he would have been able to claim for the 
cost of these under  the policy, plus any other reasonable  additional  travel  expenses 
involved. And, had he done this, I cant see any reason why a claim to recover  these costs 
would have been declined.
Because Mr S didnt  do this, Bulstrad have avoided  paying out on a claim that would have 
been successful  had Mr S chosen to book these  extra flights. So, I think a fair and 
reasonable outcome, in this particular  case,  would be for Bulstrad to reimburse Mr S for the 
reasonable costs  he was entitled to incur  to reach  his destination.
Of course,  establishing what those reasonable costs  would have been, many  months  after 
the event is difficult,  not least because the airline  Mr S was travelling with has since  ceased 
trading. So Ive looked to see how easy it is to get a flight from Mr Ss intended departure 
airport to his intended destination airport in the next few days and weeks. I accept this is a 
different time of year to Mr Ss booking, but it does allow me to see whether daily flights  are 
available. And, if so, how much they cost at very short notice.
Using a flight search  site, I can see there are daily flights as indicated above  (there are also 
daily flights in 2020 in the same month  Mr S intended to travel.  This suggests  this course of 
Ref: DRN67651403action was possible at the time of Mr Ss abandoned  trip), And, a rough  two-week  average  
cost of a single flight at short notice is about  £150. Mr S was booked to travel with his wife, 
so the cost of two extra single flights would have amounted to about £300.
I also need to consider  the extra costs Mr S would have had to incur to get back  to the 
airport for the flight the next day. In effect, he had two extra journeys  returning home on 
the first day and driving back to the airport the following day. From what  I can see, based on 
the location of the accident  that prevented Mr S from catching  his original flight, he would 
have incurred an extra 180-mile  journey driving  home and back  to the airport the next day. I 
think the extra petrol costs incurred in this journey fall within the definition  of necessary and 
reasonableexpenses, and so I think its fair that Bulstrad also reimburse Mr S a sum to 
cover what  these extra travel costs would have been.
So, based  on the above, I think a fair and reasonable outcome in this case is for Bulstrad to 
pay Mr S £300 to cover the cost of the flights he was entitled to take to reach  his destination.  
I also think Bulstrad should pay a further £40, which I think  represents a fair estimate  of the 
cost of the petrol used during the extra 180-mile journey  as mentioned  above.  And theres no 
excess to be deducted under  level of cover applicable to Mr S.
the response to my provisional  decision
Mr S and Bulstrad have responded, confirming they accept the above provisional decision.
my findings
Having considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  and following Mr S and Bulstrad 
confirming they accept my provisional  decision, I have nothing further to add to the findings 
set out in that decision.
my final decision
So, for the reasons set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint and require Bulstrad Life 
Vienna Insurance Group iJSC to pay Mr S £340  in settlement of his claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6765140