K820x#14complaint
Mrs W has complained she was charged  a breakage  fee following the closure of her fixed  
rate ISA product. The ISA was taken out with the Post Office and administered by Family 
Equity Plan Limited (FEP).
background
On 9 March 2018,  Mrs W took out an ISA product through FEP.  The ISA was fixed for one 
year. 
In late February 2019, FEP sent a secure message to Mrs W explaining that her fixed rate 
was coming to an end on 8 March 2019.  Once this happened, her funds and interest earned 
would be moved  to a holding  account.  Mrs W responded to the secure message on the 
same day. In her response she explained  she would  like to close the account  on the day of 
maturity and transfer the funds to a new FEP one year fixed rate ISA.
FEP responded to Mrs Ws message the following day. It outlined  the instructions  for moving  
funds from one ISA product to another. Mrs W then closed the ISA on 8 March, believing the 
ISA matured that day. However she later realised  she had been charged a breakage fee and 
so she sent another secure message to FEP in late April asking why this charge had been 
applied to her account.
FEP responded a few days later explaining that Mrs W had been  charged the fee because  
she had closed the account  on the 8 March, the day before it had fully matured. It said it 
believed enough  was done to explain  when  the funds would be accessible and that it had 
properly clarified  the closure process and when breakage fees may be applied.
Mrs W disagreed  and referred her complaint to our service. She said that FEP hadnt made it 
clear that the funds  would  be available from the 9 March onwards. She feels  it is extremely 
unfair she was charged the breakage fee and that she had made her intentions clear  in her 
February message  to FEP.  
Mrs Ws complaint  was reviewed by one of our investigators. He said that Mrs W had been 
presented with enough information to be aware  when  the account  would mature and that an 
early breakage fee would  be charged  if she accessed the funds before that date.
Mrs W disagreed  with our investigator, maintaining that she would have never  closed the 
account on 8 March if she knew that a breakage fee would be incurred. She asked for her 
complaint to be reviewed  by an ombudsman and so its been  passed to me to consider.
my findings  
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
Mrs Ws complaint  and Id like to explain why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by both Mrs W and FEP. And it seems to me that the 
crux of the complaint rests on whether or not the information FEP gave Mrs W about  when 
she could access her funds was sufficiently clear  and unambiguous as is required by current 
banking regulations. 
Ref: DRN62701262Looking at the message FEP sent Mrs W late February I can see it said:
Just to let you know  the fixed  for your Fixed  Rate product comes to an end on 08 March 
2019. After this date,  your Fixed Rate product will be closed and your funds  and all interest 
will be moved to your Holding Account
Mrs W has said in her submissions that the communication from FEP didnt clearly say that 
the account matures at midnight on 8 March  2019,  nor did it say that on or after 
9 March 2019 her funds  would be available. 
But the message  does  state the account comes to an end on 8 March 2019.  And it says that 
her account  wouldnt  be closed and the funds moved until after 8 March 2019. So I feel FEP 
gave Mrs W enough clear  information  for her to reasonably know that the funds shouldnt be 
moved until after 8 March 2019. And although  I understand Mrs Ws frustration, and accept 
that she would have waited to move  the funds,  I dont think the wording in the above  
message is ambiguous. It clearly states  that the account will be closed after the 
8 March 2019.So  I dont  consider that FEPs instructions were  vague or misleading.
Mrs W argues  that she gave clear instructions to FEP in her response to its February  
message. However,  FEPs subsequent response  specifically outlined  that a breakage  fee 
would be incurred if the funds were transferred before  the existing ISA matured.
The message explained that once the fixed rate product matured, Mrs Ws funds, plus any 
accrued interest,  would be automatically  placed  into her holding account. The message went 
onto explain once the product had matured, Mrs W would  be able to open  a new product  and 
move her money  into it. It then stated:
Please be advised you cannot  do this before your Fixed Rate  product matures without 
incurring the breakage charge
FEP sent our service examples of the screens  Mrs W would have  seen when going  through 
the product closure process.
These screens show that when closing the account  the breakage fee is set out for 
customers. When hovering over the breakage fee amount, a box displays a message 
explaining that the end of the fixed rate hasnt  been  reached. It also mentions  that the 
breakage fee outlined  is a charge for closing the fixed rate product before the end of the 
term.
Mrs W has told us she didnt see the screens when going through the product closure 
process. Looking at the evidence provided, it seems  mostly likely  to me that Mrs W would 
have had to navigate the screens mentioned when closing her ISA. This is a mandatory step 
of the process  and the funds wouldnt have  been  moved without this screen appearing first. 
However I do appreciate  she may not remember  doing this
So, while I understand Mrs Ws frustrations,  particularly as she closed the ISA product only a 
few hours  before it would  have matured, having taken everything into consideration, I cant 
safely say FEP failed to give Mrs W sufficiently clear information  about both the date of 
maturity or the early  breakage fees that may be applied to her account.  And because  I cant 
say FEP did anything wrong in how it presented the information to Mrs W, I cant uphold her 
complaint.
Ref: DRN62701263My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mrs Ws complaint against Family Equity Plan 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Karen Hanlon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6270126