K820x#14complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with the service he was provided by Admiral  Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) when he tried to add his daughter to his multicar policy.
background
Mr M called Admiral to add his daughter and her car to his multicar policy, he was given  a 
quote but couldnt take it forward as he needed to call back with some more information  
about the other drivers  on the policy. He was given a reference number to use when he 
called back. 
The following  day he called back but the agent he spoke to couldnt access  the quote with 
the reference number Mr M had been  given and so completed a new quote. Mr M said the 
agent, who Ill call A for the purpose of this decision, was rude and treated him like a 
criminal during the call. Mr M spoke  to various other agents over many hours and across a 
few days trying to arrange the cover for his daughter, he was promised calls back by some 
of them  but never received them. He was also given  extension  numbers  to be able to reach  
agents and was not able to get through to them.
Mr M was also concerned that the quote  changed  throughout the time he was trying  to 
arrange the cover.
Mr M complained to Admiral about the service he had received.  Admiral investigated 
matters, and upheld  Mr Ms complaint in part. It agreed that Mr M had had to spend an 
unnecessary amount  of time on the phone to arrange  cover for his daughter, and that he 
hadnt received  calls back when he shouldve. 
It was unable to listen to the call between Mr M and A as the call hadnt recorded,  it says this 
was due to a fault on the line A was using. As it couldnt listen  to the call, it didnt uphold  this 
part of Mr Ms complaint but apologised if it caused  him any distress.
Admiral checked with its pricing  team  and confirmed to Mr M that the quote  had changed as 
details had been added to the policy about  the other  drivers, and the final quote  he had 
received was correct  based on the information  he had provided.
For the overall service  provided Admiral awarded  Mr M £125 in compensation. Mr M was 
unhappy with this and told it he didnt want to accept it and brought his complaint to this 
service, he said he felt £1500 compensation would be a more  appropriate amount due to the 
time he spent dealing with this.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint in summary he said he agreed that Admiral 
had got things wrong but felt it had dealt fairly  with Mr Ms complaint and so didnt think it 
needed to increase its compensation offer.
Mr M didnt  agree, he said that Admiral had withheld call recordings from this service and so 
his complaint hadnt been fully considered. The investigator explained that he had listened to 
the calls that he felt were  most relevant and while he had considered all of Mr Ms complaint,  
he didnt need  go into detail about every  call in in his findings.  As Mr M still disagreed with 
the investigators findings the matter has been passed to me to decide.
Ref: DRN66458162my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I must tell Mr M that I have come to the same outcome  as the investigator  for largely the 
same reasons, so Im not sure there  is much  I can usefully add here.
I understand that Mr M thinks Admiral deleted the call between  him and A to hide the service 
failings. But I havent seen anything to suggest  thats happened  here and Im satisfied that 
the call failed to record because of a fault.  I appreciate that this will be disappointing to Mr M 
but as that call isnt available,  I am unable to fairly  make a finding on what happened during 
it.
On the rest of the service  provided Admiral hasnt  disputed  that it got things wrong, and that 
Mr M had to spend an unnecessary amount of time on calls to it. So, it only leaves me to 
decide if the compensation amount it has offered is fair, and in this case, I do, Ill explain.
Mr M feels that he spent around  twelve to fifteen hours on calls with Admiral, and feels  his 
time is worth £1500 in compensation.  Admiral  couldnt provide two calls which didnt record  
but were able to show that all other  calls Mr M had with it lasted in total around four and a 
half hours.
My role here is not to punish a business when something goes wrong but to make sure it put 
things right in an appropriate way. While I dont disbelieve Mr M spent many hours dealing 
with this issue, we dont award an hourly  rate for compensation at this service. I have 
considered the time along with the inconvenience Mr M suffered and I feel that the £125 
Admiral offered in compensation along with its apology is a fair way to put things right.
Admiral should arrange  for Mr M to receive  the £125  if he hasnt already.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or
reject my decision  before 13 June  2020.
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6645816