K820x#14complaint
This complaints about a credit card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken  out in 
2005. Mr D says Capital  One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ive seen the credit agreement Mr D signed  to take out the credit  card.  He didnt select  PPI 
when he completed  this form.  So, I think he wouldve known  he didnt have to take PPI to 
get the card. Capital One said PPI was added during  a phone call to activate his credit card. 
I think that likely.
I cant know what was discussed during  that phone call. Given  the time that has passed  any 
call recording  that was made at the time is no longer available. Mr D said it wasnt  made 
clear that PPI was optional. 
Ive seen a copy  of the call script that Capital  One said it was using at the time to sell PPI. I 
can see from the script that the optional nature of PPI was to be explained, and the customer  
was then to be asked if they wanted PPI. I havent  seen anything  to make  me think that 
Capital One wasnt  following  its usual sales process  when it sold the PPI to Mr D. So, I think  
it likely  that he wouldve been  told this and asked if he wanted PPI. I think it likely that Mr D 
said he wanted PPI and thats  why it was added. I can understand why he may not 
remember that now after all this time.
Capital One didnt advise Mr D to take out PPI. So, it didnt have to consider whether it was 
suitable for him. But, it did have to give him enough  clear information so that he could decide 
for himself if it was right for him and he wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  So, I must consider whether Mr D has lost out because of this.  
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like he was affected 
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  so I think  it would  have been  useful  
for him if something went wrong.
Mr D couldnt remember if he wouldve got any sick pay from work. Even if he did, this policy 
could have paid out for up to 12 months  per successful claim for accident, sickness  or 
unemployment, on top of any sick pay he got through work. It wouldve also paid out for 12 
months, if he was to lose his job. 
Mr D said his parents couldve helped with his repayments. And whilst I accept they may 
have wanted to, help of this kind cant always be guaranteed  when  the time comes. So, I 
havent placed much reliance on this. 
Ref: DRN66326112Overall, I think the policy could have provided a helpful benefit. It also looks like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D. 
But Capital One does have to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr D because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D about that. Because Capital One didnt tell Mr D, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr D.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mr D any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
 
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6632611