K821x#15complaint
Mr K and Mrs C have  complained about their previous  home insurer Legal & General 
Insurance Limited (L&G)  because  it gave them incorrect  information in the run-up to renewal 
which left them unclear whether their cover was still in place, if their credit  record  had been 
affected and if the upcoming renewal had been cancelled.
background
Mr K called L&G to discuss some changes to his policy for the coming year.  He said he 
wanted to pay by one instalment rather than monthly  direct debit as previously. A couple  of 
days later Mr K and Mrs C received renewal documents  in the post.  These said payment 
was by direct debit. Mr K was unhappy and called  L&G stating he wanted to cancel. L&G 
said there was a final payment outstanding for the current year. 
Mr K sought  to make the final payment but encountered problems. He told L&G but it said it 
had provided the correct  payment code.  Mr K became worried about his credit  and was 
unsure if non-payment  meant his lasts months cover with L&G had been cancelled  or 
withdrawn. He was worried  they had no cover until the renewal date (at which point  hed 
arranged cover to begin  with another  provider). And he was still unsure, despite asking L&G 
to confirm, if it had cancelled the renewal. Hes described that during this time he had a 
feeling of constant anxiety  as well as sleepless nights.
L&G issued a final response to Mr K and Mrs C. This was dated just four days  before  the 
renewal date. It wasnt received until later. In any event Mr K and Mrs C felt it still didnt 
answer all their questions.  In the letter L&G accepted there  was an error in the documents  
received following Mr Ks initial call to it. But it didnt say how or why that had occurred. It 
also accepted  the payment reference it had given Mr K had been wrong (meaning he 
couldnt make the payment). It said it would waive the final months payment and pay £30 
compensation. It later confirmed that Mr K and Mrs Cs credit  record  hadnt been  affected.
Mr K and Mrs C remained unhappy. Our investigator  felt that L&G had given poor service to 
Mr K and Mrs C. She understood the worry theyd been caused, which she accepted was 
quite significant,  even though only occurring over a short  period of time. She felt L&G should 
pay a further £100  compensation.  
Mr K and Mrs C thanked our investigator  for her findings. L&G said it thought £152.18 (£100 
suggested by the investigator, plus its £30 and the waived premium) was too much in the 
circumstances, particularly as this was just about  a renewal. Our investigator responded, 
noting that whilst a renewal was at the heart of this, L&Gs errors had caused Mr K and 
Mrs C very serious worry that their home  wasnt covered and that their credit record  might be 
affected. She remained of the view that the additional compensation shed recommended  
was fair and reasonable in the circumstances here.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with our investigator. L&G failed  Mr K and Mrs C here and they suffered significantly 
as a result. This was just a renewal but the worry caused by L&Gs  failures at this time 
related to issues of great concern for Mr K and Mrs C. L&G has failed to acknowledge this. 
Ref: DRN68332962I also think L&G failed to pick up on some key markers in the emails  Mr K sent to it which,  
I think, quite clearly show he doesnt  think  it has answered his concerns. L&G,  even to this 
service, has kept stating that it has answered the issues raised. But I must  admit Im still 
unsure why all of this happened. I think in its email of 10 August 2018 L&G is suggesting that 
renewal documents  were  already  in the post when Mr K spoke to it to change his payment 
arrangement. But the renewal documents it sent with that email, which are labelled as 
revised  and dated the day Mr K spoke to it  still refer to Mr K as paying monthly and 
include a credit agreement for that purpose. Its all very unclear and I fully understand why 
Mr K was so frustrated with L&G. 
Its also the case that Mr K sent L&G a screenshot showing its payment reference  was 
wrong, or not being  accepted by the website. But all L&G did was confirm the reference was 
correct. Correct or not it clearly wasnt working, so confirming  it was correct didnt resolve the 
issue Mr K was having.
Im satisfied that a further £100 compensation is fairly and reasonable due in the 
circumstances here.  And whilst this service  isnt here to change the way businesses  
practice, we do expect them to take note of the issues raised  in our decisions. I, therefore,  
trust that L&G will note for future reference what  Ive said here about  the very real and 
significant worry that has arisen for Mr K and Mrs C, over what  was in reality  a relatively 
small error, or a few small errors, centring  around  the administrative issue of renewal. Its the 
level of upset and inconvenience we compensate for and that isnt always directly and 
proportionately linked  to the size or type of error. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require L&G to pay Mr K and Mrs C a further £100 compensation 
(making a total of £152.18).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 October  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6833296