K820x#14Complaint
Mr N complains that TSB Bank Plc reduced  the interest rate on his current  account after 
promising not to.
Background
Mr N holds a Classic Plus account  with TSB. In April 2018, many TSB customers were left 
unable to access their accounts due to issues that arose during a data migration exercise. 
To thank  customers for their patience, TSB introduced  a number of measures which were 
announced by its CEO  during a radio interview.
During the interview, the CEO explained that TSB was increasing the interest rate on its 
Classic Plus account from 3% to 5%. When the presenter asked how long this interest rate 
would last, the CEO said that rate is there for good. In May 2018,  TSB emailed its 
customers to confirm  the increase. The email said we promise this wont be taken  away  
after a year.
Mr N took from this that the interest rate on his account would  be permanently fixed  at 5%. 
So he was disappointed  to receive an email  in April 2019 giving him notice  that his interest  
rate would be changing back  to 3% as of July 2019.  He complained  to TSB.
TSB didnt  uphold Mr Ns complaint. It said hed enjoyed the rate for longer  than a year,  and 
had been given plenty of notice of the change. Mr N says he didnt receive TSBs response.  
He contacted our service  as he remained unhappy  that TSB had reneged on its promises.
Our investigator looked into the complaint, and felt it should  be upheld in part. He explained 
to Mr N that as we arent a regulator, were  not able to tell banks  what  interest rates  to set. 
But he thought  that TSB could have been  clearer in its communication about the changes, 
and felt it had caused Mr N some distress. He asked  TSB to pay Mr N £50 compensation.
TSB didnt  agree. It said it was contractually entitled  to vary the interest  rate, and didnt think
it had done so in a way which  caused  Mr N distress. I therefore need to reach a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on the complaint just over a week  ago. Ive included an 
extract below. I said:
TSB made a commercial decision to increase the interest rate on its Classic Plus account to
5% as a thank you to customers  whod remained  loyal through  its IT migration issues. TSB 
reviewed its position  earlier  this year and decided that a 5% interest rate was no longer 
sustainable, or in line with the rest of the industry. So it gave its customers  notice that the 
interest rate would be returning to 3%.
Looking at the terms and conditions of Mr Ns account, thats something it was entitled  to do. 
Its these terms  and conditions which ultimately  form Mr Ns contract with TSB, and they 
clearly set out that the interest  rate is variable, meaning it can go down as well as up.
In light of the fact that the Classic Plus account  has a variable interest rate, I can accept it 
was unhelpful  for TSB to have  suggested  that the 5% rate was there for good. And TSBs 
subsequent email promising not to take it away  after a year was also open ended. Its never  
nice to hear that something like an advantageous interest rate is coming to an end. So I can 
understand why Mr N was disappointed  here.
Ref: DRN65218402I think its important to keep in mind though that the increased rate was concessionary. And 
that Mr N was able to benefit from it for around  15 months. I agree that TSB should have 
been clearer about how long the 5% rate might last at the outset. But I think  it minimised the 
impact of this by giving  Mr N nearly  three  months notice that it would be returning to 3%.
As part of that communication, it explained that Mr N could close  or switch his account 
without charge if he wasnt happy  with the decrease. So if Mr N had made any financial 
decisions based on an understanding that the 5% rate was permanent,  Im satisfied he had 
enough time to explore other options  before the decrease came  into effect.
Mr N has also complained  that TSB didnt send him a final response letter. But Ive seen a 
copy of it and it was correctly addressed. Ive also seen a screenshot  of TSBs systems to 
show it was despatched. So if Mr N didnt receive it, this isnt something I can hold TSB 
responsible for. In any event, this didnt impact  Mr Ns ability  to bring  his complaint to us.
Taking everything into account,  and having thought carefully about the impact  of TSBs 
actions on Mr N, I dont intend to make an award of compensation.
Responses to my provisional decision 
TSB didnt  comment on the provisional decision although it did confirm  it had been received. 
Mr N provided  further comments.  He said TSB made a clear  promise that the 5% interest 
rate would be there for good and not taken away. So it now needed to stand by that. 
Mr N added that he called TSB eight  weeks  after raising his complaint and was told it hadnt  
been looked at yet. He felt this was inconsistent with TSBs claims that it issued its final 
response letter on the same day that it received the complaint.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I accept that TSBs CEO said during the radio interview that the 5% interest  rate was there 
for good. And that this was followed up in writing with a promise not to take the 5% rate 
away after a year. But I dont think this means that it would  be fair to require TSB to fix the 
interest rate on Mr Ns account  at 5% indefinitely.  
The fact remains that Mr Ns relationship with TSB is ultimately governed  by the terms and 
conditions of his account. And these set out that the interest rate on the account is variable. 
So TSB was acting within the terms and conditions of Mr Ns account when it reviewed the 
5% interest rate and decided it was no longer reflective of the financial climate.  
This isnt to say that TSB got everything right here. I recognise that the language TSB used 
when it introduced the 5% interest  rate was poorly chosen and raised Mr Ns expectations. 
But I dont think this justifies an award of compensation,  for the reasons I set out in my 
provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN65218403Mr N has also said he was told by TSB that his complaint was still awaiting action eight 
weeks after he made it. On balance, Im satisfied  from the screenshots  Ive seen of TSBs 
correspondence logs that it generated and sent a final response letter shortly after receiving 
Mr Ns complaint.  
Its unclear why Mr N would have been told otherwise during the call hes mentioned. But by 
the time Mr N says this call took place, he was free to bring his complaint to us for an 
impartial review, which  he subsequently did. So I dont think  he lost out as a result of being 
told by TSB that his complaint  was still outstanding.  
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of 
the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr N to accept or reject my decision 
before 17 October  2019. 
Mike Walker
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6521840