K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about Mr and Mrs S mortgage with Barclays Bank UK PLC.  Theyre 
unhappy that Barclays hasnt done enough to help them whilst theyve been in arrears  due to 
financial difficulties. In particular, they say Barclays has gone  back on a verbal promise  it 
made to switch the mortgage to interest-only.
background 
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words and rounding some of the figures involved. No discourtesys intended 
by that; its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont mention something, it 
wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to the outcome 
of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which in my view will have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
Mr and Mrs S have  a jointly-held repayment mortgage, with a linked mortgage current  
account (MCA), taken  out in 2007 over a 25-year  term.  The main  mortgage is on a capital 
repayment basis, whilst the MCA is a secured overdraft facility with an upper credit  limit but 
no fixed repayment schedule. Mr and Mrs S divorced some years  ago, and whilst Mrs S 
continued to live, with their children,  in the mortgaged property, Mr S lives overseas.
Mrs S has told us that the court  in the divorce proceedings ordered Mr S to make  a monthly 
contribution to her to cover maintenance, child maintenance, and the mortgage. 
Unfortunately, Mr S has struggled to maintain this payment due to disruptions in his 
employment and income.  Arrears accrued  on the mortgage, and the MCA went over its 
agreed limit. Mr and Mrs S had put their home up for sale in early 2017, and found a buyer  in 
a reasonable time. 
They were  in periodic  contact with Barclays whilst the sale was progressing, and it was 
anticipated that the sale would complete  and allow them to repay the mortgage and MCA in 
full before the arrears became serious  enough for Barclays to consider recovery  action. 
Unfortunately, the sale fell through in May 2018.  Mr and Mrs S asked Barclays to agree that 
the mortgage be switched to interest-only, until they could find a new buyer.  Mr S says this 
was agreed by a member  of staff over the phone in September 2018, but subsequently 
Barclays said this wasnt possible due to the arrears. 
Since then,  Mrs S has negotiated a series of short-term interest-only  concessions (the 
monthly interest is approximately £250 each month instead of the full payment of around 
£1,100) and borrowed money from friends to try and pay down the arrears. Barclays  
eventually decided not to renew  the concession, thus bringing forward the prospect of the 
bank applying its recovery process,  including, potentially, possession  proceedings.
Mr and Mrs S complained about the lack of support; and also about what they saw as 
inefficiencies and mistakes in how their contact  with Barclays  was being handled and 
managed. This included  what  turned  to be an unnecessary and unproductive meeting at the 
local branch in January 2018,  and what they describe as being run round in circles in their 
calls with the banks  different  departments.  
Ref: DRN67256462Barclays issued a final response in July 2019.  It acknowledged that a switch to interest-only 
had been suggested verbally,  but nothing had been agreed formally.  It apologised  for the 
January 2018  meeting and for passing them around  different departments.  For their wasted  
time, the cost of calls and general distress, Barclays offered Mr and Mrs S compensation 
totalling £450. Mr and Mrs S didnt  think  this was good enough, so the case  came to us. 
Recovery action has been  on hold whilst we looked  the complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  agree that Barclays was obliged to switch the mortgage to 
interest-only, or more generally that it had failed to treat Mr and Mrs S unfairly  whilst they 
were in financial hardship. He also considered Barclays had made a fair offer of 
compensation for the service  aspects of the complaint. 
Weve had separate submissions from Mr and Mrs S in response to the investigators view; 
theyre very different. Mr S, in essence,  says that our investigation hasnt  been  thorough  
enough and that key elements have  been missed. 
Mrs S had more to say; she says that all of her savings have gone on legal fees,  and shes 
been left on her own to deal with everything, and shes had to borrow money to stay afloat. 
Mrs S did also say that she considered Barclays approach to be shocking, unsympathetic  
and irresponsible  towards a long-term customer in a vulnerable position.
The case  is now with me to review and determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ill make  some general observations 
before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing that, we dont  
replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
If I dont comment  on any specific point its not because Ive failed to consider it but because  
I dont think I need  to comment on it in order to reach what  I think is the right outcome in the 
wider context. My remit is to take an overview  and decide  whats fair in the round. Its also 
for me to decide when I have  all the evidence I need, and to decide what  weight I should 
attach to the evidence I have.  
In an email dated 16 July 2019, Mr S summarised the objectives he and Mrs S have for 
resolving the complaint  under three broad heads; these are that Barclays  should
do the right thing and honour its obligation  to switch the mortgage to interest-only,  rolled  
back to when it was promised, with the resultant removal  of penalties  and extra interest;
pay reasonable compensation for time,  stress and deliberate buck-passing;  and
resolve the black mark it has created on their credit ratings.
Ref: DRN67256463Its a common misconception  that the rules of mortgage regulation require  lenders  to provide 
forbearance. What  they actually  require  lenders  to do is consider each set of individual 
circumstances fairly  to decide  if forbearance  should be provided  (and if so, in what form); the 
two things arent the same. Wed expect a lender to consider  offering help to consumers 
going through a temporary problem,  especially  in situations where it can be seen their 
situation is likely to improve.  The problem here is that Mr and Mrs S difficulty in getting  on 
top of their arrears has been anything but temporary. 
On the main point of dispute, switching to interest-only might  sound an easy solution, but its 
anything but. It means the borrower  is falling  behind with the scheduled repayment  of capital. 
It runs the risk of storing up more trouble for the future  because  when capital repayments are 
resumed, they are higher still to make  up for lost time. Switching to interest-only  can 
sometimes work temporarily, but as Ive said, Mr and Mrs S problems havent been 
temporary. 
Barclays regarded the proposal as unsustainable  because by its assessment of 
Mr and Mrs S income and expenditure, even interest-only was unaffordable.  Mr and Mrs S 
may take a different  view,  but that was Barclays judgement to make, and its not my role to 
second guess  or interfere  with a lenders commercial judgement. Even  if it were,  Id be 
disinclined to do so in any event. It would, in effect,  require me to conclude that it would have 
been a good idea for Barclays to endorse and regularise a situation  in which Mrs S was 
borrowing from friends to meet her financial commitments.
The pressure to maintain the mortgage payments must have been immense  for Mrs S in 
particular, and Im not unsympathetic towards  her in that regard. But my impartiality means I 
must also have regard for Barclays point of view. It was being asked to sanction an 
arrangement that was reliant on the sale of a property for which the market,  by 
Mr and Mrs S own admission, is very uncertain, for a variety of reasons. Theyve described 
the house as desirable, and I take their point in the general sense. But theres a big 
difference between  desirable and saleable, and in practical terms, very few people want  (or 
are able) to buy a property such as theirs at present.  
In summary,  Barclays had not, as Mr S, as claimed, entered  into an obligation to switch the 
mortgage to interest-only. An obligation doesnt  exist because a bank says itll consider 
doing something it then decides not to do after assessing all the circumstances. Barclays  
regulatory obligation here was to assess whether switching to interest-only was appropriate 
in the circumstances. Overall, Im not persuaded that Barclays  treated Mr and Mrs S unfairly 
when it decided it wasnt.
Everything has a context, and when I view the decisions  Barclays has made  from time to 
time against the conduct of the account in its entirety, it seems to me that Barclays has 
shown a reasonable degree of patience  and lenience  towards  Mr and Mrs S over the past 
three years. One of the fundamental principles underpinning  the mortgage contract is that a 
lender has the right to enforce its security to recover money owed to it. It would be entirely  
inequitable and inappropriate for me to remove that right from a lender  in a final decision on 
a complaint, regardless of the individual consumers wider situation.  It therefore follows that 
theres no fair or proper basis for me to uphold the main thrust of the complaint. 
As far as compensation for the service aspects of the complaint, like the investigator I find 
£450 in total to be broadly  fair and proportionate.  If no offer had been  made,  I wouldnt have 
awarded more. That leaves the question  of damage to Mr and Mrs S credit  ratings.  The 
Ref: DRN67256464starting point here is that lenders are obliged to report  the conduct  of a mortgage  factually 
and accurately. 
Mr and Mrs S havent sent us their credit files to look at, so Ive no way of assessing whether 
Barclays has done anything other  than report their conduct of the mortgage  account factually 
and accurately. Nor can I consider  whether  Mr and Mrs S have problems with other credit 
commitments that might  also have been reported  on their respective credit  files. Either  way, 
whatever Barclays has or hasnt reported  on Mr and Mrs S credit  files, Id be slow to 
conclude that Barclays had created the problem. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from their submissions the determination  with which  Mr and Mrs S 
have brought  the complaint. They see error  or wrong-doing in almost everything the bank 
and its representatives  have done (or not done). Thats a natural, subjective reaction, and 
entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  But look hard enough and its possible to find inconsistencies and/or 
anomalies in what  both sides have said and done from time to time. Be that as it may,  I have  
to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have  to look at things objectively,  sometimes  
taking a step back and focussing  on the broader picture. Thats  what  Ive done.  Having  done  
so, I cant find in Mr and Mrs S favour, however much they think  I should.
Mr and Mrs S dont  have to accept my conclusions, and if they dont, then neither they nor 
Barclays will be bound by my final decision. Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions  a 
court might impose, Mr and Mrs S right to take legal  action against Barclays  over the subject 
matter of this complaint  wont  have been prejudiced by our consideration of the complaint. 
They wouldnt necessarily have to initiate court proceedings of their own to do that. In the 
event the conduct of the mortgage account  reached  a stage where Barclays  considered it 
necessary to initiate  possession  proceedings,  Mr and Mrs S could, if they wished, ask the 
court to consider all of the arguments  theyve presented here as part of their defence. It 
would then be for the court to decide  whether, in all those circumstances, it would be fair to 
give possession of the mortgaged property to Barclays.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint, and I make no order or award. I will 
leave it to Mr and Mrs S to decide whether,  of further reflection, they wish to contact 
Barclays to accept the offer of £450  in full and final settlement of it. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 April 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67256465
Ref: DRN6725646