K822xcomplaint
Mr G says that he was mis-sold  a will and estate  planning package  when taking mortgage 
advice from an appointed representative  of Legal & General Partnership Services Limited 
(L&G). 
Mr G is represented in bringing this complaint by a claims management company (CMC). 
background 
Mr M remortgaged in November 2005.  He was advised by a mortgage  broker  from the firm 
Carrington Carr, which was an appointed representative of L&G at the time.
In 2016, the CMC raised a complaint with L&G on Mr Gs behalf  about a will and estate 
planning package  hed been  sold at the same time he took out his new mortgage.  It raised  a 
number of concerns,  in summary saying that:
the advice  to take out the package and add the cost to the mortgage hadnt been 
suitable;
the charge  for the will package wasnt reasonable  when compared  to the prevailing 
market rate; and
the broker had unfairly  benefitted  from commission paid by the will-writing company 
(and which it believed  was a sister company).
L&G upheld the complaint  in part. It thought  Mr G had a need for the will package, but didnt  
think it was right that the fee for this had been added to the mortgage balance. So it offered 
to refund the mortgage interest it wouldve attracted over the full mortgage term. It also 
offered £150 for the inconvenience caused. 
The CMC then referred Mr Gs complaint to us. One of investigators  looked into things, but 
thought L&G had made a fair offer to resolve the matter. So the CMC asked for an 
ombudsman to review  the complaint, and it was passed to me.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision last month,  setting out why I intended  to uphold Mr Gs 
complaint in part. In summary, I said:
I didnt think it had been bad advice to suggest that Mr G review  his arrangements 
and make a will. While noting that Mr G had been referred  to a particular company for 
that service  which had directors in common  with the broker  I didnt find anything 
to render the advice unsuitable  or inappropriate. And I thought  Mr G had the 
opportunity to decline the recommendation  if hed not wished to proceed. 
L&G wasnt responsible for any issues Mr G had with the quality or cost of the 
service he received from the will-writing company. It had been provided by a third 
party, to which Mr G would need to direct any concerns  in this respect. So I saw no 
basis on which to refund the fee hed been  charged for the will package itself.
Ref: DRN63699862I agreed that it may not have  been good  advice  to fund the will package by adding 
the fee to the mortgage balance.  L&G had already recognised  that, and offered to 
refund Mr G any additional interest  hell have had to pay as a result  so hed not lost 
out financially. And I thought the £150 it had offered was fair compensation for any 
upset or inconvenience hed been  caused.
In respect of the legal  costs, I noted  that the concerns around the referral fee had 
been settled. But on reviewing the documentation completed and provided when the 
advice was given,  I also noted that Mr G wouldve  been charged a legal 
administration fee by the broker  which I understood to have been £293.75. I 
couldnt see that the fee, or what it was for, had been clearly  explained to Mr G or 
that hed agreed  to it before it was incurred. So I thought L&G should  refund it, along 
with the interest  paid on that amount over the years until the matter is settled.
The CMC acknowledged  receipt of my provisional decision, but didnt respond with any 
further comments or evidence for me to consider. L&G confirmed it accepted my provisional 
findings. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and with nothing further to consider from either party, I see no reason to 
reach a different conclusion. So this decision confirms my provisional findings, as 
summarised above.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Gs complaint in part and require 
Legal & General Partnership Services Limited to:
Honour its offers  in respect  of the will and estate planning package  and the 
commission paid by the conveyancing  solicitors; and
Refund the legal administration fee of £293.75 together with interest at the mortgage 
rate from the date the mortgage completed  until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2020.
Ben Jennings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6369986