K820x#14complaint
Mr H, Mrs V and their son, Mr H1, complain  about  how Mapfre Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. dealt with a claim against their annual travel 
insurance policy. 
background
Mr H says that whilst he, Mrs V and Mr H1 were  on a skiing  trip in December 2018, they had 
head colds and coughs and werent  able to make  full use of their ski passes. On their return, 
Mr H claimed  against their policy in relation to their ski passes. Mapfre declined the claim 
because they didnt have medical  certificates,  as they didnt see a doctor when they were 
abroad.  
Mr H, Mrs V and Mr H1 say that Mapfre shouldnt have declined  their claim and should 
recognise that, in some  circumstances,  its requirement for medical certificates  is 
unreasonable, unethical and unfair. They say that Mapfre should accept alternative evidence 
from the ski lift company,  which shows the use of the ski passes. Mr H, Mrs V and Mr H1 
also say that Mapfre  failed to respond  to e-mails. They want Mapfre  to settle their claim for 
the full and half days they didnt ski. 
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She said that Mapfre  acted in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions of the policy in declining the claim. The 
investigator said that Mapfre hadnt  taken an unreasonable amount of time to respond to 
Mr H and had sent its responses to the e-mail address it had on record  for him. 
Mr H didnt agree with the investigator. He said:
He was aware of the requirement to produce  a medical certificate as evidence of 
illness but that wasnt reasonable and may be an unfair  term. 
There was no need for a medical certificate  here, as no medical treatment was 
required. 
Mapfre should have  considered alternative  evidence.
He didnt give Mapfre the old e-mail address,  which  hasnt been active  for several 
years. In any event,  Mapfre should have responded to the e-mails it received and 
should have investigated when its e-mails were undelivered.   
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN67241822the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy, which  include the following:
Q3  Ski pack
What you are covered for
We will pay up to the amount shown in the table of benefits for a percentage of the cost of 
your ski pack  (if you have already paid and cant get the money back).  We will do this if you 
are ill or injured while you are on holiday and you are not well enough to use it. You must get 
a medical certificate  to prove that you are not well enough. A ski pack  includes [] the cost 
of any lift pass you have  booked.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that Mapfre has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly  and it shouldnt reject  a claim unreasonably. I cant  decide that a 
term in a policy is unfair and unenforceable - only a court can do that. But I can consider 
whether Mapfre acted unfairly. I dont think that it did here and Ill explain why. 
The requirement that the claim in this case should be supported by a medical  
certificate is clear and not unusual.  I dont think its unfair for Mapfre  to seek  to rely 
on that term. 
Its for the policyholders  to provide evidence of their claims in the first instance. When 
a claim relates to illness, its entirely  reasonable for an insurer  to ask for medical  
evidence. 
Mr H says there was no need for a medical certificate here, as no medical treatment 
was required.  But the policy doesnt  say that a medical certificate is only required if 
medical treatment is necessary. I dont think its unusual for a doctor to be asked  for 
a medical certificate or report.    
Mr H provided  evidence  relating to their use of the ski passes but that doesnt show  
that they were  ill. I dont  think  that Mapfre was wrong to decide that wasnt  sufficient 
evidence of illness.  
Mapfre responded to the e-mail  address  Mr H provided in the claim form. I dont think  
it was wrong to do so. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H, Mrs V and 
Mr H1 to accept or reject my decision before 6 May 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6724182