K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  about the settlement that U K Insurance  Limited (UKI) offered her under her 
motor insurance policy  for her car. She wants this increased. Ms A is represented  in this 
matter by Ms M. 
background
Ms As car was damaged  beyond economical repair. UKI offered  her £10,300 in settlement 
of her claim. But Ms M said research showed  similar cars selling for higher prices. She 
thought the cars colour increased its value. She thought UKI should increase its offer to 
£12,000.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  UKIs  
offer made been made correctly according to our approach. She thought  advertised  prices 
had room for negotiation. She didnt  see evidence that the cars colour  would increase its 
value.
Ms M replied that they couldnt find a similar car for the settlement UKI offered. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms As policy provides for the cars market value at the time of loss in the case  
of it being beyond economical  repair. The investigator has explained this services  approach  
to car valuations in that we dont provide valuations for cars but seek to assess whether the 
insurers offer is reasonable. 
In assessing whether  a reasonable offer has been  made, we obtain  valuations from motor-
trade guides. These are used for valuing second  hand vehicles. We find these guides to be 
particularly persuasive,  largely because their valuations are based  on nationwide research 
and likely sales figures. The guides also take into account regional variations. We also take 
all other available  evidence into account,  for example, engineers  reports.
UKIs engineer said hed obtained valuations for Ms As car from the motor  trade guides. He 
said his offer was better than the average  of these. So UKI thought its offer was fair and 
reasonable.
Our investigator checked the valuations of Ms As car in the motor  trade guides we use and 
she thought UKIs offer was fair. I can see that she checked for the correct make, model,  
mileage, condition and options  as Ms As car. And I can see that the settlement that UKI 
offered is better than the average of the valuations provided by the trade guides we use. I 
havent seen evidence that the cars colour would increase its value. 
Ms M did her own research into similar  cars advertised online. And she provided the results 
to UKI and us to consider.  But we dont find advertisements particularly persuasive as these 
are essentially  asking  prices and arent selling prices. Its for this reason that the trade  
guides are used as they provide evidence of likely retail selling prices. 
Ref: DRN60197032I think UKIs offer was made  correctly  according to our approach.  So I think  UKIs offer for 
the market value of Ms As car at the time of its loss is fair and reasonable. And I dont 
require it to increase  this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6019703