K821x#15complaint
Ms N has complained TSB Bank  plc didnt refund direct debit payments made to an online 
payment scheme  in 2017.
background
Ms N contacted TSB in August 2017  after noticing transactions  on her statement that she 
hadnt made. These all seemed to be direct  debit payments to an account with an online 
payment scheme  (who Ill call P). TSB said they wouldnt  try and get these payments back  
for Ms N. They thought  the evidence showed  shed set up the original direct debit 
arrangement. Shed  given a four-digit code  (which showed on her statement) to someone  to 
enable the direct debit instruction to be set up.
Ms N was unhappy with TSBs conclusion. She brought her complaint  to the ombudsman 
service.
After considering evidence from TSB, P and Ms N, our investigator told TSB they needed to 
refund all the payments to Ms N. These  totalled £747.39. They  also needed to pay her £150 
in total for the delays in sorting this out.
TSB didnt  agree. They said Ms N had consented  to the direct debit arrangement.  Theyd  
therefore done nothing wrong.  They asked an ombudsman to consider Ms Ns complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly similar reasons. Ill explain why. 
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
in this type of case whether the customer was grossly negligent or what the customer  may 
have consented  to. So when we look at whether  a bank has acted  fairly  in rejecting 
someones fraud complaint, one of the things we consider  is whether the customer made  the 
transactions themselves or allowed  them to be made. If they did, then we generally  wouldnt 
ask the bank to refund  them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions  
themselves, as well as what both TSB and P has told us.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how consent was given to the direct  debit 
arrangement were comprehensively covered  in our investigators view of 30 October  2019.  I 
dont intend to repeat everything that was said there. Except to say Im satisfied Ive 
reviewed the complaint  thoroughly.
The facts  I think are pertinent to this complaint include:
Ms N was due to be paid money  from someone shed done work for. She gave them  
her sort code and account number. She was told shed get a payment of 1p (or a £1 
she wasnt sure which)  which  would test out whether  this worked.  Shed also get a 
reference which she needed to provide to the person who was paying her.
Ref: DRN60118732She provided this reference  a four-digit  code  to the other  person. This person  
then paid her £200  which she was expecting  as payment for the work shed done.
This four-digit code was what P needed to set up a direct  debit instruction using 
Ms Ns bank account details.
From  21 April to 11 August 2017  Ms N was debited by P for 12 transactions totalling 
£747.39.
P has confirmed Ms N doesnt  hold an account  with them.
Taking all the facts into consideration I can see why TSB initially  felt Ms N had authorised  
the setting up of the direct debit arrangement. Shed given the four-digit code to another  
party who used this with P. Thats how P validates  direct debit arrangements.
But I cant see any evidence that Ms N knew this what  was going on. She gave this code to 
ensure she got payment. And I can see this happened. I dont believe she authorised any of 
the subsequent transactions. 
If I believed she knew a direct debit was being  set up then I may say Ms N authorised  the 
direct debit payments.  But I dont  think theres any evidence to show this to be the case.  
Ms N has been consistent in her evidence to us. I see no reason to doubt what shes  told us.
In terms of the direct debiting scheme rules,  Ms N should have received notice of payments 
prior to any debiting taking place.  Its clear she received nothing  from P (as there was no 
customer relationship). If TSB had looked at this more carefully theyd have been aware of 
this and realised  they could  have  claimed  back all of Ms Ns money. 
Ive also considered whether there  was any gross negligence  involved here. As TSB will 
know this is a high bar to meet. Ms N gave her sort code and account  details to enable 
payments to be made to her. That obviously doesnt  constitute any form of negligence. She 
then gave a four-digit code to someone  as she thought this would mean shed get the money 
that was due to her. I dont believe thats  unreasonable.
Like our investigator I think TSB could have done more when Ms N first complained  to them.  
I dont really understand why they didnt  process the direct debit refunds as the direct 
debiting scheme  allows  them  to do. This has caused  an unnecessary  delay to Ms N being  
able to sort things out. I believe its fair shes paid compensation for this. £150 in total seems 
fair and reasonable to me. TSB say theyve already paid Ms N £25 so they need to give her 
a further £125.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  TSB Bank  plc to:
Refund £747.39 for the payments which Ms N didnt authorise from 21 April to 
11 August 2017;
Add 8% simple interest to those amounts from the date Ms N was debited  until the 
date of settlement;  and
Pay her a total of £150 for the trouble caused.
Ref: DRN60118733Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6011873