K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about the way Acromas  Insurance Company Limited  dealt with a claim on 
his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr H said the rear window  on his car slightly  came  away  from the soft top and asked 
Acromas to arrange for this to be repaired.  Acromas arranged for a repairer to look at the car 
but didnt agree to accept the claim,  saying the damage was due to wear  and tear.
Mr H didnt agree with this. And he said when Acromas engineer inspected the issue  he 
placed his hand in the gap and caused further damage to the window. He also complained 
about the service  he received from Acromas during  the claim  he said Acromas  took too 
long to deal with the claim, didnt provide a courtesy  car, and he had to make  numerous calls 
to Acromas to ask for updates. 
Acromas said the engineer was only illustrating that there was a gap and this didnt cause 
any further damage. It considered photos  Mr H provided showing his car before it was 
collected and said these showed a towel on the back  shelf, which indicated that water was 
getting into the car it before it was taken to the repairer. It also said there were signs of tape 
residue, indicating that the window was taped  to help keep the rain out. So Acromas didnt 
agree to repair the damage. But it did accept there  had been some delays and a manager  
had failed to call Mr H as agreed,  so it offered £100  compensation.
As Mr H wasnt happy with the response he complained to this service. Our investigator  
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld. She said 
The evidence showed it was unlikely the engineer had caused more damage.
A courtesy car would be provided  if there  was a valid claim, which  wasnt  the case 
here, but Acromas  had provided a car for some of the time as a goodwill gesture and 
that was beyond what the policy required.
There had been some delay but, although  there had been many  phone calls, Mr H 
had been chasing  almost daily and hadnt  given Acromas time to reply  first.
She couldnt consider any trouble or upset  caused to Mr Hs wife, who had also been  
involved, as she wasnt a customer of Acromas. She thought the payment of £100 for 
Mr H was fair. 
Mr H disagreed with the investigator. She considered some further points he made  but didnt 
change her view. So he asked for an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy provides cover for damage to the policyholders vehicle but theres no cover  if the 
damage is due to wear  and tear. The policy terms also say Acromas  may ask for evidence  to 
support a claim and may appoint an independent assessor to inspect the car.
Acromas arranged for the car to be sent to a repairer, who said it looked like the damage 
was due to wear and tear. It also arranged for an independent engineer  to prepare a report. 
Ive considered their comments, together with photos of the car. The evidence doesnt  
Ref: DRN63773862indicate that there was any impact damage to the car. There  is evidence to suggest the 
glass had been  taped up and a towel had been  used. Im satisfied that the problem with the 
rear window wasnt due to a specific incident and was more  likely caused by wear and tear. 
On that basis it wouldnt  be covered under  the policy terms.
Mr H accepts some water  had previously got into the car but says this minimal. Hes referred 
to a photo of someone putting their hand  in the gap around the glass and says this caused 
further damage. Acromas says this simply shows there was a gap and it didnt cause any 
more damage.  Ive considered this carefully, looking at the various photos provided. In my 
judgment, the particular photo  showing someones  hand simply shows there was a gap; I 
dont think it shows additional  damage caused by the engineer.
Under the policy terms, a replacement  car will be provided where there is a valid claim for 
loss or damage. Acromas  did provide one for some of the time his car was with the repairer  
and if there  wasnt a valid claim then Mr H wasnt strictly entitled to a car, so I wouldnt say 
Acromas should have provided  one for longer.
Finally, Ive considered  Mr Hs comments about  delay  dealing with the claim and poor 
service. He says Acromas only returned his car eight  weeks after they were  aware  of the 
outcome of the claim.  Hed like to be repaid the car tax for the period he didnt have the car.
Mr H notified Acromas  on 23 July and the car was collected a few days  later. Acromas got 
back to Mr H on 3 August saying it didnt  think the damage was an insured loss. In view of 
Mr Hs concerns it arranged an independent  inspection. This was done  and the outcome 
discussed with Mr H promptly. I can see that a copy of the report was also sent to Mrs H. I 
dont think there was any delay here. 
Mr H raised concerns that the engineer had caused  further damage  to the window on 20 
August. The repairer  had arranged for the vehicle to be returned  on 22 August but Mr H 
didnt accept this due to his concerns that the engineer had caused further damage.  So, 
Acromas referred the issue  back to the independent  engineers for further comments. It was 
reasonable for Acromas to refer the issue back to the engineers for comment, so I wouldnt 
say Acromas was at fault in not returning  the car sooner.
Theres no doubt there was a delay of 10 working days  getting the engineers  comments. 
Acromas has compensated Mr H for this delay (and the fact a promised call wasnt made).
I can see Mr Hs wife made lots of calls to Acromas for updates. I think  these  calls could 
have been avoided if she had given Acromas  time to reply before chasing again.  
As Ive said,  there was some delay here, and Mr H was promised someone would call but 
that didnt happen. That must have been  frustrating.  But I dont think the impact was so 
severe, or went on so long, that a larger payment would be justified. Ive also taken into 
account that although Mrs H was involved in the matter, shes not the policyholder and Im 
limited to considering  the impact on Mr H  Acromas customer. 
Taking everything into account  I think the payment of £100  is fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Ref: DRN63773863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.  
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6377386