K821x#15complaint
The complaint relates  to a claim Ms H made under the home emergency section of her 
household insurance policy with U K Insurance Limited (UKI).
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in December 2018, part of which is copied 
below: 
Ms H contacted UKI to claim under her home  emergency cover after she found water was 
coming through the ceiling of her lounge. UKI arranged  for its contractors to attend, but Ms H 
says they failed to properly  investigate  where  the leak was coming from. Ms H says they 
hacked a hole in my ceiling with a pair of scissors and told her to put a bucket under it and 
left. 
Eventually, after two more  visits, the leak was found  to be coming from the thermostatic 
valve on the radiator  in the bathroom above  the hole in the ceiling. 
Ms H complained and says shes been  left with the bathroom radiator disconnected and 
unusable and it was totally unnecessary for a hole to have been cut in the ceiling.  A more 
senior contractor told her that it should  have been  obvious that rust had affected the seal in 
the bathroom radiators thermostatic valve and therefore that the leak was from there.  Ms H 
wants UKI to pay the full cost of repairing the ceiling; the drainage  valve  in the hall (which 
she says UKIs contractors damaged) to be fixed; and the bathroom radiator and 
thermostatic valve to be replaced.
UKI arranged for an independent inspection of the property and says the resulting report  
does not dispute that it was necessary to make the hole in the ceiling to change the 
pipework and to try to find where  the leak was coming from. UKI therefore doesnt  accept  it 
is responsible for repairing that damage. The report also doesnt say there is any damage  to 
the valve; UKI says the drainage valve was capped off to prevent further leaking. 
However, UKI accepted it had taken too long to deal with the leak so, as a gesture of 
goodwill, it offered pay Ms H £95.25, which is what it says it would cost it to refit the radiator 
and valve; half the cost of repairing the ceiling (which it put at £311.11);  and £200 
compensation.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. She determined that the complaint  should be 
upheld. She thought more should  have been  done to investigate  where  the leak was coming 
from before  causing  damage to the ceiling and that UKI should  therefore arrange to have  the 
ceiling repaired by its approved contractors. The adjudicator didnt think UKI needed  to pay 
any more towards replacing the thermostatic valve and radiator, as these were damaged 
gradually and the policy  doesnt  cover these. However, the adjudicator also considered that 
UKI had mixed up which valve Ms H was referring to when she said its contractors had 
broken it off. She said UKI should go and inspect the drainage valve and if it agrees this was 
broken, it should  consider repairing it.  
UKI doesnt accept  the adjudicators assessment  of the complaint and so the matter has 
been passed to me. 
Ref: DRN69563542Ms H does accept the adjudicators assessment but said she does not trust UKIs 
contractors and so would  want a choice of three  approved  contractors to choose from. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
radiator and thermostatic valve
Under the terms of the home emergency  cover, UKIs liable to pay the cost (up to £500 
inclusive of VAT) of emergency assistance needed  if the main  source of heating in the 
home fails. The policy  defines emergency assistance as:
Work carried  out by an authorised repairer or suitably qualified  repairer  to temporarily  or
permanently deal with an emergency, carry out emergency repairs  or prevent further 
damage.
UKI therefore was obliged  to respond to the situation Ms H found herself in but was only 
obliged to carry out a temporary  repair to deal with the emergency.  It didnt have to carry out 
a permanent repair. UKIs contractor stopped the leak, which is what it was obliged to do 
under the policy.  I therefore agree with the adjudicator  that it doesnt need  to also replace 
the radiator.
I also agree  with the adjudicator that the damage to the thermostatic valve would not be 
covered under the accidental damage  section of the policy. This is because  accidental 
damage is defined  as sudden and unintentional physical damage  that happens 
unexpectedly. Theres no evidence that the damage to the thermostatic valve  happened 
suddenly, rather it appears to have been  damaged  by the accumulation over time of rust. 
I therefore dont  consider  that I can reasonably ask UKI to pay more  than the £95.25 its 
already offered toward  the cost of refitting the radiator  and thermostatic  valve.
drainage valve
Ms H also says that the contractors damaged another valve,  snapping  part of it off when 
trying to drain the system.  It seems  to me UKI didnt  realise Ms H was referring not to the 
thermostatic valve that was leaking but the system drain valve, which is in the hallway of her 
home. 
UKI says the surveyor confirmed there  was no damage to the valve.  However, Ms H says 
the surveyor didnt  realise he was meant to be inspecting the drainage valve in the hallway.
Ms Hs testimony about this is persuasive.  She says that valve was being worked on when  
her mother,  who was at home that day, heard the contractor swear  and say something about 
having snapped it, but he didnt tell Ms H what he had done.  The engineer that came  out to 
finally fix the leak, told her the valve had been broken and he would therefore  have to try and 
drain the system  down from the bathroom  radiator but this was not the advised  method and 
was a risk, he therefore asked her permission to do so. Ms H has also sent a photo of the 
valve, although it is difficult to tell from the photo  what has happened. 
Ref: DRN69563543I find it difficult to accept  UKIs explanation that the drainage valve in the hallway was 
capped off to prevent  further leaking. The only leak that UKI was attending to was the 
bathroom radiator  upstairs. If it needed  to cap off the drainage  valve  downstairs to stop the 
drainage valve  from leaking,  then this is something that it seems only started after it worked  
on it. This is in line with Ms Hs evidence  about  what happened and does lead me to 
conclude that it damaged  this valve. 
The adjudicator recommended that UKI should arrange to have  this valve  inspected  to see if 
the damage is likely to have been  caused by its contractors. It hasnt done so yet and it has 
consistently it seems to me, misunderstood that this valve is not where the original leak was 
coming from. 
Having considered all the evidence currently available, it seems to me that there is enough 
evidence to conclude  that this was damaged  by UKIs contractors but Ive not seen  any 
estimates about how much it would  cost to replace this. In the absence of any more  specific 
evidence either  way, it seems to me reasonable that UKI should  pay Ms H £100 to cover  the 
cost of replacing this. However, I invite both parties to provide  any evidence  about  the 
damage to this valve and the cost of repairing it that they want  me to consider in response to 
this provisional decision.  
ceiling 
As regards  the ceiling damage, UKIs  contractors  carried  out some  repairs  to pipework within  
the ceiling  but this didnt  stop water  leaking. It was only later that it was discovered  there  was 
a leak from the radiator valve. 
UKI suggests there were two leaks in any event and so the hole in the ceiling would have 
needed to be made  anyway.  UKI also says that the surveyor didnt dispute that a hole was 
required to be made in the ceiling. Whilst the surveyor does not state  the hole should not 
have been cut he does state:
A plumber was sent out who had cut a hole in the ceiling and found a pipe but did not
take any action.  A second plumber attended who made  the hole in the ceiling bigger and
replaced a central  heating  pipe. This did not stop the leak and a third plumber attended  and
isolated the radiator in the bathroom  above  
The leak was from the radiator valve which ran down the pipe and onto the ceiling belowI 
do not consider  it to be acceptable that three  visits by plumbers was needed to find and stop 
the leak.  
I consider it apparent from the above  quote that the surveyor did not think there  was a leak 
in the pipework in the ceiling; and he didnt think three visits  were  needed to find and fix the 
leak, which he confirms was from the radiator. 
There is no convincing evidence to support  that there was either two leaks;  or that cutting  
the hole in the ceiling was a reasonable action to take. In fact the evidence suggests that 
there was only one leak: Ms H says the pipe that was exposed when the ceiling was cut 
open, is the pipe leading  to the bathroom  radiator that was leaking. And photos taken of that 
radiator show that there  is some  rust and discolouration which would indicate there had been 
water leaking  from it. In my opinion, UKI failed to properly investigate  for more obvious  
sources of the leak when  it first attended and its failure to do so, resulted in unnecessary 
Ref: DRN69563544damage to Ms Hs home.  I am not therefore  persuaded that it was necessary or reasonable 
to cut the hole in the ceiling, without investigating other possible sources of the leak. 
The adjudicator recommended that UKI should arrange for the ceiling to be repaired. 
Understandably, Ms H has asked for details of three approved contractors to choose  from. I 
dont think this is unreasonable.  Alternatively,  if Ms H would prefer  she can use her own 
contractors and UKI should reimburse the cost. The cost would need to be agreed before 
any work is completed however. 
other matters
I also agree  with the adjudicator that some further compensation is warranted to reflect  the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused to Ms H. She has had to live with the 
hole in the ceiling for some considerable time; had to accommodate three appointments to 
fix a relatively straightforward  leak; and will have to accommodate appointments to fix the 
ceiling. Having taken  all of this into account,  I consider  that the sum of £275  is appropriate.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against UK Insurance Limited and require it to:
 arrange to have the ceiling repaired by its approved contractors or pay the costs  of 
repair (to be agreed) if Ms H would  prefer to appoint her own contractors;
 pay £100 for Ms H to have the drainage  valve repaired/replaced;  
 pay £95.25  for refitting the radiator and replacing the thermostatic  valve; and 
 pay £275 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms H by the 
handling of this claim. 
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Ms H has confirmed she accepts my provisional  decision  and has not added anything  
further. 
UKI also confirmed it accepts my provisional  decision  in the main, however, it has asked  for 
clarification that the compensation  award is not in addition  to the £200 already offered. If it is 
then it does not accept that is reasonable. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has provided any new information or evidence, I remain for the opinion that 
UKI is responsible for the repair  of Ms Hs ceiling; and that it should also pay for the repair pf 
the drainage valve and radiator. 
I provisionally decided  that a total of £275 compensation was appropriate to reflect  the 
trouble caused  to Ms H by this matter, including having to live with the hole in the ceiling for 
some considerable time; having to accommodate three appointments to fix a relatively 
Ref: DRN69563545straightforward leak; and having to accommodate  appointments  to fix the ceiling. I remain of 
the opinion that £275 (rather than the £200  already offered) is appropriate having taken all of 
this into account.  (For the avoidance of doubt, if UKI has already paid the £200  it offered it 
now only has to pay the balance of £75.)
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against UK Insurance Limited  and require it to: 
arrange to have the ceiling repaired by its approved contractors or pay the costs  of    
repair (to be agreed) if Ms H would  prefer to appoint her own contractors;
 pay £100 for Ms H to have the drainage  valve repaired/replaced;  
 pay £95.25  for refitting the radiator and replacing the thermostatic  valve; and 
 pay £275 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused to Ms H by the 
handling of this claim (less any amount  already paid). 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2019.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6956354