K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
June 2004. Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Based  on what I know about how Halifax sold PPI, I think its likely that Halifax  made  
it clear to Mr A that he didnt  have to take out the PPI with the mortgage and he 
chose to take it out. I say this particularly as Halifax has provided a document  signed 
by Mr A that indicates that hed agree to take out PPI during the mortgage application 
process. 
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr A so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said - including what he has said about the PPI being 
added to his mortgage without his knowledge,  however I think,  on balance that Mr A did 
agree to it. So these  points  dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr A paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr A back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I understand Halifax has already paid this to Mr A. And I dont  think  it needs to do 
anything more.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68639922
Ref: DRN6863992