K822xcomplaint
Mr P makes  a number of complaints about Nationwide Building Society.
background 
Mr P says he had problems receiving text message  alerts from Nationwide  to tell him about  
possible account charges if money was not paid into the account.  He says he opened a new 
Nationwide account  and the text alerts worked  and so asked Nationwide to close  this 
account. Mr P says Nationwide didnt close  the account and would like it to admit it didnt 
investigate this complaint  and that it should have closed  his account earlier. He says he has 
spent about 24 hours  in total on the phone to Nationwide trying to sort matters out and would 
like £550 compensation.
Nationwide accepts there was a problem  with Mr P receiving the text alerts and has removed  
any charges and suspended any pending charges. Its paid Mr P £100 compensation for that 
as well as for the way in which it dealt with calls between it and Mr P. Nationwide says Mr P 
called it on 21 May 2018  and it closed the new account on 7 August 2018.
Mr P brought his complaint to us and our investigator accepted Nationwide hadnt dealt with 
part of his complaint as it should have. The investigator thought  there wasnt  any dispute that 
Mr P hadnt  received text messages. But thought  Nationwide had acted fairly by apologising,  
removing charges and paying Mr P a fair and reasonable  amount of compensation of £100. 
The investigator also thought Nationwide hadnt  closed  the account  when  it was asked to do 
so and recommended Nationwide  pay further  compensation, which  it agreed to do offering 
Mr P £75. The investigator thought that offer fair and reasonable.
The investigator looked at Nationwides records and thought Mr P had opted out of text 
alerts. And he had received  regular account statements.
Mr P doesnt  accept that he did opt out of text alerts  and questions  why Nationwide  didnt opt 
him back into the alerts when it was obvious he wanted that. He disputes receiving account 
statements and says he thought the new account had closed. In summary Mr P doesnt 
accept what Nationwide  says and disagrees  with the investigators  findings and would like 
Nationwide to provide evidence in addition to its screen shot about the text alerts. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for similar  reasons. I realise Mr P will be disappointed by my 
decision and I appreciate how strongly he feels about whats happened and his experience 
in dealing with Nationwide.
There is no real dispute  that Mr P didnt receive the text alerts in early 2018 and I appreciate 
that Mr P spent some time trying to sort matters  out which  resulted in him opening a new 
account. So I accept  Mr Ps frustration in those circumstances  and the inconvenience he 
was caused. But Im satisfied that Nationwide has apologised for what  took place and fairly 
agreed to refund any charges that were incurred  at the time. Im also satisfied that 
Nationwide acted fairly by cancelling pending charges and paying what I think is a fair and 
reasonable amount of £100  compensation. I think that compensation award fairly reflects  the 
level of Nationwides  mistake and the impact  it had on Mr P.
Ref: DRN62672052I appreciate that Nationwide now says Mr P had opted out of the text alert and has provided  
a screen shot of its systems to confirm that. And Mr P says that wasnt  the case and that it 
was clear he wanted the service and did have it before the problem. But Ive come  to the 
overall view that I dont need  to determine  what the correct version was as Im satisfied 
Nationwide has paid an appropriate amount of compensation  and I can see that Mr P has 
now moved his account. I should also make clear to Mr P that we are not the regulator  of 
banks and building societies and so its not our role to investigate  businesses practices or 
require it to provide  evidence  to Mr P as he would  like about this issue.
I accept that Mr P asked  Nationwide  to close the second account but it didnt  to so. I can see 
that the account should have been closed at the end of May 2018 but was not until August 
2018 when Mr P raised the issue. So I accept Mr P was again caused inconvenience and 
frustration but I dont think he was caused any financial  loss as a result of the mistake. And I 
think the offer of £75 compensation is fair and reasonable.
I appreciate Mr P will remain  unhappy  with my decision and so I will leave it to him to decide 
if he wishes to accept  the compensation. I also accept that Mr P will have unanswered 
questions about  what took place and having listened to all of the calls between the parties 
accept there  are other  matters Mr P is unhappy  about. But Im satisfied this brings an end to 
what we in trying to sort out this dispute  informally can do in order  to resolve this complaint. 
And that we have  considered all of the matters Mr P has asked us to look at.
my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  has paid a fair and reasonable amount 
of £100 compensation and has made a further fair and reasonable offer of £75 
compensation. Mr Ps acceptance of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6267205