K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs R are unhappy  that Nationwide Building  Society allowed them to deposit  more 
than the maximum deposit limit into a joint savings account and then transferred some 
money back into their current account without  telling them.  They say when they saw their 
account balances  online they assumed theyd been  the subject of fraud.  They want 
compensation.
background
Nationwide said in its final response that the savings account  Key Product Information said 
that the account couldnt have more than £100,000  in it plus any interest.  Its system  isnt 
designed to prevent funds over this maximum deposit limit from being credited into the 
account. But when  it discovered the balance was over the limit it followed its internal 
processes by returning the excess to Mr and Mrs Rs current  account. It hasnt adjusted  the 
amount of interest  they received on the savings account. It also sent them  a letter notifying 
them of this transfer in line with its policy. It doesnt agree its acted incorrectly  or unfairly.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
It wouldve been frightening for Mr and Mrs R to think theyd been victims of a fraud.  
But theyd called  Nationwide immediately  and the time between  them  noticing  the 
amount in the savings account  was less than they expected and being  able to clarify 
things with Nationwide wasnt  large.  They were told the money was safe. He cant 
require Nationwide  to pay £500  compensation for this as theyd like.
The terms and conditions of their savings account confirm the £100,000 limit on 
deposits. It wouldnt be expected for anyone to remember the particular terms and 
conditions of an account. Even if the terms werent  on the banking app Nationwide  
hasnt acted outside of them and isnt at fault.
We cannot force a business to change  its internal systems and automatically  notify  if 
an account has reached its deposit limit or to stop a deposit  being  made  that would 
take it over the limit. Nationwide said on the phone that its system picks up 
oversubscribed accounts once a month. Theres no record  of it saying it would do so 
weekly. Even if it had said weekly this wouldnt have made a difference to the 
outcome. And Nationwide has no record of any other calls Mr R says he had with it.
Mr R has asked for an ombudsman review. 
. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R has provided detailed  submissions  to support this complaint.  Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Ref: DRN65648282I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Even though  the terms and conditions of the savings account  arent  apparently available on 
Nationwides banking  app, I think they would be available on its website and wouldve likely 
been provided to Mr and Mrs R when the savings account was opened.
The savings account had a deposit limit of a maximum of £100,000. And as Mr and Mrs R 
exceeded this I dont think Nationwide acted unfairly  by transferring the excess  into their 
current account. I also note that Nationwide says it hasnt  adjusted the interest  it paid on the 
money in the savings  account. Thats fair.
I realise it wouldve  been a shock for Mr and Mrs R to see that their savings account had 
less money in it than they expected. But they immediately contacted Nationwide  and were 
quickly reassured their money was safe.
Taking everything into account  I think Nationwide has acted in line with the savings 
accounts terms and conditions and I dont think it did anything  wrong.  As such  I dont think I 
can fairly or reasonably require it to pay Mr and Mrs R £500,  or any, compensation as theyd 
like. 
Mr R would like Nationwide to have a system  that stopped payments into an account  that 
would exceed  its limits and to warn customers of this. I understand Mr Rs frustration at the 
way Nationwides  system and processes function. But its up to it to set up its systems, 
processes and procedures. Nationwides also entitled to decide how frequently its system 
checks for and identifies oversubscribed accounts. 
Furthermore this service isnt a regulator  and we cant require a business  to change  its 
practices and procedures. General issues about how the banking  industry  works are a 
matter for the Financial  Conduct Authority. 
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Rs strength of feeling I dont see any compelling reason to 
change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65648283
Ref: DRN6564828