K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage Ms B originally took out with a lender Ill call S. Its 
currently administered by Acenden Limited.  Ms B is unhappy with how shes  been treated 
during long-term  financial difficulties ; specifically shes complained about the fees and 
charges that have  been added to her account.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than theyve been presented, 
using my own words to do so, and rounding the numbers  involved. No discourtesys 
intended by that. Its a reflection of the informal service we provide, and if I dont  mention  
something, it wont be because Ive ignored  it. Itll be because I didnt think  it was material to 
the outcome of the complaint. 
This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of me. It allows  me to 
focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be side-tracked by 
matters which, although presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral.  Another reason 
I have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Ms B when my decision is 
published.
Ms B has struggled with the payments for most  of the time shes had the mortgage; in 
October 2018, she complained to us about the charges. We began by explaining  to Ms B 
that we would only be able to consider the charges charged since October 2012. Ms B 
accepted that events  prior to that date were  time-barred under our rules, and so our 
investigator focussed on what had happened  since. 
He noted that Acenden had already made a number of refunds, with interest,  under a 
redress scheme agreed between S and the regulator of mortgage  business, the Financial  
Conduct Authority  (FCA). But when he analysed the fees and charges it had added to her 
account, he decided  that some  more of them should be refunded, backdated for interest 
purposes. 
A list of the charges  recommended for refund is attached to, and forms part of, this decision.  
He also recommended Acenden pay Ms B £100 compensation for her time and trouble. 
Ms B has accepted  the proposed settlement but Acenden would like an ombudsman  to 
review the complaint.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
FCA. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. In doing 
that, we dont replicate the work of the courts. 
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN61109482The starting point  is that lenders generally are permitted under the mortgage terms to apply 
fees and charges to cover  the additional cost of administering a mortgage  account that is in 
arrears. Such charges are typically set out in a separate tariff of charges. 
But lenders  also have a duty to treat customers fairly, and even where  fees have been 
applied in accordance with the account terms and the tariff of charges, well still give 
separate consideration to whether theyve been applied fairly.  One situation  where  we 
generally find that arrears  fees or charges  havent been applied  fairly is if more than one 
charge has been  levied in the same  month. 
Another is if a charge  is levied in a month where the customer has paid either the contractual 
payment or a different  amount agreed as part of a payment arrangement. Well also consider 
finding a charge to be unfair  if a monthly  payment hasnt been  made  in full but the shortfall  is 
similar to or less than the amount of the charge. 
Thats not an exhaustive  list of all the reasons we might consider a fee to have been applied 
unfairly. In Ms Bs case, the investigator identified  several occasions where charges had 
been applied  in months where one or other of the relevant  situations  has arisen. Ive thought 
hard about what Acenden has said, but overall,  I agree with our investigator  that the further 
refunds hes identified should  be made.
If the complaint is settled  as Im proposing it should  be, there will still be an outstanding 
balance on Ms Bs mortgage account.  Itll be less than it is presently, but it will still exist, and 
to be clear, Acenden  is legitimately entitled to seek reasonable repayment proposals from 
Ms B. Ive been made aware that an agreement  is currently in place.  If for any reason that 
agreement needs  to be reviewed, Acenden will know  that it has a duty to treat Ms B fairly in 
any future discussions they have. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint,  and in full and final settlement, I direct Acenden Limited to refund the 
arrears management  fees listed below, backdated for interest purposes,  and pay Ms B £100 
compensation. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61109483Month Year Fee Type Amount Reason for Refund
April 2013Arrears Management Fee (AMF)
£70Adequate payment 
made
May 2013 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
December 2013 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
January 2014 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
February 2014 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
June 2014 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
August 2014 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
September 2014 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
December 2014 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
March 2015 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
April 2015 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
August 2015 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
November 2015 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
December 2015 AMF £70Adequate payment 
made
May 2018 AMF £35Adequate payment 
made
June 2018 AMF £35Adequate payment 
made
August 2018 AMF £35Adequate payment 
made
September 2018 AMF £35Adequate payment 
made
Ref: DRN6110948