K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the advice and service  provided by Tilney  Financial  Planning Limited. 
Mr D says that he should have received his first annuity payment from his Section 32 policy  
in October 2017,  but due to delays  caused  by Tilney, payments didnt begin until January 
2018. These payments have not been backdated.
background
Mr D met with Tilney on in May 2017 to discuss his Section 32 policy,  specifically that the
Guaranteed Minimum Pension (GMP)  would  become payable on Mr Ds 65th birthday and 
be paid via an annuity. At this point, Mr D had already requested  a retirement  pack  from the 
Section 32 provider to establish his options.
Although previously Mr D had wanted to receive  the GMP via an annuity, due to the 
increased fund value of his pension, he was now undecided as to how hed like to receive
benefits from his pension plan and was considering  taking a cash  lump sum. It was
agreed that Mr D would forward a copy of his retirement pack to Tilney  when  it was received.
The Section  32 provider sent Tilney  details of Mr Ds section 32 policy in a letter  dated 31 
July 2017. This confirmed  the total transfer value of the plan of about £126,000  which  
included reserved units of £55,271. This letter informed  Aegon of a tax free cash  figure that 
Mr D may be entitled to. The letter also confirmed that there was a GMP payable under the 
policy of £8,004.
A further  meeting took place between Mr D and Tilney on 2 August 2017. Tilney stated that 
all relevant information had been  received from Aegon and your options could be properly 
discussed. Mr D said at this meeting that hed prefer to transfer  the full fund value into his 
AJ Bell SIPP. Tilney disagreed with this and recommended Mr D take an annuity so that hed 
receive the GMP which, when added to his state  pension, would provide him with an annual  
income of approximately £17,000.
Mr D contacted Tilney on 22 August 2017 and instructed them  to transfer the full value of his 
Section 32 policy  into his AJ Bell SIPP. Mr D observed that this was contrary  to the advice 
provided to take his GMP via an annuity, but that he wanted to withdraw a cash  lump sum 
from his SIPP once  the transfer  had been  made.
On 5 September 2017 Tilney confirmed  that it was against company policy to transfer a
section 32 policy on an execution only basis and Mr D decided from that point to deal with 
Aegon and AJ Bell directly regarding his transfer.  On 2 November 2017  Aegon confirmed 
that the transfer was not possible. At this point Mr D realised  hed no choice but to pursue 
the option of an annuity.
A full options  statement was sent to Mr D in a letter  from Aegon  dated 17 November 2017.
This included a breakdown of his fund value and a GMP  factsheet.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and was of the opinion that it should not 
be upheld. He considered that there  were  parties  other than Tilney involved in the process 
and despite not being provided with the correct personalised information from Mr Ds section 
32 policy provider that there were  insufficient funds to cover  the GMP, it was Tilneys advice 
all along that Mr D buy an annuity and receive  his Guaranteed Minimum Pension. He felt 
Ref: DRN66154702that Mr D had decided  to go it alone with the transfer which contributed to the delay in 
annuity payments.
Mr D didnt agree with the adjudicators  opinion and requested that an ombudsman  consider 
the complaint.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The material  issue here is that, until November 2017  both Mr D and Tilney were  under the 
impression that Mr D might be able to transfer his pension from the Section 32 policy and 
take some  of the benefits as cash.  Tilney had recommended not doing that and taking 
benefits as an annuity but Mr D decided  that the transfer was better  for him (which he was 
entitled to do). So there wouldnt have been  any need to contact L&G in May because it was 
not envisaged then that an annuity would be taken.  
It was not until November 2017 that the parties were informed of the fact that tax free cash  
would not be available  and there was little option but to take an annuity. This was after Mr 
Ds 65th birthday so was too late in any event for annuity payments to begin at the first 
available point after Mr Ds 65Th birthday.  After  November  I have  not seen evidence that 
Tilney delayed Mr D receiving  his first annuity  payment. The time taken was not 
unreasonable given the information sought  from Aegon and the necessary steps taken  to put 
the annuity into effect.  
I can appreciate that Mr D is disappointed that, if he had known earlier  that he could  only 
take an annuity, then his annuity payments would probably have started earlier  than January 
2018. But I dont  think that Tilney should  be held responsible for that. The delay was 
caused because  information was not received until November  to the effect  that the full value 
of the pension would be needed  to pay the GMP. There was nothing  that set out to Tilney 
that this was the situation until November 2017. 
Until the parties were aware  of this there was no reason to try and put an annuity  in place. 
The Section  32 providers July 2017  letter referred to the GMP, that this had to be paid and it 
could use non-reserved units in the pension fund to pay for it. It said there could be a surplus 
but didnt confirm if there was one. It didnt say whether the value of the pension was 
supporting the GMP at that time so that tax free cash could be payable. Bearing this in mind 
I do not believe information was available to Tilney that should have put it on notice that 
there would be an issue  with transferring.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019
Ref: DRN66154703David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6615470