K820x#14complaint
Miss P has complained that Vitality Health Limited unfairly applied an excess twice when she 
made a claim under  her employers group private medical insurance  policy for her 
osteopathy treatment.
background
In October  2017, Miss P became a member  of her employers group private medical 
insurance policy, held with Vitality. The policy, which renewed  on 21 April each year, was 
subject to a £150 excess per person  per policy year. 
On 8 April 2018, Miss P asked Vitality to provide cover for a course of osteopathy treatment 
which she had just begun. Vitality explained  that Miss P would need to provide evidence that 
shed been referred  by her GP.
In May 2018, Miss P provided evidence of her GP referral  and Vitality agreed  to provide 
cover for four sessions; it later agreed  to extend this to six sessions.
When Miss P went to claim  for the cost of the first four sessions, she found that she was 
required to pay two separate excesses of £150.  When she queried this with Vitality, it 
explained that this was because two of the sessions  fell in the policy  year which  ended on 21 
April 2018, while the other two fell in the new policy year.
Miss P complained that Vitality hadnt made this clear.  She considered  she should have to 
pay only one excess. She further asked that, in view of the double  excess,  Vitality  allow  her 
to have an additional two sessions of treatment.
Vitality said it was Miss Ps responsibility to familiarise  herself  with the policys  excess and 
how it worked. It nonetheless agreed to pay the first two sessions of the new policy year in 
full but said the excess  would apply to any claims thereafter. It wouldnt  agree to authorise 
further osteopathy sessions at this stage but said it would consider a request for further 
treatment once Miss P had completed the course  of six sessions.  
Miss P was unhappy  at Vitalitys response. She referred her complaint to us. She said that 
Vitality had assured her the excess would apply only once. She said if shed known 
otherwise, she might  have  acted  differently.   
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She was satisfied 
that Vitality had acted  fairly.
Miss P didnt accept  the investigators  findings. The matter has therefore  been passed to me 
for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy document and Miss Ps certificate of insurance together clearly explain that the 
excess of £150 applies  per policy year rather than per claim. The certificate  of insurance 
Ref: DRN68660732also showed when  the policy year ended and I think  it was Miss Ps responsibility to make 
herself aware of this.
It is unfortunate that the treatment in question ended up spanning two policy years, which  
meant that it was subject to two separate excess payments.  However, I cant  say that this 
was unfair.  Im satisfied  that Vitality was entitled  to apply the excess  for both policy years.
Miss P says that if Vitality  had explained  the situation concerning the excess  she would have 
acted differently.  However, she had already undergone the first session of treatment before 
she contacted Vitality  and this was within two weeks of the end of the policy  year.  She 
underwent another  session a few days later and then a third session in the new policy year 
before Vitality  had even provided authorisation. So I dont think  Vitality  had a reasonable 
opportunity to advise her about  the excess before shed already incurred costs spanning the 
two policy  years. 
Vitalitys adviser did later tell Miss P she would only have to pay one excess. This was a 
mistake, presumably because the adviser hadnt  realised that the sessions spanned two 
policy years.  But I dont think  Miss P was disadvantaged by this wrong advice  because  by 
then she had already  undergone the first four sessions of treatment. And Vitality has paid for 
those third and fourth sessions, saying that it will delay applying  the excess until Miss P 
makes her claim  for the remaining two sessions. I think that is fair. 
Miss P asked  Vitality,  in view of the fact shed have to pay the excess  twice, to authorise two 
further sessions of osteopathy on top of the six it had authorised  so far. Vitality said it would 
consider this if it received  a report from Miss Ps osteopath following the completion  of the 
six sessions. I think  this was fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 November  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6866073