complaint
Mrs A complains that ReAssure Limited are unfairly charging her £45 per month to pay her 
monthly annuity payment into her overseas bank account. She says ReAssure Limited pay 
her husbands  annuity  payment into his overseas bank account  and he is not being charged 
for this.
background
Mrs A complained to ReAssure about the monthly  charge for making payment into her 
overseas bank account, pointing out that this accounted for around 40% of her monthly  
annuity payment.  ReAssure suggested it made the annuity payment by cheque  or by one 
annual payment to eliminate or reduce  the charges. Mrs A didnt find this acceptable  or 
convenient. She says she relies  on receiving the money monthly.
ReAssure told us it took over Mrs As husbands policy from another  provider and so his 
annuity payment  was being paid by a different bank into his overseas  bank  account.  It said 
there was a monthly charge  of £2.74  for this, deducted from the annuity  payment.
It said that Mrs As policy was also taken over from a different provider. But, it said that the 
arrangement in place for her policy was to use the swift payment arrangement to make 
payments into overseas  bank accounts. The charge for this was £45 per transaction.  It said 
the banking facility that applied  to Mr As policy,  wasnt  available to it as administrator of
Mrs As policy. It also said that the £45 charge  was standard across  all our policies.
Our adjudicator concluded that ReAssure  had not acted unfairly by applying the charge  and 
didnt uphold  Mrs As complaint. Mrs A disagreed and asked for her complaint  to be referred  
to an ombudsman.
Mrs A said, in summary, ReAssure hadnt  provided  this service with correct information about  
the bank charges it makes.  Mrs A says her husbands annuity payment was made  to his 
overseas account  and there was no charge for the bank transfer. She says she was told that 
all customers were charged £45 for overseas bank transfers, which  is not correct. She says 
ReAssure dont tell customers  about the charge, and there  is no information on the website 
about this. She said she was told there would be no change to her policy after her policy was 
transferred to ReAssure  from the original  provider.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on Mrs As complaint in January 2020.  I said I was minded to 
partially uphold  it because ReAssure hadnt  given Mrs A clear  information about why she had 
to pay higher charges than her husband. 
ReAssure didnt agree  with my provisional  decision.  It said,  in summary,  Mrs A hadnt  been 
given inaccurate  information.  It had confirmed that the £45 swift charge was standard across  
all ReAssure policies and this was still the case. It said Mrs As husbands policy was paid into 
an English bank account and then paid from that to an overseas bank account, hence the 
difference in charge. 
Mrs A didnt agree with my decision. She said, in summary, she still felt the £45 charge was 
unreasonable. She said she would accept ReAssures offer of paying her pension  annually with 
a one off charge, providing it was paid in advance. She still considered that ReAssure was 
misleading pensioners  and not making the charges clear. She considers £75 compensation an 
insult.
Ref: DRN6043371my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I partially uphold this complaint.  My reasons are largely  the same as set out in 
my provisional decision, which I will repeat here.  
It seems that Mr A is paying a much  less for his annuity payment to be paid into his overseas 
bank account  than Mrs A. Mrs A doubts that he is paying anything, ReAssure says he is 
paying £2.74 per month, deducted  from his annuity payment. Either way, this is much  less 
than the swift  payment  charge of £45 per transaction  that Mrs A has to pay each time she 
wants payment made directly to her overseas bank account.
But, I dont think this is because ReAssure is treating Mrs A any less favourably, or 
discriminating against her, as she suggests. As I see it, this situation  arises because of the 
arrangements in place,  including  the banking facilities set up.
Mrs A was sent ReAssures final response  to her complaint in May 2019. She knew  her 
husband wasnt paying £45 each time he received his monthly  pensions  payment. I can see 
from ReAssures file notes that she explained this to ReAssure in April 2019,  on the phone.  I 
can also see that after that call ReAssure investigated the situation. Yet the final response 
letter to Mrs A didnt go in to detail about why she was paying  more. It simply said that the 
charge was standard across  all policies. So, I can see why this led to Mrs As concerns  about 
fairness and being  provided with inaccurate  information. I think  ReAssure couldve provided 
Mrs A with clearer information  at the outset.  Therefore, I think it would be appropriate for 
ReAssure to pay Mrs A a modest amount of compensation  to reflect the additional  trouble  and 
upset she has been put to in trying to obtain  clear  information about why the situation  was 
different for her. I consider £75 would be a fair and reasonable amount of compensation, in 
the circumstances.
I can understand  Mrs A concerns that around  40% of her monthly annuity payment going in 
charges. However,  my view is that ReAssure has offered Mrs A two viable alternatives to 
minimise or eliminate the charges. Whilst these may not be Mrs As preferred options, I 
consider that whats been proposed is reasonable in the circumstances. ReAssure has 
explained that the same  banking facility applying to Mr As policy, is not available  for
Mrs As policy. It has recently explained  that Mrs As husbands pension payment is paid into 
an English bank account first, before being transferred to an overseas account. Its possible 
that option may be available to Mrs A. Ill leave  her to discuss  that with ReAssure.  
If Mrs A still wants the money  paid direct into her overseas bank account, I cant see that 
ReAssure is acting inappropriately  by using the swift  payment facility. I understand, this 
comes at a cost of £45 per transaction. I cant fairly require  ReAssure to waive  this  transaction  
charge, given that it has provided Mrs A with other  payment  options  which  would eliminate or 
reduce these charges. If Mrs A wants to receive  her pension payments annually  going forward,  
she will need  to discuss with ReAssure  when the annual payment will be made, this is likely to 
be set out in the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mrs A mentioned that she was told that there would be no change  to her policy after it was 
transferred to ReAssure.  But, I think its possible that Mrs A wouldve still been charged this 
transaction fee by her original provider.  Ive not been told that she asked her previous 
provider to pay her annuity payments into her overseas bank account prior to transfer.  So, 
its not clear that the position is different post transfer. So, I cant  see that I can fairly uphold 
this aspect of Mrs As complaint.
Ref: DRN6043371I therefore do not think that ReAssure is acting unfairly in requiring her to meet the swift
transaction fee for payment into her overseas bank account.
I am sorry  that Mrs A views the compensation order as an insult. Its not my intention to cause 
her offence.  Here, I am acknowledging  the extra trouble Mrs A was put to trying to understand 
why she had to pay a higher bank charges than her husband. Ive not found that ReAssure 
acted unfairly by requiring her to pay the swift  transaction  charges. So, I have not made  a 
compensation award covering that aspect of her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I partially uphold Mrs As complaint and order ReAssure 
Limited to pay her £75 for the trouble  and upset it has caused her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6043371K821x#15
Ref: DRN6043371