K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains that service provided by Cigna Europe Insurance Company SA-NV (Cigna)
when he made a claim on his travel  insurance was poor and it caused unnecessary delays in
his repatriation to the UK.
background
Mr G was on holiday in Madera with his wife, they were staying in an apartment and had this
accommodation booked  from 5 March 2018 until 23 April 2018.
Mr G was taken  ill and admitted to hospital  on 4 April 2018. Mr and Mrs G contacted Cigna
for assistance, it needed to send them an information pack. Mr and Mrs G couldnt receive
this at the apartment where they were staying, so Mrs G arranged  with a hotel  nearby to
their accommodation  to receive the pack for them. This was done on 6 April 2018.
The pack  included a form to be signed that gave consent for Mr Gs medical  records to be
obtained from his GP. This was completed and returned to Cigna on 7 April 2018, Mr and
Mrs G also gave consent for Cigna to liaise  with Mr D, Mr Gs brother-in-law in the UK, as it
may be difficult to reach Mrs G if she was at the hospital.
Cigna didnt make  any further contact with Mr and Mrs G until Mrs G called it on 19 April
2018. At this point  Mr G informed Cigna that the treating doctor  had said that he could return
home with a chest drain but would need to have a medical escort.
Because of the lack of communication  from Cigna Mrs G arranged  for and paid €550 to
extend the accommodation they had been  staying in for a further four weeks, until 21 May
2018.
On 27 April 2018, having not heard any more from Cigna Mrs G called it again for an update.
Cigna told Mrs G it was looking to arrange Mr Gs repatriation as soon as possible but
needed to speak to the treating  doctor. Cigna did let Mrs G know  later in the day that it had 
been unable  to speak to the treating doctor  but had faxed over a medical questionnaire and 
would chase this over the weekend.
As they didnt hear from Cigna Mrs G called again to chase  things up, she told Cigna that Mr
G was upset feeling down and not eating  and felt that he had been abandoned by it. Cigna
said I would  chase things  up at its end. Cigna called  back the next day and said it was trying
to arrange a repatriation as soon  as possible.
Cigna received a medical update from the treating doctor on 1 May 2018  saying  that Mr G
was fit to fly on a commercial flight with a medical escort  and some  conditions.
Cigna says it tried to call Mrs G during  the following days but couldnt reach her. It did reach
her on 5 May 2018 and there were a few calls between them  on this day. It was during these
calls that Cigna first let Mr and Mrs G know that it hadnt yet obtained Mr Gs medical notes
from his GP so werent  able to say if the claim would be covered or not. It did offer a
disclaimer to Mr G at this point, so that it would arrange the repatriation  but if it later turned
out that the claim wouldnt be covered  Cigna  would be able to recover  the costs from Mr G.
Mr G wasnt happy to sign this as he felt Cigna should have sorted this out earlier  as it had
gotten his consent to access his medical records on 7 April 2018.
Ref: DRN66900242On 6 May 2018  Cigna  updated Mrs G and told her that it was chasing  up the GP surgery
urgently to get the medical  records. On 8 May 2018  Cigna confirmed it had called the GP
surgery to confirm if the forms had been received. It never contacted Mr and Mrs G again
until 12 May 2018 when it told them it still hadnt  had the information  back from the GP
surgery and again  offered  for Mr G to sign a disclaimer, which he declined.  As this was over
the weekend Mrs G couldnt speak to the GP surgery,  but she did call the surgery  on the
Monday morning. She explained the situation  and the completed the report  and sent it to
Cigna the same day.
Cigna confirmed cover  on 16 May 2018  and was able to confirm  that Mr G was fit to fly. It
then began to arrange the repatriation. It arranged a hotel for two nights as the extension  of
Mr and Mrs Gs accommodation was ending  prior to the repatriation. Cigna did allow  Mrs G
to travel home in business class alongside Mr G.
On his return to the UK Mr G complained  to Cigna as he had let Cigna know throughout this
time that he was unhappy with the service it was providing. He told it that he felt abandoned
and left to deal with everything themselves, from extending their accommodation to chasing
the GP for the medical notes. There were long periods with no communication  or updates
and many of the updates that were provided were prompted by either Mr or Mrs G calling
Cigna to chase.  Mr G feels  that but for Cignas lack of action  in the early stages of the claim
he wouldve been  able to be repatriated to the UK sooner.  Mr G has also expressed
concerns that he doesnt want anybody else to experience what  he did in the future.
Cigna recognised that communication  had been poor throughout  the claim. It accepted that
there were some delays  in obtaining  the medical records  but says it wasnt  solely
responsible for these.  It also said that Mr Gs decision not to sign a disclaimer  delayed his
repatriation by around two weeks. Overall  it accepted it had got things wrong and offered
Mr G £200 compensation  for its errors.
Mr G was unhappy with this and so brought  his complaint to this service.  The investigator
that considered  the complaint felt that Cignas offer of compensation was fair and so didnt
uphold the complaint because Mr G disagreed with them the matter was passed  to me
to decide.
I issued my provisional decision on 24 December 2019, in it I explained  why I was minded to 
uphold Mr Gs complaint. In summary  I said:
Cigna  didnt handle  the claim promptly causing unnecessary delays in Mr Gs 
repatriation, which amount to around  three  weeks.
Cigna  wasnt proactive in its contact with Mr and Mrs G throughout the claim, 
meaning that Mrs G had to push  to progress the claim  - causing  significant anxiety 
and worry to Mr G.
To put things right I asked Cigna to increase its offer of compensation from £200 to £800. I 
invited both parties to let me have anything  in response they thought was relevant.
Cigna responded, disagreeing with my findings,  in summary it said:
it felt the increase in compensation was too much and it would be happier  to offer 
£500 in total, taking  into account the £200 it had already offered.
Mr G accepted the findings  but made some further comments,  in summary he said:
Ref: DRN66900243Cigna  did not fly him and Mrs G home business class, but standard  and without food.
The taxi provided  was small and uncomfortable when loaded with all the doctors  
medical equipment  
Between 1 May and 5 May, he doesnt believe  that Cigna tried to make contact with 
either him, Mrs G or his brother-in-law (who they had given authority to talk to)
It is not about the financial recompense,  but that Cigna  didnt  admit  fault or offer to 
review its operating procedures to ensure  others didnt  go through the same thing.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as set out in my provisional  decision, 
which should be read in conjunction with his decision, and for the same reasons.
But I would like to explain to Mr G, that while I understand his point  that he would like Cigna 
to review its operating  procedures, its not for me to comment  on as this is Cigna is entitled to 
make commercial decisions  about how it operates. As a service  we only look at the 
circumstances of the individual complain in front of us. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require 
CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV to pay Mr G £800 to compensate him for the 
distress caused to him. It is entitled  to deduct the £200 compensation it already offered to Mr 
G if it has paid it to him previously.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Amber Mortimer  
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6690024