K820x#14complaint
Ms S is unhappy Aviva Insurance Limited  (Aviva)  has declined to settle  a claim she made 
under her home insurance  policy. 
background
In March 2018 the felt roof on Ms S property came off, leaving part of her propertys roof 
exposed. Shes explained  that rain then started, and water entered her property causing 
damage to her bedroom.
Ms S contacted her home insurer, Aviva, in order to claim for the damage. She explained 
that high winds had caused  the felt roof to detach.  Aviva considered the claim and said the 
damage wasnt covered  under Ms S policy. 
It felt the damage  to Ms S home  was caused by gradual deterioration  of the felt roof. And, it 
said damage caused gradually  wasnt  covered under Ms S policy. It also noted that the 
weather at the time the damage  occurred  wasnt strong enough to cause  structural damage. 
So, it wasnt  able to offer financial assistance on this occasion.
Ms S disagreed with this. She has explained  that until the felt came off there were no signs 
of problems with the roof  or inside of her home.  She also said she experienced poor 
customer service  when  she called  to make her claim. She noted that twice advisors on the 
phone werent  able to find her details, or those  of her policy. And it wasnt  until she called a 
third time that an advisor found  the information   explaining these were contained on a 
different system. 
Because Ms S disagreed with Aviva she referred her complaint to this service for an 
independent review.
Our investigator didnt  think Ms S complaint should be upheld. She said that Ms S had cover 
under her policy for damage  caused  by a storm. But, having looked at the weather  records  
for Ms S area at the time, the conditions werent severe enough to be considered a storm. 
So, she said there wasnt any cover  under this section of the policy.
She also said she looked to see if there was any other cover under the policy  that would 
cover the damage  to Ms S home.  She said the only relevant section would be the accidental 
damage section of cover. But, that this excluded damage that happened gradually,  or water 
entering the home (unless caused  by a storm). So, she didnt think Aviva had acted unfairly  
in saying it couldnt settle Ms S claim. 
Our investigator accepted that Aviva  not being able to find Ms S details when she called 
would have been frustrating. But, she said that Aviva  had been  able to find Ms S details 
without too much delay.  And she felt Ms S hadnt  suffered a detriment due to Avivas  actions,  
so she didnt think awarding any compensation to Ms S would be appropriate.
Ms S didnt agree. She questioned whether the wind speed discussed  was measured at 
ground or gust level. And she said there were no signs of a problem until the incident  
occurred. Ms S explained  she has soffit and facia work completed in 2012  and a roof check  
in 2017 and there were no issues with the roof highlighted.
As Ms S didnt agree,  the complaint has been  referred to me to decide.  
Ref: DRN68823892my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I know this is likely to be a disappointment  to Ms S. But, Ive explained my 
reasons below.
Ive looked at Ms S policy document, to see what cover it provides. And I can see her policy  
provides cover if her property is damaged by one of the insured events listed  in the policy,  
such as storm,  flood,  fire and theft.  If the damage  isnt caused by one of the events listed, it 
isnt covered. 
In this instance, Ms S has said the felt on the flat roof at her property blew off in high winds.  
And this in turn caused damage to the inside of her home. So, the relevant incident  for these 
circumstances would  be storm.  Aviva  considered  Ms S loss under this section of her policy.  
And it said it didnt think the loss was caused  by a storm. 
Given this, Ive needed to think about whether Aviva acted  reasonably or not in saying the 
loss wasnt likely to have  been caused by a storm. 
When considering  a complaint about storm damage we consider  the following three 
questions;
Has it been  proven,  on balance, there  were  storm  conditions on or around the date 
the problem occurred?
Is the nature of the damage consistent  with storm damage?
Were the prevailing storm conditions the main  or dominant cause of the damage?
If the answer  to all of the above  questions  is yes the claim would  be covered. But, if the 
answer to any of the above is no the claim wouldnt be successful.
has it been proven,  on balance,  there were storm conditions on or around the date the 
problem occurred?  
Aviva said there werent any storm conditions  around the time of the loss. Ms S policy  
doesnt define what it means  be the word storm. So, Ive thought about what this service 
would consider to be a storm. This service  thinks  a storm is normally  a period of bad weather 
with very high winds, and generally, some accompanying rain or snow.
Ive had a look at independent weather  records from around the time the damage happened 
in March 2018. Ms S has asked if the weather records are recording the gusts at ground or 
gust level. The records record the peak gust around  the time of the loss. And taking  into 
account these  peak gusts and the rain at the time, I dont think there was a storm around the 
time of the damage. Im satisfied there werent any episodes of very high winds or 
exceptional rainfall around  the time of the claim. 
Because there werent  any storm conditions on or around the time of the loss, the answer to 
this question is no. So, Im satisfied Aviva acted reasonably by saying Ms S claim wasnt  
covered under this section of the policy. I dont need to consider the other two questions  
listed above, because  without evidence of a storm around the time of the damage  the claim 
cant be considered  further under this section  of the policy.
Ref: DRN68823893Ive considered the remaining events  listed in Ms Ss policy  to see whether there were any 
other events  that would cover the damage  to Ms S homes roof  or the internal damage  to 
her bedroom. The only event that may be relevant in this instance would be the optional  
accidental damage  cover within the buildings part of the policy. The claim notes provided by 
Aviva do note Ms S has chosen this cover. So, Ive thought about whether Aviva  has acted 
fairly in saying this section  doesnt cover the loss either.
The term accidental damage is defined under this section of Ms S policy. It says accidental  
damage means a sudden, unexpected and visible damage caused by something  external to 
the damaged  item in a single identifiable event and which has not been caused on purpose.
But, like in any policy there  are also some exclusions to this cover.  Aviva  has noted one of 
these exclusions says that damage  caused  by water entering the home other than by storm 
or flood  isnt covered. And because the water  damage to Ms S bedroom  wasnt  caused by a 
storm or a flood  but through rainfall   I think Aviva acted fairly in saying the internal water 
damage wasnt covered  by the policy. So, I dont recommend Aviva do anything more  here.
Ive also thought about the external damage  this being the felt flat roof. For this to be 
covered, as above, the damage  would have needed to have  been  caused by a single 
identifiable event.  Aviva has said the damage has been caused gradually rather than as a 
result of a single event   and therefore  isnt covered  by the policy.  So, I thought about 
whether this is fair and what the evidence  suggests  is most  likely.
A representative from Aviva visited Ms S address to inspect the damage to the roof, in 
addition to reviewing  photos Ms S provided of the damaged roof. And it noted the following;
the remainder of the flat roof appears  to be in poor condition. The felt of the roof has 
deteriorated and broken  down over time which has caused it to crack and split. We have 
checked weather  records on and around  the incident  date and the strongest winds recorded 
were 39pmh  on 14/3/18. We would expect winds of 55mph and above before  causing any 
structural damage. 
The gradual damage of the felt has occurred over a long period  of time through wear and 
tear and is not the result of an insured peril.
I do appreciate Ms S has said there  were  no signs of a problem until the incident occurred. 
And she refers to checks made on the roof  both at the time of purchasing  the property in 
2011 and 12 months  prior to the loss. But these checks were some  time before the incident 
occurred  and Ms S has said no maintenance has been carried out on the roof since  the 
property was purchased.  So, I dont think this gives any firm evidence to show damage to 
the felt hadnt  occurred  over time.  
I do find the opinion  of Avivas representative  to be more likely. It explains the remaining part 
of the flat roof was in a poor condition.  And the felt had broken down over time  causing it to 
crack and split. And the photos provided  do appear to show some deterioration on the roof. 
So, Im satisfied the external damage  to Ms S property  isnt covered under the accidental 
damage section of her policy.    
Ms S said Aviva didnt  assist with putting  a temporary fix up on the roof. So, her partner and 
father had to get up on the roof and do this. But Ms S claim wasnt covered. So, I dont think 
Aviva needed to carry out any temporary  work at the property. 
Ref: DRN68823894Ms S has said when she initially called to make her claim Aviva couldnt find her details, or 
details of her policy on its systems.  She said she had to call Aviva three times before it 
found the relevant information   and she explained she was told these were  found on a 
different system. 
I can see how this wouldve been worrying  for Ms S  she had suffered a loss at her home 
and was attempting to make her claim.  But, Ms S didnt suffer any loss as a result  of this 
problem. And, she was able to make her claim. So, I dont think  Aviva needs to do anything 
more to put this right.  
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Aviva Insurance Limited to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6882389