K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Barclays Bank UK Plc (Barclays) mis-sold him a packaged bank 
account called a First Additions account,  for which he paid a monthly  fee, and then several 
years later charged him for a package of features called a Tech Pack  without his 
permission. 
Mr C thinks that Barclays  should  refund him all the fees he paid for the First Additions  
account and for the Tech Pack, plus interest.
background
One of our adjudicators has already considered Mr Cs complaint. The adjudicator  didnt 
think that we could look into the complaint about  the First Additions account and didnt think 
that Barclays had done anything significantly wrong  when it charged  Mr C for the Tech Pack.  
Mr C didnt agree with the adjudicators  findings  and asked for an ombudsman to review his
case. So it has come  to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website,
and Ive used  this approach to help me to decide what  to do about Mr Cs complaint.  Ive
looked into everything that Mr C and Barclays  have  told us or sent us about the case and 
Ive reached the same  conclusions as our adjudicator.  I dont think  we can look into the way 
Barclays sold Mr C the First Additions account,  and I am not upholding his complaint about 
the Tech Pack. Ill explain  why. 
Mr C has banked with Barclays for quite a while. Barclays has checked  its records  for him 
and has told us that:
Mr C opened the First Additions account in 2006 
in 2015, Barclays  switched Mr C to a fee-free current account but added the Tech  
Pack, for which it charged him a monthly  fee 
in 2018, Mr C cancelled the Tech Pack, but kept the fee-free account. 
 
I believe that Barclays records about this are reliable and I have  taken this account history 
to be accurate. 
With respect to the First Additions  account, we have explained previously to Mr C that it 
seems he made his complaint to Barclays outside the time limits set by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  for us to consider a complaint, and that Barclays didnt agree to waive the 
time limits for us. So we havent  been able to look into it. 
Mr C hasnt disputed the accuracy of the time limits. But in correspondence  with us, he has 
said that his wife bought  a First Additions account on the same  day as he did and also 
complained to Barclays about mis-selling in a similar fashion. He has told us that Barclays  
Ref: DRN68664772upheld his wifes complaint (and I fully accept that it did), so he thinks  its unfair that Barclays  
hasnt done the same for his case.  Hes told us that he feels  that Barclays  has cheated  him 
by not waiving the time limits. 
We did not investigate  the complaint Mr Cs wife made to Barclays.  I understand that 
Barclays resolved it with her without  us being involved. And even if we had been involved, 
we treat each complaint individually, so her case would not necessarily have had a direct  
influence on Mr Cs own complaint.
I cannot comment on the comparison Mr C has made with his wifes case. And nor can I  
consider the way Barclays sold the First Additions account to Mr C due to a seemingly 
different outcome. If Mr C or his wife would like to know  more about any comparison 
between the two cases, then they are free to approach Barclays  either jointly  or separately, 
but I cant advise  them about this or make any comment about how Barclays may respond.
In this decision, I have only considered the way Barclays  charged Mr C for the Tech Pack.  I 
have not considered either the way Barclays sold the First Additions  account to Mr C, or his 
wifes complaint. 
From time-to-time, banks change the conditions they apply to the accounts  they offer to their 
customers. They also withdraw some types  of account altogether. They  are allowed to do 
this, but if they do, I expect them to behave reasonably and fairly by giving their customers 
notice, telling them what is happening  and explaining what  choices are available.
In 2015, Barclays  decided to withdraw  its First Additions accounts  and switch customers to 
other accounts. It has sent us copies of two letters it wrote to Mr C at the time. Both of these 
letters seem  to have  been correctly addressed. 
The first letter told Mr C that Barclays intended to switch him to a Barclays  Bank Account 
with Tech  Pack. It told him how much the Tech Pack would cost and what  features it would 
provide. It described in outline how these features compared to the potential benefits of the 
First Additions  account. It also told Mr C  he could opt out of the Tech  Pack and that if he did 
so his account would become A Barclays Bank Account.with  no monthly fee....  It 
described how could  opt out either  by visiting one of Barclays branches  or by calling a 
particular phone number.  
Barclays sent the second letter to Mr C around six weeks  after it sent the first. This letter  told 
Mr C that Barclays had changed his account and that it would start to charge him for the 
Tech Pack. It also told him that he could remove the Tech  Pack from his account at any 
time. 
It seems  to me that Barclays behaved reasonably towards Mr C when it switched his 
account and started  to charge him for the Tech Pack after sending him these two letters. 
Some of the concerns Mr C has raised,  either with us or directly  with Barclays,  seem  to have 
only been about the First Additions  account, but in connection with the Tech  Pack hes told 
us that Barclays:
didnt tell him that he could have a fee-free  account 
didnt tell him about the benefits  (or features) of the Tech  Pack
Ref: DRN68664773didnt explain that there would be a charge for the Tech Pack  
pressured him to buy the Tech Pack. 
It seems  to me that Barclays covered the first three  of these points in the letters  I have 
described. And I havent seen anything to show me that Barclays  pressured Mr C to buy the 
Tech Pack account.  
Mr C has also said that it was unfair that Barclays only told him about  the Tech Pack through 
the post and didnt ask for his acceptance. I agree that Barclays  didnt ask Mr C to sign any 
formal documentation  when it switched his account. But as Im satisfied that Barclays  told 
him what was happening and gave  him reasonable notice and choices, I dont think this was 
unfair.
Mr C has also told us that his first language is not English  and at times he couldnt  follow  all 
the documentation. However, I understand  that he came to live in the United Kingdom in 
2006 and so had been here for nearly  ten years before  Barclays  switched his account; and 
Im not aware that he asked Barclays for help with language or translation. So I think it was 
reasonable for Barclays to write to Mr C in English. I dont think  Barclays  treated Mr C 
unfairly when it charged him for the Tech Pack.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I have not considered the way Barclays Bank UK Plc 
sold the First Additions account  to Mr C, and I am not upholding his complaint  about the 
charges for the Tech Pack. I am not going  to tell Barclays  to give Mr C any money  back.
.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6866477