K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about Vitality Health Limiteds  handling of his private medical insurance 
claim. 
background
Mr R is a member  of a group private medical  insurance policy. He has a personal medical 
exclusion under  the policy  for hearing loss. 
On 11 January, Mr R called Vitality to explain his GP had referred  him to have his ear 
syringed (microsuction)  because of an ear infection  that was causing him hearing loss. 
Vitality said this would fall under his policy exclusion. 
The next day, Mr R paid to see an audiologist  who carried  out the microsuction. Mr R then 
went back to his GP and was prescribed antibiotics.  
After three weeks, Mr Rs symptoms didnt improve, so he was referred to an ENT surgeon. 
He contacted Vitality  to ask it to cover  this. Once Mr Rs GP confirmed his symptoms werent 
related to his pre-existing condition,  Vitality  accepted the claim. 
Mr R complained about Vitalitys handling  of the matter. He thought Vitality ought  to have 
accepted the claim when  he first contacted it on 11 January. 
Vitality didnt accept Mr Rs complaint.  Nonetheless,  it said it would cover the cost of Mr Rs 
audiologist appointment which took place on 12 January as it hadnt  made  it clear  to him that 
it hadnt authorised  this. Mr R remained unhappy,  and so brought  a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator mediated with Vitality about  the matter. Vitality agreed that it should have 
asked for more information  when Mr R first made the claim.  However,  it didnt think  Mr Rs 
treatment had been delayed as a result of its actions. It offered him £100 compensation to 
recognise its poor service.  
Our investigator thought Vitalitys offer was reasonable.  Mr R didnt agree and has asked for 
an ombudsmans decision, so the matter  has been  passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Vitality now accepts it should have asked Mr R for more information when he first contacted 
it on 11 January. If it had done so, it would have found out at this time that his symptoms  
werent related  to his pre-existing condition, and so his claim for microsuction would have  
been accepted. 
I therefore need to think  about  how Vitalitys actions impacted  Mr R. 
Mr R thinks that Vitalitys  refusal to accept  his claim on 11 January resulted in a three week  
delay in him receiving  a diagnosis, which meant  he experienced three weeks  of unnecessary 
pain. 
Ref: DRN68477932In order to consider  this, Ive looked  at Mr Rs GP notes. 
When Mr R visited  his GP on 9 December, he was given an ENT audiology referral for 
microsuction. He was referred to an NHS  clinic and a referral form for that particular clinic 
was completed.  
On 14 January, the GP recorded that Mr R had ended up going  privately  to have his ear 
cleared by an audiologist. Although the audiologist had suspected  that Mr R had a 
perforation of the left ear, the GP wasnt able to see that. Mr R was prescribed antibiotics.  
On 28 January, Mr R visited his GP as he was still experiencing the symptoms. The GP 
referred him to an ENT surgeon for further consideration, as his infection hadnt resolved. 
I understand that after Mr R saw an ENT specialist, he was found to have a fungal  infection 
and was given  the appropriate  treatment. 
Mr R has made reference to the GP referral  form of 9 January.  He thinks  this form shows his 
GP wasnt only asking for his ear to be syringed, but was also asking  for email advice from a 
consultant. Mr R thinks that if his claim had been accepted by Vitality on 11 January and 
hed been seen by a consultant, he would have  received the correct diagnosis at this time. 
Ive looked at the referral form and Im afraid I disagree with Mr Rs interpretation  of the 
wording. Ill explain  why. 
The form has a heading Advice & Guidance and next to this it says Can this referral be 
dealt with via email advice from consultant. Advice and Guidance  can be sought via e-RS.
I agree  with the investigator that this appears  to be a prompt for the GP to consider whether 
the referral could be deal with via email advice from a consultant.  I dont think it was written 
by the GP to the ENT clinic. 
The GP notes make  it clear that Mr R was only being referred  for microsuction at this time, 
rather than investigation  by an ENT specialist. Consequently, I dont think Vitalitys  actions 
did delay Mr Rs treatment, as he had the microsuction carried out the day after Vitality  
turned down his claim. Although he paid for this himself, Vitality  has since covered the cost 
of this appointment, which I think was appropriate. 
Im not persuaded that Mr R would have  been referred to an ENT specialist any earlier, even 
if Vitality had accepted  his claim for microsuction on 11 January. 
Overall, I think Vitalitys  offer to pay £100 to recognise its poor service is reasonable in the 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN68477933my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Vitality Health Limited to pay Mr R 
£100 compensation, if it hasnt already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020. 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6847793