K820x#14complaint
Miss D has complained about her let property insurer,  Fairmead Insurance  Limited because  
it didnt settle  a claim she made to it when she found damage after her tenants  had left the 
property under an eviction order.
background
Miss D had cause to evict her tenants. Due to a change  in the letting agent the tenants had 
owed a security deposit, then rent for three months. When  Miss D gained  entry  to the 
property in December  2018 she found items  were  missing and there was damage 
throughout the property. She made a claim 13 December 2018.
There was initially some difficulty  with Fairmead  finding Miss Ds cover. When  it did an 
appointment was arranged  for February  2019 for a loss adjuster to attend  and assess the 
damage. Miss D reports that the meeting  went ahead but she was given the impression that 
every item she wanted to claim  for was subject to a payment by her of £500, so she asked 
the loss adjuster to leave believing there was no point continuing the assessment.  
Miss D told this service that she couldnt  accept that shed have to pay so much  for the claim 
when clearly the tenants had committed criminal  damage to her property. She felt she 
should be reimbursed  her lost rent as well  that for during the claim  and which the tenant 
owed her. Miss D also thought shed suffered more lost rent than she would have if the loss 
adjuster hadnt  delayed  the claim. Fairmead  had offered  £250  to compensate for delays but 
Miss D didnt think this was sufficient.
Regarding the property  claim, Fairmead said it would  accept  the claim for stolen items and 
damage from the leaking shower.  But regarding damaged parquet flooring and the tenant  
having fitted extra electrical  sockets and wardrobes, Fairmead said these werent covered. It 
said once it had all the cost details from Miss D, in respect of all the damage claimed for, it 
would consider settlement, including what excess it would be appropriate to deduct. 
Regarding lost rent Fairmead  told this service that the property hadnt been uninhabitable on 
account of the insured damage, so there was no claim in this respect.  
Our investigator felt it was reasonable for Fairmead to rely on its loss adjusters  report  when 
considering whether the damage  claimed  for was covered by the policy.  He explained that 
he could only view the complaint about lost rent as against the cover  offered by Fairmead 
and he felt its answer in this respect was fair. He felt Fairmeads compensation for delays 
was sufficient. 
Miss D didnt agree. She said she was somewhat confused about what  Fairmead was 
agreeing to. She said it was clear something had been dragged along the parquet flooring 
and clearly at least one internal door had been snapped in the middle, with others having 
been kicked. She submitted an invoice for repairing decking and reinstating  the shower. 
Miss D said the leak from the shower shouldnt be treated as an escape of water claim, 
which carries  a £500 excess, as this wasnt about  a leaking pipe. She maintained  that 
Fairmead should reimburse  her some of the rent she had lost.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64137242Excess
An insurance policy doesnt offer cover for every instance of damage that might occur at a 
property. Only damage caused  by events listed in the policy  wording will fall for cover. And 
only then if there are no terms or exclusions that might otherwise defeat  the claim. 
A successful  claim on a policy will also be subject  to an excess. Its quite usual for an excess  
to apply to each claim for loss or damage. So a claim for stolen items will incur an excess. If 
there is then a claim for water damage, there would be another excess. It isnt unusual for 
claims for water damage to attract a higher excess. The escape  of water cover  is for damage 
caused by the water  leak, from any water apparatus, not just a pipe. But it isnt there to fix 
what caused the leak. The excess on water leak claims  on this policy is £500. 
If other items  were  damaged, perhaps maliciously,  a further excess  would be due for that 
part of the claim. Whether an insurer could reasonably apply a separate  excess  for every  
item damaged maliciously would depend  this service always  encourages an insurer  to act 
fairly, and whilst the policy might strictly  allow one excess for each instance of malicious 
damage, most insurers,  in practice will apply the relevant policy  terms fairly. 
But, at this time Fairmead has only offered  settlement  in respect  of the stolen items.  Unless  
or until it sets out some  findings  about  all other aspects of the claim,  including  what excess 
amounts it will apply,  I cant say whether its acted fairly and reasonably  in regard to applying 
excess amounts. 
The reinstatement claim
Fairmead chose to have  a loss adjuster assess the damage on its behalf. Its entitled to do 
that and to rely on the report returned. 
Fairmead has said its accepted the claim for stolen  items, and that for water damage  from 
the shower. Whilst Miss D has concerns about multiple areas of damage at the property, 
including to the internal doors,  so far the only damage Fairmead has declined liability for is 
the parquet flooring and the tenants additions of electrical sockets  and wardrobes.  So I cant 
comment on the other claim items Miss D has mentioned in response to our view.
Regarding the parquet flooring, this is said to be scratched and stained. In its final response 
Fairmead says it thinks its been subject  to wear and tear  which is excluded on the policy.  
Ive seen nothing  that makes  me think it was damaged  maliciously. Miss D believes it must 
have been accidentally damaged when the tenants moved the fridge-freezer,  that the 
adjuster told her this was his opinion. But Ive seen nothing to support that contention. Im 
not persuaded that Fairmeads conclusion that the flooring was subject  to wear and tear is 
unfair or unreasonable.  
It can be frustrating for landlords  when  tenants  change things at the property. Especially if 
such changes arent allowed by the tenancy agreement in place. However,  a tenant making 
changes like this isnt something that is covered by the policy. I think Fairmead acted fairly 
and reasonably when it said the addition of electrical sockets and the wardrobes  werent  
malicious damage, meaning there was no cover for these aspects of Miss Ds claim.  
Loss of rent
Ref: DRN64137243Miss D has two types of cover in respect of lost rent. 
One is provided under her legal expenses  cover. That is in respect of rent the tenant owes  
her. That policy is provided  by a different insurer. To further her claim in this respect Miss D 
needs to contact that insurer. 
The second  type of cover is provided  by Fairmead  as part of the property  insurance  policy.  
Essentially if damage occurs to the property, which Fairmead accepts liability  for, and that 
damage stops the property being lived in, then Miss D can claim for lost rent and/or 
alternative accommodation for tenants.  Here, Fairmead  says it isnt liable for lost rent as the 
damage it accepted  didnt  prevent  the property being lived in. I think thats right.
I appreciate that Miss D didnt feel able to let the property with the repairs outstanding,  and 
an on-going claim. But that doesnt mean the property couldnt be lived in, at best it only 
means it couldnt be let. 
Miss D has said that Fairmead  should  pay her lost rent for the period it delayed  her claim, 
whereas so far its only offered  £250  compensation for upset caused by the delays. Whilst 
I understand Miss Ds view on this, Im not persuaded  it would be fair to make  Fairmead  
compensate her for her financial loss. Whilst I wasnt present at the meeting which  took 
place between Miss D and the loss adjuster, and it seems clear  that some  misunderstanding 
occurred, Miss D seems to have known  from that point that Fairmead  was not going  to 
immediately settle  with her for the majority of the damage she was claiming  for. Whilst 
Miss D was entitled to challenge Fairmeads  position, if she did that whilst  forgoing rental  
income because  she didnt progress the repairs, that isnt something I cant  reasonably  
blame Fairmead for, not when Ive found that its position on the property damage claim, as 
set out in its final response letter,  was fair and reasonable. 
I can see there was some  delay in the claim prior to the loss adjuster being appointed.  
However, I note that once  Miss D provided an alternate policy number, her policy  was 
located straight away. Im not persuaded Fairmead  is to blame for any delay that occurred at 
this time.
Compensation
Fairmead has offered  £250 compensation for upset caused by it. I think  it hasnt handled  this 
claim well at times. It seems to me the loss adjuster wasnt as clear with Miss D as he should 
have been at times. Miss D seems to have been  caught at the end of a chain where she has 
chased her broker, who has chased  Fairmead, who has then had to ask its adjuster for 
updates. Thats clearly not acceptable. But Im satisfied that £250 fairly and reasonably 
makes up for the disruption and frustration caused to Miss D. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  I dont make any award against Fairmead Insurance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6413724