K820x#14Complaint
Mr J complains he was mis-sold an electricians course financed by Caledonian Consumer 
Finance Ltd (Caledonian) and supplied by a supplier Ill call T. He seeks to hold 
Caledonian liable  under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (CCA).
Background
Mr J says he was interested  in starting  an apprenticeship to become an electrician in 2017. 
However, he had just missed out on making an application for one that year.  He came into 
contact with T, who sent a salesperson  to his house  in November that year. Mr J says they 
discussed some different  options, and the salesperson suggested he do something other 
than an apprenticeship - something which would allow him to continue working in his existing 
job and which would  be completed more quickly, in three years rather  than four. This was a 
self-directed learning course with T which would result in Mr J achieving  a number of 
qualifications, the most advanced being a Level 3 NVQ which  would result in him becoming 
a fully qualified  electrician.
Mr J says he was attracted to the idea of continuing to earn while he learned, and by the 
apparent flexibility  of the course. Hes said the salesperson told him practical  lessons could 
be booked whenever  was convenient,  and any work  experience he needed would all be 
arranged for him. Mr J says the salesperson mentioned he had a construction  business and 
Mr J could take his work experience there.
As a result, Mr J says he signed up for the course Ts salesperson  had recommended  he 
take. This cost £7,145, of which Mr J paid £50 on the day on his card,  and entered into a 
loan agreement with Caledonian  to cover the rest. The loan was arranged by T and the 
funds were paid directly to it by Caledonian.
Around seven  months  after starting the course  Mr J says he discovered, while attending a 
practical training  session,  that work experience wouldnt be arranged for him. He also found  
it difficult to find practical  sessions which fit in around his work  commitments and was 
concerned he would need to quit his job in order to get work experience. He complained to T 
and asked to cancel the course. T initially responded in August 2018. They essentially said 
Mr J was still in the early stages of the course, outlined  how he was expected to progress 
through it, and that he did not need to worry about  what he had been told at the practical 
training session. Further correspondence followed, and in September  2018 T sent Mr J a 
letter in which it said it didnt believe its salesperson had mis-sold  the course to him. It said it 
noted Mr J had been trying to find work  as an electricians mate, but this wasnt  necessary to 
complete the course, he would just need  to engage the services of a qualified  electrician  
for the purpose  of some of the modules.
At around the same time, Mr J involved  this service in the complaint. We wrote  to T and 
Caledonian. This prompted Caledonian to send a final response  to Mr Js complaint on 8 
October 2018. It said the paperwork Mr J had signed with Ts salesperson had made  it clear  
he needed to get a suitable work experience  placement and this was his own responsibility, 
not the responsibility of T. It didnt agree  that T had misrepresented the nature and extent  of 
the services it was going to provide. It said it therefore wouldnt be cancelling  the loan or 
providing a refund.
Ref: DRN64404632Mr J was dissatisfied with this response so he asked this service  to consider his complaint. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She thought Mr J had not been misinformed 
about the course, or whether work experience  would  be arranged  for him. Mr J didnt  agree  
with this and raised  some  further points, which our investigator answered.  No agreement 
could be reached  however,  and it was asked that an ombudsman  review Mr Js case.
While the case was waiting for an ombudsman to review it, our investigator left and a new 
investigator took her place. The new investigator  carried out a further review, considering 
additional points  Mr J had raised, and came  to essentially  the same  opinion. The case  has 
now been passed to me to make a decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J purchased his course  with T through a loan with Caledonian which  was specifically 
arranged for that purpose by T. This means  Caledonian has certain responsibilities  to Mr J 
which arise from the relevant law, specifically, sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act 1974 (CCA).
There is no need for me to go into great detail about how these sections operate, but in 
summary section 56 has the effect  of making  T the agent of Caledonian during the 
antecedent negotiations which led up to Mr J entering into the loan agreement and 
beginning with the first communication  he received from T. In practical terms this means 
Caledonian can be held responsible for representations made by T during the sales process.
Section 75 has the effect of allowing Mr J to hold Caledonian liable for breaches of contract 
by T, or misrepresentations made by T in relation to the course.  Again  without  going  into a 
large amount of detail, a misrepresentation is a material,  false statement of fact which  a 
person relies  on to their disadvantage. A breach of contract  occurs  when one party  to a 
contract fails to provide what it has agreed to under that contract. Breaches can be of 
express terms written into the contract,  or they can be breaches of terms which  are treated 
as being included due to, for example, the law saying they must be. These terms are 
sometimes referred to as implied terms.
Mr Js contract  with T would be defined under the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 (CRA) as a 
contract to supply a service. The CRA  causes a number  of terms to be treated as included  in 
such a contract. These are that the service  in question will be performed with reasonable skill and 
care, within a reasonable time, and for a reasonable cost (if a price hasnt been pre-agreed).
Mr J has said that he was given incorrect information by T before he agreed to sign up for 
the course. Specifically, that work  experience would be arranged  for him. He says he later 
found out this was untrue and he wouldnt  have  gone ahead  if hed known the truth. Hes 
also said that the course wasnt  suitable for him and should never  have been recommended,  
because it was a course  for people with some  experience in the electrical industry  already, 
and his existing  work  commitments meant  he wouldnt have been able to take work 
experience anyway.
Ive examined copies of the paperwork Mr J signed  when he agreed to take the course, 
along with some of the course materials he received. Ive also taken into account his 
testimony about what he was told by the salesperson.
Ref: DRN64404633Work experience
My analysis of the course Mr J signed  up for, was that it was made  up of a number of 
smaller courses  and associated assessments which,  once completed, would result in him 
being a fully qualified electrician. It appears  to me that most of these  sub-courses  could be 
completed without the need for work experience, but the level 3 NVQ   which was needed in 
order to become fully qualified   required Mr J to have work experience and carry out some  
tasks which  would be assessed on the job. I can see how a promise  by T to secure the 
work experience would have made  the course  more attractive to a potential student without 
any prior experience or connections in the industry, like Mr J.
To support their position, both Caledonian and T have relied on a piece of paperwork Mr J 
signed at the point  he bought the course. Titled  Training Centre, the document referred  to 
the level 3 NVQ and said that work experience  was required, and that it was Mr Js 
responsibility to seek  it. It went on to say that if a student hadnt been  able to find suitable  
work experience, T may be able to offer assistance, subject to the student providing 
evidence that they had been trying to find placements.  
It doesnt appear to be in dispute that Mr J signed  this document.  I think its quite clear and it 
should have been apparent to a prospective student reading it that they would need to find 
their own work experience, and only if that failed  would  they receive help from T. I appreciate  
Mr J has said he was told otherwise by the salesperson, but Ive not found any other 
evidence to suggest he was given these  reassurances. On balance,  I think  Mr J should have 
been aware when he agreed  to sign up, that work experience would not be sourced for him 
unless he had already made efforts to obtain  it himself.  So I dont agree that T 
misrepresented to him how the work experience aspects of the course operated.
Ive also thought about whether T did what it said it would do in its contract with Mr J. If Mr J 
had met the conditions  for T to provide him with help finding work  experience,  and T had 
failed to do so, then this would likely be a breach of contract. But it seems  Mr J made up his 
mind to stop doing  the course shortly after he had the conversation about work experience at 
the practical training session. As a result, I dont think T had a chance to arrange work 
experience for him. Im therefore unable to tell whether or not it would have sourced work 
experience if Mr J had reached  a later stage of his course and needed help finding it. In its 
letter to Mr J of September 2018,  T indicated that it could do so, so long as Mr J had tried 
himself. Ultimately, I have no reason to believe that T would not have helped arrange work 
experience, when the time came.
Suitability
Mr J has indicated that the course  was never  suitable for him, as a person with no 
background or connections in the industry. Hes said the course was for people  with some  
industry experience.  To support his case hes provided an email from an organisation which  
provides electricians with proof of their qualifications.  The author of the email,  who Mr J has 
told us was sent photographs of his course materials, says that in his opinion  the course 
appears to be for mature candidates with some experience in the industry.  He went  on to 
say: if you have no experience this may not be the correct  course  for you. 
Ref: DRN64404634Ive used Mr Js evidence  as the basis of further research into the routes people can take to 
become a fully-qualified  electrician. Ive reviewed advice available from the National  Careers 
Service and a leading  industry body which works with prospective employers. It appears that 
taking an apprenticeship is generally considered to be the preferred pathway to becoming a 
fully-qualified electrician,  although there are other legitimate ways  of doing so. It appears 
that the kind of course Mr J signed up for is one of these other  ways,  although I note the 
industry guidance highlights the importance of having work experience.  In fact, the guidance 
I was able to find indicated that in order to obtain the Level  3 NVQ a student  would  need  to 
be working in the industry. 
Does this mean the course Mr J agreed to take was unsuitable however? I think it was less 
suitable for him, based on his situation at the time,  than an apprenticeship. But I dont think  this 
means it was unsuitable for him and that, by recommending  it to him, T misrepresented that it 
was suitable. It was a lengthy course  and its possible that Mr J could have  obtained 
employment in the industry during his studies, allowing him to meet the requirements  of the 
NVQ and gain the experience he needed.  Im aware Mr J appears to have tried to obtain work 
and was not receiving  replies from prospective employers, but this was not far into him starting  
the course, and he may have had more  success once  he had achieved the earlier qualifications.  
Another reason  Mr J has given for the course being  unsuitable is that the nature of the job 
he did at the time meant getting  work experience and attending practical  sessions would 
have been very difficult. He says he did shift work  over a 6-day period  the implication being 
that it would  have been hard for him to commit to work experience  or be flexible on dates 
due to his irregular  hours. But Mr J was aware  when  he signed up that he would need to 
obtain some  work experience and attend  practical sessions  and so I think  he would have 
also been aware that he would need to take time off work to do these  things. If he had felt 
this made  the course unsuitable  for him then I would not have expected him to sign up for it. 
The fact that he did leads me to conclude that at the time he felt his job was not an obstacle 
to him completing all parts of the course.  I appreciate Mr J has said he was told practical 
sessions could be booked  for whenever was convenient, but this is, in my view, quite a 
vague statement  and not enough  detail has been  given around  this point for me to be able to 
conclude that the salesperson misrepresented the availability of the practical training.
Other points
Mr J has made a number of other points during the course of his complaint with this service. 
For the sake of completeness, I have addressed them below. If a particular point has not 
been covered  it is not because I havent  read it or considered it  it is because I did not think  
it relevant to Mr Js complaint about  Caledonian.
Mr J has said the training centre T had partnered with is no longer approved by the body 
which awards the qualifications. T says this isnt true and the centre is approved.  Ive carried 
out my own enquiries  which suggest that the centre  is still approved, but even  if it wasnt I 
dont think this would help Mr J, as he appears  to have  quit the course  long before the centre 
in question is said to have become unapproved. 
Mr J has also noted that T is no longer authorised by the Financial Conduct Authority. But 
this doesnt mean that the agreement  he entered into with it or Caledonian becomes invalid 
as a result. At the time the agreement was sold, T had the necessary authorisation in place 
to arrange it. Caledonian, which Mr J has an ongoing  loan with, continues to be authorised 
by the Financial Conduct Authority.
Ref: DRN64404635I have some sympathy for Mr J. I think its likely  taking an apprenticeship would have been the 
best choice for him, even though he would have needed to wait a year to start it. He ended up 
agreeing to pay a large amount of money  for a course which  he will now not go on to 
complete. But that doesnt necessarily mean that the course  was misrepresented,  or that a 
breach of contract has taken place which would make Caledonian liable to him under sections 
56 or 75 of the CCA. For the reasons  Ive explained  above, I dont think either of these things 
have occurred. It follows that I dont think Caledonian was wrong  to reject Mr Js complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2021.
Will Culley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6440463