K820x#14complaint
Mr K has complained about the cash sum that Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) has offered,  following  a claim on his motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr K made a claim to his insurer Admiral, after his car was involved in an accident in       
April 2019. He took the car to Admirals  approved  repairer,  in an attempt to have them  repair 
the damage. 
They investigated the damage  that had been caused, and estimated the cost of repairs at 
approximately £2,000. However, the approved repairer was not prepared to complete the 
work. They said that this was because the damaged bonnet had recently been repaired and 
painted. They instead offered a cash-in-lieu settlement for the estimate amount.  
Mr K was unhappy about this and so he provided  them with his own estimate from a different  
repairer. This gave  a figure of approximately £3,000.
Admiral reviewed the estimate  but rejected it, saying it was too high. As the approved 
repairer didnt agree  to complete the repairs, and Admiral didnt agree to the estimate  
provided by Mr K, they offered  to pay a cash sum amount equivalent to the approved 
repairers estimate. 
Mr K was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. He says that he is unable  to 
repair his car for the amount paid to him and is unhappy with the amount of time it has taken 
to attempt to resolve  the matter. Our investigator felt that Admiral had acted fairly and in line 
with the policy terms and conditions, so the complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
After the investigator  issued her view Admiral provided further comments from its engineers. 
This stated  that the reason why the bonnet  may need to be replaced wasnt  down to the 
accident, but due to pre-existing  damage  that in their view hadnt been  repaired properly by 
another garage. We asked for Mr Ks comments on this before I proceeded with my decision 
and gave him an opportunity to respond  but he didnt. So I think  I can now proceed with my 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Under Mr Ks policy, Admiral has the right to decide  how they settle a claim. They can 
choose to do this through paying to repair the car or paying Mr K a cash sum to replace the 
damaged item. For the sake of clarity, the policy says that Admiral will decide how to settle 
the claim and will either  pay to repair the car, or pay a cash  sum to replace the damaged 
car or item. I think Admiral can rely on this term as long as it applies it in a fair and 
reasonable way.
Mr Ks car was assessed  by Admirals approved repairer. They  estimated how much it would 
cost to repair the damage. However, they did not want  to repair Mr Ks car. This was 
because they said there  had been  previous damage and repairs  to the bonnet of the car and 
Ref: DRN63960962they did not want to do work and provide warranty for previous repairs, that were unrelated 
to this incident. I dont  think  this was unreasonable because Admiral didnt carry out the work 
previously and therefore couldnt  guarantee it against  future  potential  issues.  
As the approved repairer was not willing to carry out the work and Mr K was unhappy with 
the cash settlement  being offered, I dont think Admiral acted unfairly by offering to cash  
settle Mr Ks claim. This is because the policy entitles them to settle claims in this way, as 
per the above  policy terms. And it didnt agree to meet  the second estimate Mr K provided. 
I have looked  at whether Admiral acted fairly in refusing  to pay the estimated costs  of repairs  
that Mr K provided. This figure appears to be higher  as the garage Mr K used provided a 
quote to replace the bonnet. The quote from the approved repairer was to only repair the 
damage and did not recommend that the bonnet be replaced. The damage and quote have 
been considered by Admirals in-house engineer, they have also said that they believe that 
the damage can be repaired and there is no need  to replace the bonnet.   
Its important to explain that Mr Ks insurance policy only provides cover  for damage relating 
to an insured peril.  In this case, Mr K was involved in an accident in April 2019, and his 
policy provides him with indemnity to put him back in the position he would have been in had 
the accident not occurred.  Im persuaded, based  on everything available to me, that Mr Ks 
accident related  damage is repairable. And therefore Admiral is required under the policy to 
cover that. I dont think Mr K has shown that the need to replace the bonnet  is solely down to 
the accident. He hasnt  provided any evidence to show that this is the case. 
Mr K has said that there were previous repairs to this part of the car, prior to this accident. 
These were  also acknowledged by both the approved  repairer and Admirals in-house  
engineer. Whilst I understand that Mr K has a quote for a replacement bonnet, I dont think it 
is fair to require Admiral  to meet this cost, as I am not satisfied that this is necessary and a 
result of the accident  related damage.  
Mr K is also unhappy with the amount  of time it has taken Admiral  to handle this claim. The 
claim was registered on 21 April 2019 and the cash-in-lieu figure  was paid to him at the end 
of May 2019. 
I appreciate that this would have been  a frustrating time for Mr K, but I do not agree that this 
was an unreasonable amount of time. This period  included the damage  being reviewed by 
the approved  repairer, in-house  engineer and a non-approved repairer. The decision to 
settle the claim through a cash-in-lieu payment was also reviewed as well as Mr Ks 
complaint. I believe this was dealt with in a reasonable amount of time. 
Admiral offered Mr K £25 because they accepted  they could have  been  clearer when 
explaining to him why the repairs were not being  authorised. This was because  they felt that 
Mr K could have been given  a better  explanation earlier as to why the approved repairer was 
not willing to carry  out the repairs. They did explain  this a few days later. 
In the circumstances, having  looked  at all of the information available  to me, I think  this is 
reasonable and Im not going  to tell Admiral to do anything further. I say this because  apart 
from being less clear than it could have been, they acted  fairly, reasonably  and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy in the way that they have settled the claim. 
Ref: DRN63960963my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. Admiral Insurance  Company Limited should 
pay Mr K £25 if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6396096