K820x#14Complaint
Mr Z complains Wirex Limited failed  to prevent payments out of digital wallets  he holds on its 
platform. He asks Wirex to refund the money he lost.
Background
The background to Mr Zs complaint is well known to both parties.  But to summarise:
-Mr Z is a customer of Wirex. He holds digital wallets for pounds  sterling  (a fiat wallet) 
and a wallet for bitcoin, a cryptocurrency.
-On 9 December  2018, a payment was made  from the fiat wallet to exchange pounds  
to bitcoin, which was then held in the bitcoin wallet. Shortly  afterwards, two bitcoin 
payments were made  to an external wallet held by an unknown  party.  The payments 
used up all of the bitcoin in the wallet.
-Mr Z says he didnt  make the transfer or payments, and he mustve been hacked.  
Hed received emails shortly before the payments were  made.  One was from Wirex, 
stating there was an attempt to access  his account from an operating system Mr Z 
says he doesnt  use. And another was from his email account provider informing him 
a new device had accessed his email  account. The device  also used the same  
operating system.  
-Wirex  found Mr Z liable for the payments. It says the device used to make the 
payments is one Mr Z used regularly.  Payment emails for each  payment  were also 
sent to Mr Zs genuine email address. To confirm  the payments, the emails needed 
to be opened  and responded to. Wirex  received  confirmation. Given  the amount of 
information and access needed  to make  the payments, Mr Z likely  made  them.
-Mr Z disagreed. He says, as a matter of good  industry practice, Wirex ought to have 
restricted his account for at least 24 hours  when it knew there was an attempt to 
access his account from a new device. If Wirex  had blocked  his account  Mr Z 
wouldve seen the payment attempts,  and his loss wouldve  been  prevented.
An investigator considered Mr Zs complaint and didnt uphold it. They found:
-The payments  on the Wirex account were made using a device Mr Z used  before.  
And the change to Mr Zs Wirex  password was also made from a device used by Mr 
Z before.
-A third party wouldve needed access to Mr Zs devices. But the device used to make 
the payments  was secured by facial ID and a password.  A third party wouldve also 
needed to know  Mr Zs Wirex and email  accounts usernames and passwords, but Mr 
Z had never given  his details to anyone or written them  down. So, without there  being  
a clear point of compromise,  its most  likely Mr Z made the payments.
Mr Z disagreed with the outcome  the investigator reached and asked for a final decision from 
an ombudsman. So, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.  
Ref: DRN65512262Mr Z highlighted he thinks Wirex  didnt have sufficient security in place  to prevent him from 
falling victim to fraud. He says he was the victim of a hacker  who was able to access  his 
accounts and make the payments.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to not 
uphold Mr Zs complaint for similar reasons given by the investigator.  Ill explain why:
-Wirexs records  show the device used to make the payments was the same one Mr Z 
used to access his accounts on numerous occasions in the past.  The identifier for Mr 
Zs device  is unique   and Im satisfied this is reliable evidence.
-To make the payments, a third party wouldve needed access  to Mr Zs device and 
security information. They needed to bypass  his device security  and have known  his 
username and password  for both his email and Wirex accounts. Mr Z suggests  this is 
all possible  for a hacker. And it may be possible, but Ive not seen sufficient evidence 
to demonstrate this most likely explains  what  happened.
-Instead, given  the extent  of compromise needed  to access  both Mr Zs device, Wirex 
account and email account,  its more likely  he made  the payments or allowed  
someone else to. Wirexs records indicate  the same device continued  to be used 
after the 9 December 2018, which lends  weight to the payer being Mr Z.
-Mr Z says the device he received an email about was not previously registered on his 
Wirex account. But this wasnt the device used to make the payments,  so I dont find 
this shows Mr Z didnt  instruct Wirex  to make the payments on the device he owned.
-Ive seen no evidence  to suggest a failure with Wirexs security protocols or 
technology at the time the payments were  made.  Mr Z says Wirex ought to have 
restricted his account after another device attempted  to access  his Wirex account. 
But the evidence  points to Mr Z making the payments, so I dont find Wirex  were  at 
fault by processing  the payments.
-Ive considered Mr Zs point that any device can access a Wirex account if the 
username and password  is known. He also says IP addresses might show a device 
being used from a location he doesnt  frequent. But this doesnt explain why his 
specific device was logged by Wirex as making  the payments. And IP addresses can 
be masked to give unreliable location data.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Zs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2021.
Ref: DRN65512263Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6551226