K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs H are unhappy  with the way The National  Farmers Union Mutual Insurance  
Society Limited (NFU) has handled their claim for damage  to their business caused  by a 
fire.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in February 2020 explaining that I was 
intending to partially uphold  it. Heres  what I said in my provisional decision:
background
There has been extensive background to this complaint  which I wont repeat in full 
detail here.  But I have carefully  considered  the full timeline of events.
Mr and Mrs H suffered  a fire on their farm in March 2017. The building affected was a 
barn used  to house animals in the winter and let for weddings and events in the 
summer. Ill refer to this building  as the wedding barn moving forward.
Mr and Mrs H raised  a claim through their buildings insurance policy  with NFU.  NFU 
accepted the claim but initially advised that the barn was underinsured.  It said Mrs H 
provided a declared  value  of £10,200 when she extended cover to include hosting 
weddings, in 2016, so this was the sum insured. NFU paid Mr and Mrs H this amount 
in May 2017  to settle the claim.
Mr and Mrs H complained  about this. They said the wedding  barn is part of a larger  
structure, named  on the insurance  policy as cubicle house, and that the total value 
insured for this building  was sufficient. They said Mrs H took the £10,200 to be the 
additional cover  for the risks associated with holding events in the barn.
NFU investigated Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.  It accepted  that it failed to properly 
identify whether the wedding barn formed part of the building referred to as cubicle 
house. Based on this, it agreed to provide cover  for the wedding  barn without 
applying any restriction for the declared  value which was detailed  on the policy at the 
time of the claim (£10,200). But it said its offer was subject to the remaining policy  
terms, and that Mr and Mrs H should pay the correct  premium for the risk from the 
beginning of the policy period in which the claim arose (2016). It suggested that 
Mr and Mrs H obtain professional valuations, of each of the buildings  which make up 
cubicle house,  to avoid any future risk of underinsurance. It also offered to complete 
a site visit to assess what  the correct  premiums should be.
Mr and Mrs H increased their business overdraft to fund the repairs  themselves. 
They brought their complaint to our service as they wanted our view on whether it 
was fair for NFU to apply  conditions to its agreement to settle the claim. They argued 
that NFU had more  than enough information to assess  the claim and that there would 
be no benefit in completing a site visit. They wanted  NFU to pay the remaining capital 
deficit including interest and pay compensation for the significant stress and 
inconvenience they experienced as a result  of NFUs errors.
Ref: DRN66160872Two investigators at our service have considered Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. The final 
opinion given was that NFUs decision  to withhold settlement until the correct 
premiums can be calculated  was fair and reasonable. Once this has been 
established, our investigators  opinion was that NFU should:
Settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms
Reimburse Mr and Mrs H for the additional fees and interest they incurred in 
relation to the repair work
Pay 8% simple interest on these amounts from the date the increased 
overdraft was arranged
Pay £500 compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs H 
have experienced.
Mr and Mrs H dont agree that its fair for NFU to withhold  settlement of the claim until 
the correct premiums are calculated. They say theyve paid premiums based  on the 
sums insured agreed by NFUs agent, and that NFU already hold a detailed 
description of the buildings at their farm which require insurance. They maintain that 
the total sums insured  for cubicle house are sufficient.
Mr and Mrs H say the value for cubicle  house  was set by NFUs  agent  and that they 
were entitled  to rely on his advice. They say NFU cant change  the terms of the 
contract retrospectively. They also feel strongly that any interest our service awards 
on settlement of the claim should be paid from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. Theyve quoted several articles from our services website which say this 
is our general approach.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Hs arguments, but they didnt change his 
view. So, because no agreement  could be reached, the complaint was passed  to me 
to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
While several  issues  have  been  raised  as part of this complaint, this provisional  
decision focuses only on the issues I consider  to be materially  relevant to the 
outcome of the complaint.  But I have  carefully  considered all of the evidence  and 
arguments from both sides.
It isnt in dispute that NFU made an error when adding cover  for the wedding  barn to 
Mr and Mrs Hs policy. NFU accepts this. It has agreed to settle the claim once it has 
clarified the correct  level of risk it was exposed to at the time and adjusted the 
premiums accordingly.
There are three issues I believe are crucial for me to decide  here.  These are whether  
NFUs position that it requires further  information  from Mr and Mrs H to recalculate 
their premiums is fair, in light of the evidence already  provided.  How interest  should  
be calculated and paid as part of any claim settlement. And how much compensation 
should be paid for the trouble and upset Mr and Mrs H have  experienced. 
For ease of reference Ill address each in turn.
Ref: DRN66160873the claim settlement
Mr and Mrs H feel strongly that their farm was adequately insured and that, therefore, 
they have paid the correct  premium. Theyve  said that after the fire NFUs loss 
adjuster valued  the wedding barn at around £35,000  and that the wedding barn 
makes up a third of cubicle house. So, they said the sum insured for cubicle house 
(around £115,000) is clearly correct.
NFU states that it is for the policyholders to set sums insured and that this is clearly 
set out in the policy documentation. It says it was Mr and Mrs Hs responsibility to 
ensure that the buildings required for cover were adequately insured. 
NFU says the estimated value placed on the wedding barn by its loss adjuster, after 
the fire, is not intended to be used  as a basis for an accurate sum insured. It says its 
loss adjuster only assessed the wedding barn, but cubicle house is made up of 
several buildings,  used for different  things  and made  of different materials. So, it says 
this estimate cannot be used to value the entire  structure. This seems  a reasonable 
position to take.
Mr and Mrs H have argued  that NFUs agent advised them to insure cubicle house 
for £100,000. They  say the agent had a regulatory responsibility to ensure any advice 
he provided was suitable  and took into account their needs. Based on this they dont 
agree that NFU should  be able to review the sums  insured and amend the premiums 
before settling the claim.
Ive carefully considered  what both sides have said about this issue.  Ive also taken 
into account the policy documentation.
Page 5 of the policy wording document sets out the policyholder obligations. Under  
the subheading, property it states:
Special Conditions, Underinsurance  - Accurately declaring the value of 
property insured
The policy renewal documents Ive seen,  from various years, include a paragraph 
headed, keep your cover  up to date which states:
You need to Insure  each  Item under this policy for the correct value. If the 
Insured value of any Item Is too low, you may not receive the full amount of 
any claim you make, meaning you may bear part of the loss. You should 
review your Insured values regularly so that your Insurance accurately  
reflects the value  of the Items you are Insuring throughout the term of the 
policy, not just upon  renewal.
The policy insurance  review from November 2016 (erroneously dated November 
2011) includes  a paragraph  about  an optional, professional valuation service.  It 
states:
Ref: DRN66160874Valuation Service, if you have any concerns regarding your sums insured on 
any of your buildings,  we recommend you seek professional advice. 
Quotations can be provided for valuation of your Listed, Domestic, 
Commercial or Farm buildings by a surveyor from one of our recommended 
suppliers.
This same document has a page headed, important  information. The first section of 
this page relates  to underinsurance. It states:
Underinsurance - setting your Declared  Value & Sums Insured
It is important  that you make sure any property  is insured for a sufficient 
amount.
And
Please take the time to consider whether you need to increase these 
amounts. We recommend  that you obtain  a professional valuation if you are 
in any doubt about the adequacy of your insurance on any buildings.
Based on this collective  information, I think it is clear that responsibility for setting the 
sums insured (value at risk) for the buildings rested with Mr and Mrs H.
Ive also considered Mr and Mrs Hs argument that NFUs agent  provided unsuitable 
advice about the value  of cubicle house.  NFU has obtained a statement from the 
agent about this meeting. He says,  
I think  I gave  them a suggestion of £100k  as a sum insured for this as an 
indication making  it clear to them that they had to make the final decision on 
its value.
As the evidence about what was said during this meeting is contradictory, I need to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is, what  do I think is more 
likely, based on the available evidence and arguments. 
NFUs agent is required  to provide advice on cover, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. He also provided Mr and Mrs H with the documents  quoted  
from above, which clearly  explain that it is Mr and Mrs Hs responsibility to ensure the 
declared sums insured are adequate. On balance, I find it more  likely than not that 
the agent would have  explained this to Mr and Mrs H when he gave them  a 
suggestion of £100,000.  So, I dont  agree  that NFUs agent  set the sums insured as 
Mr and Mrs H have suggested.
Mrs H added the wedding  barn to cover  in 2016 over the phone. Mr and Mrs H say 
they thought the £10,200  she declared  was for the additional cover for the risks 
associated with holding  events in the barn,  not for the value  of the building. This is 
because the wedding barn formed part of cubicle house, which  was already insured 
for £115,000  (£100,000 declared value and £15,000 inflation allowance).  
Ref: DRN66160875NFU has accepted that it didnt do all that it should have done to establish whether 
the wedding barn was part of cubicle house  when  it was added to cover. Because  of 
this, it is willing to settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim in line with the policy conditions, 
without applying any restriction  for the declared  value which was detailed  on the 
policy at the time of the claim. But based on the information it now has, it believes 
Mr and Mrs H are significantly underinsured.  So, it wants  to reassess the risk and 
charge the correct premiums before it settles  the claim.
Ive thought carefully about the evidence and arguments put forward  by both sides. 
Its clear that there was a misunderstanding when  the wedding  barn was added to 
cover. I believe that Mrs H didnt intend to declare the value of the wedding  barn as 
£10,200. But I also believe that NFU never intended to provide the level of cover it 
has now agreed to provide, based on the declared  sums insured and the level of 
premiums it charged.  So, in the circumstances I think it is fair that NFU wants  to 
reassess the risk and recalculate the premiums before it settles  the claim.
NFU has stated that it would be prepared to carry out a site visit to properly assess 
the risk. But Mr and Mrs H have, so far, not agreed  to this taking place. Because  of 
this, NFU has instructed  a new loss adjuster to estimate the correct value at risk by 
assessing all of the available information on the claim file.
NFUs loss adjuster  has estimated that the accurate value at risk for cubicle house, 
including the wedding barn,  is £277,000. Based on this figure, and using a pricing 
index, NFU has recalculated the premiums it believes it ought to have  received,  
based on the accurate level of risk. The loss happened  in the 2016 policy  year, so 
NFU would like the shortfall  for 2016, 2017 and 2018 to be paid. 
NFU says this shortfall amounts to £1,369.16.  It says it is not prepared to waive  this 
amount, but it is prepared  to deduct it from the claim settlement rather than asking 
Mr and Mrs H to pay it upfront. NFU accepts that the estimated value at risk is not 
completely accurate. So, if Mr and Mrs H dont  agree with the valuation and 
subsequent calculations, it is still prepared to carry out a site visit to complete a more 
accurate calculation.
Taking everything into account,  I think NFUs offer to pay the claim once it can 
reassess the risk and recalculate the premiums is fair. And I think  it has put forward  
two fair offers for calculating the premium shortfall.  
So, if Mr and Mrs H agree to a site visit, Im currently minded to decide that NFU 
should carry one out, establish the correct value  at risk and recalculate the 
premiums. It can then deduct that amount  from the claim settlement.  
If Mr and Mrs H dont agree to a site visit, I think its fair for NFU to base the premium 
shortfall on the calculations of its loss adjuster and deduct the £1,369.16 from the 
claim settlement.
Ref: DRN66160876interest on the settlement
NFU has accepted that it didnt do everything  it ought to have done when Mrs H 
attempted to add cover for the wedding barn to their policy. This error  means  that 
Mr and Mrs H have been without the full benefit  they intended to receive  and 
presumably would have  received  had NFU done  all it accepts it should  have  done  
at the time (subject to payment of the correct premium, which Ive already said I think 
is fair for NFU to receive).
Because of this, Mr and Mrs H extended their business overdraft to cover repairs  to 
the wedding barn. They  were charged a fee for extending their overdraft and have 
been charged interest on the repair related purchases, which they wouldnt have 
been if everything had happened as it should  have  done. 
NFU says it will reimburse Mr and Mrs H the overdraft fee and additional interest that 
they paid as a direct  result of completing  repairs to the wedding  barn.  But it says it 
will only consider paying interest on these amounts for the eight-month period where 
Mr and Mrs H had their overdraft limit increased.
Mr and Mrs H dont agree that this is fair. Theyve said the interest theyve been 
charged on these expenses continues to accrue  despite the increased  overdraft 
being reduced to its normal  level, and that it will continue to accrue until the amounts 
theyve spent are reimbursed by NFU.  Mr and Mrs H have also argued that NFU 
should pay interest on the settlement  from the date of the fire. Theyve  quoted 
articles from our services website which say our general approach in most  insurance 
claims is to award interest from the date of the insured event.
When our service awards interest  on a claim settlement,  we do so to compensate 
policyholders for being deprived  of money  they would otherwise have had to use for 
other things,  such as investments or savings. Mr and Mrs H have rightly pointed out 
that the typical position of the courts, where  payment of an insurance claim is 
delayed, is to award interest on the amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement. But for both the courts and our service, the power to award interest is 
discretionary. There is no set rule which states  interest must be paid from date of 
loss in every  case or claim.
Mr and Mrs H have acknowledged  that as an ombudsman, I can depart from the law, 
provided I clearly state the reasons why I believe that to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. As Ive stated above, I dont believe that by 
awarding interest from a different date to the date of loss would be departing from the 
law. But in any case, I will explain the reasons for the award Im intending  to make 
below.
Mr and Mrs H extended their overdraft by £15,000  to help fund repairs.  All of the 
money they used  to fund the repairs came  from their overdraft, and so belonged to 
the bank. This means Mr and Mrs H havent been deprived of their own money  or lost 
the opportunity  to gain interest  on it through  saving or investing.  However,  Mr and 
Mrs H have had to pay a fee and interest on the overdraft used to fund the repairs. 
So, I think its fair that NFU should compensate them for this.
Ref: DRN66160877Therefore, NFU should reimburse Mr and Mrs H the overdraft  fee of £225, plus any 
interest they paid on the repair related purchases. Interest  at 8% should  be paid on 
these amounts, from the point Mr and Mrs H paid them, because  this is the point 
where they were  deprived of their own money. The interest should be paid until the 
date of settlement,  because Mr and Mrs H will remain without the use of that money 
until they receive the settlement.
NFU has stated that it will require further  bank  statements from Mr and Mrs H in 
order to accurately calculate the amount of additional interest they have incurred  as a 
result of the repair related purchases  only. I think thats reasonable.
trouble and upset
Our investigator recommended NFU should compensate Mr and Mrs H £500 for the 
trouble and upset  it caused them, and NFU accepted this recommendation. Mr and 
Mrs H feel the compensation should be higher. Theyve said the claim has impacted 
Mr Hs health and have  provided a letter from his GP to support this. The letter  states 
that up until 2017 Mr H had been in generally  good  health, but since  then he has 
experienced numerous illnesses. The GP states  that although it is impossible to say 
these illnesses are related  to the stress of this claim,  it could be a contributory factor.
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Hs argument here, including the GP 
evidence. But I think the fact the GP has highlighted that it is impossible  to link his 
illnesses to the claim is important. I accept  that there is a possibility  that it could be a 
contributory factor. But equally, it may not be. I also dont think the sole reason  the 
claim has taken  as long as it has rests with NFU. I say this because NFU has been  
offering for many months to arrange a site visit so that it could move forward to 
assessing and settling the claim.
Overall, I think £500 is a fair and reasonable amount of compensation, taking into 
account everything that has happened.
I said that Mr and Mrs H should let me know whether they would  prefer NFU to arrange a 
site visit to recalculate the premiums or to accept its loss adjusters calculations. 
I said once I had Mr and Mrs Hs answer, I was intending to direct NFU to assess and settle  
their claim in line with the remaining policy terms, and to pay £500 compensation for trouble 
and upset. I said I also intended to direct  NFU to reimburse the overdraft fee and additional 
interest they had to pay on the repair related purchases, and to pay 8% simple interest on 
these amounts.
I asked both parties to provide any further evidence or arguments they wanted me to 
consider before I reached a final decision.
Mr and Mrs H provided a detailed response  containing several points they didnt  agree with. 
In summary  they said:
They feel NFU and its agent have been negligent. They feel a court would award the 
capital deficit,  contingency losses and additional  interest charges due to NFUs  
failure pay the full value of the claim on 19 May 2017.
Ref: DRN66160878The FCA published results of a review into supervision of appointed representatives 
which found widespread shortcomings  in sales practices, the suitability of 
recommendations and treating customers fairly. They believe the statement made by 
NFUs agent is an attempt to mask his own negligence.
The contract they entered into in November  2016 is subject to the Insurance Act 
2015, including the duty of fair presentation. They believe theyve complied with the 
Act as the information obtained  by NFUs agent in February 2015 satisfied the duty of 
fair presentation in November 2016  because there had been no change  in matters  
affecting the risk.
They dont believe there is any legal justification, under the Insurance  Act 2015,  for 
being required to pay the premium shortfall. But they have said they would, at their 
expense, pay for their own independent valuation and pay the premium  shortfall  for 
the policy year when the claim took place  as a fair and reasonable compromise.
Mr and Mrs Hs bank have stated that they cannot identify  the amount of interest  
charged for the repair related purchases only, so they are astounded that my 
decision suggests NFU will be able to if provided with further bank statements.
NFU conducted investigations  slowly and failed to settle  the claim in a reasonable 
time. 
NFU also responded  to my provisional  decision. It said it didnt agree that it should pay 8% 
simple interest on the repair related purchases. It said these costs were paid using an 
overdraft facility, so it didnt agree that Mr and Mrs H had been  deprived of this money.
NFU also said it would agree to Mr and Mrs H providing their own valuation,  providing it was 
completed in good time and a copy was sent to them directly by the surveyor.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive also considered  the additional 
evidence and arguments put forward in response  to my provisional decision.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to the outcome of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. But Ive 
given careful consideration to all of the submissions made.
Mr and Mrs H still feel strongly that NFU has been  negligent. Theyve argued that in law they 
are entitled  to a refund  of the capital deficit plus interest and any contingency  losses as 
compensation for negligence. Theyve also highlighted a report  from the regulator (FCA) 
which identifies several issues with agency  sales and/or advice from around this time.
Ive thought carefully about Mr and Mrs Hs arguments. But our service  assesses  each case  
on its own merits. And as I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont  believe the setting of 
the sums  insured for either cubicle house as a whole, or the wedding barn, was the 
responsibility of NFU or its agent. Based on what Ive seen, the responsibility for setting 
these rested  with Mr and Mrs H. I quoted several  relevant  excerpts of the policy document  in 
my provisional decision to support this finding. So, I dont  agree that the agent has been 
negligent in this case.
Ref: DRN66160879Mr and Mrs H have argued  that the documents Ive referred to only place the onus on them if 
they had concerns about the valuation. They say they didnt have any concerns as they 
trusted NFUs agent implicitly, having worked  with him and his predecessor for decades.
I disagree that the policy documentation only places an onus on Mr and Mrs H if theyre 
unsure about  the valuation. In my view the information is clear that Mr and Mrs H needed to 
ensure that the sums insured were  adequate.  
Mr and Mrs H feel that any statements made by NFUs agent are questionable.  Theyve  said 
he is attempting to mask his own negligence. They say he provided the valuation for cubicle  
house and attended after the wedding barn was added to cover. They say they had worked  
with him and his predecessor  for numerous  years and so were  entitled to rely on his advice.
I addressed this point  in my provisional  decision.  The evidence  here is contradictory, so I 
need to decide this on the balance of probabilities. As the policy  documentation  stated that 
setting the sums insured was the responsibility  of Mr and Mrs H, I find it more  likely than not 
that the agent would have told them this, as hes said he did.
In their response to my provisional  decision,  Mr and Mrs H have referred  several times to the 
Insurance Act 2015,  and in particular the duty of fair presentation. But in my view, this isnt 
relevant here because  NFU isnt treating this as misrepresentation due to a breach of fair 
presentation of the risk. And nor is it seeking to proportionately reduce the settlement.
In this case NFU is saying that the wedding barn, and cubicle house  in general, are 
underinsured, and that setting the sums insured was the responsibility of Mr and Mrs H. But 
NFU also accepts it didnt do all that it could have done to establish whether the wedding 
barn formed part of cubicle house  when  it was added to cover  in 2016. So, NFU is prepared 
to settle the claim  in full, with no deduction for underinsurance, providing it can first 
recalculate the correct  sums insured, adjust the premiums  accordingly and collect the correct 
premiums from the 2016/17 policy year onward.  
Having considered all of the available  evidence, I dont believe  NFU intended to provide  the 
level of cover it is now offering to, based  on the sums insured declared at the time. And I 
also dont believe that Mrs H intended  to value the wedding barn at £10,000 either. So, 
taking everything into account, I remain satisfied that a fair and reasonable solution  in this 
case is that NFU can reassess  the sums insured  and charge an accurate premium before 
settling the claim without a deduction  for underinsurance. 
In response to my provisional decision,  Mr and Mrs H said they didnt want NFU to carry out 
another site visit. And they didnt think it would be fair or appropriate for it to base any 
premium shortfall on the calculations of the loss adjuster either. Instead they said they 
would, at their expense,  instruct an independent surveyor  to provide a valuation.  They  said 
based on this valuation they would  be prepared to pay the premium shortfall for the policy  
year in which the claim happened (2016/17).  
I think Mr and Mrs H obtaining their own valuation  is a reasonable alternative in the 
circumstances. But the accurate  premium should be paid for the policy years 2016/17, 
2017/18 and 2018/19. I say this because if everything had happened as it should  have  done,  
the increased premiums   and the level of cover NFU will be providing  would have applied 
in all of those years. 
Ref: DRN661608710NFU has agreed to accept Mr and Mrs H obtaining  their own valuation, providing it is 
completed in good time, which isnt unreasonable. But given the outbreak  of coronavirus and 
the implementation of social distancing/lockdown, Im not able to determine what  a 
reasonable timeframe  for this to happen would be  at the time of writing  this decision.
So, in the interest  of progressing matters as quickly as possible, and given the 
circumstances, the valuation should  be completed and provided to NFU by the surveyor  
within two months of the end of social distancing/lockdown. Otherwise, NFU will be entitled 
to recalculate the premiums based on the estimated  valuation of its loss adjuster and settle 
the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of Mr and Mrs Hs policy.
Mr and Mrs H have asked whether settling the claim in line with what Ive said above  means  
they will receive what theyve referred  to as the capital deficit of £29,203.  NFU says it will 
need to assess  the invoices  and proof  of payment  Mr and Mrs H have provided and make a 
decision on whether  everything purchased should  be covered by the policy.  It is entitled to 
do this, which is why I am not directing  it to pay a specific  amount in settlement of the claim.
In my provisional decision I said NFU needed  to reimburse Mr and Mrs H the amounts they 
spent on the repair related  purchases, including any interest they were charged on these. 
Mr and Mrs H have questioned how its possible  to accurately work out the amount of 
interest theyve incurred on the repair  related purchases only.  Theyve highlighted several  
reasons why this would be challenging and have also supplied  letters  from their bank stating 
that it would  not be able to calculate  the interest applied to a certain number of payments, 
only to the overdraft as a whole.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs Hs concerns  that it will be challenging to calculate the amount of 
interest they incurred on the repair related purchases only. But ultimately this is what  I think 
NFU needs  to do in order to deliver a fair and reasonable  outcome, and NFU hasnt 
suggested that it cant do this. NFU has said it will require further bank statements from 
Mr and Mrs H, including  those from the 12 months  immediately before the claim, to help with 
its calculations. So, I think Mr and Mrs H should provide NFU with any bank statements it 
requests so that it can calculate this.
In response to my provisional decision NFU said it doesnt agree that it should  pay 8% 
simple interest on the repair related purchases. It says these purchases were made using an 
overdraft, so Mr and Mrs H havent  been deprived of their own money. 
It seems  my provisional  decision  wasnt as clear  as I intended it to be. I say this because I 
dont think NFU needs to pay 8% simple interest  on these purchases and I didnt when I 
issued my provisional decision. 
To be clear, NFU should refund the cost of the repair related purchases which it determines 
are covered  by the policy. But it doesnt need to pay 8% simple  interest  on these amounts as 
they were paid using  the banks money.
NFU should  calculate  the amount of interest Mr and Mrs H have incurred on the repair 
related purchases, accepted as part of the claim,  and refund this interest.  On these amounts 
it should also pay 8% simple interest  from the date(s) Mr and Mrs H spent the money  until 
the date of settlement  to compensate them for being deprived  of their own money to meet  
these costs.
Ref: DRN661608711NFU should  refund the £225 overdraft arrangement fee. On this amount it should pay 8% 
simple interest from the date Mr and Mrs H paid this amount until the date of settlement  to 
compensate them for being deprived of their own money.
NFU should  also pay Mr and Mrs H £500.  This is to compensate for the additional  distress  
and inconvenience  they have suffered as a result of the things NFU ought to have done  
better.
Mr and Mrs H have interpreted a paragraph  of my provisional decision to mean that I thought  
they were deprived  of the full benefits their policy offered due to the negligence of NFU. 
They also feel NFU have  conducted investigations slowly and unfairly delayed settling the 
claim.
Ive already highlighted above  that I dont believe NFU, or its agent,  has been negligent. In 
this case, neither side seems to have done  everything they ought to have done. I think  
Mr and Mrs H ought to have ensured that the declared value  for the buildings were accurate 
 in line with the policy requirements. And NFU ought to have done more  to establish 
whether the wedding barn formed part of cubicle house when  it was added to cover.
Because of the misunderstanding that these issues have caused, the buildings  in question 
were underinsured. This has affected  the length  of time the claim has taken to resolve and 
has meant Mr and Mrs H needed to fund the repairs using  credit.  
As neither side did all they should  have, I think both sides are partly responsible for the 
distress, inconvenience  and delays  the issues caused. Ive considered  NFUs part in this 
when coming to the amount of compensation Im awarding, as well as the interest  Im 
directing it to pay on the money Mr and Mrs H were deprived of as a result of the claim. And 
taking everything into account, I think these awards deliver a fair and reasonable outcome to 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold 
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint  in part.
The National  Farmers' Union Mutual  Insurance Society Limited  must:
Recalculate the premiums based on the accurate sums insured calculated  in either
oThe valuation provided by Mr and Mrs Hs appointed surveyor  if provided to 
NFU within  two months of the end of social distancing/lockdown
Or, if not provided by then
oThe estimate put forward by its loss adjuster  in February 2020
Assess and settle Mr and Mrs Hs claim in line with the remaining terms and 
conditions of their policy   less the premium shortfall for 2016/17, 2017/18 and 
2018/19
Ref: DRN661608712Reimburse the £225 overdraft fee and any interest Mr and Mrs H incurred on repair 
related purchases  covered by the policy. Pay 8% simple interest on these amounts 
from the date(s) Mr and Mrs H spent the money  until the date of settlement
Pay a total of £500 compensation  for trouble and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6616087