K822xcomplaint
Mr S is unhappy that Assurant General  Insurance  Limited wont  pay his claim for staining 
under his Bedguard policy. 
background
Mr S reported a claim to Assurant due to his discovery of a large  dog urine stain on his 
mattress. He reported that when it was turned over there were multiple juice stains  caused 
by a toddler. Assurant  sent out a technician to inspect. The technician noted the multiple 
juice stains and said theyd been  caused over a period of time. As for the dog urine stain, he 
wasnt able to inspect  it because it was on the underside of the mattress  and he couldnt lift 
the mattress, Mr S being unable to help. He said however that Mr S had said there  was no 
mattress protector on the bed when the stain occurred.
Assurant wouldnt pay the claim,  as it was a condition of the policy that the bed would only 
be covered under it if a mattress protector was used.  It also added that the juice stains had 
occurred over a period  of time so didnt come under the staining cover.  Mr S insisted that 
there was a mattress  protector in place and said he was only claiming for the dog urine stain.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that Mr Ss complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  
He noted the technicians  report  that Mr S had said the mattress protector hadnt been  in 
place. Mr S produced  pictures of the protector but our investigator pointed  out that that didnt 
show it was in place  when the stain occurred.
I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that I was inclined to accept that there  was a 
mattress protector in place and that Assurant should  take action to deal with the stain.
Assurant didnt agree. It said that:
The technician isnt its employee  and that he had little reason to supply false  
information  he clearly stated that Mr S had told him that no mattress protector was 
in place and did so in a follow up letter.
The technician would not know that lack of a mattress protector was excluded by the 
policy, hence he still referred to cleaning the affected area.
Mr S selected stain on mattress protector  on the claim form but went  on to describe 
staining on the mattress with no further  mention of the protector.
The form Mr S signed on completion  of the visit was a customer  survey so it wouldnt 
take account of that when considering the claim.
It doesnt believe that the photos of the mattress protector taken afterwards are 
relevant to the claim.
Ref: DRN65170012Mr S accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
These were  my provisional findings:
Mr Ss claim was made in respect of staining.  The claim form he signed  set out that there 
was a large dog urine stain on one side of the mattress and several small juice stains  on the 
other side. When the technician inspected he saw only the juice stains  on the top of the 
mattress. He couldnt inspect the dog urine stain because the mattress couldnt  be turned 
over. But he said in his report that Mr S had said a mattress protector hadnt been used.
The technician said the multiple juice stains had been caused over a period of time. The 
policy doesnt cover  any gradually  occurring stain and Mr S has confirmed hes not 
pursuing his claim in respect  of the other  stains.
But as for the dog urine stain the technician wasnt able to inspect it. Assurant has declined  
the claim because Mr S allegedly told the technician that there  was no mattress  protector in 
place when the staining occurred. Under  the policy it says:
Section 2  What is Covered..(e)We will cover your product if it has been used with the 
mattress protector provided by the retailer And:
 Section 4 What is not Covered..12 use of the product without a mattress protector.
So the use of the mattress protector  is a condition of the policy and a failure to use it is an 
exclusion. Mr S is insistent that he didnt tell the technician  that there was no mattress 
protector. Ive noted that although its mentioned in the technicians report, its not mentioned  
in the form Mr S was required  to sign after the inspection. That form merely  recorded that the 
claim would be referred  back to confirm how it would be resolved. And in his claim form Mr S 
was asked to check  a box in respect of the section of the policy against which  he was 
claiming. I note that he checked the box which said stain on mattress  protector.
Mr S has produced photos of the mattress  protector and the stain on the mattress. I cant 
say that this proves it was in place at the time the stain  damage  took place, but it does show  
the location and size of the stain. It wasnt in place when the technician visited but Mr S says 
he removed it to allow an inspection. Im inclined to accept what Mr S said.  Because of the 
importance of the protector  for a successful  claim,  Assurant should have ensured that the 
lack of it was recorded  at the time of the visit and advised to Mr S.
So I think that Assurant  should settle  Mr Ss claim by sending out someone to clean  the dog 
urine stain. I dont think a further inspection is needed. But Im not saying here, if the stain  
cant be cleaned, that Assurant should  replace the mattress. The technician recommended  
replacement but this was in view of the multiple stains on it. Under the policy  Assurant will 
replace a product at its reasonable discretion and it will have to consider what to do if it cant  
successfully clean the stain.
I still think that Assurant should  deal with the claim. Whist accepting that the technician  had 
no reason to give false information,  the fact of there  being a mattress protector was 
Ref: DRN65170013fundamental to this particular policy. So I reiterate my provisional  finding that the technician  
should have confirmed with Mr S at the time that no mattress protector was in place. 
Otherwise it just comes down to one persons word against the other, which  I dont think is 
good enough in this situation..
I think the fact that Mr S said on the claim form that the stain was on the mattress  protector 
is highly  relevant. If I assume  Mr S didnt know the policy only gave cover if a mattress  
protector was in place and the form was filled out before the visit then he couldnt be said to 
be changing his story  to fit the facts. Whilst noting  that the claim mainly involved staining  to 
the mattress we did ask Assurant about  this and it wasnt able to confirm that the mattress  
protector was wholly waterproof. 
I accept that the photos dont show that the mattress protector was in place. But they do 
show the extent  of the stain  relative  to the mattress protector. I further think that a proper 
inspection wasnt carried out because the technician wasnt able to turn the mattress.
So I reiterate  my provisional findings which are now final and form part of this final decision.  
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Assurant General Insurance Limited to settle Mr Ss claim 
by taking any necessary  action to deal with the dog urine stain.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6517001