K821x#15complaint
Mr M says CashEuroNet UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr M had 11 loans  (plus five top-ups) with QuickQuid  between June 2015 and December 
2017.
An adjudicator considered  this complaint and recommended it be upheld  in part. He didnt 
think QuickQuid shouldve  approved loan 5 (in June 2016) or any of the subsequent loans.
QuickQuid didnt accept  this. It said the number  of loans Mr M had isnt relevant when 
considering whether they were sustainably  affordable. It also said there  was a break in the 
chain of lending  between loans 6 and 7 and so there wasnt  one continuous chain of lending. 
Finally, it maintains its affordability  checks were proportionate for each loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr M 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN60713232Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
I dont intend to cover loans 1 to 4 in much detail. Our adjudicator  thought those loans were 
either affordable or that there wasnt enough information to suggest they were unaffordable.  
I agree  with that conclusion and do not have any significant concerns about  QuickQuids 
decision to approve  these loans.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of QuickQuids lending  history with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which QuickQuid should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so QuickQuid should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
5. I say this because:
In the time leading  up to loan 5, Mr M had been  indebted to QuickQuid  for about ten 
months. There were short gaps between each loan and the amounts Mr M was 
borrowing were increasing  with each loan, from £400 for loan 1 up to £1,100 for loan 
4. When Mr M asked  for loan 5, he borrowed £1,500. So QuickQuid ought  to have 
realised it was more likely  than not Mr M was having  to borrow  further to cover  the 
hole repaying  his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ms 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr M wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed QuickQuid. His last loan 
(in December 2017)  was taken out about  30 months  after his first. And it was for a 
larger amount. Mr M had paid large  amounts of interest to, in effect, service a debt to 
QuickQuid over an extended period.
Ref: DRN60713233I think that Mr M lost out because QuickQuid continued to provide borrowing from loan 5 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the number  of loans was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Ms ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost loans.
Ive considered the points QuickQuid raised in response to the adjudication, but these 
havent changed my decision. I appreciate that it doesnt accept what Ive said about the 
pattern of lending demonstrating some of the loans were not sustainably affordable  but Ive 
explained why I think this is a relevant factor and QuickQuid will also be familiar with this 
services approach to lending patterns  for short-term loans.
Ive noted what  QuickQuid said about the four month (122 day) gap between loans 6 and 7. 
It says this breaks the chain of lending. This is an important point, given what  Ive said 
above about how this service considers  lending patterns.  But I dont agree that this gap is 
significant enough to break the chain in this instance. Up to the end of loan 6, Mr M had 
been indebted to QuickQuid for about  16 months  which I consider is a significant  period of 
time in the context  of high-cost short-term loans. So while I am not saying four months is 
never a significant  gap in a chain of lending, I dont think it was long enough in Mr Ms case 
that I would conclude it was reasonable Mr Ms circumstances were likely to have  improved 
during this time. I think  this is borne out by what happened  after loan 7  Mr M continued to 
borrow frequently and ultimately seems to have  defaulted on the large loan approved  in 
December 2017.
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr Ms complaint about loan 5 (approved  on 
6 June 2016) and all the subsequent  loans.
putting things right
QuickQuid should:
refund  the interest and charges Mr M from June 2016 onwards**
add to the above interest at 8% simple per year, from when Mr M paid them until the 
date of settlement
remove loans approved from June 2016 onwards from Mr Ms credit history
**I understand  loan 11 (approved on 17 December 2017) still has an outstanding balance.  
So for this loan, QuickQuid should remove all interest and charges any treat any payments 
made as if they were  payments  towards the principal.  QuickQuid  can then deduct what it 
owes Mr M from the balance of that loan  although it may only do this if it still owns  the 
debt.
HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid to take off tax from this interest.  QuickQuid  must give 
Mr M a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN60713234my final decision
I uphold Mr Ms complaint in part. CashEuroNet UK LLC must put things right by taking the 
steps set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6071323