K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Select Contracts  UK Limited,  trading as Select Car Leasing, refused to 
reimburse his application  fee when it wasnt possible for them to find a credit provider to 
finance a vehicle lease.
background
Mr R entered into an agreement with Select Car Leasing and they brokered a credit  
agreement to finance a lease car for him. Mr R signed the order form with Select Car 
Leasing on 16 August 2018: the vehicle was due for delivery in December 2018. 
In October  2018 Mr Rs financial circumstances changed and he told Select  Car Leasing  
about this. They re-proposed Mr Rs finance  application but the credit provider was no longer 
willing to support the application and another provider could not be found.
Select Car Leasing agreed to refund 25% of the arrangement  fee theyd charged Mr R but 
they wanted to keep  the rest as they said they were 75% of the way through  the process 
when the order  was cancelled.
Mr R thought they should not be allowed to keep the arrangement  fee and he therefore  
referred his complaint to this service.  Our investigator disagreed,  she didnt think  the terms 
that Mr R had relied upon to dispute the refund were the right ones. She noted that the order  
form stated where you choose to exercise the right to cancel before full performance of the 
services Select Car Leasing shall have the right to recover  the costs of the services  
provided up to the point  of cancellation from the arrangement and the deposit. She also 
noted that the finance was subject to acceptance  by underwriters and as Mr Rs finances 
had changed they were  no longer prepared to extend the credit. She thought, in those 
circumstances, some of the arrangement fee was recoverable by Select Car Leasing and as 
they were three quarters  of the way through the process she thought  theyd been fair when 
retaining 75% of the fee.
Mr R disagreed with the adjudicator and he therefore asked for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view on this complaint. I know that will disappoint Mr R, so 
please let me explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN69660452Mr R relies on paragraph 10.1 of Select Car Leasings terms and conditions. Ive read that 
paragraph but Im not persuaded its relevant here.  It refer to what will happen if Select  Car 
Leasing need  to cancel the order and not if Mr R does. 
I think the order would not have been  cancelled had Mr Rs financial  situation not have  
changed. That meant that Select  Car Leasing had to re-propose  the finance  and it was 
therefore rejected  by the finance  provider. In those circumstances I think its Mr R who has 
cancelled the order and as thats  the case I think the terms of the contract that our 
adjudicator relied  on (above) are the correct  ones. 
These allow Select Car Leasing to retain some of the arrangement fee and the deposit to 
recover the costs of the services provided  at the point of cancellation.  In those 
circumstances I dont  think  Select Car Leasing have been unreasonable  withholding the 
money they have.  Theyve refunded all the deposit and a quarter of the arrangement fee and 
that seems fair given  the limited amount  of time that was left before the car was delivered to 
Mr R. So Im not asking Select  Car Leasing to take any further  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6966045