K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K say HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs K bought the policy  in 2000 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. They 
applied for the mortgage and PPI policy in-branch.  
The policy provided  cover  for Mr and Mrs K for accident, sickness, and unemployment  
subject to its exclusions and limitations. According to HSBC it offered to repay around £350  
a month  (split in proportion to their incomes)  towards Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage  balance in 
the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost just over £20 a month. 
At the time,  Mr K was employed as a machine  operator and according  to HSBCs records  
Mrs K was employed as a social worker. In their submissions  to us, Mr and Mrs Ks PPI 
questionnaire records an entitlement  to full sick pay and redundancy pay of three months 
pay. But its not clear  who this entitlement refers to. However evidence  from the time of sale 
 which  I will return to later on  records that Mr and Mrs K told HSBC neither of them  had 
any sick pay entitlement.
Again its not entirely clear from their PPI questionnaire, but Mr and Mrs K have said one of 
them suffered  with a medical condition before the sale. 
HSBC cant now provide the exact date when the mortgage account closed. But it has sent 
us evidence to show that it closed sometime prior to or during  2005. I think  this is likely the 
case given that the original  mortgage term was five years. 
Mr and Mrs Ks representative has made  lengthy  and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ks representative  says:
HSBC failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs K 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ks representatives believe there to be no evidence  to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means HSBC should  have 
told Mr and Mrs K about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN62738382The common law duty of utmost good faith also means HSBC should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr and Mrs K and the 
impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs K received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs K disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ks. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in April 2000 before the General Insurance  Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG).
 
The credit agreement itself concluded  no later than 2005. That means the unfair relationship 
provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin about s.140  of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about the 
handling of complaints about the non-disclosure of commission in light of the Plevin 
judgment, arent applicable. 
Ref: DRN62738383There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like HSBC  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Ks case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
HSBC was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  
guidance when  considering Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If HSBC gave advice,  whether  it advised  Mr and Mrs K with reasonable care and skill 
 in particular,  whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given their 
needs and circumstances. 
Ref: DRN62738384-Whether HSBC gave Mr and Mrs K sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable them to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs K, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs K 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs K 
and HSBC, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr and Mrs K know they had a choice?
HSBC had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.
Mr and Mrs K have  said they were told they had no choice  if they wanted  the mortgage  
they had to have PPI. 
HSBC no longer has all the paperwork from the time of sale.  And this isnt surprising  things 
happened a long time ago and the mortgage  account has been  closed  for more than 10 
years.
HSBC has provided  a copy of the Personal  Financial Planning Review document   this is the 
document the HSBC adviser  used  during  the branch meeting to discuss Mr and Mrs Ks 
mortgage needs as well as their other associated financial and insurance needs.
Looking at this I can see it appears  Mr and Mrs K had a detailed discussion with the adviser  
about their various  financial  needs  and the adviser has summarised them under some key 
headings within the planning review  document. One of these Protecting your Income 
records that Mr and Mrs K told the advisor  that neither of their employers paid them  if they 
were off work due to sickness  and accident and that this was of concern to them. The 
adviser has then recorded:   you wish to look at protecting your incomes. This would help 
safeguard your normal monthly expenditure and future ability  to afford  your property.
There is nothing on this document  which  says or implies the mortgage  was conditional on Mr 
and Mrs K taking out PPI. HSBC has also provided  a copy  of the mortgage  loan agreement  
and there  is nothing here which  suggests  PPI had to be taken  out. Im mindful too that Mr 
and Mrs K felt able to decline  other products recommended  to them as being suitable  for 
their circumstances as recorded in the financial planning review document. 
So taking everything into account  and in the absence of persuasive evidence to the 
contrary - I think its more  likely that Mr and Mrs K knew the policy  was optional and they 
agreed to take it out without undue pressure.  
did HSBC provide  advice?
Ref: DRN62738385Both HSBC  and Mr and Mrs K agree that advice was provided  during this sale. 
This means  HSBC had to advise Mr and Mrs K with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given their needs and circumstances.
the advice
While I dont know exactly what was discussed in the meeting, the documentary  evidence 
suggests that HSBC  took some steps to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs K. I think the adviser had information  about some of Mr and 
Mrs Ks financial circumstances as part of the mortgage application. And as I said above  the 
adviser also completed a financial review  document to try and establish whether Mr and Mrs 
K had a need  for the policy  by asking questions  about their wider circumstances such as 
their entitlement to sick pay and whether they had any other  policies. But despite this I dont  
think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. For example I cant  see that the adviser  
considered Mr and Mrs Ks health and whether theyd be caught by the significant exclusions 
and limitations of cover.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded HSBC  did all it should have done 
to determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs K given their circumstances. So 
Im not persuaded HSBC advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded HSBC did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs K, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr and Mrs K met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs K had a need for the policy   despite what  Mr and Mrs K have told us, 
the evidence from the time indicates  that neither of them  would have received any 
sick pay if they were unable to work due to illness. I think their redundancy benefits 
are likely to be limited  and they didnt  have any savings  to speak of which they could 
fall back on. So I think their finances  would  have very quickly come under strain  if 
they were not working. The policy would have therefore helped Mr and Mrs K 
manage the consequences  if either or both of them were unable  to work.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs K.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs K. 
There was nothing  about Mr and Mrs Ks employment or occupation which would 
have made it difficult for them  to claim.  Regarding pre-existing medical conditions, Mr 
and Mrs K have has told us about one of them suffering from an illness  in the 1950s.  
But I dont consider this to be an existing  condition  its a not uncommon childhood 
sickness. Because theyve not talked about  anything else,  to all intents and purposes 
I think they were in good health  at the time of sale. 
-While  the policy included a requirement  that Mr and Mrs K be disabled or 
unemployed for 30 days before  they could make  a claim and would only pay benefits  
for a maximum of 12 months for each  claim,  it still provided  useful  cover  given: Mr 
and Mrs Ks circumstances,  the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments  
relating to their home and the potential consequences should Mr and Mrs K be 
unable to make the repayments on loans secured against  their house.
Ref: DRN62738386Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs K sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable them to understand what HSBC 
was recommending to them and make  an informed decision about whether to follow that 
advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs K were given a broad  description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr and Mrs K were  unable to work through accident,  sickness  or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs K 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be. The financial planning review document  also set out a broad 
description of the cover,  so I think  at the very least it was described this way to Mr and Mrs 
K.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  HSBC gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs K agreed  to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs K Im not persuaded 
HSBC did enough  to present information  about  the policy it was recommending  in a way that 
was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded HSBC gave Mr and Mrs K all of the 
information they needed about the policy to make an informed  decision about  whether to 
follow the recommendation  and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ks representative  has raised a 
number of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ks. Ive considered  these carefully and summarised  them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ks representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs K about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Ref: DRN62738387Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ks representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs K have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that HSBC ought to have done either. 
what effect did HSBCs shortcomings have on Mr and Mrs K? To what extent did Mr 
and Mrs K suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that HSBC  didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
K. So I have gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr and 
Mrs K suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not Mr 
and Mrs K would  have still taken out the policy, had HSBC  done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded HSBC took the steps  it should  have  done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Mr and Mrs K, I have found that the policy  was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs K have suffered loss 
or damage  in this case primarily  depends  on whether, if HSBC had explained things 
properly, Mr and Mrs K would have acted differently, or whether they would have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs K say they wouldnt have taken  it out and believe I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs K had some  interest  in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when HSBC advised  them  that there was a 
suitable product  they could buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the event  they 
were unable to work because of accident,  sickness and unemployment, they concluded they 
wanted that product. But they made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning 
what they thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at 
the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally  wrong  or unsuitable  for them.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs K knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear from the available evidence  that HSBC  told them 
the exact premium  at the point Mr and Mrs K applied for the policy.  
Ref: DRN62738388Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs K would have been told the cost before the 
policy started and they paid for the policy for a number  of years, so if the costs were 
significantly at odds  with their expectations at the point of sale,  its possible they might  have 
raised that with HSBC  at the time or reconsidered  their decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs K would have found the cost unacceptable  if they had 
been given the exact figure during the meeting in which they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  HSBC  made  clear  exactly what  Mr and Mrs K would get back  
in return in the event they made  a successful claim.  But I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs Ks 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount at least 
sufficient to meet their mortgage  payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs K thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr and Mrs K knew 
about on the start date of the policy, or conditions which  occur  within  the first 12 
months of the policy as a result of any medical condition for which  they received 
treatment of advice  during  the 12 months before the start date; and
 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs K werent permanent employees.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs K pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs K from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr and Mrs K were eligible for its 
benefits and it provided cover that, despite  its limitations and exclusions,  couldve proved 
beneficial to them should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent  seen any 
evidence to suggest Mr and Mrs K wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions 
 as I said earlier I dont  consider  Mr and Mrs K had any pre-existing  medical conditions  as 
reasonably defined under the terms of the policy and they were both in permanent 
employment. So, I still think  they had some good  reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs K would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr and Mrs K needed to be prevented from working  in their 
employment. I dont  think this is likely to be too different to what they would have expected to 
make a claim. 
Ref: DRN62738389I am also satisfied that Mr and Mrs K were told the policy would only pay out for a maximum 
of 12 months. I say this because the adviser documented this in the financial planning  review  
document  its recorded that the adviser  discussed  Mr and Mrs Ks longer-term income  
protection needs beyond  the 12-month limit of the PPI policy by recommending  they take out 
income protection with a deferred period  of 12 months to compliment the mortgage cover.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs K would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was suitable for them,  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  they thought they were getting  and provided  benefits 
that would  help them manage  the consequences  if Mr and Mrs K were made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or sickness. In the circumstances  I consider it more  likely 
than not Mr and Mrs K would have  taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding  the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ks representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs K would not have bought  the PPI they bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Mrs K found  themselves  in as a result of the sale was the same  position they would have  
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs K believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs K in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. 
Ref: DRN627383810So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
HSBC should  pay Mr and Mrs K compensation, as that would  put them in a better position 
than they would have been  in if everything  had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs K think HSBC misrepresented the terms of the policy in how 
it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
HSBCs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why HSBC  failed 
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  HSBC gave Mr and Mrs K, in the way it did, 
was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect it to have 
met in April 2000 when  providing information  about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ks representative says a court might  take 
if it were to find HSBC negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr and Mrs K and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that HSBC  had been  in breach of its duty of 
utmost good  faith. But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about  what is fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs K in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 November  2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6273838