K821x#15complaint
Mr B has raised a number  of concerns about SG Kleinwort Hambros  Bank  Limiteds 
investment advice and its attitude and behaviour towards him.
background
In 2017 SG initially recommended Mr B invest  £900,000  in one of its in-house funds; he 
eventually agreed  to a total of just over £700,000.  
Mr B said that during  the meetings prior to investing,  he made clear that he was as 
concerned about  maintaining the capital value of his funds against inflation as deriving  an 
income from them. He said that SG told him that, subject to the normal risks of investment, it 
expected to deliver an income of around  4.5% along  with capital growth  of 3%; and that a 
total return of around 7% a year was quoted  on numerous occasions.
He also outlined other concerns, saying SG:
failed to provide  him with a private banker of suitable ability  and integrity
failed to act in a transparent manner
failed to properly  manage a significant data breach
failed to handle  and investigate his formal  complaint in accordance with its own 
protocols
staff repeatedly mislead  him (in writing and verbally) about the position of the fund 
manager
charged over £25,000 for these deeply  flawed services
An adjudicator at this service  felt his complaint should be upheld.
He noted that Mr B was 55, had three  dependent children,  was self-employed  and had an 
uncertain income. He had limited personal investment experience,  most  of his investments 
having arisen from inheritances. He said that while Mr B was hoping for a substantial income 
from any investments, capital protection was clearly  of great importance. As a result, he felt 
he should not have taken  more than a small risk with his money; instead, the recommended  
investments posed  a medium to high level of risk. 
He concluded  that Mr B should have been recommended  low risk investments and so SG 
should pay compensation on this basis, using the low risk formula  recommended by this 
service. It should also pay £150 for the various  administrative failings  outlined.
SG did not agree, reiterating its view that Mr B had 20 years discretionary management 
experience, was aware of the risks posed by the recommendations and fully agreed to 
these. It did not agree  that a low risk portfolio,  as reflected in the adjudicators  redress 
formula, was consistent with Mr Bs situation  or objectives. Instead, it was satisfied that the 
recommended product  - with a 60/40  split of equities  and bonds  - was appropriate for Mr Bs 
circumstances and objectives.
Mr B subsequently elaborated on his overall  concerns, adding:
When he first discussed things with SGs advisor  he told him he had long-term 
depression and anxiety, had no pension  and that capital preservation was his key 
priority
Ref: DRN66143642The advisor knew he had little investment understanding, acknowledged that Mr B 
was vulnerable and promised to look after his money
In further meetings  he reiterated that while income was important, the preservation of 
his capital was critical
He agreed to invest in the fund not because he fully understood it but because  he 
trusted the advisor to act in his best interests
The documentation  gave a misleading  picture about likely  returns
The three years since have been  extremely  stressful, both due to the £60,000 fall in 
his capital but also because of SGs contemptuous attitude  to him and his complaint
On reading this file I sought further  information  and comments from both parties. 
SG confirmed that Mr B had invested just over £700,000 during April, May and June 2017 in 
one of its in-house funds  rated balanced. It added:
Since making this complaint, Mr B has had further meetings with its investment 
advisors who have  explained its strategy  and the risks of the fund, after which  he 
confirmed he did not wish to lower/change his risk profile
Its Suitability Letter of 2018  confirms this, and spelt out that it was continuing to 
follow its original mandate
Mr B is no longer withdrawing  income  on a regular basis  or reinvesting it, causing a 
cash drag
It still believes this complaint is essentially about performance rather than suitability
Mr B said:
He accepted that while 4% income  and 3% growth were  mentioned,  these were not 
guaranteed
His complaint concerns the misleading documentation  and verbal assurances about  
the alleged past performance of this fund,  which  hes now discovered  were not 
accurate as demonstrated by evidence from the FT, City Wire and Morning Star
He was also assured  that this fund balanced capital growth and income;  in fact, the 
4% income is delivered irrespective of the impact on growth; he specifically did not 
want this to be the priority
He was shown  paperwork  allegedly showing this fund performed  above the relevant 
benchmark, which led him to assume  it was low risk
He was not offered the opportunity to choose  lower risk funds
SGs  advisors only explained risk in the context of a danger of a market crash; they 
never explained that there was a separate risk of a fund simply underperforming  
relative to other funds
Instead they only ever talked  up this fund as outperforming  the market,  which  led 
him to assume it was relatively  safe
SG eventually admitted that the fund had underperformed since 2015, in direct  
contradiction of what theyd said when they recommended it
His understanding of the fund was that it was middle-of-the road, not too high, not too 
low i.e. he was playing relatively safe with this product
SG is wrong to claim he didnt want to lower his risk level when  he spoke with its 
advisors in 2018; hes now been  given lower risk options
Also, one of its advisors said that the term medium risk was fairly meaningless and 
that it wouldnt be worth investing if he lowered the risk of his funds  further
Ref: DRN66143643He had no idea these funds were high  risk until this services  adjudicator  described  
them as such earlier this year
He had been anxious about this investment but didnt know  what  to do, particularly 
after hed made a complaint. He felt that if hed withdrawn the money  from SG, any 
complaint would be dismissed
He was also fearful about selling his stake  at a low point of its value in 2018, and 
thereby potentially missing out on a possible recovery
He is still bewildered as to the risk of these funds and whether he ought now to move 
his money elsewhere; and, if so, what level of risk he should  take with his money
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not accept SGs characterisation of Mr Bs complaint as solely,  or predominantly about 
performance. In my view, he questions whether SG fully took account  of his circumstances, 
needs and priorities,  its assessment of his propensity for risk as well as claiming  he was 
misled about the products track record and its prospects. He clearly  also makes  further  
detailed allegations  about SGs subsequent  behaviour.
Overall, I think he raises  the broad question of whether,  for various  reasons, this was a 
suitable recommendation and whether he was in a fully informed position to decide whether 
to invest in this product.
Firstly, I do not believe  the evidence indicates  Mr B was a particularly knowledgeable  
investor. From what Ive read, his investments either arose from inheritances and/or were 
actively managed  in a way that he had no need to make decisions about them. Indeed,  in my 
view, Mr Bs recent  correspondence suggests  he is still unclear about the broad meaning of 
different risk categories and the factors  which contribute to them.
This strongly  suggests he did not fully understand the potential implications of being 
classified as someone prepared to take a balanced risk back in 2017 or a medium/high 
investment. Further, I am not persuaded that SG and its advisors fully explained this such  
that Mr B could decide whether this actually represented his attitude towards this large  of 
portion of his money.
I recognise that Mr B was presented with a brief description of the various risk categories 
and elected the balanced  risk option. However,  given his lack of personal  investment 
decision-making, and the very large  portion of his capital concerned, I think  the advisor 
should have done much more to explore his attitude to risk (i.e. his willingness to lose up to 
a third of his money) via this medium/high-ish  risk product. A typical risk questionnaire, for 
example, with a series  of customer-friendly questions/statements would have given Mr B a 
much better opportunity to think through how much risk he wanted to take with his money - 
and make a more informed decision.
I do not dispute that the documentation  indicates  Mr B was looking for a regular income, but 
I dont think there is sufficient information for the advisor to have concluded that this was his 
only or overwhelming priority (as opposed  to capital protection/growth).  Nor do I think  the 
advisor made it sufficiently clear  that this investment  was designed to deliver a regular 
income irrespective of the impact on Mr Bs capital, such  that it could erode very significantly 
in a falling  market i.e. the income exacerbating the risk to his capital. 
Ref: DRN66143644I also note that, at the end of the report, he recorded  Mr Bs capacity  for loss at 15% of his 
capital (having indicated a different figure in other documents). This loss capacity is clearly  
not compatible with the recommended investment.
Further, SGs internal  memo of 2016, after a first meeting with Mr B, clearly states that he 
was looking for income, income growth  and capital growth and to protect his income  and 
capital against  inflation. Again, I do not believe  the 2017 advice fully reflected this mix of 
priorities, putting Mr Bs capital at far too great a risk, particularly when  the regular income 
was factored in.
I also think the 2018 Suitability Review offers an added insight into Mr Bs likely objectives  at 
the time of the initial advice in 2017; his overall situation having  not changed. This report  
explicitly states that capital preservation is a priority, alongside regular income.  I do not 
believe this medium/high-ish risk investment  with a likely 60% exposure to equities  - is 
suitable for someone for whom capital preservation is a significant priority.  
I also note that while  Mr B again  ticked the medium risk box with no evidence of the advisor 
having undertaken sufficient specific steps   such  as using a risk questionnaire  to 
establish whether  this accurately reflected Mr Bs attitude. Further,  this medium risk box 
refers to a 50% exposure to equities,  not 60%, while the product literature refers  to a 
potential exposure  of 70%.
Unlike the earlier report, this included a section on Mr Bs primary purpose in which he 
ticked both capital preservation and regular income. This, in my view, should have alerted 
the advisor (albeit in 2018) that Mr B was not looking  to take a large  risk with his capital. He 
also ticked no in a box asking if he required  his investments to produce a specific level of 
regular income. This should also, in my view,  have raised a red flag to the advisor as to 
whether this investment was suitable for him.
Overall, Ive seen no persuasive  evidence to indicate that the advisor  either in 2016, 2017  
or 2018  fully explained the way in which risk-based investments worked and the inevitable  
trade-off between capital  preservation, with or without inflation protection,  regular income  
and the potential for significant growth/returns via riskier  funds. Most investors would ideally 
like all three; it is the responsibility of an advisor  to fully explain why this isnt possible  and to 
clarify a clients relative priorities.
Mr Bs situation was relatively unusual in that he had a large capital sum, and some other 
assets, so clearly needed some investment advice as to how best to use this money.  But he 
was relatively young, with three dependent children, no apparent  pension  provision  and was 
doubtful about future  employment prospects. All of this, in my view, meant caution was 
crucial when it came to putting this capital at risk.
I am satisfied that Mr B was looking for investment  advice and that his existing investments 
needed a reconsideration in the light of his situation  and likely future  priorities. So, I dont  
believe it would have  been appropriate to leave things as they were. Instead,  I agree with the 
adjudicator that he should  have been  recommended a suitably low/cautious  risk investment 
(with a diverse spread  of funds/assets), and one from which  he could take flexible  income.
I am therefore satisfied  that the adjudicators proposed redress formula  is broadly fair. 
Ref: DRN66143645I therefore instruct SG to compare the current value of Mr Bs portfolio with what his 
investment would now be worth if he had invested the same initial sum/s in a more suitably 
low risk investment, and by using  the formula set out below.  As the formula does not include  
fees or charges this means, in effect, Mr B is getting back any initial and ongoing  charges  as 
part of this compensation formula.
I also note that Mr B paid an additional £4,000  standalone fee. As I consider the advice to 
have been unsuitable, this must therefore  be repaid  with appropriate interest.
Ive also considered Mr Bs concerns about  SGs  various alleged service failures, including:
Wrongly charging him a £2,250  management  fee in 2017; something it 
acknowledged and paid back
Sending him contract notes relating to another client; something it apologised for
It cancelled a planned breakfast seminar at short notice and without explanation, 
which caused him considerable inconvenience;  it acknowledged this
Failing to spell out the specific fees and charges;  it denied  this
Failing to tell him which  specific fund his money  was invested in and the performance  
of that fund
Providing misleading information about the funds current performance
Overall, I am satisfied that SGs  service  was far from satisfactory, noting that it accepted 
making several significant errors,  such as the data breach.  But its important to point out that 
my role, when investigating a complaint,  is to consider all the evidence but not necessarily to 
address every complaint point or seek to make a judgement on every  issue, especially 
where the evidence  is far from clear.
In particular, while I recognise the strength  of Mr Bs argument about  the allegedly  
misleading information, I dont think there is sufficient evidence  to fairly reach a conclusion 
about this issue.  It is impossible to be certain  about what a particular advisor  said,  or implied, 
about the likelihood of any returns (although I think its unlikely any specific  return  was 
guaranteed). Nor have  I seen persuasive  evidence to conclude  that the documentation 
contained incorrect figures.
I do think SG ought to have responded to Mr Bs queries and subsequent complaint more 
promptly and with far more detailed answers.  Overall, I think £250  is a fair sum to pay in lieu 
of the various  issues above.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to 
put Mr B as close to the position he would  probably  now be in if he had not been 
given unsuitable  advice.
I take the view that Mr B would have invested differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what he would have done differently. But I am satisfied  that what I have set 
out below  is fair and reasonable  given Mr B's circumstances and objectives  when he 
invested.
what it should do
To compensate Mr B fairly  it should:
Ref: DRN66143646Compare the performance of Mr B's investment  with that of the benchmark  
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual 
value of the investment. If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
It should also pay interest as set out below.
Pay Mr B £250 for SGs various  administration and customer  service failures.
Refund the £4,000  standalone advice  fee plus 8% simple  interest  per annum for the 
date it was paid to the date of settlement of this complaint.
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr B in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatu
sBenchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end  
date)additional interest
Discretionary  
Investment 
Portfolio still 
exist
sfor half the 
investment: FTSE UK
Private  Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index;  for 
the other half: 
average  rate from 
fixed  rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  it 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published by the Bank  of England.  The rate for each  month is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. Apply  those rates  to the investment on 
an annually  compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value 
calculation from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Ref: DRN66143647Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be 
deducted from the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue 
any return in the calculation from that point  on.
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will 
accept if it totals all those  payments  and deducts that figure  at the end instead  of 
deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr B wanted income with some growth with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for 
someone who wanted to achieve  a reasonable return  without  risk to his 
capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  
2017, the FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of 
diversified indices  representing different asset  classes, mainly UK equities  
and government bonds. It would be a fair measure for someone who was 
prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr Bs risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives.  So, 
the 50/50 combination would reasonably put Mr B into that position. It does 
not mean Mr B would have invested  50% of his money in a fixed  rate bond  
and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return  Mr B could 
have obtained  from investments  suited to his objective and risk attitude.
further information
Information about the average rate can be found  on the Bank  of Englands  website by 
searching for quoted  household interest  rates and clicking  on the related link to their 
database, or by entering this address www.bankofengland.co.uk/boeapps/database, 
clicking on: Interest  & exchange rates data / Quoted household interest rates  / Deposit 
rates - Fixed rate bonds / 1 year (IUMWTFA)  and then exporting the source data.
Finally, I should make  clear that I have not sought to calculate whether  this formula  will result  
in Mr B being entitled to compensation. If this SG fund has delivered a higher return than a 
more suitably low risk one, then no compensation will be payable; aside from the £4,000  
plus interest on it and the £250.
Either way, it is now up to Mr B to decide  whether  to retain this investment going  forward 
and/or seek and pay for new advice if he feels this is appropriate.
 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  SG Kleinwort Hambros Bank Limited  to pay 
compensation as outlined  above.
Ref: DRN66143648Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6614364