K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Ald Automotive Limited  overcharged him for damage to the contract hire 
car he returned.
background
Mr A acquired car in August 2015 funded by a contract hire agreement  with Ald. This came 
to an end in August 2018. The car was inspected prior to collection  and a number of areas of 
damage were recorded. It also said that there  was no second key. It charged him £905.86.
Mr As complaint as rejected by Ald and so he brought  the matter to this service. It was 
considered by one of our adjudicators who recommend it be upheld  in part. He looked at the 
photos of the damaged areas and concluded  the charge for these was fair and reasonable.
However, he noted that Mr A had said he hadnt been given a spare  key and the selling 
dealership had no records of the sale. He suggested  to Ald that it forgo  the charge for the 
second key. Ald said it was normal practice for two keys to be provided and the fact there 
was no record of a second key didnt  mean  one wasnt supplied. 
The adjudicator noted Alds comments but said Mr As testimony was steadfast  and credible. 
He concluded  it wasnt fair for Mr A to be charged for the key. Mr A agreed, but Ald didnt.  It 
said that it wasnt typical for a dealership to record two keys being supplied,  just as it didnt 
specify the car had four seats. It said that on the balance of probability it was more  likely the 
key had been lost. It also said that Mr A had some  experience of leasing cars and it would 
have expected him to have queried the missing key when  the car was acquired.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The only issue which  I have to decide  concerns the missing key. Ald takes the view that 
despite a lack of documentary  evidence  it was more likely than not the key was supplied  to 
Mr A. In turn he is adamant  he was not given  one.
As Ald is seeking to charge  Mr A I believe the onus  is on it to demonstrate  that charge is 
valid. It has no evidence a key was supplied other than the claim that this is the norm. I 
accept that it is normal  for a car to come with two keys, but that doesnt mean Mr A received 
two. It is possible an error  was made by the dealer in the handover and it failed to supply the 
second key. As Ald has pointed out keys can be easily lost and it is quite possible the 
second one was lost before handover and the dealer didnt obtain a replacement. 
In short,  any umber of reasons can be given for the lack of a key, but as Ald is endeavouring 
to impose charge for something Mr A is adamant that he didnt receive I believe stronger 
evidence is required.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I direct Ald Automotive  Limited  to 
remove the charge  for the key from the invoice.  Under the rules of the Financial 
Ref: DRN68765212Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 
26 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6876521