K821x#15background
Mr H received advice from Insight in a suitability report dated 8 September  2009. The advice  
was to transfer his personal pension and invest in a hotel  development project  in Cape  
Verde. A total of £66,318 was transferred. Mr H purchased a 45% stake  in an off plan 
apartment on the understanding hed later purchase  the remaining 55% with a view to 
renting it out or that it could be sold at a profit. Mr Hs investment in the development was 
later transferred to part ownership of another smaller apartment.
Mr H complained in 2018  to Insight about  the advice after his new financial  advisers told him 
it was unsuitable.  
Insight rejected the complaint on the basis that it had not offered advice on the investment. 
The complaint was then referred  to this service.  Our adjudicator  concluded the advice was 
unsuitable.
Insight said in its submissions that it provided  advice about  the transfer to the SIPP and not 
the investments  that later took place. Our adjudicator said that Insight  was obliged by the 
regulator to ensure the proposed investments were suitable when recommending  a transfer  
or switch. The adjudicator  also felt that the Cape Verde property was not a suitable 
investment because it pooled too much of Mr Hs investment into a single asset, because it 
was illiquid  and potentially difficult to sell, that it added significant extra cost. And it was not 
covered by the same investor protections as the transferred pension.
The adjudicators view was that Insight had not collected enough information to give advice 
in 2009, as Insights fact find did not have any information about Mr Hs pension objectives, 
his cash flow and current assets or a completed risk questionnaire. He did not agree with 
Insight that because Mr H had been introduced to it by a regulated mortgage broker,  it did 
not need to collect this information. The adjudicator also said that because  the entire  
purpose of the transfer had been taken place to facilitate the unsuitable Cape Verde 
investment, then the transfer itself was unsuitable.   
Insight did not agree with adjudicators view. It said that Mr H had completed  his own due 
diligence on the Cape Verde property and possibly visited  it. It also said that it was the 
regulated mortgage  broker  who had recommended the Cape Verde property and Insight had 
only advised on the SIPP transfer.  It added  that Mr H had already decided on his course of 
action before he came to Insight for advice.
The adjudicator remained of the view that Insights advice was unsuitable He said it was 
Insights obligation  as financial advisers to ensure  the transfer and the underlying 
investments were suitable.  The adjudicator  noted Insights terms of business  had clearly  
stated it would provide  advice  about investments to Mr H. He also felt that insufficient 
consideration had been  given to how Mr H would fund the purchase of the remaining 55% of 
the property, noting  the further  risk that the venture might fail altogether.
Insight reiterated  that Mr H had undertaken his own due diligence,  including visiting  the 
property investment, ought to have been  aware  the investment was unsuitable  when he 
switched to a different  property and when the rental  income failed  to meet  his original 
expectations.
Ref: DRN64387322As agreement was not reached, the matter  has been referred to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I cannot confirm whether  or not Mr H visited  the investment property  in question in the 
course of what Insight says was his own due diligence  on the investment. But I do not think  it 
reasonable to say that Mr H should  or did conduct  his own due diligence.  In my view, that 
ought to have formed part of the advice Insight should have given Mr H.  It's also not 
relevant that Mr H had decided to invest in the property  before being referred to Insight.
I am also persuaded that as Mr H was unable  to fund the purchase balance  of the initial  
property and did not receive the rental income he originally anticipated underlines that the 
investment was unsuitable so the transfer and investment should not have been entered  
into.
Mr H's ceding scheme was spread  across  ten diversified funds operated by different fund 
managers within different  asset classes. Therefore the risk was spread across  hundreds,  if 
not thousands of different assets.  The Cape Verde investment, by contrast, concentrated all 
of Mr H's assets into a single physical unit.
Mr H was willing to accept some risk to his investments but the transfer  brought with it a 
number of new risks not present  before.  There was the risk the property might  lie vacant and 
not generate any returns. The risk that it might  become damaged and require expensive 
maintenance.  There is also the risk that it might  prove difficult  to sell.
These risks didn't apply to Mr H's personal pension, which was held in standard assets like 
shares and bonds  which  can be sold readily  on the stock market  without much notice. The 
vacancy and maintenance risks also did not apply because the assets in the personal plan 
were not solely  property based and were spread across many different assets in different 
geographical regions  and in different industries. So the transfer to the Cape Verde property  
significantly increased Mr H's exposure  to risk.
There is also the nature of the investment itself. In 2010, the Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) issued an alert regarding UCIS. Although  arguably not a UCIS, Mr H's Cape Verde 
investment shares  enough of their characteristics for the points of the alert to stand, in that it 
was high risk, illiquid and not subject to the usual protections that a standard  investment 
would be, for example the Financial Services Compensation Scheme .
The FSA report from 2010 outlined examples of suitable and unsuitable  advice in respect  
of UCIS advice. An example of suitable  advice involved  limiting a client's exposure to 3% 
to 5% of their retirement  provisions to UCIS after robust due diligence. Unsuitable advice 
involved placing 100%  of all of a client's assets into a single UCIS. 
Regulator guidance has also stated that unregulated  investments are only suitable for a 
small number of investors. Again, although this alert post-dated Mr H's advice, it was a 
reiteration of existing principles and therefore  relevant to his case .
Ref: DRN64387323Given that most of the fact find completed  at the time of advice was blank,  it seems  unlikely  
that Insight was able to make the determination that the Cape  Verde investment was 
suitable. There were no details of Mr H's current assets or his monthly  cash  flow. 
Although the 'Medium-High' risk box was selected, the questionnaire before this was left 
blank. But even had these been  completed, there is nothing in the remaining evidence to 
suggest that the Cape Verde investment was right for Mr H. I am persuaded by the evidence  
that the investment was not suitable .
The sole reason for the transfer to the SlPP was to facilitate the investment. Given  that the 
investment was unsuitable, it's fair to say the transfer was also unsuitable.  In addition to 
this, the transfer  also added  additional  costs.  Mr H's ceding  scheme  was spread across 
ten different  funds  with costs ranging  from 1% to 1.8%. Insight calculated  the average  cost 
to be 1.38%.
Insight says that Resort  group should have  informed Mr H about the costs of the 
investment and that Insight was not providing advice about  the investment. But this is 
based an incorrect understanding of the regulatory guidance. It makes clear  that advisers 
cannot differentiate  between  the transfer  and the underlying investments in terms of giving 
advice. Both must be considered.
As advisers,  it was Insight's job to ensure  the transfer and underlying  investment was 
suitable. This should have included a full commentary  about  the costs  of the investment and 
whether it reflected Mr H's attitude to risk. I have not seen evidence to persuade  me Insight 
undertook these required actions.
It is not the case that an advising  firm can only give advice on a pension  transfer  and not 
take into consideration further investments. This was outlined in the various regulator 
guidance referred to in the adjudicators view. Guidance from the FSA issue in 2013 said:
"It has been brought  to the FSA's attention that some financial advisers  are giving advice 
to customer s on pension  transfers or pension switches without assessing the advantages  
and disadvantages  of investments proposed to be held within the new pensio n...  
Financial advisers using  this advice  model  are under the mistaken impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need to consider  the suitability of the SIPP 
in the abstract. This is incorrect."
Although issued in 2013, this was a reiteration of the existing rules:
"There are clear requirements under the FSA Principles and Conduct of Business rules  and 
also in established  case law for any adviser, in the giving of advice, to first take time to 
familiarise themselves  with the wider investment and financial circumstances. Unless  the 
adviser has done so, they will not be in a position  to make recommendations on new 
products."
So all this applied in 2009, because  it was a reiteration of the rules that existed at the time. 
In my view, the example from the regulator  guidance broadly matches Mr H's case. It is also 
not the case that because  Mr H was aware of the costs and risks that this made the advice  
suitable.
Ref: DRN64387324I therefore agree with our adjudicator and for the same reasons he set out in his assessment 
of this complaint,  that Insight did not properly discharge its regulatory obligations to Mr H 
when transferring his funds to a SIPP and then investing in the Cape Verde  property. 
It follows that I uphold  this complaint.
Insight Financial Associates Limited  must redress Mr H as follows.
what must Insight Financial Associates Limited do?
To compensate Mr H fairly it must :
Compare the performance of Mr H's investment with that of the benchmark shown  below. If 
the fair value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable.  
If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable .
It should also pay any interest set out below .
If there is a loss, it should pay into Mr H's pension plan, to increase its value by the amount 
of the compensation  and any interest. The payment should allow for the effect  of charges 
and any available  tax relief. It should  not pay the compensation  into the pension plan if it 
would conflict with any existing protection or allowance.
If unable to pay the compensation into Mr H's pension plan, it should pay that amount direct 
to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided  a taxable 
income. Therefore  the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow  for any income 
tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr H's actual or expected marginal rate 
of tax at his selected retirement age.
For example, if Mr H is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, the 
reduction would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr H would  have been  able 
to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% of the compensation .
In addition, Insight  must pay Mr H £250 for the disruption to his retirement plans .
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr H in a clear, simple format . 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Insight considers it is required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much 
has been taken  off. Insight should also give Mr H a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
("start date" )to
("end date" )additional 
interest
Mr H's
SIPPstill existsFTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income  Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of 
settlementnot applicable
actual value
Ref: DRN64387325This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the investment is illiquid  (meaning it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value 
should be assumed  to be nil to arrive  at fair compensation. Insight should take ownership of 
the illiquid  investment by paying a commercial value acceptable  to the pension provider . 
This amount  should be deducted  from the compensation  and the balance  paid as above.
If Insight is unable to purchase the investment  the actual value should be assumed to be nil 
for the purpose of calculation. It may wish to require that Mr H provides an undertaking to 
pay Insight any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking 
must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred  on drawing the receipt from the 
pension plan.  
Insight will need to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking .
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because :
       Mr H wanted capital growth and was willing to accept some investment risk.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors  Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,  the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range  of 
indices with different asset  classes, mainly  UK equities  and government  bonds. 
It's a fair measure  for someone who was prepared  to take some  risk to get a higher 
return .
Although it is called an income  index, the mix and diversification provided  within  the index is 
close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison given Mr H's 
circumstances and risk attitude.
SIPP fees
The SIPP largely exists because of the Cape Verde investment. In order  for the SIPP to be 
closed and further SIPP fees prevented, these investments  need  to be removed. But if 
Insight cannot  buy them, Mr H is faced  with future  SIPP  fees. I think  it is fair to assume five 
years' of future SIPP fees. So, if Insight can't buy the investments, it should pay an amount 
equal to five years of SIPP  fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition to the 
compensation calculated using a nil value  for the investment.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Insight Financial Associates Limited  must redress Mr H as I have set out above.
Ref: DRN64387326Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Terry Connor
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6438732