K821x#15complaint
Mr G complains about quality of the goods hes been supplied with under a contract funded  by a 
loan from Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays  Partner Finance (BPF).
background
In August  2016  Mr G entered into an agreement  with BPF to finance the supply and fit of a
kitchen. The contract  was made through a third party Ill call H. But the installation  of the
kitchen wasnt to Mr Gs satisfaction   as there were a number of problems with what  was
installed and with missing  items that had been  ordered too.
Mr G was in frequent  contact with H about  this and about how it might  be able to help him
resolve the issues here. In February  2017, he found out from H that it no longer worked with
the supplier of the kitchen fittings  hed bought  and was unable  to source suitable
replacements any more.  But he continued to try and work with H to resolve the situation.
After some time, the situation hadnt been  resolved for Mr G. So he made a claim to BPF
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. He said that there  had been  a
misrepresentation of the products, service and guarantee, along  with a breach of contract  in
terms of the products and services not being  delivered.
BPF responded to this claim and said that it was aware that H had made  Mr G aware that it
can no longer source the relevant parts needed. So H had made an offer that totalled £1,250
for these  materials and the related  labour, along  with a gesture of goodwill of £250.  BPF said
that was fair, because  H was entitled  to offer a refund where  it was unable to source  the
parts and Mr G had a functional kitchen he was able to use.
Mr G wasnt happy with this and took the issue to the Furniture Ombudsman (FO) which
looked at the dispute  around the quality of the goods. In March  2019, the FO performed an
independent and impartial assessment of the problems Mr G had reported. As a part of this
process H made a further offer of £1,000 for the problems Mr G had faced. The FO then
reached the conclusion that in respect of one issue  a missing end panel for wall unites,  the
retailers suggestion of a replacement panel  was suitable. Then in terms of other issues  with
the worktop and splashback   a refund of 50% of the cost would be fair to reflect the
problems faced with this but also the usage Mr G had. The FO said that a full refund of the
value of the kitchen was disproportionate and that the impact here was aesthetic.
Mr G was unhappy with this as a resolution  of the issue with the retailer and so brought a
complaint to us about BPFs  handling of the Section 75 claim. Our investigator looked  into
this and came to the view that a refund for the full value of the kitchen would be
disproportionate given  the issues that Mr G was unhappy with. But she felt that BPF should
provide similar specification replacement  work  surfaces, splashbacks, panels and cladding
and cover the cost of the fitting of these items.
Mr G disagreed with this. He said that the solution  proposed was unworkable  as BPF and H
had explained  that suitable  replacement parts werent available.  And he felt that any likely
replacements that could be sourced wouldnt be appropriate or in line with the aesthetic of
the kitchen. He felt that because of this, he was entitled to a full refund  of the value of the
kitchen minus the value  of electrical components. He explained that this had caused him
and his family significant distress and anxiety. Mr G was also unhappy that the investigator
hadnt suggested a suitable  solution in terms of the impact on the guarantee that came with
the kitchen.
Ref: DRN66128062BPF also disagreed  with the investigator   saying that it too viewed this as unworkable. It
said that a more workable  solution here would  be that it would refund Mr G the costs  of
purchase and fitting for the relevant replacement parts, based on quotes Mr G would
provide. This way, Mr G could ensure he was happy  with any suggested replacements  and
this service could pass comment on whether any quotes he provided  were reasonable.
The complaint was passed  to me and, on 18 January 2021, I issued a provisional  decision. 
For ease of reading and reference, a copy of this is attached to this final decision. But (in 
summary) I concluded that BPF should refund Mr G the cost of the units  that are damaged, 
missing or of unsatisfactory quality.  Where the FO identified the cost of the splashback and 
worktop as being  £652.10  and £572  I felt those were fair figures to rely on. I also felt that 
BPF should pay what H offered for filler (£100), cladding (£350) and labour costs (£300). 
Then I said that BPF should  provide the cost of the side and top panels and refund those too 
 along with paying £500 as compensation for the impact this situation has had on Mr G.
BPF agreed  with my findings, but said that because  of the nature of the invoice and records  
relating to the finance, it couldnt  provide  an exact cost of the side and top panels. I took this 
into account and suggested an amount of £250  for these items which  BPF agreed with. But 
Mr G suggested that a more realistic  figure  would be £504.75. I put this to BPF and it agreed 
to pay this.
But Mr G disagreed more  widely  with my provisional findings, saying that he was willing  to 
source his own parts  to replace all non-electrical  wooden  components  as well as providing 
costs, for comparison, of a complete replacement of the whole kitchen. He felt that I should  take 
into account the costings he had provided and what he had proposed  to resolve the dispute.
Mr G also asked me to reconsider my findings  in respect of the misrepresentation of the 
guarantee and the validity  of it moving forward. He felt that the guarantee is now invalid and 
of no use to him in future, given that BPF and H have no relationship with the relevant 
supplier here. He then asked that I reconsider my findings on BPFs handling of the loan and 
finance and the fact that BPF paid the retailer before the successful delivery of the goods as 
stated in the terms of the loan.
Finally, Mr G asked  that I include a table in any final decision  clearly  identifying each item, 
the refund  amount for each and a sum total figure  for the compensation due from BPF. So I 
now have to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the opinion 
that what I suggested in my provisional  decision is a fair way of resolving this complaint. But 
Ill cover  some of the further points that the parties  have raised in response to this.
As mentioned already,  BPF explained that it couldnt provide the cost of the replacement  
side and top panels in the way I asked it to in my provisional decision. I suggested an 
amount of £250  as an estimate  of this and while BPF agreed, Mr G provided his own costs 
of these panels at £504.75. I asked BPF to review this and it agreed to pay the amount  Mr G 
suggested. So all parties are now agreed  on this particular point.
Ref: DRN66128063Ill move  onto considering  Mr Gs further comments. Im sorry that he felt my provisional 
decision didnt represent his willingness to source  extra parts and suggest ways to resolve  
the dispute. I did take his comments into account when reaching both that decision and 
when reviewing things  again here. But his suggestions were  largely  based  around replacing 
all non-electrical  items in the kitchen. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think this is necessary  as a fair resolution  to 
the complaint  here. Instead, I think  that only the parts that I mentioned  in my provisional  
decision need replacing to resolve  this dispute  fairly. So while I appreciate  that Mr G did 
suggest ways  forward and that these  involved sourcing his own parts,  Ive reached a 
different view of what a fair resolution is here  which  is in line with this services role as an 
impartial organisation.
Mr Gs further  points  around the guarantee are largely the same arguments  hed already  
brought around this issue before. Ive considered these points again,  but, as already 
explained, I dont  view the impact of this situation on the guarantee in the same  way as him. 
The guarantee remains in place and Im not persuaded that it has been invalidated by the 
problems hes had, or that the suggested  resolution here means  thats the case  either. 
I realise that BPF and H no longer have a relationship with the supplier here, but that doesnt 
mean that the guarantee no longer applies. Situations like this between finance  providers 
and suppliers will arise from time to time. While  this may mean that the practical application 
of the guarantee is made more difficult  the guarantee does nonetheless still apply and is 
still in place. So, nor do I think its been  misrepresented either  even where he hasnt been 
able to claim under it in the way hes wanted  for the problems hes had to date.
And in terms of the loan and how BPF administered this  I remain  of the opinion  that it has 
done so fairly in the circumstances. Mr G has said that the terms of the loan mean that B 
shouldnt have paid the supplier until the successful delivery of goods. But I dont think  thats 
the case here. The pre-contract credit information provided to Mr G says that BPF can pay 
the amount of the loan to the retailer once the loan is approved and it receives the signed 
agreement, or when  the retailer has suppled the goods or services. The agreement itself 
says that once this has been signed  and the goods  and services  received, the loan will be 
paid to the retailer.
Mr G did receive  the goods and services, as ultimately the kitchen was supplied  and 
installed. So I think its fair that BPF passed  payment onto the supplier in these  
circumstances, where  the substantive goods (being  the kitchen) and services (being the 
installation) have  been provided.  Its not in dispute that some elements of the kitchen werent 
provided and some  werent of satisfactory quality. But that isnt a reason that BPF shouldnt  
have passed on the payment here. Nor has it disadvantaged Mr G, as he was still able to 
make a claim as he did  even if the outcome might not be what  he wanted.
So, I remain  of the view that what I suggested  in my provisional decision is a fair way to 
resolve this complaint and its this Ill be telling BPF to pay Mr G.
Ref: DRN66128064putting things right
For clarity,  Ive itemised what I think BPF needs  to pay Mr G below. This is based  on the 
figures already  given  to both sides in my provisional decision and the amount that Mr G 
suggested and that BPF agreed to pay for the side and top panels. This is as follows:
Splashback - £652.10
Worktop  - £572
Filler - £100
Cladding - £350
Labour - £300
Side and Top Panels  - £504.75
That comes  to a total payment of £2,478.85. Then BPF should also pay Mr G £500 for his 
trouble and loss of expectation too.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Clydesdale  Financial  Services  Limited  trading as Barclays Partner 
Finance should  pay Mr G £2,478.85 and £500 for his trouble and loss of expectation for the 
reasons given above and in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 May 2021.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66128065copy of provisional decision
Complaint
Mr G complains about quality of the goods hes been supplied with under a contract funded by a 
loan from Clydesdale Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF)
Background
In August 2016 Mr G entered into an agreement with BPF to finance the supply and fit of a
kitchen. The contract was made through a third party Ill call H. But the installation  of the
kitchen wasnt to Mr Gs satisfaction  as there  were  a number of problems  with what was
installed and with missing  items that had been ordered too.
Mr G was in frequent contact  with H about this and about how it might  be able to help him
resolve the issues here. In February  2017, he found  out from H that it no longer worked  with
the supplier of the kitchen fittings hed bought and was unable to source  suitable
replacements any more.  But he continued to try and work with H to resolve  the situation.
After some time, the situation hadnt been resolved  for Mr G. So he made  a claim  to BPF
under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act. He said that there had been a
misrepresentation of the products, service and guarantee, along with a breach of contract in
terms of the products and services not being delivered.
BPF responded to this claim and said that it was aware  that H had made Mr G aware that it
can no longer source the relevant parts needed. So H had made an offer that totalled £1,250
for these materials  and the related labour,  along with a gesture of goodwill of £250.  BPF said
that was fair, because  H was entitled to offer a refund where it was unable  to source  the
parts and Mr G had a functional kitchen he was able to use.
Mr G wasnt  happy with this and took the issue  to the Furniture Ombudsman (FO) which
looked at the dispute around the quality  of the goods. In March 2019,  the FO performed  an
independent and impartial  assessment of the problems Mr G had reported. As a part of this
process H made a further offer of £1,000 for the problems Mr G had faced. The FO then
reached the conclusion that in respect of one issue  a missing  end panel  for wall unites, the
retailers suggestion of a replacement panel was suitable. Then in terms of other issues with
the worktop and splashback  a refund of 50% of the cost would be fair to reflect the
problems faced  with this but also the usage  Mr G had. The FO said that a full refund of the
value of the kitchen was disproportionate and that the impact here was aesthetic.
Mr G was unhappy  with this as a resolution of the issue with the retailer and so brought a
complaint to us about BPFs handling of the Section  75 claim. Our investigator looked into
this and came to the view that a refund for the full value of the kitchen would be
disproportionate given  the issues that Mr G was unhappy with. But she felt that BPF should
provide similar specification replacement work surfaces, splashbacks, panels and cladding
and cover the cost of the fitting of these items.
Mr G disagreed with this. He said that the solution proposed was unworkable as BPF and H
had explained that suitable  replacement  parts werent  available. And he felt that any likely
replacements that could be sourced wouldnt  be appropriate or in line with the aesthetic of
the kitchen.  He felt that because  of this, he was entitled to a full refund of the value of the
kitchen minus the value of electrical  components.  He explained that this had caused him
and his family significant  distress and anxiety. Mr G was also unhappy  that the investigator
hadnt suggested a suitable solution in terms of the impact on the guarantee that came with
the kitchen.
Ref: DRN66128066BPF also disagreed  with the investigator  saying  that it too viewed this as unworkable. It
said that a more workable solution here would be that it would refund Mr G the costs of
purchase and fitting for the relevant replacement parts,  based on quotes  Mr G would
provide. This way, Mr G could ensure  he was happy with any suggested replacements and
this service could pass comment on whether any quotes he provided were  reasonable.
So the complaint was passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Ive reached a different
view to that of our investigator  and so my decision here will be a provisional one  giving
both sides an opportunity to respond  with any further points before I reach a final decision.
This situation had been ongoing for a number  of years now  with Mr G no closer to a
resolution for it. That will have been  incredibly  frustrating for him and no doubt his family  too
as Ive seen  how much  time he has had to spend on the issues relating to the kitchen since
2016. Im also aware that my summary  of this complaint  and my findings will be made  in less
detail than the submissions  from Mr G and BPF.
That doesnt  mean  that I havent read and considered everything  both parties  have provided
though. It just means that for this decision  Im focusing on what I think are the key issues
here. Thats  in line with the quick  and informal  nature of our service. I dont need to comment
on every individual  argument  here to be able to reach what I think is a fair outcome  on this
complaint.
Mr G is bringing a complaint to us based on the rights he has under Section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act. The type of finance he used to fund the kitchen gives  him the ability  to do that  and 
that means he can bring a claim for misrepresentation  or breach of contract  against BPF as the 
creditor here. While Section  75 is a form of legal  protection  that doesnt mean  I have to reach  
the same decision that a court would  on the circumstances and evidence  here. Were an informal 
alternative to the courts, so while Ive taken  into account  the relevant  law and legislation here, Im 
not bound by that in reaching a decision on whats fair.
the missing  and damaged items
Firstly, it may help to say that I think  all parties here agree - and have always agreed  that 
there have  been issues here  which  could  constitute  a breach of contract. Mr G agreed finance 
for certain  goods and services and those goods either werent delivered, or werent delivered  to 
the standard he could reasonably expect. In saying  this and in coming to my decision here - Ive 
taken into account that Mr G paid for a kitchen with a unified  aesthetic  and design. That was 
clearly a selling point  of the kitchen and the photos hes provided  show this. That means  that the 
impact of any of the fittings not matching would  be greater than if say, the kitchen was of a more 
generic design where replacements  would  be more easily available.
But, just because there  may have been a breach of contract  that doesnt mean  that it will
always be fair to refund  someone  the full value of what was financed. Offering  a refund, or
price reduction as BPF has here, is one option that a creditor can make to settle a claim like
this. So I need to consider whether whats been  offered  already is fair or whether BPF needs
to do more.
In terms of the missing  and damaged items  its clear that where parts are missing,  they
needs to be replaced. But, now that H is no longer  partnered with the original supplier of the
parts, that cant  be done on a like-for-like basis. That means there are unavoidable practical
difficulties in putting things  right here in the ideal  way  which is for replacement  parts  to be
provided that match  the original design and aesthetic.
Ref: DRN66128067So its unlikely that Mr G will ever have parts that truly fit the kitchen here, as the original  parts 
would have. So where parts are missing, BPF needs to address that issue. Likewise, the splashback  
and the worktops arent of satisfactory  quality   and so BPF should  take steps to put that right too.
In taking into account whats fair to put these  issues right,  I think its fair for me to take into
account what  the FO has said here. I know that Mr G has his concerns  about  the FOs report
and the conclusions it reached  but I havent seen anything that make me think that the FO
was acting  as anything other than an impartial  expert in the dispute about  the kitchen itself
here. That doesnt  mean I have to reach exactly the same conclusion as the FO in terms of
Mr Gs claim against BPF here,  but its not something I will be putting  to one side either.
The FO concluded that the issues here were essentially  snagging issues that had a minor
aesthetic impact. That is its impartial opinion  and I can see why Mr G wouldnt  see it this
way at all. But, the fact remains  that the FO looked at these issues and its conclusion was
that where replacements couldnt be provided  a price reduction  was a fair resolution.
Based on that and having  seen all the evidence  from both sides here, I think  that seems like
a fair, impartial opinion  and one I think can be relied on. But Ive also taken  on board what
has happened  since then.  Mr G has been asked  whether  he would be willing  to source his
own replacement parts himself. He has explained why he wouldnt  be willing to do this. I can,
to an extent understand  this  but, while  it may be difficult,  its not an unreasonable suggestion  
in the circumstances   where BPF can no longer source the relevant parts needed here.
The problem here is that neither side has been  able to agree  a workable  solution, or way
forward here, that involves sourcing replacements and/or alternative work  within the scope of
this dispute. With that in mind, I cant see any way forward  here that involves recommending
any type of remedial  work,  or the sourcing of replacements here. So I think  the only way
forward here is for BPF to make a financial contribution in terms of a refund,  or price
reduction on the relevant  parts of the kitchen that Mr G is unhappy with.
Mr G paid a high price for the kitchen. So the impact of these units  being  missing and not of
the quality he expected will be considerable on the aesthetic and design  of the kitchen 
which was a key selling point here. That means that even if he could source replacements,
theres no guarantee they will ever exactly match the rest of the kitchen.  So while Mr G has
had the usage of the kitchen  as a whole,  including the functional benefits of it, I think the
fairest solution here is to refund him the entire cost of the items  in dispute here.
I also note that in resolution  of the claim   H made an offer through BPF too. That was for
associated costs  and labour in Mr G getting these issues resolved. I think  this is a fair offer
too and should also be factored into the resolution here. I realise that Mr G hasnt had the
work to remedy  these faults done yet, but, my decision  here is intended to try and help both
parties draw a line under the matter. So I also think that these  offers should  be paid too as
they represent a reasonable  cost to Mr G of getting this work rectified  himself  outside of
BPFs involvement. This goes further that the FO recommended  but I hope  Ive explained
why I think  this is fair in terms  of resolving Mr Gs claim  in the individual circumstances here.
Im mindful that this resolution  would  leave Mr G with these unsatisfactory and, in the case  
of the side and top panels, missing items. That means that he would be in a position  where  
he will likely have to get further work done and even then, its understandable that hell 
have a loss of expectation from any new units and parts not being  exactly  in line with the 
design of the original kitchen.
All of this, combined with the overall distress,  worry  and frustration this situation will have 
caused him over the years means that I think  its fair that BPF compensates him for this. 
Previously the supplier  made  an offer of £1,000 through the FO. I think  that is higher than this 
service would award in these circumstances (and the FO said much the same in terms of its 
awards) and so here, I think a fairer amount  would be £500. I realise though,  that this will fall 
short in terms of what  Mr G wants.
Ref: DRN66128068should Mr G get a full refund for the value of the kitchen?
Mr G has been clear  that the solution he wants here is for BPF, or the supplier, to refund him the 
full value of the kitchen  minus certain costs for electricals. As Ive explained,  even when there 
has been a breach of contract and where good and services arent delivered  as promised, or of 
satisfactory quality  that doesnt mean that this will always be a suitable or proportionate remedy.
I think  thats the case here. The FOs independent  report  confirms that the issues here are
aesthetic and, in its view,  that a full refund would  be disproportionate. Ive taken  that into
consideration when looking  at the evidence here and I agree. These issues arent
insignificant to Mr G, given the kitchen he agreed finance for and his reasons  behind him
selecting this kitchen.  But, equally, the kitchen  has nonetheless been installed and hes been
able to use it  even if there  are issues with it. But those issues dont  to me  mean  that a
full refund of the sort Mr G wants would be proportionate here. So I wont be telling BPF to
do this, even  though I know this is what Mr G wants
the impact on the guarantee
Mr G has understandably  raised concerns with the impact of this situation and the proposed
solutions to date on the guarantee. Mr G has made the point that the arrangement he
entered into came  with a 10 year guarantee on the kitchen and that this hasnt been realised
or delivered in the circumstances. And now he has no faith that this provides any protection
should he need to use this again.
I see the point Mr G is raising here, but from what Ive seen  - this guarantee still applies to
his kitchen.  I realise this particular situation hasnt been resolved to his satisfaction, but that
doesnt mean  that the guarantee  itself isnt valid, or has stopped being valid. Of course,
should Mr G decide to source  his own replacements  and fitters, then those items would be
outside of the terms of the original  guarantee  as BPF wouldnt be responsible  for them. But
to date, Mr G hasnt said that this is an option he wishes to pursue.
In any event, the resolution  Im suggesting  here doesnt impact on the guarantee.  But if Mr G
did wish to now accept this and source replacements at a later date he could then ask for a
separate guarantee on any new parts that are fitted.  But I dont  think I can tell BPF it needs
to extend that here, where it now wouldnt actually responsible for any work carried out 
outside of the original contract.
For the same reasons, nor do I think this means  that the guarantee  was misrepresented, or
that this means in turn that the overall  contract and agreement was misrepresented.  As Ive
said, the guarantee is still in place and it remains  that Mr G can make use of it. While he
hasnt been able to resolve this particular issue under it, he is still free to make further claims
under the terms  of this for the duration of its term.
BPFs handling of the loan and finance
Mr G has raised concerns with the fact that despite raising concerns to H upon initial receipt
of some of the kitchen units  BPF nonetheless passed payment onto H for the goods and
services. Mr G has explained that he doesnt think that BPF was entitled to have done this,
where the loan should never have been initiated.
I understand that point. But the terms of the contract here  which  Mr G agreed to - dont require 
BPF not to pay H in these circumstances. I think in passing on the payment as it did here, BPF 
was acting  in line with the terms and I dont think it acted unfairly in doing so. In terms of how 
BPF then handled the situation around the loan and payments as a creditor  Im satisfied it did 
so fairly.  It extended  the Buy Now Pay Later period on the loan to ensure  that Mr G wasnt 
charged any extra  interest  in the circumstances  which  I think is a fair thing  to have done.
Ref: DRN66128069Putting things right
So, overall  here, I think whats fair is for BPF to refund to Mr G the cost of the units that are
damaged, missing, or of unsatisfactory  quality.  The Furniture Ombudsman identified the cost
of the splashback  and worktop as being £652.10 and £572 respectively. Its these  figures Ill
be relying on in telling BPF what it needs to pay Mr G. Then  H offered £100 refund for filler,
£350 for cladding and £300 for labour  costs.  All of those should be paid to Mr G too.
While Ive seen invoices, its unclear as to what the actual cost of the side and top panels
mentioned elsewhere in this decision are. So I also require BPF to provide the cost of the
missing side and top panels  in response to this decision. I will then factor this into the total
redress if my final decision remains  the same as what Ive proposed here.
By refunding  Mr G the total amount for these  items, plus the £500 for his trouble and loss of
expectation here, I think this is a fair resolution  to this complaint  in the circumstances. I
realise that this isnt what Mr G wants, but I hope  he will understand  why I cant ask BPF to
refund him the full value of the kitchen here
my provisional  decision
I provisionally  decide  that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited trading  as Barclays Partner
Finance should pay Mr G what Ive suggested above to resolve the matters here and also
award him £500 as compensation.
James Staples
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6612806