K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about how Aviva Insurance  Limited handled a claim he made  for an escape 
of water under his home  insurance policy.
Mr K is being represented in this complaint. But for ease Ill refer to all actions as being  those 
of Mr K.
background
In October  2017 Mr K noticed  a smell coming  from his living  room.  He lifted  the floorboards  
and found standing water  underneath.  He contacted Aviva  to make a claim; it was 
established there had been  a leak from a neighbouring  property that had impacted his home. 
Aviva agreed to cover the claim.
Aviva dried the property  and installed a new floor in the living  room.  The work  was 
completed by December 2017. Shortly after, Mr K complained to Aviva.  He said he wasnt 
happy with the quality  of the workmanship. He said the floor Aviva  had laid in the living room 
wasnt even and a pipe had been  burst  whilst the new laminate was being put down. He 
raised issues over the quality of the beading and said the flooring in the hall had dropped  
due to the escape of water. He said Aviva should  have  covered this as part of the claim and 
Aviva needed to raise  the floor in the hall.
Aviva said it didnt think the escape  of water had caused the floor in the hall to drop. So it 
didnt agree to do any work to the hall. It asked Mr K to provide any further information for it 
to consider relating to the workmanship.  As nothing further was provided  Aviva didnt offer to 
do any more work.  But it did offer Mr K £100  compensation for some  delays at the start of 
the claim,  and a missed appointment.
Mr K didnt accept what Aviva had said and raised  a complaint with our service. Our 
investigator reviewed the reports  and said based on these he didnt think  the hall had been  
affected by the leak. So he didnt ask Aviva to do anything with the floor in the hall. He also 
didnt think Aviva needed to do any more in relation  to the floor in the living room; he didnt 
think there was enough  to show  Aviva had carried out poor workmanship. 
Mr K didnt agree. He sent photographs  of the skirting board around the living  room.  He said 
these photos show the floor is not level as a result of the workmanship carried  out by Aviva.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator. Ive explained why below.
Ref: DRN62602712Ive considered whether Aviva need  to re-lay the floor in the living room and raise the floor in 
the hall. Having  done so, I dont  think it needs  to. Ive reviewed the report  from the structural 
engineer who attended Mr Ks property in November 2017. That report says there  is no 
evidence of any structural cracking  damage  within  the front room of the entrance  hallway. It 
says Mr K has reported increased gaps below the skirting towards the front of the hallway 
but these were not visible. So the opinion of the expert was that the floor hadnt dropped in 
either room  as a result  of the standing water.
Aviva also noted that Mr Ks builder had said the floor in the hall was already uneven before  
making the claim, so it thought it was more likely as a result  of the age of the property rather 
than the escape of water. Having looked at what the report says, Im persuaded that Aviva 
dont need to do any more work to the hall or living room floor.  There  is some difference  in 
the height of the skirting board, but it isnt extreme and Mr K hasnt been able to show that 
this wasnt the case  before  the claim was made.
Mr K has also complained that Aviva put a nail into a pipe when fitting boxing around the 
pipes and the beading. Aviva accept this happened but said a plumber was able to fix the 
issue and the affected materials were replaced  within a day of the issue  being raised.  So Im 
satisfied Aviva has done what Id expect it to in this instance to resolve the mistake it made.
Mr K has said that the laminate floor has been  laid too close  to the pipework underneath,  
and it is causing  creaking  noises. His plumber wrote to Aviva to say he thought the boxing 
had been fitted too tight to the heating pipes and it needed to be re-fitted. Aviva wasnt 
willing to accept this as there were no company details for the plumber and it wasnt a 
professional report.  I think this is an acceptable  position for Aviva to take in the 
circumstances. Im not persuaded it needed to go back  and re-fit the boxing work  as I 
havent seen enough to suggest it was Avivas workmanship that caused the issue with the 
pipes.
Im aware Mr K has raised various  other points of complaint with Aviva.  From looking at the 
file it seems Aviva has addressed all of these. There was an issue with a missed  
appointment and I can see the contractors arrived later than expected by one day. Aviva has 
offered £100 for the inconvenience caused to Mr K and I think  this is reasonable for the 
minimal inconvenience it caused.  Mr K did have to do a lot of work at the beginning of the 
claim to find out where the leak was coming  from. But this isnt something Id have expected 
Aviva to do, its role is to repair the damage  once its established it has been caused by an 
event insured under the policy.  So Im not going  to make it pay any more  compensation for 
that. 
Based on everything  Ive seen I dont think Aviva needs to do anything else to resolve the 
claim.
Ref: DRN62602713my final decision
My final decision is Im not going to ask Aviva Insurance  Limited  to do anything  differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6260271