K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Acromas  Insurance Company  Limited is responsible for poor service  
under a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Mrs B had a bank account that gave her benefits  including home emergency cover branded 
with the name of a membership organisation. Acromas was the insurer  responsible for 
dealing with claims. Where I refer to Acromas I include its home assistance company, its 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold Acromas responsible.
Mrs B says she also had home  buildings  insurance  cover under which  claims were  subject to 
a £450.00 policy excess.
7th July 2018 was a Saturday.  The England football team  played  in the World Cup in the 
afternoon. Mrs B called Acromas for help with a leak of water through her kitchen ceiling.  
She complained that Acromas didnt attend  until the following day. She says this resulted in 
damage, so she had to make a claim  on the buildings insurance and pay the excess of 
£450.00. She would like Acromas to reimburse her for that.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  Mrs B 
had agreed to inform  Acromas if her husband  couldnt turn off the stop-cock. So the 
investigator said he couldnt reasonably have expected Acromas to know the leak was 
continuing. So he couldnt  say Acromas had acted incorrectly by not having tradesmen  
attend until the following day.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators opinion.  She asked for an ombudsman  to review  the 
complaint. She says,  in summary,  that:
The policy documents are misleading and they never notified  her of any change in 
contracting terms and conditions  panelling out to third parties. Nor explained 
regarding categorising the severity  of call out timescales. 
An hour after she reported the problem,  the home assistance company called her 
husband and said they had no engineers in the area at all and could not attend until 
the following  morning.
When the home assistance company  did eventually attend they fully admitted they 
had no engineers in the area due to the football. That was unacceptable and 
unprofessional, she says.
Its very convenient that they found  all the calls they needed to support themselves 
but have lost the call which states they have no one in the area as the football is on. 
They told her they listened to all the calls that the home  assistance company had.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61117652Mrs B was the policyholder under the home emergency policy. I dont think there was a 
guaranteed maximum  response time. From what Acromas said later,  it operates  a 
prioritisation system  for the urgency of calls. And it uses the services of the home 
emergency company.  I dont think it needed  to explain those matters in detail  in its policy  
documents.
On 7 July Mrs Bs husband  was at home but she was catching an international flight  back to 
the UK. He told her about the leak. I find it more likely than not that the leak had already 
caused some damage to the kitchen ceiling.  So Mrs B already had a problem when she rang 
Acromas. Thats why she rang. 
The call handler said Mrs B should  tell her husband to turn off the stop-cock  or ring back  if 
he couldnt do that. As she was travelling, I find that Mrs B gave authority for Acromas  to 
deal with her husband.
At about 17:00,  the home  assistance  company told him that an engineer would attend the 
following morning. Theres no evidence that he complained about  that. And theres no record  
of what was said about the football. I think the company was entitled to work  on the basis  
that the stop-cock was turned off and there was no ongoing leak.
Mrs B spoke to Acromas the following morning. From the call recording, I dont consider that 
the call-handler was rude. And an engineer stopped the leak that morning.
Mrs B says that damage was caused by the slow response from Acromas. But I havent  
found its speed of response unreasonable in the circumstances.  So I dont find Acromas at 
fault.
I havent seen  details of the damage  - or what damage happened when. Mrs B hasnt shown 
us details of her buildings insurance.  She hasnt  shown that Acromas caused the need for 
her to claim  and pay a £450.00 excess on her home  buildings insurance. So I dont find it fair 
and reasonable to direct Acromas to reimburse Mrs B.
After 8 July, the leak still needed a permanent repair.  And Acromas has apologised for 
sending engineers who couldnt fix it. Mrs B rang to complain  on 11 July. Yet it took a further  
week to obtain  parts and fix the leak. Also, the home  assistance company failed to keep an 
appointment on 20 August.
On 3 September Mrs B sent an email because she found that Acromas  didnt answer  
telephone calls. On 5 September,  Acromas sent two final response letters. One of them  
contained the following:
you  were  unhappy with the adviser  you spoke  with on 8th July. I am so sorry to 
hear this and as such, I have listened to the call in question
That refers  only to one call. So I think Mrs B is misremembering that Acromas told her it had 
listened to all the calls with the home assistance company.
The final response  letters didnt  uphold her complaint about causing damage.  But Acromas 
apologised for some  shortcomings  in its service. It said that to reinforce its apology it had 
issued a cheque  for £300.00. That included £25.00, to cover the cost of calls.  
Ref: DRN61117653That figure of £300.00  is at least  as much as I would  otherwise have found fair for the 
shortcomings Ive seen in the service for which Acromas was responsible. So I dont  find it 
fair and reasonable to order Acromas to do any more in response  to Mrs Bs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I dont 
direct Acromas Insurance  Company Limited to do any more  in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6111765