K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains about a car he got using finance  through Black Horse  Limited trading as 
Land Rover Financial Services. He says the car has had various issues  since  he got it and 
he wants to reject it.
background 
Mr R acquired  a new car in November  2018.  The car cost £79,728.50. It appears Mr R paid 
a deposit of £6,000. The rest of the balance was funded by a hire purchase agreement  taken  
with Black Horse. The agreement was taken over 49 months, with monthly repayments of 
£1,029.27.
Shortly after getting the car, Mr R says he had issues with it. This included the car riding 
roughly and vibrating, along  with problems with the infotainment system. 
In early December 2018 the manufacturers road side assist was called out to see Mr Rs 
car. This confirmed a fault with the car and suggested to have the wheels aligned  and 
balanced. 
Shortly after this Mr R complained to Black Horse  and asked  to reject the car. The car was 
returned to the dealer later in December 2018.  There is some dispute over what  work was 
done at this point, but Im satisfied some  attempt at a repair took place.  
Mr R collected the car in January 2019.  He says the ride of the car was worse, the car pulled 
to the left and the steering  wheel wasnt aligned. There is again some dispute over what 
happened next. Mr R says he test drove the car with a technician  from the dealer who 
agreed the ride was very poor and that the car needed further work. The dealer said some 
wheels were swapped  around at this time which solved the issue and the car was fine. It 
also said a software update was applied which fixed the infotainment system.
In February 2019  Black  Horse issued its final response letter.  It agreed there had been an 
issue with the cars  ride. But it said the dealer had resolved this issue by swapping  wheels 
around and carrying  out an alignment. It also said it didnt believe there was a fault with the 
infotainment system, but a software  update had been applied  which  should  resolve  any 
potential problems.
Black Horse  upheld Mr Rs complaint  and offered  him £1,329.27. This consisted  of 
£1,029.27 which was 50% of the repayments made  towards the car, and £300  for distress 
and inconvenience.  
Mr R was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service. He contacted  Black  
Horse and said he didnt  accept the outcome. He said the dealer  never  aligned  the wheels. 
He said the dealer was aware the attempted repair didnt work  and had confirmed the ride 
was unacceptable. And Mr R said the dealer agreed to contact him about further work but 
didnt get in touch with him. Mr R reiterated  that he wanted to reject  the car. Black  Horse 
said it wouldnt change its opinion.
In early March 2019 the manufacturers  road side assist was called out again. It confirmed 
the ride wasnt as it should be and noticed no difference between driving modes. It also said 
the steering wheel wasnt centred and tracking may need to be adjusted.
Ref: DRN66372912In May 2019  Mr R took the car to a different dealer. It confirmed issues  with the ride of the 
car. It said the steering was out of alignment, the tyres were overinflated, the wheels needed  
balancing and an update  was required  to stop the infotainment system going blank. At this 
point the car had covered  around 3,572  miles. The car was then was booked in for the 
repairs to be carried out.
Later in May 2019, the manufacturers road side assist was called out again. They noted a 
message from the system saying a suspension fault had been identified and noted issues 
with a camera. It carried out several software updates to the cars systems.
In June 2019 work was completed  on the cars  alignment and wheels, along with some  
software updates   and Mr R said it was then driving  as it should.
Our investigator then issued their opinion on the case. She said she thought  the car did have 
issues with the ride and infotainment system. But, she said as these  issues  had been put 
right, it wouldnt be fair to allow  Mr R to reject the car. She said the offer Black Horse  had 
previously made was enough  to put this right.
Mr R disagreed. He reiterated that he thought he should  be allowed to reject  the car. He also 
said he believed either our investigator, or someone  at Black Horse, had told him getting the 
car repaired wouldnt affect his right to reject the car. The case  was arranged to be passed 
to an ombudsman for a decision.
While awaiting  to be passed  to an ombudsman, Mr R said the car had further  issues. He 
said the infotainment  system had various  intermittent  faults.  He said the cars suspension 
also had intermittent faults and had begun  making a clunking  noise. And he said the 
windscreen had cracked   which he believes  was due to the suspension  issues.  He supplied  
some photos  and videos which he said showed the issues.  
The photos  were  given to Black  Horse who contacted the dealer Mr R got the car from. It 
commented that they thought a system  update would fix the issues  with the infotainment  
system, which Mr R had not booked in.
Our investigator responded to Mr R. She said she had listened to the calls between  Mr R 
and ourselves, and between  him and Black  Horse. But she said he hadnt been  told he could 
reject the car after it was repaired. And she said shed need to see some  further  evidence  
about the ongoing faults Mr R mentioned  to change her opinion.
In November 2020 Mr R sent in further photos  which he says show another  fault related to 
the infotainment  system. He said sometimes the key fob didnt work as it should. And he said 
he had to replace  the windscreen due to the crack.
The case  was then passed to me for a decision. I sent Black Horse and Mr R a provisional 
decision on 2 February 2021. This explained that I was thinking of coming  to a different 
outcome to that reached by our investigator. My findings from this decision were as follows:
This complaint is about goods supplied  under  a hire purchase agreement. Arranging and 
providing consumer  credit contracts like this is a regulated activity  so Im satisfied  were  
able to investigate  Mr Rs concerns about  Black Horse. 
When thinking about whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law and 
regulations. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) is relevant to this complaint.  This says, 
Ref: DRN66372913in summary, that under  a contract to supply  goods the supplier  Black Horse  in this case  
needs to make sure the goods  are of satisfactory  quality.  Satisfactory  quality is what  a 
reasonable person would expect  taking into account any relevant factors.  
In this case, I would  consider relevant factors to include, amongst other  things, the cars age, 
price, description and mileage. So, Ill take into account that Mr Rs car was brand new. It 
cost nearly £80,000  and is from what is considered  to be an executive  brand.  So, I think a 
reasonable person would have very high expectations for the condition and performance of 
the car.
I think its important to note here that there  has clearly been a breakdown of relationship 
between Mr R and the dealer he got the car from. There are various  disputes  about what  
work was carried out, whether Mr R attended  appointments when they were booked  and 
accusations of dishonesty. This complaint is against Black Horse   not the dealer.  I wont 
consider which  version of events is correct where  there is a dispute, unless its relevant to 
this complaint - as Black Horse are not responsible for the customer  service  provided by the 
dealer.
What I need to consider in this case is whether the car was of satisfactory quality when Mr R 
got it or not. If it wasnt,  I need  to consider  what would be reasonable to put things right.  
Mr R has raised  various issues with the car, so Ill consider each of these in turn.
Harsh ride and vibrations
Mr R says he had issues with the ride of the car since he got it. He complains the ride was 
harsh, it vibrated,  the car pulled  to one side and the steering wheel didnt line up. Having 
thought about all the evidence here,  Im satisfied its likely this was the case. 
I say this as Mr R has been consistent with what hes said about the issue.  The breakdown  
report from less than a month after Mr R got the car backs this up saying carry out road test 
with customer fault occurred on road test, roadside  techntion addvise (sic) 4 wheel alignment 
and have all 4 wheels  balanced. At this point  the car had covered just over 1,000 miles. 
Im also satisfied this issue meant  the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  
I dont think a reasonable person would  expect any new car to have issues  with the ride like 
this. And I especially think this is the case here when Mr Rs car cost around £80,000.
There is some dispute over what happened  when Mr R initially returned  the car to the dealer 
to be looked at. Mr R says wheels were  swapped around, but no other work was done. He 
says a technician  agreed on a test drive after the attempted repair  that the issue was still 
present, saying it was like the car had no suspension. But, the dealer  says the wheels were 
all aligned  and swapped round  at which point the car then performed as it should.
I dont think I need  to make a finding about which  version of events is correct here. But, there 
are two key points about this issue that are relevant to the case. Firstly, looking at the 
evidence from the time Im satisfied the dealer had the car and made  an attempt to repair the 
issue with the ride. Secondly, Im satisfied the repair wasnt  successful. I say this as a 
breakdown report  from March 2019 says,  Found ride to be harsh and bumpy, steering 
wheel not centred. And the job sheets from the second dealer in May 2019 say that the car 
felt firm, still had alignment  issues  and wheels needed balancing.
Ref: DRN66372914Im also satisfied the repairs at the second dealer in June 2019 most  likely resolved this 
issue. This seems to be backed up by communication  between  Mr R and Black  Horse in 
June 2019.
Suspension issues
Mr R said he had issues with the cars  suspension since  he got it. He said there wasnt a 
difference between  different suspension  settings and the ride was harsh. 
Ive carefully considered  this. I accept, as Ive explained above,  that there were initially  
issues with the cars  ride. But, I think its most  likely this was due to issues  with wheel 
alignment and tyres, rather than the suspension. I say this as the later repairs to these 
issues seem  to have solved the problem. And on a call to Black Horse, Mr R said the second  
dealer told him the ride issues  and vibration werent due to the suspension. 
I accept initially the car may not have felt different to drive under the different settings  but I 
think its possible this was due to the tyres. Ive also considered that Mr Rs car has 22 inch 
alloy wheels   and its generally accepted that bigger  alloy wheels do lead to a firmer ride 
than smaller ones.
Mr R has provided a photo that shows a warning from the car about  the suspension. But its 
not clear when this was taken. I think its possible this was prior to the breakdown report  
from May 2019  where updates were applied to the car. These seem to have  resolved  the 
warning.
Mr R says the suspension now makes a clunking  sound on occasion. But, I havent  been 
provided with any evidence this is the case.
Ive also considered that Mr R says the car is now lopsided. He sent in a video which  he 
says shows this. But, having reviewed this, I dont  think  this is enough to show  an issue.
Thinking about  everything, its possible the car had an issue  with the suspension that caused  
a warning in May 2019 when the software  was updated. But, I havent seen enough to make  
me think this wasnt resolved or that its most  likely the car has ongoing issues  with its 
suspension.
Infotainment issues
Mr R has said hes had ongoing issues with the infotainment system on his car since he got 
it. He says this has included one of the screens  going blank, the screen  flickering, the 
reversing camera not working and the sat nav not loading.
Having thought about everything here, Im satisfied there is an ongoing  fault with the 
infotainment system. I say this as Mr R has been  very consistent  when discussing these 
issues. I can see on the job sheet  from May 2019  that The vehicle also requires an 
interactive control  module updtae (sic) relating to entertainment system  going blank. And 
since then, Mr R has also sent in photos  showing a blank lower screen, photos showing the 
sat nav failing to load over a period  of time and a video  showing the screen frozen on a shot 
from the reversing  camera when driving forward. So, it appears any attempted  repairs 
havent worked.
Ref: DRN66372915That being  said,  Im also satisfied this is an intermittent issue   rather than a constant fault. 
But, considering what a reasonable person would expect from Mr Rs car, Im satisfied this 
means the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  
I have considered that the first dealer  has seen  some  of these photos and commented that a 
software update  could  fix the issues. But, even if this was the case, attempts to fix the 
infotainment system have  already been done.  Im satisfied these didnt resolve  the issue.
Other issues
I have considered the issues  found in May 2019 when the breakdown service attended 
which included problems  with the forward camera. But, it appears these issues were either 
fixed at the roadside  or were repaired in June  2019. So, I havent  considered  these further.
Mr R has sent in photos of the car showing warnings  for a blind spot monitoring fault. But, 
there is a lack of evidence  here to show if there was an ongoing issue.  So, I havent 
considered this further.
Mr R also sent in a photo  of a crack  to the windscreen. He says this later got worse  and 
needed to be replaced. He believes this was due to the harsh ride of the car. I accept the 
windscreen was cracked. But, I havent seen enough to make me think its most likely this 
was due to a fault with the car, rather than another cause such  as an object hitting the 
windscreen.
Mr R sent in a photo of a warning from the car saying Diesel Exhaust Fluid  low No engine 
starts possible in 369 miles. He says this is a fault linked  to the infotainment  system. But, I 
disagree with Mr R here. I can see at this point, the car has nearly covered 10,000  miles 
since Mr R got it. Topping up diesel exhaust fluid, otherwise  commonly  known as AdBlue, is 
a routine part of maintaining a lot of modern diesel engines. So, I dont think  this shows  a 
fault.
Finally, Mr R says there is now an issue with the key fob and starting  the car. But, I havent 
seen any evidence to back  this up.
Summary and putting things right
In summary,  Im satisfied  Mr Rs car had issues with the ride when he got it and intermittent 
issues with the infotainment  system  that are ongoing. Im also satisfied  these issues  meant 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when he acquired it. So, I need to consider what  would 
be fair and reasonable to put things right.
Our investigator said she didnt think any further action was needed as the issue  with the 
cars ride had been fixed and Black Horses offer was reasonable. I agree the issue  with the 
ride was repaired after the car had been  to the second dealer. So, Ive considered  if this 
means Black Horse met its obligations  under the CRA. And, Ive considered if this was a fair 
and reasonable way to put things  right for Mr R. 
Ref: DRN66372916Having thought about this, I dont think its reasonable to say no further  action needs  to be 
done because  the issue with the ride was repaired. I say this as when Black Horse  issued its 
final response, Im satisfied Mr Rs car still had an ongoing issue with the ride that meant it 
wasnt of satisfactory quality. Im satisfied  a repair had been attempted  for this issue, which  
had been unsuccessful.  And Im also satisfied  there  was an issue with the infotainment 
system. So, it follows that Im satisfied  under the CRA Mr R had a right to reject  the car at 
this time.
Its important to note here that repair is a remedy under the CRA for goods that are of 
unsatisfactory quality.  But, Mr R only had the car repaired after Black  Horse had told him, 
several times, that it wouldnt allow him to reject the car and that it wouldnt be investigating 
the complaint  further. Mr R said the vibration and rattling from the car was so bad he thought 
it could cause ongoing issues if it wasnt fixed  so I dont think  it was unreasonable  for him 
to repair  the car under  the circumstances. But, I also dont  think  it would then be fair to say 
he couldnt reject the car because of this.
Ive considered that Mr R says Black Horse told him he could  repair the car without losing his 
right to reject. Having  listened to the calls between Black Horse  and Mr R, Im satisfied this 
wasnt the case. But, I have considered that Mr R asks Black Horse about  his right to reject 
several times. I think  its fair to say Mr R made it very clear to Black  Horse that he wanted  to 
exercise his right to reject the car before it issued its final response  letter.
Thinking about  all of this, Im satisfied Black  Horse shouldve let Mr R reject the car. I dont 
think its fair for Mr R to have  been left with a car he clearly has no confidence in, especially 
considering hes paying around  £1,000  a month  for it. So, I think Black Horse should now 
allow Mr R to reject the car. 
Im satisfied the car was not performing  as it should  between Mr R acquiring  it and repairs  
being done at the second dealer. So, I think its reasonable Mr R gets a proportion of his 
repayments back from this time.  
Ive considered that Mr R has described the ride as being so bad that the vibration made  him 
feel sick. He said it was like driving  a bag of bones  and felt like the car had no suspension 
at all. Ive also considered  that it appears the car was pulling  to the left when being driven 
and the steering wheel  was off axis. So, Im satisfied that while  Mr R could drive the car at 
this time, the use of it was very significantly  impaired. It also appears Mr R had infotainment  
issues during this period. So, I think he should get back 50% of his repayments towards the 
finance from its inception  to when the car was repaired in June 2019.
Im also satisfied the infotainment issues continued, albeit intermittently, and are still 
ongoing. So, I also think Mr R should get back 5% of his repayments for the time following 
the repairs in June 2019.
Finally, Im satisfied Mr R has suffered distress and inconvenience due to what happened. 
He had to take time out to drive to two different  dealers on several occasions. And, Im sure 
it caused him stress to be declined his request to reject the car when he had a right to do so. 
So, I think Black  Horse  should pay him £300 to reflect this.
I gave Mr R and Black Horse one month to provide any further  evidence  or comments for me 
to consider.
Ref: DRN66372917Black Horse  responded  and said it accepted my decision. Mr R got in touch and made some 
comments for me to consider.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr R said in response  to my provisional decision. 
Mr R said the suspension wasnt repaired and still has intermittent faults.  He believes this is 
linked to the infotainment system.  Ive very carefully thought about this. And Ive 
reconsidered everything Mr R previously said about  this and the evidence  he provided. But, I 
havent seen enough to make me think its most likely this is the case.
Mr R questioned why I recommended 5% of his repayments to be reimbursed from June 
2019 for the infotainment system, when it had issues from the start. I should explain this 5% 
is awarded from when  Mr R got the car  it forms part of the 50% I recommended  for this 
earlier period.
Mr R also said he didnt think £300 was enough to reflect the levels  of stress and 
inconvenience hed suffered. Ive thought  carefully about this, but I still think this amount is 
fair and reasonable. 
Mr R also said his car has recently  suffered further issues  and has been returned  to the 
garage. I explained  if Mr R wanted me to consider  this Id need  to see evidence of what  had 
gone wrong and have  some time to go through things further. Mr R said he didnt want to 
delay things at this point, so I havent considered these  latest issues further.
Ive thought about all the information and comments on the entire case  again.  Having  done  
so, I still think  this complaint should  be upheld. This is due to the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision and set out above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I instruct Black Horse  Limited trading as Land  Rover Financial Services to put things right by 
doing the following:
Cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay
Collect the car at a time and date suitable  for Mr R without charge
Reimburse Mr R £6,000 for the deposit  paid*
Reimburse Mr R 50% of the repayments  towards  the agreement from when he got 
the car to when  it was repaired on 17 June 2019*
Reimburse Mr R 5% of the repayments towards the agreement from 17 June  2019  to 
when the car is collected*
Pay Mr R £300 to reflect the distress and inconvenience suffered
*These amounts should have 8% simple yearly  interest added from the time of payment to 
the time of reimbursement. If Black Horse  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to withhold income tax from the interest, it should tell Mr R how much its taken off. 
Ref: DRN66372918If should also give Mr R a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the 
tax from HM Revenue and Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6637291