K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  that The Mortgage Works  (UK) Plc didnt deal fairly with her mortgage 
application. She asks that it pay compensation for her costs and stress.
background
A financial adviser applied  on behalf of Ms B to TMW for an interest only buy to let mortgage  
in late 2018. Ms B intended to use the proceeds to fund a lease extension  for her buy to let 
flat. TMW sent a mortgage offer. However,  in March  2019 it said it couldnt lend due to the 
type of rental agreement  Ms B had entered into. Ms B says TMW should have been  clearer 
about this at the outset, before she incurred legal costs of about £3,500. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said the mortgage 
application said the property was let under  an assured  shorthold  tenancy. It didnt say Ms B 
had let the property under a guaranteed  rental  agreement. If the financial adviser  had sent a 
copy of the rental agreement this would be checked by the solicitors, not TMW. The 
investigator said the mortgage offer allowed TMW to withdraw its offer if any information it 
had been given was incorrect, and the offer was subject to its solicitors investigation of title. 
While TMWs website  didnt refer to the type of rental  agreement  Ms B had, she wouldnt 
expect its criteria to be set out in full.
Ms B didnt agree. She said her adviser had sent a copy  of the rental agreement and TMW 
should have checked it before making a mortgage offer.  Her financial adviser  said she 
uploaded all supporting documents, which would have included the rental agreement.  She 
said shed checked  how to categorise the rental agreement  on a phone call to TMW  before 
submitting the application.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
TMW says it doesnt offer buy to let mortgages where the property  is subject to a guaranteed 
rental agreement, as was the case here. It provided an extract  from its policy to support this. 
I think TMW acted  in accordance with its own lending criteria when it said it couldnt offer a 
mortgage to Ms B. I wouldnt expect it to treat Ms B differently  from its other customers.
However, Ms Bs complaint is that TMW should  have made it clear that it wouldnt lend to her 
at the outset. And she says TMW and its solicitors  should  have  spotted  the problem with the 
rental agreement sooner.  
TMW provides a summary of its lending criteria to customers and their advisers on its 
website. This doesnt refer to its policy on guaranteed rental agreements. But I wouldnt 
expect it to set out its lending  criteria  in full.
The mortgage application form asks how the property will be let and gives the options of 
assured shorthold  tenancy or non standard.  Ms Bs application says she would let the 
property through  an assured shorthold tenancy.  This wasnt correct. 
Ref: DRN67901162Ms Bs adviser says she spoke to TMW about  the rental agreement and the rent being 
guaranteed. Shes been honest with us in saying she cant  confirm she used the exact term 
guaranteed rental agreement. Ive listened to the call recordings provided,  but these are of 
calls made  after the application was made. TMW cant locate a recording of a call before this 
when the adviser  says she asked about  the rental  agreement.  
I dont think its reasonable for me to find that TMW had incorrectly told Ms Bs adviser  that it 
would accept a guaranteed rental agreement,  and that this should be categorised  on the 
application as an assured  shorthold tenancy, without evidence  this was the case. I dont 
think, on balance,  the available evidence  supports  this.
While Ms B says a copy  of the guaranteed rental agreement was given to TMW at the outset 
the available  evidence doesnt support this. TMW says it would only ask for the tenancy 
agreement before a mortgage offer if there  was an inconsistency  or some reason to doubt 
what had been  said. It told the adviser in March 2019 that it had no record of having asked 
for the tenancy  agreement.
TMW says it doesnt review tenancy  agreements as this is done by its solicitors.  Its website 
says any tenancy  agreement would be subject to assessment by the conveyancer. The front 
cover of the rental  agreement gives the date,  names  of the parties and says its a lease. So 
even if the adviser  did upload  it to TMWs system it seems unlikely TMW  would have 
reviewed it or been alerted to it being a guaranteed  rental agreement.
TMW says there was nothing about  Ms Bs application to prompt  it to check the tenancy 
agreement before making a mortgage offer at the end of November 2018. I dont think  its 
reasonable to say that the information  TMW received should have alerted it to a problem. So 
far as I can see, there was no indication there was a guaranteed  rental  agreement  in place. 
So I dont  think TMW was  or ought  reasonably to have been   aware of the guaranteed 
rental agreement when it issued a mortgage  offer at the end of November 2018.  
In early March 2019 TMWs solicitor raised  concerns about the rental  agreement. TMW  
referred the matter  internally, but didnt agree to change its decision not to lend.  The 
conditions of the mortgage offer allowed TMW to withdraw the offer,  and as it was outside its 
lending criteria I dont think it was unreasonable in doing so.
It was unfortunate  that it took until March  2019 before the problem with the tenancy 
agreement was identified.  Ms B is unhappy with the service provided  by the solicitors, but 
shell need to raise this with them.  
Im sorry  that Ms B incurred legal costs   which I understand  are mostly related to her lease 
extension. I do appreciate  that this has been  a stressful  experience.  But I dont think  I can 
fairly find that TMW made  an error  here. It acted on the basis  of the information it was given. 
When it was given new information about the tenancy agreement it acted promptly  to confirm 
it wouldnt lend.
Ref: DRN67901163my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6790116