K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Shawbrook Bank  Limited (Shawbrook) misrepresented a loan to him 
as he was told hed be able to pay it off early  with no charge but later discovered there were 
some.
background
Mr G took out a fixed sum point of sale loan with Shawbrook  in September 2016.  He says he 
was persuaded  to do so because when he asked whether  there were any early termination  
or redemption fees and was told by Shawbrooks representatives that there werent. He said 
they also explained that the sooner he paid off the agreement  the less hed pay overall.
So, in January 2018, when he came to settle the loan early he was disappointed with that he 
didnt understand  and he thought these were  early redemption charges. And he also thought  
the interest charges were  in excess of the 23% APR hed been quoted. 
He challenged  Shawbrook about this and they said the fees were clearly  explained  in the 
terms and conditions Mr G had been presented with. They said that if he didnt agree to 
these terms he could  have withdrawn from the agreement within the 14 day cooling  off 
period.
But Mr G was dissatisfied with their response  and he therefore referred his complaint  to this 
service and our investigator provided an opinion. She didnt think the loan had been mis-sold 
to Mr G. She explained thered been no early  settlement charge and she thought the two 
interest charges  Mr G had noted  had been  reasonably applied.  The first interest charge 
called interest on settlement was a partial  months interest, paid in arrears and calculated  
from the last interest  payment to the date of settlement (25 January 2018). The second  
charge was referred to as settlement interest and this was a charge she explained the 
business were entitled  to make in accordance with the Consumer Credit (Early Settlement) 
Regulations 2004.
She said that even  if the loan had been  misrepresented to Mr G he would have  had the 
same issue  with another loan. The same fees would be chargeable. And she went  on to 
explain that the balance hadnt reduced  significantly because in the early stages of the loan 
a greater proportion  of the payment goes  towards  interest. She explained that this proportion 
decreased as the capital sum diminished. So she couldnt see that Shawbrook had done 
anything wrong  or needed to take any further  action.
But Mr G still disagreed  and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. He insisted that 
he had been told thered  be no charges and he explained that whilst it was difficult  to provide 
evidence of this, his actions were  proof  of his intention  as he did settle the loan early.  He 
didnt agree with the investigator  that he would have faced the same issues  if hes financed  
elsewhere as he said there were  many options  available to him such  as a loan from family  or 
a flexible loan.  So he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Ref: DRN61416022Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr G says he was mis-sold his finance  agreement.  So I have to decide whether this was the 
case and if it was then Id also have to be persuaded that if Mr G was told the right 
information he wouldnt have continued  with the deal.
Mr G has explained that he cant prove  he was told there  wouldnt  be early termination  or 
redemption charges. He says his actions demonstrate this was the case but I dont think  it 
would be fair to suggest that Mr Gs early settlement is proof of his intention  to do so from 
the outset. 
There are other reasons a consumer would want to settle early  and I think  a more  likely 
reason would be to avoid  interest charges and here, as we have a credit agreement  that sets 
out the charges, I think theres more evidence to suggest the terms were explained correctly 
to Mr G than otherwise.
Mr G was given 14 days to consider the terms of the agreement  and to withdraw if, on 
reflection, he didnt want to be bound by them. I think  its reasonable to suggest that he 
wouldve considered  them as he has explained  he was keen to ensure there  were  no 
withdrawal costs. Having  read his submissions on this case, its clear he has a good  
understanding of the law and I therefore think its reasonable  to suggest he wouldve  wanted 
to read what he was agreeing to and not to simply rely on what  hed been  told.
So Im not persuaded that this agreement was misrepresented to Mr G. 
And regardless, I dont  think  there have been any early redemption or termination fees here.  
The additional charges Mr G has referred  to are interest payments. The interest on 
settlement was a sum I think  Mr G should have reasonably anticipated  as it was simply an 
interest charge  for part of the month  that was due because Mr G settled the account mid 
month. 
The settlement interest is allowable under the relevant legislation,  thats  detailed  in the 
background information above, and I therefore  think its reasonable for Shawbrook  to make 
that charge.
Mr G has clearly saved  himself some interest  by settling early. The total sum payable under 
the agreement  if it ran its term was £9,614.24 and Ive seen that as a result of the early 
settlement Mr G has paid just over £5,000. Ive reviewed the interest charges and they seem 
to have been reasonably  applied. I can see that the balance hadnt  reduced significantly 
because, as is usual, in the early stages  of the loan a greater  proportion  of the payment 
goes towards interest. 
So, on balance, I dont  think Shawbrook have  done  anything wrong here and Im not asking 
them to take any further action.
Ref: DRN61416023my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6141602