K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Vanquis  Bank  Limited wont refund disputed card transactions totalling 
more than £650, that he says he neither made  nor authorised.
background
Between 22 and 27 December  2017  Mr As Vanquis  credit card was used  to make eight 
payments that he says he didnt authorise. Three of those were  contactless payments, and 
Vanquis refunded  them  (no doubt because it was itself able to obtain  refunds from the 
merchants concerned). But the others  were,  Vanquis said,  made using Mr As genuine card 
and its associated PIN. Vanquis  said this indicated that it was more likely  than not Mr A who 
made them. It didnt  think  there was any other  reasonable explanation as to how someone  
acting without Mr As knowledge  or authority could have obtained both his card and PIN. It 
pointed out too that, both during and immediately after the disputed transactions, there had 
been successful  log-ins to Mr As account  using  the mobile app installed on his phone. 
Vanquis refused  to refund the transactions that Mr A was disputing and so he referred the 
matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He was however broadly 
in agreement with Vanquis and concluded that it was likely that Mr A had carried out the 
transactions himself.  Mr A asked that an ombudsman review the investigators findings.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons.
Vanquis has provided sufficient evidence to satisfy me that the payments were made using 
the genuine card and PIN. The PIN isnt recorded  on the card in an unencrypted format, and 
I think it unlikely that anyone could have guessed  it correctly. It also seems unlikely that 
someone saw him using  the PIN and then took his card, since  the last time he used it before 
the disputed transactions was two weeks earlier. I must consider therefore how someone  
else could have obtained both the card and PIN.    
Mr A has been unable to provide very much detail about the circumstances in which his card 
went missing.  He says his girlfriend would sometimes  have friends to visit when he wasnt at 
home, and that he didnt  always  take his Vanquis  card with him, but he couldnt definitely 
point to an occasion or event when the card went missing. 
When Mr A initially contacted Vanquis  about the payments, he said that he didnt have a 
record of his PIN; he used  the same PIN for all his cards.  But he later said that he might  
have kept the original  PIN notification and left it with, or near,  the card. Like the investigator, 
I think Mr As initial account of events  when he said he threw away the PIN notification  is 
more likely to be correct.  That being  so, there doesnt appear to have been  any realistic  
opportunity for someone to have  obtained both the card and PIN without Mr As authority. 
As Vanquis  noted,  its mobile app was used on several occasions at the time of the disputed  
transactions. Mr A says that he sometimes let friends borrow  his phone  and told them his 
passcode, which is the same  one he uses to access the Vanquis app; they might have been 
able to log in that way to find out how much  credit was left on the card. 
Ref: DRN62854512Whilst I cant completely rule out any of this, I think it unlikely that someone found  Mr As 
card when it wasnt with him, found  his PIN notification  (which he initially said he had thrown 
away) and managed  to use his phone and successfully access  the Vanquis app  all without 
him knowing. 
I should also mention  that all three  retailers involved were places where Mr A had spent 
money previously.  Thats not particularly significant  in my view;  but Mr A initially  said of one 
them that he didnt  recognise it at all. 
I think its more likely than not that Mr A made  the payments himself; in the circumstances, it 
wouldnt be fair to require Vanquis to refund them. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Vanquis Bank  Limited to do anything  more to resolve  
Mr As complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask 
Mr A to accept or reject my decision before 8 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6285451