K820x#14complaint
Mr Ts unhappy  that Tesco Personal Finance PLC applied  a fee when he used his credit  
card to repay the student loans company for an overpayment on his relatives grant He says 
he wasnt paying back borrowing and it shouldnt  have been treated as a cash  transaction. 
He says its a matter of principle and he wants the £13.18 fee refunded.
background
Tesco said in its final response that itd sent Mr T a variation of his accounts terms and 
conditions in April 2018. That set out changes to the types of transactions  it considered  to be 
cash transactions and their associated fees.  They included repaying  borrowing which  would 
incur a handling fee and accrue interest  in line with other cash  transactions. Itd applied its 
fees to this transaction correctly.
Our investigator felt that this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He said:
Mr T says the student loans company  shouldve  told him he might  be charged if he 
made the payment with his credit  card. But thats  something he needs to take up with 
that company.  And its not something  Tesco is responsible for.
Tesco sent Mr T information on cash transactions in April 2018. These say a cash 
handling fee will apply  to them. He says a grant  is money given to that person for a 
purpose. But repaying an overpayment  on a grant is settling a debt and therefore a 
cash transaction. So he cant say Tesco has applied  its fees in error.
Mr T doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.  In summary he doesnt accept 
this transaction  was settling a debt. He says he was repaying an overpayment on his 
relatives grant not on her separate maintenance or tuition fee loans. Grants and loans  are 
subject to separate processes with the student loans company.  Tesco has applied  a 
simplistic interpretation of this transaction which was described by the loans company as an 
overpayment balance not a debt. A grant  isnt a debt. He didnt use his credit card to repay 
borrowing and the grant didnt have  the components of a loan. It wasnt  repayable.  Tesco 
has acted unfairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr T has provided  detailed submissions to support his complaint. Ive read and considered 
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
Tesco defines a cash transaction in its terms and conditions as including repaying 
borrowing (e.g. loans and mortgages). And says they will attract  a handling fee. It also 
adequately brought this and changes to its terms and conditions to Mr Ts attention  in around 
April 2018. 
Mr A has made detailed submissions about  what constitutes a loan, what  a grant is and 
whether he was paying back borrowing.
Ref: DRN66178042I understand his frustration at whats happened. But I dont think Tesco  acted unreasonably 
by identifying a payment  to the student  loans company as a cash  transaction. 
Mr T has also said a grant is different to a loan.  That may well be the case. But I think  the 
simple fact is that whatever the status of the actual original grant, its clear that the grant 
overpayment made  to his relative had to be repaid at some point. Thats evidenced  by the 
letters received  from the student loan company. It may well be that the actual grant  itself 
wasnt repayable  but I think  any overpayment was. And until it was repaid his relative  had a 
debt and was in effect borrowing the money  from the student  loan company even though  it 
wasnt evidenced by a loan agreement or other formal  borrowing document. 
When I think that means is that when Mr T chose to repay the grant overpayment with his 
credit card he was repaying a debt and by extension  borrowing that his relative had incurred 
and was liable for. 
I think on balance that means Tesco acted reasonably by classing the credit card transaction 
as a repayment of borrowing and applying  its handling  fee and interest as it was deemed to 
be a cash transaction  in line with its terms and conditions.
I recognise Mr Ts strength  of feeling  and frustration. Even so I dont think  I can fairly or 
reasonably require Tesco to do anything differently or to refund any fees its applied  to this 
transaction, as he would like. And I dont  see a compelling reason to change the proposed  
outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019. 
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6617804