K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Unum Ltds decision to decline his claim under his employers 
group income protection insurance policy.
background
Mr B was a member of his employers group income  protection insurance policy,  held with 
Unum. The policy, after a deferred period of 26 weeks, would pay benefit  if Mr B were 
unable to perform his occupation  due to illness or injury.
In January 2018, Mr B stopped working due to reported depression. He remained off work 
and his employer  submitted  a claim under the policy.
In August  2018,  Unum declined the claim.  It acknowledged that Mr B was suffering from 
symptoms of depression  but it considered the evidence didnt suggest his condition  
prevented him from doing his job.
In September  2018, Mr B appealed against  Unums  decision. He provided  a letter  of support 
from his GP.
In November 2018, Unum  maintained its decision to decline the claim.
In December 2018, Mr B complained to Unum  about its decision. He pointed to all the 
stressors he was facing  in his life and said that the accumulation of these had caused his 
illness. His GP had, in the meantime, referred  him for a mental health assessment.
In April 2019, having seen the mental  health  assessors report, Unum issued its final 
response. It didnt uphold  Mr Bs complaint. It was satisfied that it had been  correct to decline  
his claim.
Mr B was unhappy at Unums decision. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. Based  on the 
medical evidence,  and particularly the opinion of the mental health assessor, she was 
satisfied that Unum had acted fairly  in declining  the claim.
Mr B didnt accept the investigators findings. He said that by the time he underwent the 
mental health assessment in December 2018,  he had already been off work for nearly a 
year. By April 2019, he had returned to work.  The assessment was therefore  undertaken 
when he was already on the road to recovery and didnt reflect his state of health throughout 
the majority of 2018. He said that his GP and his employers occupational health specialist 
had both previously  concluded that he was too ill to work and he thought  their views should 
carry the most weight.  He said he was able to return to work only when it was mutually  
agreed with his GP and employers occupational health specialist that his illness was in 
recession.   
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN60514422my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
To be entitled to benefit, Mr B needs  to show he was medically prevented from working  for at 
least 26 weeks from the time he first became absent. The relevant period is therefore from 
January to July 2018.
The evidence shows that Mr B has a history  of depression. He visited  his GP in January 
2018 complaining that he was struggling  once again with his depressive symptoms. His GP 
certified him as unfit to work and restarted him on medication.
Mr B continued to see his GP approximately once a month and though there was a slight  
improvement in his mood, he was still judged by the GP as unfit to work by the end of the 
deferred period.
Unums Company Medical Officer,  a former  consultant psychiatrist (who  Ill call Dr Z), 
reviewed the evidence. He noted  that Mr B had long-standing personal stressors  in his 
personal life, including concerns about  his son who was blind, and the physical and mental 
health of close  family  members including his wife, mother and mother-in-law. However, Dr Z 
thought it wasnt  clear why Mr B had stopped working when he did. He considered the 
evidence indicated that Mr B had poor coping strategies rather  than a disabling mental 
health condition.
I tend to agree with Dr Z. I recognise  that Mr Bs GP had the advantage of seeing  him on a 
regular basis. But I place  more weight on the opinion of Dr Z because he is better  qualified  in 
the area of mental health, which was the reason for Mr Bs absence  from work. Mr B was 
understandably finding things very difficult with everything which  was going on in his life, and 
I note that he told his GP this was affecting his concentration and motivation. But I agree 
with Dr Z that there isnt clear evidence that he was suffering from an illness  which 
functionally limited him to the extent he was unable  to work. I therefore think  it was fair for 
Unum initially to decline Mr Bs claim.
Mr B appealed and included  a letter of support from his GP. Dr Z wrote to Mr Bs GP to 
clarify some points. Having obtained this clarification, Dr Z still wasnt persuaded that Mr B 
was functionally prevented from working. And for similar reasons to those I have given 
above, I again tend to agree with Dr Z.
Mr B then underwent a mental health  assessment. The assessor concluded that Mr Bs 
mood was euthymic  and appeared  to be in response to his environment. She considered 
there were few biological  indicators to suggest  he had a clinical  depression.  She thought he 
would benefit  from cognitive behavioural thinking.
Dr Z considered that the assessors report confirmed that Mr B was not suffering  from mental  
illness but was experiencing  psychological  distress from the various  stressors  he was facing. 
He therefore remained of the opinion  that Mr B didnt  meet  the policys  eligibility criteria for 
benefit to be paid. I consider it was reasonable for Unum, based on this opinion,  to continue 
to decline the claim.
Ref: DRN60514423Mr B makes  the valid point that the mental  health  assessment didnt take place until 
December 2018  by which time he had been off work for nearly  a year.  It is true that his mood 
at the time of the assessment may have improved from how it was at the time of the deferred 
period. However,  I have  already explained  that I consider  it was fair for Unum to decline 
Mr Bs claim on the basis of the evidence which was earlier available.  I am therefore not 
relying on the assessors report to overturn previous evidence. Furthermore, there  was 
nothing in the assessors report to suggest  that Mr B had been suffering from a disabling  
mental illness earlier on in 2018.
Mr B refers  to his employers occupational health  specialist supporting his absence  from 
work but I cant see that he has provided this evidence either  to Unum or to us, though there  
is a report by Unums rehabilitation service who spoke with Mr B in July 2018.
In summary,  I sympathise with Mr B who clearly  has a number  of difficult and stressful 
matters to deal with in his life. I recognise  that he felt unable to cope with work for a period of 
time. However, I consider the evidence isnt sufficient to support that he was functionally  
prevented from working by a mental illness.  I therefore consider it was reasonable for Unum 
to decline his claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6051442