K820x#14complaint
Miss F has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FIC) mis-sold her a 
personal accident insurance  policy.
background
In 1999, Miss F was sold a personal  accident insurance policy by the local branch of her 
building society.  The policy was underwritten by FIC.
In 2010, Miss F cancelled  the policy.
In 2017, Miss F complained that the policy had been mis-sold. She said she had various  
employment benefits which meant  she hadnt  needed the policy and that shed only taken  it 
out because shed understood it was necessary to obtain a loan for which  shed been 
applying at the time.
FIC, which had agreed to take responsibility for the sale, failed to meaningfully reply to the 
complaint. Miss F therefore referred  the complaint to us. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should not be upheld.  She noted there was 
no evidence available  relating to the sales process. While she acknowledged  that Miss F at 
the time had certain employment benefits, including death in service benefit,  she didnt think  
these negated  the benefits  provided by the policy, which would pay a lump sum benefit  in 
the event of death or disablement due to an accidental injury.  She was furthermore satisfied 
the policy was a standalone product which  wasnt linked to any loan.
Miss F didnt accept the adjudicators findings. The matter has therefore  been passed to me 
for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
There is virtually  no evidence  available  concerning  this matter.  All FIC has been able to 
provide is a copy of the policy document and schedule, along  with confirmation of when the 
policy was cancelled. However, I dont necessarily find this lack of evidence  surprising given 
that Miss F didnt raise her complaint until 18 years after the sale of the policy and seven 
years after she had cancelled it.
The policy would have provided a lump sum benefit  if Miss F had been unfortunate enough 
to have suffered  an accidental injury resulting in one of the outcomes specified in the policy 
document. On the face of it, there  is no reason why such a policy should have been 
inherently unsuitable for Miss F.
Miss F says she had various benefits  through her employment. However, these benefits 
wouldnt disqualify her from receiving benefit  under the policy nor are they exact duplicates 
of the cover  provided  by the policy.
Ref: DRN65394372Miss F says she was led to believe it was necessary  to take out the policy  in order  to obtain 
a loan but beyond her testimony she has provided  no evidence  in support of this. The policy 
is clearly a standalone product and not linked to any loan.
It is unfortunate that FIC cant provide any more information relating to the point of sale.  
However, I dont think Miss F has demonstrated much other than she once took out the 
policy and later cancelled  it. I dont think this is enough to suggest that FIC did anything  
wrong. I cant therefore reasonably conclude that this policy  was mis-sold.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6539437