K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that because of a mistake  by HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC)  he was late 
making a mortgage  payment and that this caused  him concern and stress.
background
Mr H has held a mortgage with HSBC since 2005.
At the end of December 2018,  Mr H contacted HSBC to ask, amongst other  things, if he 
could make a £400 payment to his mortgage over the phone. The call handler  explained  to 
Mr H that there was a direct debit in place for just over £370 and that it was due to be paid 
on the next working day. Mr H asked if this was correct on several  occasions  and the call 
handler confirmed  it was. So Mr H didnt make the £400 payment. Later the same  day Mr H 
called HSBC again to check the information  about  the direct  debit was correct. Mr H was told 
in this call that the first call handler  had made a mistake and there  was no direct  debit in 
place. Mr H says that he was late making  his mortgage payment because  of the mistake the 
first call handler made and that this caused him concern  and distress. He complained to 
HSBC.
HSBC looked  into Mr Hs complaint and agreed that the first call handler  gave Mr H incorrect 
information about the direct debit. They apologised and paid Mr H £100  compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  this has caused  him. They  also arranged feedback for the 
first call handler.
Mr H wasnt satisfied with HSBCs response, saying that they dont understand the impact 
this has caused,  and so he referred  the matter  to us. One of our investigators looked into 
Mr Hs complaint. She thought that the apology and the offer of £100  compensation was a 
fair one. Mr H was unhappy with the outcome and so this case has been referred to me for a 
decision.
Ref: DRN62111122my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have listened  to both calls that Mr H made to HSBC. In the second  call HSBC confirmed 
that the information Mr H had been  given earlier that day about his mortgage, and there 
being a direct debit  in place, was wrong. Mr H told the second call handler  that he was 
frustrated and confused by what he had been told by the first call handler. The second  call 
handler apologised and explained to Mr H how this mistake might have happened.  The 
second call handler  then gave Mr H an opportunity to pay £400 to his mortgage over the 
phone. Mr H declined  to do this, he said that he was confused  and that he was going on 
what the first call handler had told him.
Im satisfied that Mr H had a good  understanding of his mortgage repayment arrangements.  
In the second  call he explained that hed paid his mortgage until February  2018 at which  
point hed agreed to set up a regular payment of £50 a month and then make additional 
payments over the phone  as and when  he could. That helps explain why Mr H called  HSBC  
back to check what hed been told because he knew, on reflection, or at the very least 
strongly suspected,  that what the first call handler  had told him was wrong. I accept that he 
may have  been  confused at the end of the first call. But, by the end of the second call, Im 
satisfied that any confusion had been  cleared  up. Mr H was told in good  clear language that 
there wasnt a direct  debit  in place, and that he could still pay his mortgage using another 
method by the due date. Im also satisfied  that the second call handler explained that the 
mortgage department would be open  on the next working day between 8am  6pm,  so he 
didnt have to wait a week to speak  to them as he has since  suggested. Taking all this into 
account, Im satisfied that HSBC had corrected their earlier mistake by the end of the second 
call. Mr H also had all the information he needed to pay his mortgage by the due date. 
Unfortunately Mr H didnt pay his mortgage  until February  2019  meaning HSBC charged  him 
additional interest and recorded  adverse information on his credit file. I havent seen any 
other explanation for this delay in paying the mortgage. In the circumstances I dont think  
HSBC acted unfairly charging Mr H additional  interest and recording adverse information.  So 
I wont be asking HSBC  to refund the interest or remove the adverse information.
Mr H has said hes been caused  concern  and stress. HSBC have apologised and paid Mr H 
£100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience they caused.  I accept that Mr H may 
have been confused as a result of the first call. However the second call handler cleared up 
any confusion within a few hours,  so the impact caused would  have been  very short  lived.  I 
dont think HSBS is responsible for the late payment and the impact that Mr H says this has 
had on him. In these  circumstances  I think the £100 paid by HSBC  is fair.
Ref: DRN62111123my final decision
I am aware  that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has paid £100  compensation  by way of an apology  and 
for the trouble and upset  that Mr H has been caused by all of this. My decision is that this 
was fair and reasonable in these  circumstances. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  3 November 2019.
Ray Norman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6211112