K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained about the service she received from British Gas Insurance  Limited (BG)  
when she had her central heating serviced.  Shes also complained  that BG is responsible for a 
gas leak from her gas fire.
References to BG includes its agents and associated companies.
background
Mrs H had a HomeCare policy with BG. This provided her with an annual  central heating 
service. On 15 February 2019 a BG engineer  came  to perform the annual service  on her 
central heating system.  BGs records show that as part of this, he set the pressure. He also 
undertook a safety check on her gas fire. His report  confirmed that this was All ok.
After the engineer left she says she went to switch  on the radiator in a bedroom. The radiator 
was on zero but was so hot that she says she scalded her hand. She rang BG and another 
engineer arrived  the next day (but BGs  records say this was on 20 February) and changed 
the radiator valve.  After hes left, Mrs H noticed  that the pressure (as stated on her boiler)  was 
very high.  The engineer  was completing his paperwork in the van and he returned  and drained  
some water. 
Mrs H then went out and while  she was out the central heating  switched on. She checked the 
boiler pressure and it was on the red section which requires an engineer call out. Another 
engineer came on 21 February  and reduced the pressure.
Mrs H complained to BG about its work quality, attitude and the multiple visits shed received. 
BG subsequently  offered Mrs H £150  compensation for the poor service shed received. 
Mrs H terminated her HomeCare policy with BG.
The following  month, on 4 April, Mrs H was woken up by the sound of her carbon monoxide 
alarm. She called emergency  gas engineers who said the situation was dangerous. The 
engineer checked the gas fire in Mrs Hs living room  and found it had a gas leak. He isolated 
the fire before disconnecting her gas supply. An engineer from another gas company 
instructed by Mrs Hs home  insurers also attended, checked the gas supply, and confirmed 
that there  was a gas leak from the fire.
Mrs H says she is primarily concerned about  the effect a gas leak has had on her health.  She 
says she hasnt been well since the fire was serviced and has suffered from headaches and 
breathing problems.
BG wrote to Mrs H on 1 June  with its response to her complaint to it. It said that when its 
engineer visited  on 5 April he tested the gas supply.  He didnt find any leak and suspected that 
her alarm had been  faulty.  An arrangement was made that BGs  service  manager and another 
engineer would attend the following week and Mrs H was asked if she could provide the 
paperwork that would have been provided by the emergency gas company and the other  
engineers who had attended on 4 April which would confirm  that a leak had been identified.  
BG then contacted  the emergency  gas engineers  direct for further information. Their  
engineers report  stated:
Ref: DRN63057772Disc meter outlet. CO alarm Fire sooty & has gas leak/boiler possible CO and Gas 
Fire leaking. I have  capped supply to fire understairs.
BGs engineer had also noticed some soot on the coals  of the fire but said this was common 
with flame effect fires.  
BG also contacted  the other  engineers  who had attended on 4 April.  Their report states:
 
Carried out checks found gas fire leaking so capped supply to fire off under stairs tested 
gas supply and now all sound left with boiler  wiring for heating  and hot water.
BG said that it was closing her complaint and if she wished to pursue it she should  contact  its 
claims team.
Mrs H wasnt satisfied at BGs handling  of her complaint and referred it to this service.  She 
says that this has been a very frightening experience for her and that the service she had 
received from BG had been negligent and very dangerous. She would like to be recompensed 
for the distress and worry it has caused her.
Our investigator didnt  consider that there  was any evidence that BG was responsible for the 
gas leak, but invited  Mrs H to provide any information  that she had that might  support this 
view. He also didnt  consider that the incident had caused inconvenience such as to justify 
compensation.
Mrs H doesnt accept  our investigators  view and has asked that her complaint be considered 
by an ombudsman. Its therefore been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mrs Hs complaint and Ill 
explain why.
Mrs H has complained about a number of matters.
Firstly, Mrs H has complained about  the level of service  she received from BG when it 
undertook her annual  service visit on 15 February  2019, in particular the multiple  visits needed. 
BG addressed her concerns and paid her £150  compensation.  I consider that was a fair and 
reasonable outcome in relation to that complaint and I dont  consider  that I should  ask BG to do 
any more in respect of this.
Secondly, Mrs H complained about the pricing  of her policy. This is not something that this 
service can address as complaints about  pricing  are not within the jurisdiction of this service.
Thirdly, Mrs H has complained about  the gas leak that was identified  in April 2019. She 
believes that BG is responsible for this. She maintains that she took out her insurance with BG 
for peace of mind,  but has lived with a gas leak whilst in poor health and is worried  about the 
effect this has had on her health.
Ive seen the reports from the visits of the two third party engineering companies who attended 
on 4 April in response  to Mrs Hs carbon monoxide alarm going off.  Both  of these identified 
Ref: DRN63057773that there  was a gas leak from Mrs Hs gas fire. But neither of them make any further 
comment that might identify how the leak occurred or when it occurred.
I think its reasonable to assume that Mrs Hs carbon monoxide alarm went off when gas was 
first detected. As theres no suggestion  that this occurred  at any time between 15 February  
and 4 April, theres  therefore no evidence of any leak occurring during this period. BG had 
inspected Mrs Hs gas fire on 15 February  and found it All ok.
When considering  any complaint  I have to take into account evidence  that supports the 
customers complaint, and what the business says by way of response, and then make a 
decision that is fair and reasonable. Whilst I fully appreciate the worry that Mrs H mustve 
experienced, there doesnt appear to be any evidence linking any work  that BG did or failed to 
do in February with the gas leak in April, some 7 weeks later.  And in the absence of any 
evidence of a gas leak until 4 April, I cant say that this is likely  to be the cause of any health 
problems that Mrs H experienced before  that date.  
So in the absence of any evidence of a connection between BGs visit in February and the gas 
leak in April, I cant say that BG has done anything  wrong in relation to this third complaint.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mrs Hs complaint  and Im not going to 
require British Gas Insurance Limited to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6305777