K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax  (Halifax) regarding  its 
refusal to refer a chargeback claim from late 2016. 
background
Mr R is a former customer of Halifax bank. 
In October  2016 and November 2016  Mr R made two payments to a third party company, 
called K. K promised  to provide services to Mr R. 
Mr R contacted Halifax in March 2017 regarding  a fraudulent transaction on his account. He 
then closed his account soon afterwards.
Mr R became aware of issues  regarding  the company K, and that it may not be providing the 
service he had bought,  but he was unwell around that time and was not able to address his 
concerns. 
Mr R contacted Halifax in November 2018  and requested that the two payments to K, for 
£100 and nearly  £2900 respectively, be refunded to him through the chargeback scheme.  
Halifax sent him its final response in November 2018. It set out that it was unable to initiate a 
chargeback claim as the payments were outside  of the time limits  set by VISA. 
Mr R was unhappy with that response and contacted us. 
One of our investigators  has looked  into this matter  and set out her view to the parties. This 
was that she did not think  that Halifax had acted wrongly since  he had requested the 
chargeback late and Halifax had no control  over the scheme rules.  She therefore  did not 
recommend that the complaint be upheld. 
Mr R was not happy with that view and asked for an ombudsman decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I very much sympathise with Mr R for his situation. He has paid a large amount of 
money for a service which he does not feel that he has received and understandably  thinks 
that he should be able to recover this somehow.  
He also feels that he wasnt directed  to the scheme rules and that he should have been 
made aware  earlier that there were  time limits.  
Halifax has said that it was not aware of any issue with these transactions until Mr R 
contacted them in November 2018,  by which time more than the 540 days (required as a 
maximum by VISAs  rules) had passed since the two transactions.
Mr R says that he contacted Halifax in March  2017  but was told that he was outside of 
VISAs 120 days limit at that time. 
Ref: DRN64647032Halifax has provided its notes of Mr Rs contact from March 2017  and these  relate to a 
smaller payment, which was disputed and later re-credited to Mr R. I have not seen evidence  
that the transactions from late 2016  were discussed  at that time.  It appears that the 
transactions were  first formally challenged in November 2018. 
Halifax has provided the scheme  rules which VISA apply to chargebacks. As the investigator 
set out Halifax  does not have control over these rules to vary the timescales,  even taking 
into account Mr Rs poor health  in 2017. 
Halifax was unable to initiate a chargeback in November 2018 as too much  time had passed 
since the transactions, and I do not criticise Halifax for this.
Mr R feels he should have  been advised  about  the time limits  when he was in contact  with 
Halifax in March 2017. 
As the investigator  set out in her view, the time frames  for chargebacks  are complicated and 
differ depending  on the type of dispute  and the type of transaction.  We would not expect 
businesses to advise  customers about  the different timescales unless a specific dispute was 
raised. 
As set out above, there is no record  of Mr R contacting Halifax  about  the late October 
transactions prior to November 2018, by which time he was outside of the scheme time 
limits. I therefore cannot see evidence  to suggest that Halifax  should have discussed  time 
limits with him at an earlier point.  
Whilst I realise that this will be very disappointing  to Mr R, I agree with the investigators view 
and do not think  that business  has done  anything wrong. As a result I do not uphold Mr Rs 
complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mr Rs complaint  and do not ask 
Bank of Scotland Plc to do anything further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 March 2019.
Laura Garvin-Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6464703