K820x#14complaint
Mr W says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  with a new credit 
card he got from Barclays Bank  UK PLC in 1995.
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr W 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W said he cant remember  much  about the sale but thinks  it was all done through  the 
post. He also said he recalls something being  set out about the PPI, but it was portrayed as 
something you needed to have with the card. Mr W feels he wasnt given a choice.
I dont doubt this is Mr Ws genuine  recollection now.  But these events are from around 24 
years ago and its obviously possible he simply doesnt remember what  happened. I can 
also see Barclays said originally that it thought  the sale probably took place  in one of its 
branches. But in the light of what Mr W says, Barclays  now accepts that its possible the 
sale was indeed made through the post. The company representing  Mr W asked  why this 
apparent discrepancy  had occurred, but as Ive said, I dont  think  its unreasonable that 
Barclays cant say for sure what happened  after such a long time. And businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely. 
Nevertheless, Barclays still had a copy of Mr Ws original application form. It says the form 
has characteristics of both a postal and branch sale from that particular time period, hence  
the initial confusion. But I dont think the sale type really matters  to the case because  I can 
see quite clearly that the application form did give Mr W a choice. There  was a section on it 
about Payment  Protection with what I consider to be two clear and obvious options for him 
to choose between. 
Mr W appears to have  ticked the first option which said Yes, I want my Barclaycard 
account to be covered  against unemployment,  accident, sickness  and death. There was 
also a no box which was equally as prominent  which Mr W didnt tick. He then went  on to 
sign the application form.
So I think its clear he agreed to the policy, even if he doesnt remember  this now. He would 
have also been  able to see he didnt need to have the PPI if he didnt want it. My finding is 
therefore that Barclays properly obtained Mr Ws consent for the PPI.
Looking at the form, I agree with Mr W that this was probably a postal application and 
therefore not an advised sale. So Barclays didnt need to make sure the policy was suitable 
for him. It only needed  to provide him with enough  information to make an informed decision.
Ref: DRN62096332I can certainly see some ways in which the postal application form could have been set out 
more clearly, but it did make it clear  the policy came  with a cost. My experience is also that 
these types of postal  forms came  as part of a wider  leaflet which contained  some  information 
about what the PPI did.
But even if I accept Barclays could  and should have done more, Im afraid this doesnt  
change what I think. This is because  I think the evidence strongly shows the PPI was 
something Mr W wanted to have. He was also eligible for the cover  and not caught by any 
of the main exclusions we tend to see in these types  of policy.  The cost of the policy was 
around 69p per £100 of the outstanding monthly  balance on the credit  card.  In my 
experience this is broadly comparable with other PPI policies being sold then and I dont 
think hed have found these charges unaffordable.
Looking at the work he did, I agree  Mr W may have had some sickness  protection  with his 
job and that it also may have been quite generous. But this doesnt  mean  the cover wasnt of 
value to him. The PPI he bought would have paid out 10% of his outstanding  credit card 
balance for up to a year if hed needed to claim.  This wouldve been in addition  to any other  
means he had at that time. So I think this policy was of use.
So, the decision about buying the cover was for Mr W to make and he would have made  his 
way through the postal form without any intervention from Barclays. As such, I think  he 
would have been able to take his time to think about  what he wanted to do. 
I cant say that Barclays did everything right. But the evidence Ive seen shows he was given 
a choice and I think he made an informed decision about what he wanted to do. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold so Barclays Bank UK PLC doesnt have to pay anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6209633