K820x#14complaint
Miss T complained that Group 1 Automotive  UK Limited mis-sold her a tyre insurance policy.
background
Miss T bought a car tyre insurance policy when she got a new a car. She said she later 
found out that she couldnt claim under the policy. She complained  to Group 1, saying  that 
Group 1 had mis-sold her the policy, that it was of no use to her and that it was poor value.  
She wanted them to provide her with a replacement tyre or refund her insurance premium  
with interest added. But Group 1 didnt  agree  so she brought  her complaint to us. She was 
represented by a claims management  company. 
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  She thought  that 
Group 1 hadnt  acted  unfairly. Miss T didnt agree and so the case has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Miss T bought  a car from a garage she also bought tyre insurance and some other 
optional extras. She said that the sales adviser told her that the tyre insurance  policy  
covered accidental damage  replacement to a maximum value of £200 per tyre. But when 
she wanted to try to claim for a damaged tyre, she found out that she couldnt.  This was 
because her policy excluded a claim for any tyre with a tread  depth  of less than 2mm, and 
hers was 1.6mm. She said she hadnt realised this. 
She also complained  that, because the cost of a new replacement  tyre was more  then £200, 
her policy wouldnt have  covered the cost of a replacement tyre even if her tyres  tread  depth  
had meet the policy criteria. She said that the adviser  didnt discuss  with her either  the 
policys tyre claim limit nor the price of a new tyre from the manufacturer. She had assumed 
that the policy would cover  good  quality tyres, so she felt that the policy wasnt  suitable  for 
her needs.
Group 1 said as follows. When Miss T bought her policy the sales adviser was acting as 
Group 1s agent.  Miss T agreed to the policy terms and conditions, the tyre tread depth 
exclusion was clear  from the policy, and she could have chosen a higher insured amount 
than £200 from the range  of claim limits  Group  1 had said they had available.  Theyd  sent 
her the policy  documents and she had 30 days to read them and if the policy  wasnt  suitable 
for her she could have  cancelled the policy and got a premium  refund, but she hadnt done  
that.
Miss T accepted that the adviser gave her a Duty of Care" document to sign and explained 
to her that it confirmed that she understood all that theyd discussed.  But she said that didnt 
matter because she wasnt given  the policy terms of conditions at that time, nor did she see 
any documents detailing the policy exclusions, and the adviser  didnt tell her about them. 
Ref: DRN65604702I see that on 6 September 2017 Miss T signed  a declaration that her personal Statement of 
Demands and Needs had been explained to her. It said that she understood that the tyre 
cover was optional. I think that she should have been aware of the purpose of the policy 
because she answered questions in her needs  questionnaire about costs arising from 
malicious and accidental damage  to tyres  and acknowledged shed had such costs  before. 
Ive also seen a copy of the Duty of Care document that she signed on 14 September 2017.  I 
see that it included  the policy limitations  on cover and she signed it to confirm multiple 
statements, including that shed read the policy terms and conditions. In the WHAT IS NOT 
COVERED section of the policy on page  7 it says:
"Any claim where at the time of damage the Tyre tread depth  is less than 2mm across the 
width of the Tyre". 
I think this is clear. And Miss T doesnt dispute that her tyres tread was less than 2mm. 
She says that the adviser didnt tell her about the different levels  of tyre cover available,  but 
told her that it would cover a new tyre. The adjudicator hadnt been  able to prove or disprove 
what was said. But Group 1 say that tyre prices  can change  theres  nothing  to show that a 
new tyre would  definitely  have  cost more than £200  at the time of sale.  And the product 
document pack does  say Miss Ts tyre limit is £200 and that there  is a range from £100-
£650, so she should have  seen  that. Further, if her tyre had met the tread  threshold  and she 
wanted a tyre costing  more than £200, she could have  claimed  under her policy  and Group 1 
would still have paid her up to that amount, and shed only have had to cover the excess. So 
I cant say that the policy wasnt  suitable  at all.
Miss Ts representative suggested that Miss Ts declarations are irrelevant because  Group  1 
didnt give her the policy conditions at the time or tell her what they were. But Group  1 have 
said that they emailed  the product document pack to her on 6 September  and Ive no reason 
to disbelieve  this. The policy  document gives a policyholder the right to cancel their policy  
within 30 days of receiving it. So Miss T still had the chance to read the documents more 
thoroughly afterwards and she could have  cancelled the policy  within the 30 days  if she 
thought that it wasnt suitable or shed  changed her mind, but she didnt cancel. 
So I think that overall Miss T had the opportunity  to understand the policys benefits and 
limitations and to cancel  it if she wished. So I dont  think that Group 1 have done anything  
wrong here and I dont  require them to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive discussed above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6560470