K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs M say Bank  of Scotland Plc mis-sold  them the PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ms circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits, limitations and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise  
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I havent  set out that detailed  
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think BoS made it clear that Mr and Mrs M didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. Ill explain why. 
The PPI was arranged  during a meeting. BoS isnt able to provide any paperwork from 
the time of sale - this is unfortunate, but unsurprising for a sale that took place from so 
long ago. So Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ms comments alongside what  we know in 
general about how BoS sold PPI at the time to decide whats  more likely  to have 
happened. Based on what  I know about  how BoS sold PPI I wouldve  expected  a 
discussion with the advisor to involve a decision about the level of cover  and to set up 
the policy. In Mr and Mrs Ms case it was decided the policy  would cover Mr M, the main 
earner, only. The policy was also taken out many years after Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage 
which began in 1991. I think this shows Mr and Mrs M knew  they could have their 
mortgage without  the PPI.
Ref: DRN64837302I also think its likely Mr and Mrs M wouldve had to complete some  paperwork at the 
time, and this is likely  to have reflected the discussions  they had at the time.  Taking  
everything into account, I think its more likely that Mr and Mrs M knew  the policy  was 
optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. And the evidence about  Mr Ms circumstances at the time, shows  that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. For example Mr M was eligible  for the 
cover and although they had existing means they still seem to have had a need for 
cover. I say this as Mr M was the main earner, and although  he wouldve received some 
employee benefits, the policy  wouldve  provided cover for up to 24 months for accident, 
sickness or unemployment. 
 
There was nothing  about Mr Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for him to claim. Although Mr M says he had medical conditions when the PPI 
was taken out, it seems  the policy wouldnt have excluded these pre-existing conditions. 
This means I dont  think it was wrong  for BoS to have  recommended it. 
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs M as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information they were  given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  declined the cover  had BoS done anything  more.
While  the policy contained limitations on claims relating  to back and mental health 
conditions, in light of Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale and despite its 
limitations, the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. So I think they 
would have still thought they had some good  reasons to take the policy  out.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs M would have still taken out PPI. I think the policy could  
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has raised a number  of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant BoS should  have  disclosed the poor value and 
explained the significance of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
But Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has not said how these  points apply to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ms particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
Ref: DRN64837303reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means  BoS doesnt  have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint   so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 September 2021.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6483730