K821x#15complaint
Mr W says that Elevate Credit International Limited  (trading as Sunny), lent to him 
irresponsibly.
background
Sunny approved 7 instalment loans for Mr W between May 2018 and November 2018. Mr W 
said that he was in financial difficulty and borrowing from other lenders. Mr W was unable  to 
repay what he had borrowed and loans 4 to 7 have an outstanding balance.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint and thought that Sunny  shouldnt have continued to 
lend to Mr W from loan 4 onwards as he was reliant on this type of credit and essentially using 
the loans to supplement his income.  The adjudicator  thought  that by this point Sunny should 
have realised that further borrowing wasnt sustainable. Our adjudicator  recommended  that 
Sunny put things  right for Mr W by refunding all interest and charges incurred on loans 4 to 7.
 
Sunny reviewed the complaint and offered to write  off the outstanding  balance. Mr W didnt 
accept this offer and the complaint was passed to me to decide.
Whilst the complaint  was waiting for an ombudsman  to be allocated  Sunny  reviewed  the 
complaint again  and as a gesture of goodwill it agreed to refund all of the interest and 
charges incurred on loans 4 to 7 and write off the outstanding balance as it had previously 
offered to do.
The adjudicator contacted  Mr Ws representative and set out that this offer was fair and 
reasonable and more  than she was asking it to do. Mr W didnt reply to his representative 
and so the complaint was passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website.
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr W could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure.
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that Sunny 
should fairly and reasonably have done more to establish that any lending  was sustainable 
for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a customers  income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income);
Ref: DRN65733472the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Sunny  was required to establish whether 
Mr W could sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines sustainable as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow
to meet  the repayments.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
consumer wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ws complaint. 
Sunny has told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr W. It asked  Mr W for details of 
his income and normal expenditure. And Sunny carried out checks  on Mr Ws credit file.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Sunny to give Mr W loans 1 to 4 on the 
basis of the information he gave about  his income  and outgoings.  It was early in the lending  
relationship and so I think  the checks were enough  for Sunny to agree to lend. Mr W has 
said he was in difficulty and borrowing from other  lenders but he didnt make this clear to 
Sunny and what I consider to be proportionate  checks at this point wouldnt have revealed 
this. I dont doubt that Mr W was in difficulty but I think it was reasonable to rely on what Mr 
W said about his income and outgoings at this stage.
The information in Mr Ws credit search  didnt suggest he was in difficulty. I dont doubt what  
Mr W says but the information  that is available to a lender is not the same and may not be as 
up to date or have  all of the accounts  available. So I dont think that Sunny was wrong to 
lend Mr W loans 1 to 4.  
Sunny has agreed  to refund  all interest and charges incurred on loans 4 to 7 and to remove 
the entries from Mr Ws credit file which is in line with what I would have  asked it to do. So I 
dont think I need  to say any more about  these loans. 
So Im upholding  Mr Ws complaint about loans 4 to 7. I note that there is an outstanding 
balance on Mr Ws account. Sunny has agreed to write off this outstanding balance which 
goes further than I would ask it to do. I think that this is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Ref: DRN65733473If Sunny has sold the outstanding debts it should buy these back  if it is able to do so and 
then take the following steps. If it is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise  with 
the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined below. 
A) Add together the total of the repayments made by Mr W towards interest, 
fees and charges on all upheld  loans  without an outstanding balance,  not including  anything 
it has already refunded.
 
B) Calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments  made by Mr W 
which were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr W originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.  
C) Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld  outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had been repayments  of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Mr W having made overpayments then 
Sunny should  refund  these overpayments  with 8% simple interest* calculated on the 
overpayments, from the date the overpayments would have arisen, to the date the complaint 
is settled. Sunny should then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move to step 
E. 
D) If there is still an outstanding balance then the amounts calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus 
then the surplus  should be paid to Mr W. However  if there is still an outstanding balance 
then Sunny should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr W.
 
E) Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr W credit file in relation to loans 4 and 5. 
The overall pattern  of Mr W borrowing for loans 6 and 7 means  any information recorded 
about them  is adverse, so Sunny  should  remove these loans entirely from Mr Ws credit file. 
If Sunny has sold any of the loans it should ask the debt purchaser to do the same.  Sunny 
does not have to remove  any outstanding loans from Mr Ws credit  file until these have been 
repaid, but it should still remove any adverse information recorded  about these loans
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint in part and direct Elevate Credit
International Limited (trading as Sunny) to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6573347