K820x#14complaint 
Mr R has complained about Tradewise Insurance Company  Limiteds handling of his motor 
trade road risks insurance policy.
background
Mr R and his business partner own a motor trade business where they buy and sell cars. 
Their policy  with Tradewise renewed  in December  2016. One of their cars was stolen on 
28 April 2017, after Mr R showed  it to a prospective  buyer. He claimed on the policy. 
Tradewise investigated  and said that Mr R didnt live at the policy  address, but lived at 
another address (the other  address)  he hadnt  declared. They  said that during  their 
investigation Mr R made false statements. Tradewise  didnt  pay the claim and voided the 
policy, which means they ended it as though it never came into effect. Tradewise refunded 
the premium for the policy year and they paid Mr R £150 compensation for the time it took 
them to make their decision.
Mr R didnt agree with the decision  so he complained. But Tradewise didnt change their 
decision. Mr R didn't think that was fair so he brought his complaint  to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint.  He felt that Tradewises decision was reasonable. As 
Mr R didnt agree with our investigator, the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr R, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr R has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered  all those  
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Tradewise have dealt with Mr R in a fair and reasonable way.
Mr Rs policy  says:
If the Insured, their Senior Management or anyone  acting on their behalf  makes 
any claim, statement  or otherwise which is false or fraudulent, as regards amount or 
otherwise, or produce any documentation  which is false  or proven to be stolen,  this 
Insurance shall become void and all claims hereunder shall be forfeited and premium  
retained.
During their investigation, Mr R told Tradewise that he lived at the policy  address and that he 
occasionally visited the other address where his parents lived.  Mr Rs business partner also 
gave written confirmation saying Mr R lived with him at the policy address.
In reaching their decision, Tradewise relied on the following:
The car was stolen from outside  the other address. During  his interaction with the 
police, Mr R repeatedly made  reference to the other address being his home  
address.
The bank  statement Mr R provided,  to evidence the payment towards the purchase  
of the stolen car, had the other address on it.
Ref: DRN63125012A lot of the transactions seen on Mr Rs bank statement were made around the area 
of the other address and their frequency suggested he was there more often than he 
said he was.
Two cars registered  to who is believed to be Mr Rs wife were registered at the other  
address.
A council  tax bill provided to Tradewise to support Mr Rs claim that he lived at the 
policy address with his business  partner was only in the partners  name. It also stated  
that the partner  received a 25% single occupancy discount suggesting that only 
Mr Rs business partner lived there.
All three  claims  Mr R had made on the policy either happened around the area of the 
other property or while travelling there.
Mr R provided  our service with his driving licence, a number of sales  receipts, business 
accounts information and a bank  statement all of which had his name with the policy  address 
on them.  Given the policy address was also the business address, I dont find it unusual  that 
sales receipts and business  accounts  had the policy address on them. The bank statement 
Mr R provided  with the policy address on it was from 2015  and, like his other bank 
statement, showed a lot of transactions that took place in the area of the other address. 
Although Mr Rs driving licence did have the policy address on it, given all the other 
information considered by Tradewise, I think their decision to not pay the claim and void the 
policy on the basis that Mr R made  a false statement was reasonable.
Mr R has asked for a refund of his premiums  for the two years he was insured by Tradewise. 
The terms and conditions  say that where  the policy is voided, Tradewise dont have to refund 
the premium, so I dont  think Tradewise  had to make a refund. But Tradewise did refund 
Mr R the premium for the second year of cover, which I think  is reasonable.
Finally, Mr R said he felt that Tradewise hadnt  given him the opportunity to put his side of 
things forward. But in a letter  to him in October 2017, Tradewise said it would be useful if 
you could provide me with any evidence you have that would show  the voidance  was 
incorrect. And in their letter in December 2017, Tradewise said unless you have any 
other information for me to consider. So I think Tradewise  gave  Mr R the opportunity  to 
provide any information he wanted  to.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
 
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6312501