K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a mortgage  in 2001. He also complains that the 
amount YBS paid to him in compensation for the unfair commission  was incorrect.
  
background
Mr B took out a mortgage in 2001.  At the same time he took out PPI. He later took out a 
further advance  in 2006 but there was no change to his policy. The PPI was free for the first 
six months and it then cost Mr B £12.08  per month  and would have provided a monthly  
benefit of £250 if Mr B was off work sick or if he lost his job.
The first adjudicator who looked at Mr Bs complaint said that he didnt think  the PPI had 
been mis-sold. But he told Mr B that there was something else he wanted to look into about  
the commission paid on his PPI policy.
Later our adjudicator  told Mr B that as YBS got a high level of commission from the PPI and 
as YBS didnt tell Mr B about that  it had offered  to refund any commission  that was more 
than half the cost of the policy and that was fair.
Mr B then received an offer from YBS for the sum of £67 for the high level of commission. 
Unhappy with this amount  from YBS he asked  for his complaint about the mis- sale together 
with the complaint about the level of compensation to be looked at by an ombudsman.  So 
the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken that into account  in deciding 
this case.
Ive first of all looked at Mr Bs complaint about  the mis-sale of the PPI. Having done that, 
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.  
Mr B says he thought  taking the PPI was part of getting the mortgage. YBS needed to give 
Mr B a fair choice about buying the PPI. So Ive thought  about  what hes said.
YBS has provided a copy of the completed  mortgage application form which  Mr B signed 
and dated. On it theres a section with the heading  Important Insurance  Information. This 
part of the form says you must consider  how you would pay your mortgage if you become 
unemployed, sick or had an accident and therefore could not work... it goes onto ask 
whether Mr B would  like more information  on the YBSs  policy or not. This part has been 
ticked to show that Mr B wanted more information about the PPI. So from this application 
form I think Mr B would have realised that he didnt have to take out the policy  if he didnt  
want it. And while the form states it is a condition of the mortgage that the property is 
adequately insured, nowhere does it state that the PPI was a condition of the mortgage.
I can also see Mr B had to complete a separate application form for the PPI on which he 
selected the required benefit  amount and the level of cover.  Mr B has also signed  and dated  
this form. And YBS sent Mr B a mortgage offer letter which  sets out Mr Bs choice about  the 
Ref: DRN67569952PPI and about it being free for the first six months,  after which it would cost £12.08. As Mr B 
was taking on a new financial  commitment I think he likely read all the forms he was signing 
and knew he was choosing the PPI knowing he could have declined  it if he didnt want it.
I cant see a tailored recommendation was made for the PPI. So I dont think YBS advised  
Mr B to take out the PPI. That meant that it didnt need to check if it was right for Mr Bs 
circumstances. But it still did need to give Mr B enough clear information so he could decide 
for himself whether or not he wanted  the policy.
Mr B says he doesnt recall anything  being explained about the PPI. Thats understandable 
as the sale took place  such a long time ago. And its possible not all the information  was as 
clear as it could have been.  But thats not enough  to uphold Mr Bs complaint about the sale 
of the PPI. I next need to think  whether or not if Mr B had been given clearer  or better 
information he would have changed  his mind. I cant say he would have done.
I say this because  Mr B was eligible for the policy and more information would have shown 
him that as he was working and hes told us he was in good  health he wouldnt  have  been  
affected by any of the main limitations  and exclusions which could have made  it harder to 
make a claim.
And at the time he took out his mortgage  and the PPI theres  nothing  to make me think it 
was unaffordable for Mr B.
Mr B says he could have received help from his family and his employer paid him sick pay of 
around six months or more but less than 12 months.  But YBS didnt need to check  his 
circumstances as it didnt  advise him to buy the PPI. Ive still thought  about his other means  
but this policy would  have paid out in addition to any sick pay he got and more  likely for 
longer than his full sick pay would have lasted. And help from parents  wouldnt have 
necessarily been  guaranteed as and when Mr B needed it. Mr B was taking on a mortgage 
and the consequences of being unable to repay it were serious. So I think the PPI would 
have been useful if things went wrong and I dont think  he would have been put off buying it 
even if hed been given more or better information.
Which means YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr B because: 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr B about that. Because  YBS didnt tell Mr B, that was 
unfair.
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case. Mr B complains that the amount that YBS offered to paid back to him for the high 
level of commission and profit  share wasnt right. But Ive thought  about this and to work 
out the compensation, YBS has taken into account any amounts over 50% of the 
premiums Mr B paid for the PPI and from what weve seen YBS has calculated  this 
amount fairly. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said - including what theyve said about  his later 
financial difficulty and the PPI being a contributing  factor  to this. But these  points dont 
change my decision. The PPI was only a small part of his monthly mortgage repayment so I 
Ref: DRN67569953dont think this cost could be attributable to his financial difficulties. And the cover  could  have 
helped if things went wrong and might  have come in useful.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr B any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% 
of the PPI premium.  YBS should also pay back to Mr B any extra  interest he paid because  of 
that.
If it hasnt  done  so already, YBS should  pay back to Mr B the extra he paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS 
should also pay Mr B 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr B can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr B.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr B any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt done so already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6756995