K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  which Mr R says 
Lloyds Bank  Plc mis-sold to him with a credit card account he took out in 1998. 
background
Our adjudicator who looked at this case said the complaint about the PPI being mis-sold 
shouldnt be upheld. However, Mr R has already  been paid some  money  for the commission 
Lloyds received from selling him the PPI.
Mr R still thinks  he was mis-sold the PPI in the first place and has therefore  asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs mis-sale complaint.
Mr R says he wasnt told the PPI was optional. But this is obviously now some 20 years ago 
and I dont think Mr R is right. Although Im sure he now genuinely believes he was mis-sold 
this cover,  we were  sent a copy  of his original credit  card application  form from 1998  and 
there was a section  on this entitled  Optional Features. Underneath this there  was an 
opportunity to either select PPI with the new card, or to leave this part blank. I can see Mr R 
selected the PPI and then signed  the form.
The history  of his card account isnt particularly clear due to how long ago all this was. But it 
looks like Mr Rs card was upgraded or otherwise  changed over the following years, most 
probably, for example, in 2001. Its not clear  if Mr R filled out another form but I think he 
would have gone through a similar  process  at that time if he had. Lloyds doesnt have an 
original copy of the actual document used  in this sale, but it sent me an example of the type 
of credit card application form it was using in 2001.  This corresponds with others  Ive seen 
and I think that once again  Mr R would have  had an option to either  have or reject  the PPI.
So these things show me that PPI was something  Mr R probably  wanted to have. Referring 
back to the original 1998 application weve got a copy of, I think  hed have been  easily  able 
to see from the wording that the PPI cover  was optional and not something he needed to buy 
if he didnt want to. In short, I think its more likely Lloyds properly obtained Mr Rs consent.
Lloyds says it would have probably  recommended the PPI cover so this means it was under 
an obligation  to make sure it was suitable for Mr Rs situation. I looked at Mr Rs age, job, 
health and general circumstances to help me decide about this. 
I think that Mr R was eligible for the PPI and I dont think he would have been caught  by any 
of the major exclusions we tend to see in these  policies.  We also now know the cost was 
around £0.79 per £100 of the outstanding  monthly balance on Mr Rs card.  Ive seen  nothing  
that suggests Mr R would have found  these monthly charges unaffordable.
Ref: DRN60829482Mr R says he already had sickness protection with his job from that time,  implying  he didnt 
need the cover. I understand his point, but Im afraid this doesnt  mean  the policy wasnt  
suitable. In the event  of a successful claim for example, Mr R wouldve been able to have his 
outstanding balance reduced by 10% each month for up to 12 months. These  benefits  were 
accessible in addition  to any other  means he already had in place at the time. 
Taking all these things  into account,  I think the cover was probably  suitable for him.
Lloyds also had to give Mr R clear  information.  I cant confirm he was told everything he 
shouldve been  told. But for me to uphold this complaint, Id need to think it was more  likely 
that Mr R was told he had to have the PPI or there  were other serious flaws in the way the 
policy was sold. I simply dont  have  that evidence. On balance, I think he was given a choice 
and he agreed  to the policy. I also think  he would  have  been given some documents 
explaining how the cover  worked.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all the costs  of the PPI. But Lloyds has 
already paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr R because when the policy  was sold, it 
expected to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - it should have  told Mr R about  that. Because  Lloyds didnt,  that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has already  paid back the amount of commission  and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr R.
But Lloyds Bank Plc has already paid him for the commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6082948