K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained about esure Insurance Limiteds handling  of her car insurance  
policy.
Reference to esure includes  their agents.
background
Miss Ws car was insured with esure. In November 2018, she had an accident with another  
vehicle. Damage was caused to the front right hand side of her car. She claimed on her 
policy. esure got one of their approved repairers (AR) to repair the car.
Miss W complained that some of the damage  caused by the accident wasnt repaired to an 
acceptable standard. She also said that some new damage unrelated  to the accident  was 
caused while her car was with the AR.
esure didnt  uphold Miss Ws complaint. They said all the accident  related damage had been 
repaired to an acceptable standard and that no further damage was caused while  the car 
was with their AR. esure said the car had some  pre-existing  damage and signs of previous 
poor repairs. Miss W brought her complaint to our service.  One of our investigators looked 
into it. He felt that esure had dealt with Miss W fairly.  As Miss W didnt agree with our 
investigator, the complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Miss W, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Miss Ws points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus on what I 
consider to be the key outstanding issues. 
An engineer  from esures  AR and an in-house  esure  engineer have both given their opinions 
in response to the concerns raised  by Miss W. Both have said that the repairs  have been  
correctly carried out. They have also explained  that there is some pre-existing damage and 
poorly done previous repairs. The engineers  are considered to be experts  and we give 
weight to their professional opinions. Both esure and our investigator told Miss W that she 
could instruct her own engineer to give their professional opinion and to respond  to what 
esure have  said. But Miss W didnt do that. As a result,  were  left with the opinions  of two 
engineers who support  esures position. Given the absence of a counter view from an 
engineer, I think esure were reasonable in in deciding that Miss Ws car had been repaired 
correctly and that no further damage  had been  caused.
Other than the concerns  with the repairs to the bodywork, Miss W said the cars start stop 
feature stopped working after it was repaired.  She also said a wheel alignment hadnt been 
done. The engineering evidence from esure said that the start stop feature wasnt damaged  
as a result  of the accident or because of anything the AR did. esure also confirmed a wheel 
alignment was carried  out following the repairs and Ive seen that a wheel alignment  test was 
factored into the estimate when they assessed the car. Miss W hasnt provided any 
engineering evidence to say the issue with the start stop feature was accident related or that 
a wheel alignment wasnt done.
Ref: DRN63357602my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020. 
Mehmet Osman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6335760