K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained because Barclays Bank UK PLC refused to consider his mortgage 
application, because  of the country where  hes resident. 
Mr M would like to obtain the mortgage, or be refunded  for the advance  hed already paid for 
the property he bought.  He also wants compensation.
background
Mr M, who lives abroad, had an international account with Barclays. He wanted  to buy a 
property in the UK. He asked Barclays on a number  of occasions whether the bank would 
consider a mortgage application, and the bank said he could use its mortgage  service. In an 
email in November  2017,  Barclays said that its mortgage service allowed him to buy property 
in the UK. The email  gave further outline information  including the minimum and maximum 
amount of borrowing, minimum deposit,  and minimum income.  It set out that for buy to let 
properties, the main  criterion would be affordability,  and said Mr M would  need  to have an 
offer accepted before the bank could start a mortgage application.
Mr M went ahead  and bought a property in the UK. 
In autumn 2018,  Mr M approached Barclays  for a mortgage. But by then its policy had 
changed about the countries from which it would accept applications. Barclays  said Mr M 
wasnt eligible, because of the country where  he was resident. 
Mr M complained. He said one of the reasons hed opened a Barclays  account was that he 
wanted mortgage assistance, and hed said this when opening the account. He said hed 
been repeatedly  assured by phone  and email that he was entitled to the mortgage service,  
and that hed receive an offer after hed bought  the property. He said that Barclays refusal 
had disturbed all his plans and had considerably increased his business risk.
Barclays final response letter said at the time when Mr M had enquired  about  mortgages, 
the advice hed been given had been correct.  But this had changed and the country where 
Mr M was resident was no longer one which was on Barclays  list. Barclays  also said that 
even though Mr M had been told the bank  could offer him a mortgage,  it wouldnt  have  been  
guaranteed without meeting all the criteria  and completing a full mortgage application. 
Barclays apologised,  but said it was a bank policy decision.
Mr M wasnt satisfied  and complained to this service. He said hed been surprised and 
disappointed when  hed been  told there had been  a change  in bank policy  and he was no 
longer eligible because of the country  where he was resident. Mr M said he needed to be 
able to obtain the mortgage, or get back the money  hed paid for the property, plus 
reasonable compensation.
The adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Ms complaint. He said that he could see that Barclays had 
confirmed in November  2017 that Mr M would be eligible to apply for a mortgage, based on 
the banks criteria and policy  at the time. He thought it was reasonable for the bank to decide 
if and when to change these. The change hadnt  been made with any one individual  in mind,  
but had been a business decision.
The adjudicator also said that even if Mr M had submitted a mortgage application, Barclays  
wasnt obliged to lend until it had produced a mortgage offer.  So the bank wasnt  responsible 
for Mr Ms decision  to go ahead with his property purchase before having a mortgage offer.
Ref: DRN69839822Mr M wasnt satisfied.  He said it would have been appropriate for Barclays to have informed  
its international wealth clients  about  the sudden change.  He said hed have expected the 
bank to have made  a simple change on its website, telling readers that mortgages were 
limited to those who were resident in certain  countries. He said the international wealth 
customer couldnt make future  plans  if the rules could be change  abruptly, without regard  to 
what Barclays had previously advised. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that Mr M was disappointed and frustrated to find that Barclays  had 
changed its policy about lending to non-residents in the UK. But the bank was entitled to 
change its lending criteria.  And it didnt have  to give notice, and such policies do often 
change suddenly. 
I appreciate that Barclays had told Mr M on a number of occasions that it was willing to 
consider a mortgage application from him. But the November 2017 email was general in 
nature. It set out general criteria for lending, and said Mr M would need to have an offer 
accepted before we can start a mortgage  application. This wasnt  authorisation of a 
specific mortgage on a specific property  so there was nothing guaranteed.  I recognise that 
would have been frustrating for Mr M to think that if hed applied when he bought the 
property, hed have  been applying before the banks policy change.  But it was Mr Ms 
decision to go ahead  with his purchase  before getting a mortgage offer.
I recognise that Mr M feels Barclays should  have told him that its policy had changed, on the 
grounds that hed previously made  a mortgage enquiry. I understand why he feels  this way, 
but banks dont have to tell all customers about every policy change  what matters  is what 
the policies and criteria  are at the time of application. And even if Barclays had notified  Mr B 
when it no longer accepted applications from residents of his country,  it would have been too 
late for Mr M to have started an application.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr M to accept or reject  my decision before 
20 June 2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6983982