K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited mis-sold him a store card 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from September 2019, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was considering  upholding Mr Hs 
complaint. I invited both parties to provide any further submissions they may wish to make 
before I reached a final decision. No substantive responses were submitted.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither of the parties has provided  any 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
It follows that I uphold  Mr Hs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint. Financial Insurance Company Limited  
should pay compensation to Mr H as detailed in my provisional decision below.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68758292COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr H has complained that Financial Insurance Company  Limited mis-sold  him a store card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility  for the sale of such policies.  To keep things simple, Ill 
therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mr H took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store card in a shop in 2002.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr H disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  and so the 
complaint has been passed  to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
Payment Protection Insurance on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  to uphold  Mr Hs complaint  and Ill explain why.
Mr H says that he didnt know he had PPI and that it was added without his knowledge  or consent.  
Ive seen a copy of the application form. There is a separate  section for PPI and Mr H has signed in 
that section  to request  the policy.  Mr H says he just signed where he was told to. Ive thought  very 
carefully about what Mr H has said but, on balance, I dont have enough  evidence  to conclude that he 
wasnt given a choice about having the PPI. The sale was a long time ago and so it wouldnt be 
surprising if Mr Hs memory of events has faded. Overall I think that Mr H probably decided  to buy the 
PPI, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers doing so.
FICL didnt advise Mr H to buy the PPI, so it didnt  need to ensure that it met his needs. But it did 
need to provide Mr H with enough information for him to be able to make an informed choice about  
whether or not the policy  was right for him.
Looking again at the application form, there is no mention of what the policy premium is, so I dont 
think that Mr H would  have known what the cost was. The application form also doesnt provide any 
summary of the policys benefits or point him to where  he could find out about them. So I dont think  
that FICL provided all of the information that it should have at the point that Mr H made the decision  to 
buy the policy.
Often, because of peoples circumstances, this wouldnt have made a difference  because  they 
would have bought the policy anyway, even  if they had been given all of the appropriate  information. 
But in this case, I think  that more information would have made a difference to Mr H. This is because  
Mr H was in receipt of a pension from a previous employer (and he has provided evidence of this). 
Therefore, even if he had been unable to work, he would still have received his pension income.  So, if 
Mr H had understood the costs and benefits of the policy, I dont think  he would have taken  it out, 
because he wouldnt  have seen it as good value  for money in his circumstances.
It follows that my current  decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
putting things  right
Ref: DRN68758293FICL should put Mr H in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A. FICL should find out how much  Mr H wouldve owed when he closed his store card account  if the 
policy hadnt been added.
So, it should remove the PPI premiums  added, as well as any interest charged on those  
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as 
well as any interest added to those charges. 
FICL should then refund the difference between what Mr H owed when  he closed his account  
and what he wouldve  owed if he hadnt had PPI.
If Mr H made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what he got for the claim 
from the amount  it owes him.  
B. FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr H wouldve owed when he 
closed his account from when he closed  it until he gets the refund. The interest rate should be 
8% a year.
C. If  when  FICL  works out what Mr H wouldve owed  each month without PPI  Mr H paid more  
than enough to clear his balance,  FICL should also pay simple interest on the extra  Mr H paid. 
And it should carry on paying interest until the point when Mr H wouldve  owed FICL something 
on his store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D. FICL should tell Mr H what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr H a 
certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my provisional  decision
My current decision is that I uphold Mr Hs complaint and require Financial Insurance Company 
Limited to pay compensation as detailed  above.
Carole Clark
ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN6875829