K820x#14Complaint
Ms B is unhappy with Barclays  Bank  UK PLC and its decision not to refund her after she was 
the victim of a scam. 
Background
Ms B says an unauthorised payment occurred on her account and she was contacted,  
initially by text message,  by Barclays. As a result  of this her bank account card was 
cancelled and a new card issued. 
For the next two days Ms B says she received  text messages to say transactions  had been 
attempted on her account. She then received a call from someone pretending to be from 
Barclays, telling her she needed to keep her money  safe as a result of this fraudulent  
activity. She says the call came from the same  number  printed on the back  of her card, so 
believed she was talking  to Barclays. It now appears the number  was spoofed to look like 
Barclays number. Ms B had actually  been  called by scammers impersonating Barclays,  who 
convinced her to transfer money from her account. 
Ms B was told a new account would be set up in her name and she would need to move her 
money to that account. Ms B says she didnt provide the caller with any personal information, 
but the caller knew some  information about her and her account details. 
Ms B credited her account,  with funds from her savings account and then followed the 
instructions given by the caller. She set up a new payee and transferred a total of £2,000  
from her current  account in two separate payments of £1,000  each, using mobile banking. 
Ms B says was asked to transfer  further  amounts but she sensed something wasnt  right and 
said she would prefer to go into the branch to discuss the issues.  She ended  the call. Ms B 
says she then called Barclays and was told she had been the victim of a scam.
Ms B believes Barclays are responsible and should  refund her losses for the following  
reasons:
-the recipient  account name  didnt  match the payee name she provided,  so she 
believes the payment  shouldnt  have  been  processed by Barclays;
-she believes she took care when making the transfers;
-she has questioned  how Barclays number was spoofed and if someone at Barclays 
had access to her information;  and
-after these events  Barclays sent her information on how to avoid  scams,  Ms B 
believes this should have been provided prior to the incident   if it had she wouldnt 
have been scammed.
Barclays didnt uphold  Ms Bs complaint. In summary  it concluded: 
-Barclays staff would never ask consumers  to make transfers or withdrawals to 
protect their money;
-only the sort code  and account  number are checked when making a bank transfer 
and it is the responsibility of the customer to check these  are correct;
-during its investigation  Barclays contacted the recipient bank to see if any funds 
could be recovered  but discovered  no funds remained in the recipient account;  and
-it took longer  to respond to Ms Bs complaint than it said it would, so it credited  her 
account with £100.
Ref: DRN63536292Unhappy with Barclays final response Ms B brought her complaint to our service. One of our 
investigators considered  the complaint. She concluded: 
-whilst  Ms B had been the victim of a sophisticated scam  the starting position here 
was that Ms B had authorised the transactions and so Barclays  had a duty to follow  
those instructions in line with the mandate on the account;
-she went on to consider whether Barclays ought to have intervened with the payment 
- having  reviewed Ms Bs savings and current account statements  she didnt think  
there was anything unusual or suspicious about  the scam payments to suggest 
Barclays ought to have stopped them;
-the money was removed from the recipient account within  minutes so Barclays  
actions in attempting to recover Ms Bs funds had no impact on Ms Bs losses; 
-the compensation awarded was fair in the circumstances;  and
-that Barclays didnt  need to check the account  name when processing the payment.
Ms B disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the investigator for the same reasons she set out in her findings,  Ill explain 
why.
Im sorry  to hear Ms B has been  the victim  of a scam and has lost this money. I know  this 
cant have been  easy for her, either financially or emotionally. But Im not upholding her 
complaint as I think Barclays has acted fairly and reasonably throughout. I dont believe 
theres anything more it ought  to have done.
The regulations most  relevant to this case are the Payments  Service Regulations 2017 
(PSRs). Its the PSRs that set out when a customer and when  a bank is responsible  for 
transactions on an account.  
The transactions and Barclays actions
A customer will normally be responsible for any transactions they authorise.  Here,  theres no 
dispute Ms B authorised  the transactions herself.  She set up the new payee from her current  
account and transferred two amounts of £1,000, funded by credits from her savings account.
I know Ms B was caught  up in a scam at this time and so she was not acting as she might 
normally. The sophistication of the scam or how much care Ms B took before making the 
payments isnt relevant to matter of authorisation. So all of that doesnt  change the position 
on her having authorised  the transactions or her liability for doing so. 
There are some situations where we might expect  a bank to question  transactions if they are 
particularly unusual for a customer. The bank didnt ask Ms B about  the transactions whilst 
they were taking place  and I dont think it ought  to have  done. The investigator  set out the 
reasons for this clearly in her findings and I agree with her on those points. Overall, I dont 
find there was such unusual activity  in terms of the amount or frequency  of payments  
that meant  Barclays ought to have been  on notice something wasnt  right and intervened 
with the payments.
Ref: DRN63536293The account  name
Ms B has said she believes the account  name  ought  to have been checked. And the fact the 
payee name didnt  match  the beneficiary  account  holders  name  ought to have been picked 
up by Barclays when  the payment was made. As the investigator explained, when this 
payment was made there  was no requirement on Barclays to check  the account name. Even  
as part of Barclays duty of care to its customers and in exercising skill and care, Im not 
persuaded this creates an obligation  on Barclays to check the account name before 
executing a payment.  The PSRs set out what a payment service provider needs to do when 
executing a payment  where  the payment is executed in accordance with the unique 
identifiers the payment order is deemed  to have been correctly  executed . The account 
name is not a unique  identifier and therefore  Barclays isnt responsible if this doesnt  match  
when executing a payment.  
Warnings
Ive not looked into whether Barclays had shared scam information or warnings with Ms B 
prior to the scam. Its possible it did. Most banks regularly share information about scams in 
different forms with customers. Its impossible for me to now say whether any information  
prior to the scam would  have made  a difference.  But in any event, I dont think in this 
instance Barclays are responsible for her losses  for this reason.
Recovery of the funds
Banks have a responsibility to help customers when they report  that theyve been victim to a 
scam. They should try to recover  the customers funds by getting in touch with the receiving 
bank and they should do so quickly, for the best chance of recovery.
In this case, Barclays appears to have contacted the receiving bank a few days after the 
scam was reported. I consider that to be too long. The relevant industry  guidance says 
contact should  be made  immediately.  There isnt a specific timeframe given, but I dont 
consider Barclays actions here could be considered immediate. Barclays  should have 
contacted the receiving  bank sooner. However, this doesnt lead to a finding that Barclays 
ought to now refund,  because of the delay.
Thats because the receiving bank have confirmed  that the money  was removed from the 
account within the same minute that each  transaction  credited the account.  And so, even if 
Barclays had contacted the receiving  bank within a reasonable  timeframe  of the scam being 
reported, there wouldnt have been funds left to recover.
My final decision
As set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2020.
Sophia Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6353629