K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about his home insurer QIC Europe Ltd because it declined his claim 
for damage  caused  to his roof by a storm.
background
There was a named  storm in the area of Mr Hs property in September 2018. Mr H noted 
some slates  on his roof had become  displaced and contacted a roofing company. After 
inspecting the roof an estimate was provided  which confirmed the slates,  located  on one 
side of the roof only, had lifted due to high winds.  A price for repair was provided  (£480 
including VAT), but also a cost for replacing the whole roof.
In October  2018 Mr H became aware  that this damage was something  he could claim for. He 
contacted QIC. It sent an assessor to Mr Hs home. The assessor  looked  at the roof, 
determined it was old and, therefore,  likely suffering nail fatigue. The claim was declined.  
QIC issued a final response to Mr H. In it it pointed  to its policy wording  for storm cover:
We will cover loss or damage  caused by storm winds of Force  10 [60 mph]  or above (as 
defined under the internationally recognised  Beaufort Scale).
QIC said that the weather in the weeks before  Mr H notified it of the damage hadnt included  
any storm conditions  winds had reached a maximum of 48mph and rain isnt a factor  for 
the cover  it provides.  It also concluded  that the slates  had slipped due to nail fatigue which 
the weather had merely  highlighted and pointed out that damage related to maintenance 
issues is excluded. Mr H complained to this service.  
Our investigator noted that there had been a major  named storm in the area of Mr Hs 
property just a couple  of days before the beginning of the period over which QIC had 
checked the weather data. He noted  winds in Mr Hs location had reached  66 mph. He didnt 
think QIC had done enough to show Mr Hs roof was suffering from nail fatigue  and 
concluded it had unfairly declined the claim. He said QIC should, if Mr H had carried out 
work on the roof, reimburse  the repair cost, plus interest.
QIC accepted its photo evidence  didnt  support  a conclusion that the roof was suffering  from 
nail fatigue but said this was the expert opinion of its surveyor and that this was a common  
problem with roofs constructed  like Mr Hs. It said the roofer  had recommended  replacing  the 
roof and this was also indicative of it having  reached  the end of its life. Furthermore, the 
neighbours roof appeared newer and hadnt  suffered  in the storm which  meant it was likely 
the age of Mr Hs roof that was the real cause  of the damage. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
QICs policy wording in respect of storm is significant and unusual, in my view. Most policies 
cover all storm related damage. And it is also at odds with this services  long held approach 
as to what constitutes a storm. But, in this case, the damage is wind related and there was, 
around the time and at the location  in question, weather  severe enough, even under QICs 
adopted definition,  to constitute a storm.
Ref: DRN61512852Mr H was a little tardy in notifying QIC of what had happened, but I accept what  he says; that 
he didnt realise  he could claim until speaking to other people.  And he had acted following 
noting the damage, as evidenced by his roofers estimate. QIC says he told it something 
different when he called it and when  he spoke to its surveyor.  But QIC hasnt provided 
evidence in this respect  and notably it didnt seek to rely on such  an argument  when it 
initially considered  and declined the claim.  In fact it was satisfied to consider weather 
conditions for a number  of weeks in the run up to the claim notification,  and in doing so only 
missed the storm conditions by a few days.    
Its quite common during storms for tiles/slates to be displaced.  And this can happen as a 
result of wind speeds far less than occurred during the major storm that affected Mr Hs area 
in September  last year. 
QIC has raised various points in trying to support its view that the dominant cause to the roof 
wasnt the storm. Im not persuaded by what it has said. Many roofs of the age and 
construction of Mr Hs may well suffer from nail fatigue. But that doesnt  mean  Mr Hs roof 
was. And the estimate from his roofer doesnt  evidence that replacing the roof was 
recommended, it merely  gave this as an option. Mr H did then decide to replace his roof but 
he accepts it was old and he seemingly felt it was time to do this, rather than risk age related 
problems starting to occur. I think thats a reasonable response. Mr Hs neighbours roof 
didnt suffer damage in the storm but there are many reasons why that might be; it doesnt 
automatically and/or most likely mean  its because Mr Hs roof had generally failed. 
In contrast, I note that the damage which actually occurred was fairly limited and only 
occurred on one side of the roof. Mr Hs roofer did feel able to give an estimate for repair  of 
the damage only. And he concluded the damage  had resulted from the high winds, not from 
a general failure  of the nails securing the slates.   
On balance, I find that Im more  persuaded by Mr Hs evidence  than by what QIC has said.  It 
is my view that QICs decline  of Mr Hs claim was unfair and unreasonable. Therefore, Im 
satisfied that its fair and reasonable  to require QIC to pay Mr H the estimated repair cost, 
less the policy excess, plus interest.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require QIC Europe Ltd to pay Mr H £480, less the policy  excess, 
plus interest from the date he paid his roofer for work  done  and until settlement is made.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
* Interest is at a rate of 8% simple  per year and paid on the amounts specified and from/to  the dates stated.  If QIC Europe Ltd 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr H, it should tell him 
how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate  showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6151285