K821x#15complaint
The estate  of Mr W complains that Close Asset Management Limited (CAML) didnt manage 
its Close Inheritance Tax Service (CITS) appropriately as it left some of the money in cash 
for too long, thereby not removing it from the estate for Inheritance Tax (IHT) purposes. 
The complaint has been brought by the late Mr Ws son (Ill refer to him as Mr Y), who is 
representing the estate.
background
In 2016 the late Mr W received advice from another financial  adviser  (IFA) to invest  around 
£250,000 in the CITS in order to reduce the estates  potential  for IHT. CAML established the 
portfolio in April 2016, and began  investing  in qualifying companies in May. By 3 July 2016 
approximately 60% of the portfolio was invested in line with the CITS, going up to 75% in 
September and 98% in November 2016   leaving a small  amount of cash to cover fees. 
In September  2018, Mr W passed  away. His son and executor  of the estate, Mr Y, took over 
in order to understand what  was in the portfolio  which might fall outside the estate  for IHT 
purposes. The IFA notified CAML of Mr Ws passing  and a few days  letter  sent it a copy  of 
Mr Ws death certificate. 
In October  2018 Mr Y complained, on behalf  of the estate, to CAML. He listed  four main 
areas of complaint:
Despite being  promptly  notified of Mr Ws passing, it took CAML a number of weeks 
before it sent Mr Y instructions on what to do next.  And these instructions were both 
unclear and in error.  And it took a further few weeks before Mr Ys instructions were 
acted upon  these being to sell the relevant shares. 
While  managing Mr Ws portfolio, CAML kept too much cash  over £36,000  which  
reduced its effectiveness for IHT purposes. Given the sole reason for Mr W to have 
invested in this particular portfolio was mitigating IHT for his estate, and his age, was 
negligent bordering  on reckless.  
It took too long (6 months) to invest the cash in Mr Ws portfolio at the outset. This 
was inappropriate  given that it would take a further  two years before these assets 
would be considered outside  Mr Ws estate for IHT purposes   and considering  that 
at the time of the investment, Mr W was already 91. 
The various reports produced on Mr Ws investments were  inconsistent or had 
different values  this took time and effort to reconcile and showed that CAMLs 
administration processes were insufficient for purpose.
Mr Y requested immediate action  and compensation for each of the complaints he made.  
CAML looked  into Mr Ys complaint, but didnt  think it had done anything  wrong.  In summary:
It didnt agree that it took too long to act on Mr Ys instructions  it explained  that it 
only received instructions  to encash  the portfolio on 21 September, following which  it 
explained to the IFA what  documentation  it required. This was only received in 
October  the encashment took place one business day after receiving the final 
document required (a Deed of Indemnity). 
Ref: DRN61382402CAML explained  that the market for the types  of investments which provided certain 
tax incentives,  including IHT mitigation, wasnt a static market.  Investment selections 
were made having regard to the risk profile of the individual  companies,  and their 
ability to qualify for tax relief. Holdings could be sold at any point  when it ceased  to 
qualify for the relevant tax relief. It said that in Mr Ws case, there had been delays to 
achieving the two year qualification  period  due to takeovers and sales of investments 
that were overweight in portfolios or had not performed to plan. As a result  of the 
sales of certain holdings, the cash  balance in Mr Ws portfolio was higher than 
normal. 
It didnt agree it took long to invest as it did so within the six months it quoted  in its 
brochure.
The reports it produced werent  intended to be relied on without additional scrutiny  
and CAML didnt  provide  tax advice so the information it provided shouldnt  be 
treated as such. It also said that whilst there  may have been a discrepancy  between 
the various valuations  that Mr Y had produced and those produced  by CAML, this 
could also have  been down to the holdings having  different price  points  so what  Mr 
Y saw online wasnt  always the real price. 
Mr Y remained unhappy  and, on behalf  of Mr Ws estate, brought  this complaint to this 
service. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint.  She didnt think  CAML  had done anything 
wrong. In summary,  she said:
CAML made it clear in the product documentation  that the time money spent 
uninvested wouldnt qualify toward  the two year period in order to bring it outside of 
the estate. And she thought the documentation  was also clear  that once investments 
were sold,  it could  take up to six months for the money to be re-invested. 
While the portfolios aim was to invest in companies that would qualify for tax relief, 
CAML also had three other objectives  it tried to achieve. These were to preserve 
capital, to potentially  generate capital  growth and to provide diversification from 
company, sector  and geographic risk. So the investigator concluded that it was 
reasonable for CAML to make  investment  decisions by keeping all these factors in 
mind. 
She was satisfied that CAMLs investment decisions required due diligence on 
companies to ensure  they were viable. This included considering whether the 
benefits of investing  in a certain  company, or retaining an investment for its tax 
benefits, were outweighed  by the potential risks involved. 
CAML had explained  to her the reasons why certain investments were  sold, and why 
took a little longer to reinvest  the money in the portfolio. The investigator considered 
the explanation reasonable, and in line with how they explained the product would 
work. 
She didnt  consider  the fact that Mr W was of an advanced age meant that CAML 
had to automatically take a different approach   and they had explained that they 
hadnt been told there were issues with his health such that a different approach 
should have been  taken  in managing  the portfolio. 
She thought CAML  had acted swiftly and fairly once they had been notified of Mr Ws 
death, and had gone over and above by drawing up a deed of indemnity. She didnt 
consider it wouldve  been right for CAML to encash the investment once they were  
notified of Mr Ws passing without receiving specific instructions   as those 
investments couldve  been  passed  to a spouse  or civil partner and the qualifying  
period wouldve remained intact. 
Ref: DRN61382403She agreed that there was an error in the report provided from CAML which caused 
the estate inconvenience  she recommended a payment of £150. She didnt think 
the £1,000 requested by Mr Y was fair and reasonable.  
Mr Y didnt agree with the investigator. In short, he said:
CAML were paid to continually look and see out new and better investments, so they 
should have had a pipeline of potential new shares even if they felt that there  was 
enough risk across existing investments not to take more on.  
It was inaccurate for CAML to say they werent  informed of Mr Ws health issues  
and in any event,  given his advanced  age, they ought to have reasonably  assumed  
that his life expectancy might be limited. CAML  had a duty to ensure that the product 
attained the best possible performance, and it didnt do so. Neither Mr Y nor his late 
father were ever told that cash balance might be held for long periods of time. 
Ultimately, CAML  were clearly aware that the only reason Mr W had agreed  to invest 
in the product was for the potential IHT benefits  and given his advanced age, it was 
clear that ensuring the money  was invested  as quickly as possible was paramount. 
CAMLs process  following Mr Ws passing  caused a financial loss to the estate.  No 
other financial institution had waited for the death certificate, or probate,  before 
providing the estates  representatives with full instructions  of what documentation  
was required and what the alternatives were.  
Before passing  the complaint to me to decide, the investigator asked the business to 
comment on the points  Mr Y made to her. It said:
our investment process  is prescriptive and consistently applied.  In seeking to preserve  
capital, we seek out shares that we feel are undervalued. At certain points in market  cycles, 
the pool of available shares that we feel are undervalued can reduce. The high valuations  
ascribed to a large number of AIM companies in early 2018 (when the market  was trading at 
a 10 year high) meant  that the availability of new and better investment was limited. 
It said that the only record we have of any meeting between  [Mr Y] and [CAML]  employee is 
a meeting held with our Director of Investment Specialists on 2 September  2016. The 
purpose of the meeting was to go through the first valuation pack. The only follow  up from 
the meeting is a request  for both [Mr Y] and [his adviser] to be set up to view the valuations 
online. There is no record of anyone at [CAML] being informed  of any health  issues  or 
concerns about  the cash position prior to [Mr Ws] death. 
It also explained that investments are made in tranches at a group level, rather than on an 
individual basis and so an individuals age wouldnt be an influence on the investment 
decision process, as CAMLs  strategy was focused  on achieving  solid risk adjusted 
investment returns over time. 
It explained that it was the financial advisers  responsibility to assess the suitability of the 
product for the clients situation, which ought  to include a consideration of their health and 
age. 
CAML explained  the while it did send reports directly  to clients and their personal 
representatives, the service it provided was only available  through qualified financial 
advisers who ensure  the product is suitable  for clients on an ongoing basis.  It said that 
following the death of a client, our primary point of contact becomes  the executor/s or their 
appointed representatives. It said that in this case,  CAML received permissions to discuss  
the account with the financial advisers on 12 September   this was the same  as day as it 
Ref: DRN61382404received the death certificate. From  that point  onwards it only dealt with the adviser as the 
primary point of contact. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should start by saying  that I have no doubt that the matter has caused  Mr Y a significant 
amount of stress and inconvenience, and I completely sympathise with some  of the points 
he has made. I understand  why he was disappointed that his father had been paying CAML  
to manage a portfolio only for it not realise all the tax benefits  it was intended to because  
some of the money  had remained uninvested for too long. 
But I think the investigator has thoroughly and comprehensively explained how CAML  make 
their investment decisions.  Whilst I appreciate  why Mr Y considers  CAML ought to have  had 
a pipeline of new shares to invest in, this doesnt  take into account the fact that CAML 
would always have  to assess a company before deciding to invest client money  into it. This 
process would  necessarily involve a financial  analysis which, if done in advance,  might  
change by the time CAML was ready to invest.  As Im sure Mr Y can appreciate,  the viability 
of these investments  as well as the reasons which may make them an attractive investment 
proposition will change  over time.  
And I consider the explanation CAML has provided for why certain assets were sold and 
why, on occasion,  it may have taken a bit longer to invest, to be reasonable. Especially given 
that whilst  maximising the tax efficiency of the portfolio was clearly key to the proposition  as 
a whole, it was never  going to be the only driver  of investment decisions.  It was important for 
CAML to invest in companies which it had reason to believe had a reasonable prospect of 
succeeding, and therefore would have  a better  change of at least  preserving the capital 
invested. 
Im also satisfied this is clearly explained  in the product brochures and factsheets. For 
example in the section investment timings, the terms and conditions  of the service clearly 
explain that:
Our team always try to time the purchase  of any new investments to secure the best price 
and the greatest advantage for investors.  Depending on market  conditions and other factors  
this process may take up to six months.
I accept Mr Ys point about his fathers age  but here too Im sorry to disappoint him, I agree  
with the investigators  conclusions.  
Im satisfied CAML didnt hold itself out as providing  a bespoke service   it wouldnt have 
been possible for it to make investment decisions  purely based on Mr Ws age or personal 
circumstances. Its clear  from all the documentation  that investments are made  at group 
level  not individual. In any event, even  though  I appreciate why Mr Y would consider Mr 
Ws age a reason to invest the money  more  quickly, Im not persuaded this would override 
the need to carry  out a sound  analysis of prospective investments  and it wouldnt have  any 
bearing on whether  wider  market conditions meant it was sensible to invest  at a given point  
in time. 
Ref: DRN61382405Ultimately, Im satisfied by the explanations  CAML  has provided for why on occasion  it took 
longer to invest. And Im persuaded  by the evidence  Ive seen  that it invested in line with its 
terms and brochure.  
In relation to the process CAML followed after Mr Ws passing,  I have little to add to what  the 
investigator has already  said.  I appreciate why Mr Y found the process distressing and time 
consuming, and I can see there  was clearly a misunderstanding initially about what  was 
required. But I dont  consider it wouldve been right for CAML to simply go ahead and 
encash the whole portfolio without receiving  clear instructions. Im satisfied that once  CAML  
received the information it required,  it acted  promptly and without delay.   
However, I can understand why the inconsistent  information in the various reports  caused  
the estate inconvenience and was time consuming  to resolve. So I agree with the 
investigators conclusion  that £150  is fair and reasonable compensation for that 
inconvenience. 
my final decision
My final decision is that the £150 Close Asset Management Limited has offered as 
compensation for the reporting error  is fair and reasonable.  It should  pay this to the estate of 
Mr W within 28 days of when we tell it Mr Y, on behalf of the estate, has accepted  this 
decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 January 2020.
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6138240