K821x#15complaint
The Executors of the late Mr R on behalf  of his estate and the late Mrs Rs estate 
(the Executors)  complain that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy in connection with a business overdraft.
background
In 1996 the late Mr and Mrs R applied for a business  overdraft with Lloyds.  At the same  time 
they were sold PPI to cover their overdraft repayments if Mr R was unable  to work due to 
accident or sickness.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think  Lloyds had 
made the costs  of the policy clear enough.  In particular he didnt think it was made clear that 
Mr and Mrs R would  have to pay PPI premiums even when their account was not overdrawn.
Lloyds disagreed. So this complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold this complaint.
When selling  the policy Lloyds needed  to make sure the late Mr and Mrs R were given 
enough information about the policy to decide whether it was right for them. That information  
had to be clear, fair and not misleading.
I think an important feature of the policy was that Mr and Mrs R wouldve had to pay the PPI 
premiums even if their account wasnt overdrawn.  
Lloyds says that they wouldve been given product information at the time of the sale and the 
costs of the insurance wouldve been explained by its adviser. But Lloyds havent  been able 
to confirm how the policy was sold. So I cant say how this information was given to Mr and 
Mrs R or that its likely this information  was made  clear to them before they agreed  to take 
the policy.
So the question  I have to ask is whether Mr and Mrs R wouldve acted  differently  if theyd  
been given more or better information.  I think they wouldve. I think  it wouldve  been  
important for Mr and Mrs R to keep their costs  down as they were running  their own 
business. I dont  think they wouldve wanted  to pay for a policy to protect an overdraft when 
they werent using  it.
And Lloyds  havent  given  us any information to show that the late Mr and Mrs Rs business 
account was consistently in overdraft  or that they thought  at the time they took out this 
overdraft this was going  to be the case. 
Ref: DRN69548082So I think if Lloyds had given better  information  about the premiums being payable  even 
when not in overdraft, the late Mr and Mrs R wouldnt have agreed to take the policy.  
So it follows  that Mr and Mrs R lost out as a result  of Lloyds failings. 
what Lloyds should do to put things  right
Lloyds should  put the Estates of Mr and Mrs R in the financial position theyd be in now if 
they hadnt taken out PPI.
A.Lloyds should find out how much the late Mr and Mrs R would have owed when they 
closed their overdraft  account if the policy hadnt  been added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Lloyds should  then refund  the difference between  what the late Mr and Mrs R owed 
when they closed their account and what they would have owed if they hadnt had PPI.
If the late Mr R made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Lloyds can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
B.Lloyds should add simple interest  on the difference between  what the late Mr and Mrs R 
would have owed when  they closed  their account  from when they closed it until they get 
the refund. The interest  rate should  be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from 
then on.
C.If  when  Lloyds  works out what the late Mr and Mrs R would  have owed each month 
without PPI  they paid more  than enough to clear  their balance,  Lloyds should also pay 
simple interest  on the extra they paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the 
point when they wouldve owed Lloyds something on their overdraft. The interest rate 
should be 15% a year until April 1993  and 8% a year from then on.
D.Lloyds should tell the Executors what its done  to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Lloyds to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give 
the Executors a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN69548083my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold the Executors of the late Mr Rs estates complaint 
against Lloyds  Bank  PLC and direct it pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Executors of 
Mr Rs estate to accept  or reject my decision before 5 October  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6954808