K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the information Experian Limited shared with his employer  when 
providing a credit reference. He feels that Experian are at fault for the fact his employer 
suspended him, and the wages he lost as a result.
background
As part of a job application, Mr Ds employer completed a background check  on him, which 
included obtaining  a credit  reference from Experian.  Following this Mr D was suspended 
before he was eventually offered the new job.
Mr D complained to Experian as he was unhappy with the information they provided his 
employer. The information showed that he had defaulted on three accounts, totalling  
£99,900, which Mr D disputed.
Experian explained that they rely on information  provided to them from other  companies  
such as banks and credit providers to give them the information they show  on their reports. 
But they do everything they can to ensure this is accurate. They said that they were satisfied 
the information they passed to his employer was accurate, and that Mr D had confirmed he 
was aware of the three individual defaulted accounts. They also explained that £99,900 is 
the maximum figure their system can include,  and that the total value of Mr Ds defaulted  
accounts was actually over £183,000. 
Our investigator looked into things and explained that in his view,  Experian hadnt given 
Mr Ds employer inaccurate information, and so hadnt treated him unfairly. It was ultimately 
his employers decision to suspend him temporarily before approving his job application.
Mr D disagreed so the complaints been  passed  to me to issue a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Experian are correct in saying that they rely on the information thats provided to them  by 
third party companies to ensure their reports are accurate. Theyve  sent us information to 
show how the three defaulted  accounts  had been  reported to them by the original creditors,  
and Im satisfied theyve reported  these correctly.
Mr D has confirmed that hes aware of the individual defaulted  accounts,  so it seems his 
main concern is the way that these  were presented to his employer, and the fact that theyre 
still showing  on his credit report. He feels this is unfair when two of the defaults  have  been  
satisfied. 
I understand why Mr D would prefer his historic defaults to be removed from his credit  file. 
Particularly if theyve since been  satisfied. But information is reported by credit reference 
agencies for six years.  This is an industry  standard and in line with good practice guidance 
from the Information Commissioners Office. So Im satisfied it was fair for Experian to show  
Mr Ds defaulted accounts over the last six years. When Mr D queried this with Experian, 
they sent him a detailed explanation of the information contained in the credit reference, 
which he was able to show his employer.
Ref: DRN63344592I appreciate the credit  reference may have caused  Mr D confusion, as the total default  
amount was unfamiliar  to him. But Experian  have explained why this amount was different to 
the actual defaulted amount. And considering  the defaulted amount reported  was almost 
50% lower than the actual defaulted  amount, Im not satisfied Mr D has been negatively  
impacted by this discrepancy.
Looking at everything, Im satisfied Experian have passed on accurate information about 
Mr Ds credit history  to his employer (aside  from the total defaulted amount). It was ultimately 
Mr Ds employers decision whether to offer him the job or not  and I cant  say that this 
decision was made based on any wrong information  provided  by Experian.
my final decision
Considering everything, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 June  2019.
Kathryn Billings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6334459