K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that he was mis-sold a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy
with a Marks & Spencer charge card. Allianz  Insurance Plc (Allianz)  has taken responsibility
for this complaint,  so Ill refer to Allianz  in the rest of this decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr R says he was told that if he ticked the box to take out the PPI his application  for the 
charge card would be more likely  to be accepted.  He says the member  of staff was heavily 
pushing the insurance. I accept that (over 25 years  later)  this is how Mr R might remember 
the sale. But for me to uphold his complaint on this basis, I need to be persuaded that his 
recollections are more likely than an alternative  where the sales person told Mr R about the 
cover the PPI provided and Mr R chose to take it out because he was interested  in having 
that protection. After all, you would expect  a sales person to point  out the advantages of 
having the cover  there wouldnt be anything wrong with this. But ultimately it would be for 
Mr R to decide if he wanted it.
Having carefully considered this point, I dont think Mr Rs recollections  of something that 
happened a very long time ago are enough for me to conclude that the sales person crossed 
the line and pressured him into taking out the PPI. I think its just as likely they made it clear 
to that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose  to take it out.
Mr R says the sales person advised  him to take out the PPI. But Allianz says it would have 
done this. From what Mr R has said, I dont think its likely he would have  thought the sales  
person was making a personal recommendation to him, based  on his circumstances, that 
the PPI was something he had a need  for. It sounds more  like the sales person just talked 
about the benefits of having the cover it provided more  generally. Because  of this Allianz 
didnt have to check if it was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr R got the 
information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Mr R says he remembers the sales person explaining that the PPI would cover him if he 
couldnt work, lost his job or died. So it seems  he understood what type of protection it 
provided and chose to take it out knowing this. But its likely the information Allianz gave 
Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. Based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the PPI cover - so it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
I appreciate that when  Mr R was made  redundant in 2017 and he tried to make a claim,  he 
decided not to pursue this because of the steps Allianz wanted him to take to show  he was 
looking for another job. But I think its unlikely Mr R would have thought  hed be able to make 
a claim without having to provide some sort of evidence. And while  he decided it wasnt  
Ref: DRN67936162worth it in 2017, when  he took out the PPI in 1992  his circumstances are likely to have been 
different. He might not have been  in a position  to repay his card in full and the PPI could 
have been useful. I dont think the decision Mr R made in 2017 not to continue  with the claim 
shows the PPI was worthless  when it was taken out.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6793616