K822xComplaint
Mr Z has complained Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited  unfairly increased
the cost of his pet insurance policy. He is also unhappy with the way his holiday cancellation
claim has been assessed under the policy terms and conditions.
Background 
In my provisional decision of January 2021, I set out why I thought  Red Sands offer of £750 
was a fair way to settle Mr Zs complaint about his premium increases. And that I thought it 
was fair Red Sands  had paid 50% of Mr Zs holiday cancellation claim. A copy  of the 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision. I invited both parties  to 
provide any further  information they wanted  me to consider before I reached  my final 
decision.
Red Sands  did not come  back  to me with anything further to consider. Mr Z responded 
setting out why he disagreed it was fair and reasonable  for Red Sands to pay only 50% of 
his holiday cancellation  costs. The main reasons he highlighted were: 
He is the policyholder  and has provided  evidence that he paid the total cost of the 
policy - no costs  were incurred by his wife or any other  third party. 
He does not think it is fair to simply divide the cost of the holiday between  he and his 
wife and does  not think a spouse should  be classed  as a third party  in this case. 
Mr Z provided  some examples of other scenarios where it would seem unreasonable 
for an insurer to only pay 50% of a claim. These  included if the family car (which  his 
wife is insured to use and has benefit of) needed repairing and if his dog was stolen  
and he was claiming for the purchase  price of the dog. 
My findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will be disappointing for Mr Z, but I still think that Red Sands have been fair and 
reasonable in paying  50% of his holiday cancellation claim when considering  the terms and 
conditions of the policy he purchased. 
I recognise that Mr Z paid for the holiday in its entirety and that costs were  not incurred by 
his wife. But his policy excludes costs for anyone else. And although  Mr Z paid for the 
whole holiday,  part of the cost was for his wife and so these costs are excluded  under his 
policy terms. 
I understand Mr Zs point  about why he feels covering only 50% is unfair. But the examples 
hes given arent  comparable to the situation with the claim hes actually  made  for 
cancelling a holiday under  his pet insurance  policy. The holiday cancellation cover  is unlikely  
to be the main reason anyone would take out a pet insurance policy.  It was never intended 
to be comprehensive  travel insurance. 
Its impossible  to know what  the cost of the holiday would have been  if it had only been 
booked for Mr Z. I take his point that it may have been more than 50% of his holiday cost. 
But the fact is thats not the situation here  the holiday was booked  for two. I think  it is fair 
Ref: DRN62276152and reasonable to say that if a package holiday is booked  for two adults, the share  of the 
cost for each person is half of the full cost. 
Having reviewed the points Mr Z has provided  about why he doesnt agree with my 
provisional findings and having  reconsidered  all the evidence in its entirety, I have come to 
the same  outcome for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
My final decision
Based on what Ive said above  and in my provisional  decision I think  Red Sands Insurance 
Company (Europe) Limiteds  offer to pay Mr Z £750 in compensation and cover 50% of his 
holiday cancellation claim is a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
I understand 50% of his holiday cancellation claim has already been paid. So Red Sands 
Insurance Company (Europe) Limited should  now pay him the £750  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2021.
Hannah Eykel 
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN62276153Provisional Decision
Complaint
Mr Z has complained Red Sands Insurance Company (Europe) Limited unfairly  increased the cost of 
his pet insurance policy. He is also unhappy  with the way his holiday cancellation  claim has been 
assessed under the policy terms and conditions. 
Background
Mr Z made  a claim on his policy  after cancelling a holiday because  his pet became ill and required 
urgent surgery.  Initially Red Sands declined this claim entirely but has since reassessed and accepted 
the claim in part. 
The holiday  was booked for both Mr Z and his wife. Red Sands says the policy only covered Mr Zs 
costs and therefore  has only offered to cover 50% of the claim. Mr Z says the holiday was booked  and 
paid for by him as a package deal and Red Sands offer of 50% isnt fair. 
Mr Z was also shocked to find the premium  in the year following his claims (for his pets  treatment and 
holiday cancellation) had increased  from £498.12  to £1476.36 per year. He said he had made claims 
in the past and the premiums hadnt increased  by such a significant amount. He feels Red Sands 
arent able to justify the reason for such an increase.
Red Sands  say Mr Zs premiums were calculated correctly based on the risk presented to
them at the time.
Our investigator considered the policy terms and felt it would be fair for Red Sands to refund all of Mr 
Zs holiday  cancellation costs. 
She also thought Red Sands should pay Mr Z £750 compensation for the trouble and upset caused 
by not making  the long term cost implications of his policy clear to him when he was sold it. 
Red Sands  agreed  to offer Mr Z the £750 compensation. But they didnt agree  to pay his holiday 
cancellation claim in full, so the complaint has come  to me. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Premium increase 
Its important to be clear that businesses are entitled to decide how much to charge  for the
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power to tell a business what its insurance
should cost. I would  be, in effect, determining  or telling  a business how it should operate 
and thats not my role. So I cant  say the cost of Mr Zs policy was too high,  he should have been  
charged less for the policy or that he should be charged less in the future. 
While Mr Zs premium increased significantly, I havent seen any evidence  to suggest Red Sands 
have treated him differently to how it would have treated any other  policyholder  in the same position. 
So I cant tell Red Sands to charge him a lower premium going forwards.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older and the cost of 
medical treatment  rises.  Standard pet insurance policies  also usually  wont cover any medical 
conditions the pet had or had received treatment for when the policy was taken out or renewed. So 
ongoing or recurring medical conditions  wont be covered.
Ref: DRN62276154But some  pet insurance  policies, like the one Mr Z took out, will continue  to cover any
medical conditions claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing or recurring conditions will
continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums  carry  on being paid. The yearly
cost of these  lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal,  particularly if a claim is
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Red Sands  should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr Z and our investigator 
didnt think it had done this. Red Sands has now offered  to pay him £750 compensation  for the trouble  
and upset hes been  caused as a result of this. 
I think  Red Sands  offer is fair and reasonable  compensation in the circumstances  of this part of Mr 
Zs complaint and Mr Z has said that he will accept this, so I dont  need to address this part of the 
complaint any further. 
Holiday cancellation claim 
An insurer should handle claims promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt unreasonably reject a claim. 
Im pleased to see that Red Sands reconsidered its initial decision to reject the claim, so whats left for 
me to decide is whether its fair for it to only pay 50% of the total cost of the holiday  Mr Z had to 
cancel. I currently think this is fair and Ill explain why.
Under the holiday cancellation cover provided by the policy, Red Sands will pay reasonable travel and 
accommodation expenses the policy owner  incurs if they have to cancel their holiday because  their 
pet needs  immediate  life saving surgery up to 14 days before theyre due to leave.  Mr Z is the sole 
policy owner, so the policy only provides cover  for the expenses he incurs and not any third party. 
I appreciate Mr Z paid for the holiday in its entirety but I have to consider that the policy excludes 
cover for costs for anyone else. Although  Mr Z paid for the whole  holiday,  part of the cost was for his 
wife to go with him. His wifes share of the costs would be excluded  under  his policy terms. 
I note what Mr Z has said about  50% not being  a true reflection of how much it would have cost if the 
same holiday had only been booked for him. While that may be true, that wasnt the situation here - 
the holiday was booked for two. There were two people going on the holiday, so I think its fair to say 
Mr Zs share  of the cost was half of the full cost. 
My provisional decision
I currently think Red Sands  Insurance Company  (Europe)  Limiteds offer to pay Mr Z £750 in 
compensation and cover 50% of his holiday cancellation claim is a fair way to resolve his complaint. 
I now invite  both parties to respond  with any additional comments  or information they would like me to 
consider before 11 February 2021.
Hannah Eykel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6227615