K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the early repayment charge (ERC) which  they paid when they 
redeemed their Santander UK Plc mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs S took a mortgage  with Santander in September 2014. The mortgage  interest  
rate was fixed until 2 October 2019.  It had an ERC  of 5% of the amount repaid before this 
date. They  redeemed this mortgage in December 2017 and were charged the ERC.
Mr and Mrs S complained to Santander about  this. Their main complaint points were,  in 
summary:
Its unusual for an ERC  not to decrease  over the fixed rate term
The mortgage offer was misleading
The ERC wasnt proportional to Santanders actual loss and that it wasnt  a genuine 
pre-estimate of its loss
The ERC is an unfair penalty
The ERC had been improperly  applied as they had an allowance  of 10% they could 
pay penalty free each  year
Santander didnt  agree with Mr and Mrs S complaint, so they referred  it to us. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint  and didnt think it should be upheld. Mr and Mrs S 
didnt agree. They said, in summary,  the mortgage  offer allowed for them to over pay 10% 
per year, so any ERC should only apply to 90% of the mortgage balance repaid.  And they 
didnt agree the ERC was a true reflection  of the scale of the loss to Santander.
Mr and Mrs S asked  for the complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. So its been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at the mortgage offer sent to Mr and Mrs S. The Financial Conduct  Authority sets 
out how a mortgage offer should  be presented.  And Santander has presented  its offer in this 
way. The offer clearly  explains that an ERC  will be 5% of the amount repaid and will be 
charged if the mortgage is fully repaid before  2 October 2019. It also gives  an example of the 
maximum which would be charged. Mr and Mrs S have  said this wasnt  brought  to their 
attention. As Ive said, I think it is clear within the offer.  And as this mortgage was arranged  
by a broker, it would be for the broker to ensure Mr and Mrs S clearly understood it.
Mr and Mrs S believe the ERC  isnt a true reflection of Santanders actual cost in them 
repaying the mortgage early. But thats not the basis on which Santander calculated the 
ERC.
When a lender offers a fixed rate, both the lender and borrower  are tied in to the fixed rate 
for the duration  of the fixed term. Theres  a cost to the lender in raising  the funds to lend, 
which it recovers in interest payments. If the product ends early, theres a risk to the lender 
Ref: DRN67062252that it wont recover its costs. So theres  a clause in the mortgage agreement which allows  
the borrower to exit the mortgage early  but this typically  means  paying  an ERC.
The rules  of mortgage regulation (known as MCOB and found in the FCA handbook) explain 
that an ERC must be able to be expressed as a cash value, and must be a reasonable pre-
estimate of the costs  resulting  from early termination of the mortgage. But a lender can 
choose how it calculates an ERC,  and can calculate  the same level of ERC  across a group 
of mortgages  of similar type. This means  it doesnt  have  to calculate an ERC for individual 
loans. This wouldnt  be practical and when a lender releases a mortgage product these 
funds are raised to lend in bulk, not individually.
That means that Santander is entitled to set an ERC  based  not on the actual cost to it of 
Mr and Mrs S ending  their individual mortgage early,  but on a reasonable pre-estimate of the 
costs of early termination of a group of mortgages of a similar type. 
In practice, it cant be known whether an individual borrower will or will not end their fixed  
rate early, and if so when. So a lender cant estimate in advance the exact  costs  of ending  a 
particular mortgage  early. But the lender can estimate how many borrowers, on average, will 
do so  and apply those costs across  a group of mortgages. The price  of the mortgage, both 
the interest rate and the ERC,  are set at a level that allows the lender to recover its costs in 
the event a mortgage is repaid early.
Santander has sent us information  about how its pre-estimate of loss is worked out on 
mortgages of the type Mr and Mrs S had. Santander has asked  us to treat this in confidence 
as it says its commercially sensitive. I understand it may be frustrating for Mr and Mrs S not 
to have access to these calculations. But our rules  allow for either party to submit evidence  
in confidence.  We then have to decide  if its fair to rely on it when deciding the outcome. The 
information given  to us by Santander provides detailed  information about how it calculates 
an ERC. That information is commercially sensitive and confidential.  But its also material  
and highly relevant to this complaint. So Im satisfied I can and should  receive  it in 
confidence. 
The information weve received from Santander shows  that theres a cost to it in raising  the 
funds it lends, and in carrying out the activity of lending. That cost is recouped largely  
through the interest received on the mortgages.  Santander applies this cost across its 
mortgages in the expectation that some  of these loans will be repaid before the fixed rate 
period, and the cost allocated to those  is estimated  to reflect the losses to Santander from 
the interest it will no longer receive  from those mortgages.
This is a reasonable method of setting an ERC. Its in line with the regulators rules, which  
allow an estimate to be used, and allow that estimate to be set across a portfolio of 
mortgages rather than on an individual basis. Im aware from my knowledge of the mortgage 
industry and from other complaints that Santanders methodology is broadly in line with that 
of the wider industry. Santander isnt required to individually calculate an ERC for individual 
mortgages. And as Ive said, the ERC doesnt  need  to be a true reflection  of the actual cost, 
but a reasonable pre-estimate. And its method of calculating this seems fair. 
Mr and Mrs S also say that the ERC  is a penalty  but I dont agree. A penalty  is a sum 
charged if a contract  is broken. An ERC isnt a penalty, because  exiting the mortgage early  
isnt a breach  of contract. Its something  specifically  allowed for in the contract   at the price 
set out. 
Ref: DRN67062253The product  offer itself was in the format required by the regulators rules. It set out the way 
an ERC would  be calculated, and the maximum amount it could be, in the way the rules 
require. By setting it out in that way, and sending the offer to Mr and Mrs S, Santander did 
enough to draw it to their attention before they agreed to be bound by it. Making sure the 
offer was fully understood wouldve been  the responsibility of the broker who arranged the 
mortgage.
Mr and Mrs S have  said they were allowed to over pay 10% per year penalty  free so any 
ERC should only apply to 90% of their mortgage. They  refer to section 11 of the mortgage 
offer entitled  What happens if you want to make overpayments?. But this part of the 
mortgage offer refers  to overpayments. An overpayment is an amount over and above the 
monthly payment  required  short  of the full balance.  But they werent making  an 
overpayment. Mr and Mrs S were fully redeeming the mortgage so section 11 isnt relevant 
here. Instead, section  10, entitled What happens if you do not want  this mortgage  
anymore?  which  explains  the ERC and that this will apply if you repay  the whole mortgage. 
Section 10 of the mortgage offer goes on to refer to the terms and conditions. Section 11.2 
of the terms and conditions say that an ERC wont apply  where in any year you make one 
or more  capital payments which had the effect  of repaying not more than 10% of the 
capital Mr and Mrs S were making a capital payment  of more than 10%, so the ERC 
applies. I dont  think the mortgage  offer or terms and conditions  leads them  to believe  that an 
ERC will be applied to 90% of the mortgage.
Overall, I dont  think Santander has done  anything  wrong. When  Mr and Mrs S decided  to 
repay their mortgage, it charged an ERC as set out in the mortgage terms, and which, as 
Ive said, was calculated  in a fair way. It was a reasonable pre-estimate of loss. In all the 
circumstances, I dont  think  I should  uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 May 2019.
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6706225