K820x#14complaint
Mr C complained that he was mis-sold a mortgage  payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy by Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax  (BoS).
background
Ive attached my provisional decision from December 2018, which forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  why I didnt propose to uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint. I invited BoS and Mr C to send in any further comments or evidence they wanted 
me to consider by 19 January 2019, before I reached a final decision. Neither BoS nor Mr C 
sent in a response.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither BoS nor Mr C provided further 
evidence or arguments  for consideration, Ive no reason to change  the conclusions  set out in 
my provisional decision. 
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt 
need to refund everything Mr C paid for it. But BoS has already offered  to give Mr C back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mr C.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63537452COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr C complained that he was mis-sold  a mortgage payment  protection  insurance (PPI)  policy by Bank 
of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax (BoS).
background
Mr C bought  the PPI policy when he re-mortgaged  his property in July 2004. BoS said that the PPI 
sale took place in a meeting and that it advised Mr C to take out the policy. Mr C couldnt  remember 
whether he was advised to take the PPI, but said he didnt  need the policy as he had good sick pay, 
and other  insurance  cover, at the time of the sale. 
The PPI cover  was part of a package  of cover called  Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP).  Mr 
Cs TMPP also included life and critical illness  cover. Each  element of the plan had a separate cost,  
and different combinations of cover were available. Mr C has complained  about the PPI elements  of 
the cover (disability and unemployment) so this decision only refers to those, and I have not 
considered the life and critical illness cover. Mr C later mentioned having  other life cover, so if he is 
unhappy about the life element of the TMPP policy, he should contact  BoS in the first instance.  
The PPI provided disability and unemployment cover at a monthly cost of £29.87.  The monthly benefit 
was £500.57. If Mr H had made  a successful claim, the policy wouldve paid out for up to 24 months 
per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed,  and asked that it be referred to an 
ombudsman for review.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Cs case.
Im not proposing to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.  Ill explain why.
BoS sent in copies of its computer records of Mr Cs mortgage account, and the PPI cover, along with 
copies of the declaration pages of the mortgage application, which Mr C had signed and which 
referred to the TMPP.  I dont have any other documentation  from the point of sale.  
As it was sold during a meeting, I cant  know how the adviser might have explained  the PPI. But 
looking at the declaration pages, and taking into account what we know about other sales by BoS of 
this type of policy from around this time, Ive no reason to think  Mr C wasnt  given a choice about 
taking the cover. 
From the evidence  I have, I think  its most likely  that BoS did advise Mr C to take out the policy, so it 
shouldve made sure it was suitable for Mr H. On balance, I think it was.
As Ive said,  I cant know  how the adviser explained the PPI - especially the things not covered.  But I 
cant see that Mr H wouldve  been affected by any of these. 
Mr H said he wouldve been entitled to six months full pay and six months half pay from his 
employer. As Ive mentioned, Mr C also said that he had other  insurance cover,  and he sent in some 
details of the two policies he held, both appearing to have been arranged through  his employer. The 
insurance schedules date from some time before the PPI sale, but Ive no evidence at this point to 
Ref: DRN63537453suggest that the benefits changed. Mr C also sent in a payslip from 2013 showing two deductions  
from his pay for what  he said was the same cover, as evidence of continuing cover.  
The first policy was a Group Supplementary Sick Pay Plan  showing  a Temporary Total Disability 
Benefit  of £500 per month for up to 12 months, payment being  deferred for six months. The second 
policy wouldve paid out if Mr C was in hospital, with an amount for each night for up to 104 weeks 
(£60 for the first night and £30 for each night thereafter). 
Ive thought about these  benefits very carefully. The first policy wouldve started to pay out at the point 
Mr Cs sick pay reduced from full pay to half pay, and could then have carried  on for six months after 
his sick pay ended  completely. But Ive kept in mind that, from the computer  records supplied  by BoS, 
Mr Cs monthly  mortgage payment was £400,  and he wouldve had other essential living  expenses  to 
meet on top of that. So once his full sick pay ended, I think he couldve struggled to meet the 
mortgage payments, even  with the benefit from the supplementary sick pay plan. The second policy 
would only have paid out if Mr C was in hospital  so not if he was off sick but not in need of hospital  
treatment. 
Set against  this, the PPI policy couldve paid out for up to two years - in addition  to Mr Cs sick pay 
and the other  policy benefits, and for a longer  period. And the PPI also included  unemployment cover 
 again for up to two years  in the event of a successful claim  whereas Mr Cs other cover only 
related to accident and sickness. Ive also kept in mind that Mr C was taking on a financial 
commitment secured against  his home. So I think he wouldve considered it important  to make sure 
he could meet the repayments. Taking all this into account, I dont think BoS did anything wrong in 
recommending the PPI. 
Ive thought about the information Mr C might have been given.  Its not clear  how the cost and 
benefits were  set out  I dont have much documentation from the point of sale. But the monthly  
premium was £29.87, and Ive no evidence  to suggest that cost was an issue. And as Ive said,  I think  
Mr C could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment. 
On balance, although I cant say for certain that BoS clearly explained  all of the policy details, I think 
Mr C would still have bought the policy. For the reasons Ive set out, I think  it couldve provided 
valuable protection if Mr C had been unable  to work. 
This means  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So BoS doesnt need to refund everything Mr C paid 
for it. But BoS has already offered to give Mr C back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs 
to do anything  more.  
I understand BoS has already paid this to Mr C.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further information I might receive from either party, 
Im not proposing to uphold  Mr Cs complaint.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6353745