K820x#14complaint
Mr B is unhappy that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) declined his travel  insurance claim. And 
with how it dealt with him during the claims process.
background
In late October 2018 Mr B booked a holiday to Asia for February 2019. On 7 December 2018 
he called  up UKI to discuss adding worldwide travel  cover to his policy  and also discussed a 
medical condition  hed been  suffering. He completed some screening  questions but further  
information was needed about  his wifes medication.  Mr B and his wife called back on 10 
December 2018  to confirm her medication  and add this additional  cover  to their policy.
On 12 December 2018 Mr B had a telephone  consult with his GP who advised him that he 
couldnt be certain hed be fit to fly by February  2019, so advised him to cancel the holiday.  
Mr B called UKI on 14 December 2018 to let them know about his conversation  with the 
doctor and to start a cancellation  claim for his upcoming holiday. Mr B advised he had a 
letter from his GP so he was asked  to provide this.
On 28 December 2018 UKI declined Mr Bs claim. It said that he was suffering from the 
medical condition  that led to his cancellation before he booked the holiday  and also before  
he added  the worldwide travel cover. Mr B disagreed and said that his condition  now was 
unrelated to his GP visit at the beginning of October  2018. UKI advised the claim form from 
Mr Bs GP suggested they were linked,  so it advised  him hed need  to question this with his 
GP. Mr B agreed to go back to his GP for further  evidence. He provided this, but UKI 
considered it needed  more information.
On 9 January  2019 UKI contacted Mr Bs GP to find out where to send  further questions. On 
11 January 2019  UKI spoke to Mr B and said it wasnt changing its position due to 
medication he was prescribed both in October and November 2018. He still didnt  agree  so it 
was agreed his case would be escalated. On 21 January  2019  Mr Bs case handler emailed 
him suggesting he would contact the claims team suggesting the claim should be paid. And 
on 4 February 2019 he emailed Mr B saying the team hadnt agreed,  but he had replied to 
them arguing our case  further. 
On 25 February 2019 UKI requested further  information from Mr Bs GP. On 1 March  2019 
the surgery confirmed  it had requested for Mr B to sign a release form before it was able to 
provide UKI with the information  it asked for. On the 4 March  2019 Mr Bs case handler 
wrote to him and said that once further  information had arrived well work  to progress your 
claim.
On 26 March 2019 UKI received further  information from the GP. This confirmed Mr B had 
contacted his GP about his ongoing  symptoms on the same  day he spoke  to UKI about the 
upgrade. On 2 April 2019 it wrote out to Mr B with its findings.  It continued  to decline the 
claim, but refunded Mr B the cost of the upgrade he paid to get worldwide cover  (£221.60) 
and awarded him £200 compensation and £48 to cover the cost hed paid out for GP letters.
Mr B didnt agree with the outcome so brought his complaint to our service. He said hed 
answered all the questions honestly and wouldnt have  paid for the upgrade if itd been  made  
clear he wouldnt have  been covered for what hed disclosed. He considered his claim 
should be paid as he wasnt told he couldnt  on holiday until after the upgrade  was in place. 
Ref: DRN63366622Mr B also wasnt  happy with the amount  of compensation hed been offered considering  the 
service hed received.
The case  was passed to me and I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. 
I considered whether or not UKI has fairly declined Mr Bs claim. The terms of the policy  
werent in dispute  in this case, instead whether or not Mr B answered the questions honestly,  
and so he should be covered by his upgraded policys cancellation terms.
Mr B spoke to his GP at 14:34 on 7 December 2018  and the note says that Mr B felt not 
fully recovered  and goes  on to list his ongoing  symptoms. I listened to the call which took 
place between Mr B and UKI in the afternoon on the same day. Mr B is asked Are you 
aware of any reason  that you may need  to cancel or cut short any trip thats already 
booked? Mr B answered Not at the moment,  no. Later in the call, when discussing when 
the trip is with the advisor, Mr B says if we decide  to go of course,  because  at the moment  
Im deciding whether  were going to go. I found this sentence contradictory to Mr Bs answer  
to the question he was asked earlier in the call, as it seemed he was in fact considering not 
going on the trip during  this call. I also considered that Mr B booked  the trip in October 2018, 
but didnt call to buy this upgrade until 7 December 2018  on the same  day he spoke to his 
GP about  a health issue which hadnt  resolved.
UKI has declined Mr Bs claim because he spoke  to his GP about the ongoing  issue  on the 
same day he enquired about adding the worldwide cover   and so three days before he did 
purchase this upgrade.  This issue is what then led to him having  to cancel the trip. Based on 
the GP notes and the telephone call, I thought UKI had acted fairly  in declining Mr Bs claim.  
I thought he was aware when he made  the call that he potentially  wasnt  going  to be able to 
go on this trip. And I consider this is supported  by his own words during the call.
In relation to the compensation, I considered what happened to Mr B and the amount that 
UKI has offered.  From looking at the claims history it was clear  there  were  delays getting 
Mr B a final,  correct resolution.  And I did think that if UKI had asked for his medical records  
when it first considered  the claim it couldve reached  this resolution much earlier on, 
especially as it gave  him its first outcome within two weeks of him putting  in the claim. And 
I agreed that the way the claims handler dealt with Mr B made the situation  more difficult. He 
shouldnt have been suggesting  that the case would  be upheld or describing  the claim as 
their joint case.
However, as Id set out previously, I didnt consider Mr B did honestly answer the questions 
UKI asked.  If he had, UKI wouldve explained  he wasnt going  to be covered for cancellation 
of the February  2019 trip due to his current illness  as it started  after hed booked the trip 
but before  he upgraded his cover. So then he wouldnt have bought the upgrade and so put 
in a claim.
I could see that UKI did assess  the information  Mr Bs GP provided  each  time.  And while the 
information provided did lead it to provide different reasoning, it maintained the same  decline 
outcome. But I hadnt seen  any evidence  that UKI was bias or that it was looking for reasons 
to decline the claim   simply that it was assessing the evidence and reaching an outcome on 
the information available. When Mr B disagreed  and asked to escalate  the case  it then went  
back for further information  based on his points  and then reassessed.  Until the end of March 
2019 I couldnt say it had the information it needed  to reach its final outcome.
Ref: DRN63366623Considering everything  that happened, I thought UKIs offer of £200 compensation and then 
reimbursement of the amount  Mr B paid for the upgrade  and the cost he paid for the GP 
letters was fair. There were delays and Mr B was caused additional inconvenience, but 
I thought what  had been offered was enough  to compensate  for this.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision but was unhappy with some of its content.  He said 
hed always insisted hed answered all the questions to the best of his ability and honestly. 
And that whilst I may have my own opinion I have no right to accuse him of outwardly lying 
without obtaining  concrete  evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As Mr B has accepted my provisional 
decision, I see no reason  to materially  change  my findings or the outcome reached.
I appreciate Mr Bs unhappy that I said I didnt consider  hed honestly  answered the 
questions UKI asked. But its my role to reach a decision, my opinion, on the evidence  
available. In the call Mr B was asked  if he knew  of any reason he may cancel his trip and 
responded that he didnt at that moment. Later in the same call he mentions hes still 
deciding whether hes going  to go on his trip, but he doesnt elaborate  as to why. I think, 
considering he wasnt sure he was going to go on the trip, when UKI asked  him if knew  of a 
reason he may cancel,  this was his opportunity to explain this.
I havent said Mr B outwardly lied. However Im still of the opinion that if he was being truly 
honest in his answer about potential cancellation, he wouldve explained his current  
predicament about  travelling  whatever that may have been. Especially as he had called 
UKI for the sole purpose of obtaining upgraded cover for this trip. Insurance is designed to 
cover unforeseen events,  so UKI couldve  then explained what  cover his policy  could offer, if 
any, considering  his current situation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6336662