K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs I payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs I disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
The sale of the PPI took place about  24 years ago and none of the original documents from 
the time are now available. Also I wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that 
happened so long ago. Ive borne in mind  these difficulties in the evidence  when considering  
the case. As with all cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, 
based on what evidence  there is. 
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs I have said they were  advised to take the PPI in order to qualify for the finance 
 which  Im taking to mean they didnt know they actually had a choice about taking PPI. 
However it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness  requires that the person making the allegation  should  present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove  they 
didnt do something,  especially when it was such a long time ago. I also think  it wouldnt be 
surprising if Mr and Mrs I now didnt remember exactly  what was said at the time. So, without 
stronger evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr and Mrs I knowing they 
had a choice.
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
Bank of Scotland says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs I, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Is particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though any 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based  on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Is situation at the time. Its likely  Mr I (the person covered) was eligible for 
the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would  have paid benefits  at the same time as Mr I received any 
employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It would have paid unemployment benefits 
in addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have put off the time when they would 
need to fall back on any savings or other  means they might have had for paying the 
Ref: DRN67668182mortgage and other  living  costs.  This all would have put Mr and Mrs I in a more  secure 
position, if theyd  eventually lost income  due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
And Ive not been told anything to suggest  they couldnt afford  the PPI when they took it 
out. So I think the PPI would  have  been potentially useful, and so a recommendation 
would have been suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear  information about the costs 
would have affected whether Mr and Mrs I took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Mr I would have been  affected by any of these. And theyd be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their 
situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs I to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 September 2019. 
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6766818