K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  that Vanquis Bank Limited lent to her irresponsibly when it increased  her 
credit card limit over several years.
background
Miss B took out a credit  card with Vanquis in 2012  with an initial  credit limit of £250. Over the 
next two years, Vanquis increased the credit  limit on several  occasions  until it was £3,000. In 
July 2018, Miss B told Vanquis that, due to a change in circumstances she was struggling  to 
keep up payments. So Vanquis offered  her a payment arrangement of 3 months. Miss B 
complained to Vanquis, she said that, based  on her financial circumstances, Vanquis 
shouldnt have given  her a credit  card in 2012 and shouldnt  have increased  her credit limit 
over the following two years. She said the lending was irresponsible.
Vanquis looked into her complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  So Miss B came  to 
this service. Our investigator didnt think Vanquis  had done anything wrong so Miss B asked 
for review by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to hear about the financial 
difficulties Miss Bs been having, but based  on what Ive seen, I dont think  this complaint  
should be upheld  and Ill explain why.
When Miss B applied for the credit  card, she said her household income was £60,000. 
Vanquis has shown  it did carry out affordability checks. The checks  it did showed  a total 
non-mortgage debt of around £3,000 and no CCJs. Miss Bs shown that, in fact, her non-
mortgage debt at the time was higher. But Vanquis  has provided evidence  to show that the 
debt appears differently  on different  credit  agency  reports. So Im satisfied that Vanquis did 
the checks to the best of its ability and that it wasnt unreasonable to give Miss B a relatively 
small credit facility  based on the information  it had at the time.
Over the next two years, Vanquis reviewed  Miss Bs account and increased the credit limit 
several times. Each  time, a credit search was carried out which  didnt show  any increased 
borrowing, CCJs or newly defaulted  debt. In June  2014, Vanquis noted there had been 
defaulted debt a year earlier and additional  non-mortgage  debt had increased.  But as Miss B 
was still managing the account properly, it felt an increase to £3,000 was still affordable 
based on its lending  policy.  Miss B was regularly paying over the minimum payments, so 
based on the information Ive seen, I dont think it was wrong for Vanquis to offer gradually 
increasing credit limits.  Each time the credit limit was increased. Miss B was informed of the 
increase and couldve said she didnt want it if she felt it wasnt affordable  or had information  
Vanquis didnt  have about her circumstances.
Miss B complained about the credit four years after the last increase  when  she found herself 
in financial difficulties. While I can understand her concern  about  the debt in her current 
circumstances and Im very sorry to hear about her situation, based on the information 
Vanquis had at the time, I dont  think it was unreasonable to offer her credit and increase her 
credit limit in the way it did.
Ref: DRN60065942my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, its my final decision that this complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 18 August 2019.
Susie Alegre
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6006594