K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Arval UK Limited didnt contact him in advance  of coming to collect his 
car and then charged him a cancellation  fee. 
background
Mr Ws car was due to be collected from his house  on 20 March  2019. He says that he was 
told that he would be given an hours  notice  of when the collection would take place. This 
didnt happen.  He says the agent  said his phone  wasnt working which  was why the call 
wasnt made. When the agent  arrived  the car wouldnt start and so the agent  left.
Mr W says the car had been  standing on the drive  for a week which  was why it didnt start 
and so he jumpstarted the car and everything was fine. Mr W called the collection company 
to say the car was available for collection. He was told that the collection would need to be 
rebooked. Mr W says he wasnt told at this time a charge would be made  and only became 
aware of this when  he received an email.
Mr W says that had he been contacted an hour before the collection as he was told, he 
would have been able to get the car ready and the charge  could have been avoided.
Arval didnt accept  that that the cancellation fee should be refunded.  It says the car should 
have been roadworthy and available for collection between the hours of 8am and 6pm. It 
says the call an hour before collection is a courtesy  call to advise of the estimated time of 
arrival. It noted this didnt  take place but didnt accept this meant the fee should  be refunded.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He accepted that Mr W was told he would  
receive a call before collection  and that this didnt  take place. However he said the 
information Mr W was provided with before collection  was enough for him to be aware that 
the car needed  to be ready  for collection between 8am and 6pm. He said had the car been  
ready the agent would  have been able to collect it on the agreed day. 
Mr W didnt accept our investigators view. He reiterated that he was told verbally  and in 
writing that he would be called an hour before collection and said the person who came to 
collect the car acknowledged his phone was broken and the call wasnt made. He said that 
had this call been  made the car would  have been  available for collection. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W didnt receive  a call in advance of the collection of his car. I can see from the 
information provided that he was expecting this and having listened to the call setting  up the 
collection I note he was told that the collections agent will give a call approximately  an hour 
before they arrive on the day. Arval says the call is a courtesy call but I can see why Mr W 
hasnt accepted this and thought the call would  take place.
That said I still dont find that I can uphold this complaint. I say this because  the email  Mr W 
received confirming his collection  date clearly  sets out that he would need to be available  on 
the date of collection between 8am and 6pm (this was also mentioned on the call). The email 
says contact will be made to give an estimated time of arrival and while this didnt take place 
Ref: DRN63505632I still think it reasonable that the car should  have been ready  for collection anytime between  
8am and 6pm.
I appreciate the comments made about why the car wouldnt start when the collection agent 
arrived. Mr W says he was able to get the car started and that had he had the hour notice 
then he could have  done this in that time. However I think  it reasonable to have expected  the 
car to have been  checked before the start of the day so that at any point  in that day it would 
have been available for collection. Had the car started when the agent arrived then this issue 
wouldnt have arisen. I also note that while the call being made around an hour before 
collection was mentioned verbally there  was no mention  of timing on the email  and so the 
call, had it taken  place, could have been less than an hour before collection.
The email  confirming the collection contained  information about the cancellation  fee and so I 
think Mr W should have been reasonably  aware  this would be charged  if collection  couldnt 
take place. I appreciate the comments made about  the agent not returning when the car was 
started despite still being in the area but I dont  think it unreasonable  that the collection had 
to be rebooked. 
Overall, while  I understand why Mr W is upset that he didnt  receive the call in advance  of 
collection, I think based on the other information  provided it was reasonable that the car 
should have still been available for collection for the full time period. As this wasnt the case  
and the collection  couldnt take place due to the car not starting I dont find it unreasonable 
that collection had to be rebooked and a fee charged.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019. 
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6350563