K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that the vehicle she acquired through  finance  supplied by BMW Financial 
Services (GB) Limited was not of satisfactory quality. And she further complains that the 
servicing requirements of the vehicle were misrepresented. She wants  compensation.
background
Miss R tells us she acquired  a new vehicle in September 2017 from a dealer Ill call M. She 
explains that - at the time she was considering purchasing the vehicle - she discussed 
service costs with M and was told the brakes should  last around 36,000 miles. She says 
shes now had to have  the rear brake pads changed  - in February 2019 - even though  the 
vehicle has only covered around 10,000  miles. Miss R feels that during the course of the 
agreement - four years - this means shes likely to incur significantly increased  servicing  
costs.
BMW told us that brake pads are a general wear and tear item which  is heavily dependent  
upon the driver and driver style. So it wasnt prepared to uphold  Miss Rs complaint.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said the issue  
arose around 18 months after the vehicle had been  supplied. She did not think  there was 
sufficient evidence to suggest that the brakes needed replacing for reasons other than wear 
and tear.
Miss R didnt agree and feels the brake pads which had been on the vehicle when it was 
supplied were sub-standard. As its not been  possible  to resolve this complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Miss R is so concerned and disappointed at the need  to have the brakes  
on this vehicle replaced after such relatively low mileage.
Her complaint consists of two separate elements so I need  to explain our approach to both 
matters. And where evidence is unclear  or incomplete - as some of it is here - I have to 
make my decision  on the balance of probabilities.  That is to say I decide what is the most 
likely explanation to account for whats happened. In trying to resolve complaints, we listen  
to what the parties  tell us, and we look to documentary  and other evidence  to help us reach 
a decision. This is in line with our fair and reasonable remit.
Ill deal first with the issue of the alleged misrepresentation which  refers  to the question of 
the servicing requirements.  A misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces a 
consumer to act upon  it. 
Miss R accepts the mileage figure that she was told she could expect  from the brakes was a 
guide. So I dont think any general  reference to mileage, whatever the figure, was a 
statement of fact. I think it amounts  to no more than a statement of opinion  as to the mileage 
that might  typically be expected to be obtained  under  normal circumstances. Whilst I accept 
10,000 miles was well below this I dont think there was any misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN65669132I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. Relevant  legislation  here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act, 2015  (CRA). This requires an item to be of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. And as this was a new vehicle it should have been free from 
even minor defects as well as being durable.
Briefly summarised, the CRA provides that if a fault arises within the first six months after 
supply it is presumed  to present at the point of supply. But that does not mean  that if a fault 
is only identified later than six months after supply it automatically means  the vehicle was of 
satisfactory when supplied.
Durability is an element  of satisfactory  quality so each  fault has to be considered  on its own 
merits. For example, this was a new vehicle, and so if thered been a major fault such  as the 
vehicle requiring a new gearbox or engine  after 18 months or 10,000  miles - its probable the 
vehicle would not have been  of satisfactory quality.
But here the issue relates to brake  pads  which are a normal serviceable item. That is they 
are routinely  expected to be replaced at intervals in a vehicles lifetime. The frequency  will be 
variable depending upon such features as driving style, terrain  and the use to which a 
vehicle is put. 
I am prepared to accept  Miss Rs view that 10,000 miles is well below the usually expected  
level of use. And whilst Ive no reason to suppose  it was caused by driving style - Ive equally  
no persuasive evidence  as to any alternative  cause. Im therefore  unable to attribute the 
cause to any fault which was present at the point of supply. 
Id also mention that Miss Rs complaint would - if I were to uphold it in the terms she wishes 
- require me to make certain  assumptions  about how the vehicle might perform  in the future. 
I understand why Miss R might think if this set of brake pads has worn  after this period  it 
means any replacement  set will perform  similarly. I dont think  I can make such an 
assumption.
In summary,  I recognise Mr R has been unfortunate to find the brake  pads on this vehicle 
required changing at a relatively  early  stage. But in the absence  of an experts report  
indicating the causation - and given  the numerous possibilities - I think  it would  be pure 
speculation on my part to say it was the result of a fault or manufacturing defect present at 
the point of supply. So whilst I know it will come  as a disappointment to Miss R Im not 
upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6566913