K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania  Internacional  De Seguros y Reaseguros, 
S.A. (Mapfre) declined  his travel insurance claim and about its service.
My references to Mapfre include its agents.
background
Mr W and his wife (who  Ill refer to as Mrs W) went on holiday in Europe. He started feeling 
unwell on the outbound  flight. He saw a doctor  at the hotel where he was staying. Mr W said 
he initially  thought  he had food poisoning but the doctor told him he had a bacterial bowel 
infection, which could  be treated without  going  to hospital.
He attended the doctors  medical  centre daily for treatment  but Mr W was still being sick and 
in a lot of pain.  On the fifth day the doctor  arranged  for Mr W to be taken to a private 
hospital. He had a scan and the following day he had an operation  for an intestinal blockage 
at the hospital.  He claimed for the costs.
Mapfre declined the claim. The policy didnt cover  private in-patient medical treatment. 
Mapfre said it had told Mr W, Mrs W, and the hospital on the day before he had the surgery  
that the costs  wouldnt  be covered. It accepted it had given poor service after Mr Ws 
operation and offered £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by that 
poor service. It paid for the additional  hotel and transport costs  for Mr and Mrs W.
Mr W complained  to us, represented  by a family  member. Mr W said the private hospital told 
him his life was at risk if he didnt have the surgery immediately. He wants Mapfre to pay the 
claim.
Our adjudicator listened to the calls between  Mapfre, Mr and Mrs W and the hospital. She 
explained why she thought Mapfre had fairly  declined the claim. She also thought Mapfres  
£300 offer of compensation for its poor service was reasonable.
Mr W disagrees and wants an ombudsmans decision. His main points are:
the first doctor he saw said the policy would cover him and he should claim the costs 
when he returned  home 
if hed known that he would need surgery when he was seeing  the first doctor he 
would have contacted Mapfre sooner
when he was first in the hospital Mapfre asked to speak to him but he couldnt  as he 
had a tube down his throat. The private  hospital told him he had to be admitted to 
have an x-ray and scan and it would tell him whether an operation  was required. The 
following day he was prepared for the operation and one of the hospital  staff rushed 
up to him and said Mapfre wanted  to transfer  him to a cheaper hospital  
the private hospital told him the cheaper  hospital  was on the other side of the
island but he wasnt fit to travel as he needed the operation in the next few hours
the private hospital told him its chief medical  officer had been on the phone arguing 
the seriousness of his condition but Mapfre still refused  to pay
he had no option but to have  the operation as the private  hospital  told him his life was 
in danger.
Ref: DRN66627932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr W. I know he has paid the hospital  a considerable amount. But 
I dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain  why.
I have to decide whether Mapfre fairly  and reasonably declined the medical expenses claim 
and whether its compensation offer for its poor service was reasonable.
The policy is very clear that a policyholder  must be treated at a medical facility that 
participates in the European Health Insurance Card (EHIC) scheme.  Its also clear there is 
no cover  for private in-patient medical  treatment unless public medical facilities  arent  
available and Mapfre has agreed to pay the cost. Most travel policies have similar terms.
From Mr Ws comments, the first doctor he saw wrongly told him hed be covered by the 
policy. But Mapfre isnt responsible for that doctor giving Mr W wrong information.
Mr W says he didnt contact Mapfre before he got to the private hospital because he thought  
the doctor just wanted a second  opinion. But Mr W had already been seeing a doctor  for five 
days with symptoms that were getting  worse. I think it would have been reasonable for Mr W 
to contact Mapfre considerably sooner than he did to let it know his situation. If he had then 
Mapfre would have  ensured he wasnt taken to a private hospital or medical facility. Its told 
us there  is a public hospital only 3km from the private hospital Mr W was taken to. 
I think Mapfre was put at a disadvantage by Mr W not contacting it sooner.
Ive listened to the relevant calls between Mapfre, the hospital and Mr and Mrs W.
When Mr W arrived at the private hospital  it called Mapfre  about payment of its cost.  At that 
point Mr W was waiting for a scan to see if he needed the surgery.  Mapfre  spoke to the 
hospital, Mrs W then Mr W and told them individually that the policy didnt cover any in-
patient costs and Mr W would need to go to a public hospital. I do understand that Mr W was 
in pain and he and Mrs W were  very worried. But Mapfre did very clearly warn them that the 
policy doesnt cover  in-patient  treatment  at a private  hospital and Mr W would be stuck  with 
the hospital bill.
Mapfre wanted Mr W transferred to a public  hospital. Its medical staff tried to contact Mr Ws 
treating doctor the same day to discuss his condition (as was reasonable),  but the doctor 
wasnt available. Ive seen  a medical  report for the following day which says Mr W wasn't fit 
to be moved to another clinic and required the surgery that day. I havent seen any evidence 
that the private hospital chief medical  officer contacted Mapfre to argue Mr W was in a very 
serious condition.  But from the medical evidence Ive seen I think Mr Ws condition was an 
emergency by that time, albeit the hospital  wouldnt operate until it had payment.
Ive considered very carefully whether the emergency means Mapfre  should pay the surgery 
costs. But I still think its fair for Mapfre to decline the claim.  Ive seen no medical evidence  
that it wasnt safe for Mr W to be transferred to a public hospital on the day he was admitted. 
Even if there  was such evidence, if Mr W had called  Mapfre sooner, as I think he should 
have, he would have  gone to a public hospital  and the private hospital costs would never 
have been incurred.
Ref: DRN66627933The hospital  told Mapfre that Mr W didnt  want the risk of being transferred to a public 
hospital and hed decided to pay for the operation. I appreciate  why he made that decision. 
But as Mapfre had made it so clear  to him that it wouldnt pay for the costs  I dont think he 
could reasonably understand that Mapfre would pay the claim.
In the overall circumstances  Mapfre fairly  and reasonably declined the claim.
Mapfre has accepted  it should have been in contact with Mr W while  and after he was in 
hospital to explain  it could still provide non-financial assistance. It didnt provide assistance 
in arranging additional transport and accommodation after Mr W was discharged from 
hospital. It also unreasonably delayed in providing a substantive response to Mr Ws 
complaint. However,  I think  the £300  offer of compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience due to that poor service was reasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.  
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6662793