K821x#15complaint
Mr G has complained Vanquis Bank Limited  added charges to his credit card account.  He 
was also concerned at the number of phone calls he received when he was unable to pay 
his monthly bill.
background
Mr G opened a credit card account  with Vanquis  in 2013. At the time Mr G was in his 70s 
and getting his state and a small private pension. He wasnt  anticipating any change to his 
personal circumstances.  
He was initially granted a credit limit of £500. This was increased  to £3,000 in less than two 
and half years. In May 2017 Mr G got in touch with us. He complained about his credit limits 
being increased and being  encouraged  to take out more debt. He was also concerned at the 
amounts he was paying to Vanquis for his repayment option plan. We referred  this to 
Vanquis on his behalf.
Vanquis didnt  believe  theyd done  anything  wrong.  All of Mr Gs charges were in line with his 
terms and conditions. Mr G had only made two monthly payments towards his credit  card 
account in 2017. Vanquis  had made more than 100 calls to Mr G about his missed payments 
in the period of a month.  These  went unanswered. However having considered  the issues 
with Mr Gs repayment option plan, Vanquis  offered to refund all those charges, along  with 
interest on those charges  and any related over-limit charges. This worked out at over 
£1,385.
Our initial investigator thought this offer was a fair outcome.  He also asked Vanquis to pay 
Mr G £150 for the number  of calls made  to him which was likely  to have caused him some  
distress. Mr G was still concerned hed been  given  credit  limit increases when he couldnt 
afford them.
After reviewing what checks  Vanquis  had carried out before changing  Mr Gs credit limit, our 
investigator also got hold of Mr Gs bank  statements  around  this period. She was concerned 
Vanquiss checks were inadequate. It was the last credit limit increase which had tipped Mr 
G into unaffordability. She asked Vanquis  to refund all charges and interest that had been 
charged after Mr Gs credit  limit was increased to £3,000, along with the other  agreed 
redress.
Mr G accepted this outcome. Vanquis didnt. They didnt feel theyd breached  rules  around 
assessing credit worthiness during  the course of an agreement. They  drew  attention  to The 
UK Card Associations best practice guidelines, as well as CONC, to show their offer to 
increase Mr Gs credit limit was not irresponsible.
This complaint was passed to me to make  a decision. I completed a provisional  decision on 
8 May 2019.  I didnt  believe  Vanquis had acted  fairly  in increasing  Mr Gs credit limit to 
£3,000. I told them  Id be asking them to refund all interest and charges levied after the 
credit limit increase. I also thought  their calls caused Mr G distress so asked them to pay him 
£300 in total.
Mr G accepted the provisional decision.  Vanquis  did not respond. Vanquis provided further 
evidence to show they believed Mr G understood the increases he  was being 
offered. Im now in a position to complete my final decision.
Ref: DRN61476982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive seen nothing to suggest I need to 
revise my provisional decision so Ive repeated  the reasoning here.
I firstly considered Vanquiss  offer to refund all Mr Gs repayment  option plan charges and 
associated fees and charges. This seems  reasonable. Ive not seen any evidence  to show 
whether Mr G understood what he was making this monthly payment for and what he was 
getting in return. He was certainly concerned when he first came to us in May 2017  that this 
feature was costing  him over £30 a month. Im satisfied Vanquiss  offer is fair and 
reasonable.
Ive gone on to consider whether it was right for Vanquis to increase Mr Gs credit limit.
Ill start by confirming some of what Vanquis stated in their response  to us last September.  
Theyre right in saying  they checked how Mr G had been handling his existing  financial  
commitments along with carrying out a credit scoring assessment. This did meet the 
requirements of the former UK Card Association  best practice guidelines. These would have 
been in force at the time Mr Gs credit limits  were increased. There were  also rules  within  the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook, set out in the Financial Conduct Authoritys handbook. 
Vanquis is right about the location of the requirements to assess  creditworthiness during  the 
credit agreement. (Although these were substantially updated in 2018.)
Mr Gs credit limit increased in jumps  of £500,  or £750. In slightly more than two years, his 
credit limit went  from £500 to £3,000. This is a substantial increase  600%  without there  
being any indication  that Mr G needed  or wanted these. As Vanquis has stated  Mr Gs 
outstanding balances had not significantly increased throughout the period under review. 
So it seems  clear to me Vanquis werent  increasing Mr Gs credit limits to meet any need 
identified by him. 
So what  purpose  did these credit limits serve?  Its hard to escape the idea that Vanquis were  
hoping by offering  Mr G more credit, he would be tempted  to use more  credit.
I understand, in line with guidelines at the time,  Mr G will have had the opportunity to opt out 
of these increases.  But I dont know  whether he clearly understood this option. Mr G has told 
us hes poor moneywise  so its more than likely not.
Ref: DRN61476983Vanquis provided us with two phone calls to Mr G about the credit increases  he was given.  
They believe  this shows he understood what was happening.  Ive considered  this along  with 
Mr Gs evidence he didnt clearly understand this. On balance  taking into account  Mr Gs 
circumstances, I dont  think  he full understood this process.  But I will also add this isnt the 
main reason  I decided  the latter increase should  not have been given.
I can see that there were  no obvious  triggers in how Mr G ran his account  that would 
suggest he was suffering  from financial  difficulties  up to December 2015. However theres no 
doubt Mr G was in financial difficulties by 2017. Vanquis dont dispute  they made no attempt  
to assess Mr Gs income at the time his credit  limits were increased.  But in fact they would  
have been aware  of Mr Gs age and personal circumstances. Mr Gs income remained 
substantially constant  throughout  this period. He had a limited income which  Vanquis  would  
have known. Vanquis are concerned I believe they should have taken his age into account.  
I should clarify: when  I say age and personal  circumstances I mean  the fact Mr G only ever 
had a limited income.
Their checks may have shown nothing to suggest an increase in his credit  limit would be 
unaffordable but I believe taking into account his personal circumstances and information 
they already knew  should have caused Vanquis to reflect. As Mr Gs credit limit increased to 
£3,000, his potential minimum repayment  was also likely to increase. This would have a 
substantial impact on someone on a fixed income.
By April 2016 Mr Gs bank statements show that he was overdrawn on a regular basis.  He 
was also regularly only making slightly more than the minimum repayment towards his credit 
card. Rather than before where hed often  pay twice the minimum. After  never  missing  a 
credit card payment, he missed payments in February and March 2017. He made  a payment 
in April 2017 but was already in arrears  by that stage.
Hed also increased his spending on his credit  card. His debt increased from £1,500 in 
October 2015 to £2,600 a year later. By April 2017 his credit card debt exceeded  his credit 
limit. As Mr Gs debt had grown, hed become increasingly unable  to meet his financial 
commitments and concerned at the amount he owed.
Taking all this into consideration,  I believe  the credit limit increase to £3,000 in January 2016 
was unaffordable.  This made Mr Gs ability  to manage financially on a fixed  income  much  
worse. To put things  right Vanquis  need to refund all interest  and charges applied  to Mr Gs 
account after his credit limit was increased to £3,000.
Ive also considered the phone calls Mr G received in April to May 2017. This is what 
triggered him to contact  us as they were causing him so much  distress. Mr G lives on his 
own. Hes told us these people have caused my health to get worse with their bombardment  
of phone calls every day. Vanquis admit  their systems are geared up to make three phone 
calls every day per phone number they hold on record. Mr G has two phone numbers. 
Although he wasnt  answering the phone, I get the clear idea he felt under siege. Our 
investigator felt that £150 was an appropriate  amount.  But I dont. Im going to ask Vanquis 
to increase this to £300 to reflect the level of distress their actions had on Mr G.
Once Mr Gs credit  card account  has been adjusted Im sure he may still owe some money 
to Vanquis. They will now be aware of Mr Gs financial position and will discuss with him how 
this debt can be repaid  in a manageable manner.
Ref: DRN61476984my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to uphold Mr Gs complaint against Vanquis 
Bank Limited. To put things right,  Im instructing them to:
 Refund all Mr Gs charges for his repayment option plan, along with 
associated fees and charges;
 Refund all interest  and fees added to Mr Gs account after his credit  limit 
increase to £3,000 took effect;
 Make  arrangements with Mr G to repay any outstanding debt in a positive and 
sympathetic manner; and
 Pay Mr G £300 for the distress  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6147698