K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that U K Insurance  Limited (UKI)  refused to pay a claim made under her 
home contents insurance policy.
background
In December 2017 Miss P called her insurer to register a claim on her home contents 
insurance. In this first call Miss P called to report the theft of data from her hard drive.  She 
was told this was declined due to there being  no monetary value. Following  this Miss P told 
UKI she had three hard drives, and later six, which had been damaged when she dropped 
them. She also said she dropped her laptop.
UKI looked into the claim and spoke with Miss P in early  January 2018. At this point Miss P 
said she was claiming for six hard drives, four USB sticks  and one laptop. She wasnt  able to 
confirm when all of these  were purchased or how long ago. UKI asked for proof of purchase  
for these  items but Miss P was only able to provide this for the laptop  and one hard drive.
On 20 February 2018 UKI sent a letter a to Miss P explaining the concerns it had about the 
claim  specifically that Miss P had not been consistent with what  happened and how the 
items were damaged. It asked for damage  reports for each item and for Miss P to provide an 
explanation to its concerns about the reported reasons for damage changing over time.
Miss P provided a quote for the data recovery from the items. This detailed  what  the fault 
was with each  item but didnt provide any analysis of how the damage occurred.  In June 
2018 UKI told Miss P it was closing  the claim. It said there  wasnt  enough information to 
support how the loss occurred, and that data loss isnt covered under policy.
Miss P complained about the handling  of the claim to UKI and then this service. Our 
investigator looked at the complaint and said she didnt  think UKI need to do anything  else.  
She felt based on the information provided and when considering  what  the policy  covers, 
she didnt think it would  be fair to ask UKI to reassess  or pay the claim.
Miss P disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  I know  this will be disappointing for Miss P, but Ill explain why.
When considering  whether  UKI has considered Miss Ps claim  fairly,  Ive taken account of all 
relevant law, industry guidance and good practice. UKI has an obligation under Insurance 
Code of Business  Sourcebook (ICOBS) 8.1.1 to handle claims promptly  and fairly, giving the 
policy holder reasonable guidance  and help to make the claim and progress it. It should  also 
not unreasonably  reject  a claim.
In this case UKI had concerns about  how the damage to Miss Ps items  occurred. And in 
February 2018 it wrote to her to explain this and set out what it needed from her to help 
progress the claim.  It waited until June 2018  to receive this information but because Miss P 
didnt provide it, the claim was closed down. 
Ref: DRN60553432This claim  evolved from one for a single hard drive, later to six with USB sticks and a laptop  
too. UKI sought  clarification from Miss P about  how the damage occurred  which I think  was 
reasonable  and I havent seen anything to suggest  she answered these questions.
Miss Ps claim was for damage to her electrical items and computer including the loss of 
data from these devices.  The policy says there  is accidental damage cover  for computers 
and electrical items but it says the following is excluded:
Compact disc programmes, any software manuals or any costs following rebuilding of 
software data.
Based on this, I dont  think  UKI has been  unfair when it said the data recovery isnt covered 
under Miss Ps policy. The invoice Miss P provided  is from a data recovery firm and details  
the cost of recovering the data from the damaged hard drives, USB sticks and laptop. It 
doesnt give any confirmation of how the damage  happened bar one mention of shock  
damage (dropped). With so many  items  being  claimed for and with the main damage 
highlighted being data loss, I dont think UKI has been unfair when  it said it will not pay this.
Overall I think  UKI has handled  Miss Ps claim fairly, taking steps to allow her to provide the 
information to support  her claim before reaching  a decision. 
UKI hasnt  rejected Miss Ps claim but simply closed  this as it doesnt  have enough  
information to accept or reject it. And based on what Ive seen, I think its been fair to do this. 
So I wont  be asking UKI to do anything else with Miss Ps claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 July 2019.
Thomas Brissenden
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6055343