K821x#15Complaint
Mr R complains that esure Insurance Limited cancelled  his car insurance policy in error. 
Background
On 6 September 2018, Mr R insured his car through esure. On 26 September,  esure 
emailed him to ask for some additional documentation. The email said esure needed  these 
documents by 3 October or the policy would  be cancelled. 
On 29 September,  Mr R says he emailed  esure  the documents  and received  an automated 
acknowledgement email  from them. 
On 3 October,  esure  cancelled  Mr Rs policy because they said he hadnt supplied  the 
information. 
On 8 October,  Mr R got in touch with esure  about  the cancellation. While speaking  to esure 
on the phone, he emailed  the required documentation and esure reinstated his policy.  They 
also indemnified  him to drive from 3 October 2018.  
Mr R complained. He said that discovering he was uninsured was very stressful and esure  
should pay his annual car insurance premium to compensate him. Esure  didnt uphold 
Mr Rs complaint. They said he hadnt  sent the required information.
Mr R asked our service  to get involved and one of our investigators looked at the evidence.  
Our investigator recommended upholding the complaint and paying Mr R £100 for the worry 
esure had caused.  
Mr R thought this compensation wasnt enough. So he asked for an ombudsman to review  
his complaint.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. I have  very little to add to what she said. 
The evidence shows that Mr R emailed  esure  all the information  they asked for on 
29 September, well within  their deadline. He received an acknowledgement  email  from them  
on that date. So Im satisfied that esure  shouldnt  have cancelled  Mr Rs insurance. 
Mr R was left driving without insurance for five days  because of esures error. He says this 
was very stressful for him and Im satisfied it would have been worrying. The decision for me 
is how much  compensation is fair for this distress. 
I know Mr R has told us hed like his insurance premium  refunded,  in view of esures error. I 
dont think this would be fair to esure.  It may help if I explain  that our general approach  is to 
expect firms to put customers back in as close as possible  to the position  theyd be in if the 
mistake hadnt happened.  But if I direct esure to refund Mr Rs premium, that would put him 
in a better position  than hed have been  in without the error. So Im not going to do that. But I 
am going to direct them to compensate him for the impact their mistake  had in terms of the 
stress and worry it caused.  
Ref: DRN67228662Mr R hasnt been able to recall exactly when he found out he was uninsured. Clearly he 
didnt know for the whole five days.  And he cant have been stressed about it before he 
found out. But hes told us that he needed to go to a doctor that weekend because  he was 
so stressed. The 8 October, when Mr R phoned esure and managed  to sort everything out, 
was a Monday.  So I think its likely that he found  out he was uninsured two or three days 
before this. Compensation for this kind of distress  isnt an exact science. But I agree with our 
investigator that £100 is fair. I say this because while Im sure it was stressful, it was only for 
a relatively short amount  of time.  
My final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct esure  Insurance  Limited to pay Mr R £100  as 
compensation for the upset theyve  caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 September 2019.
Louise Bardell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6722866