K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) gave him loans 
that he couldnt afford.
background
Mr O took out four instalment  loans with Satsuma between August 2016  and March  2018. At 
the time of his complaint  loan 4 was still running  and I havent  seen any information to 
suggest that it hasnt  been paid. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld in part. In summary,  he 
thought that the checks Satsuma did before making the first loan went  far enough. But he 
didnt think it had carried out adequate checks before making the other  loans given Mr Os 
repayment difficulties.  And he thought that proportionate checks  when Mr O applied for loans 
2 to 4 would have shown  that he wasnt borrowing sustainably. So she recommended  that 
Satsuma refund all interest and charges  that Mr O paid on loans  2 to 4, with interest on the 
refund. 
Satsuma initially didnt  respond but after the complaint had been referred to me it wrote to 
say it didnt agree and said that Mr O did not demonstrate any difficulty in repaying  his loans 
and when he did this was because of a change in circumstances rather  than financial 
difficulty. It said there was nothing  to suggest  that he couldnt meet  his repayments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN69315292There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish whether 
Mr O could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Os complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicator that it wasnt wrong  for Satsuma to give Mr O loan 1. I say this 
because this was early in the lending relationship and there  was nothing in the information 
given by Mr O to suggest that further checks were necessary. Mr O borrowed  £500 over 26 
weeks with a weekly repayment of £36.83. He said he was earning £1900 and his outgoings 
were £1216.  
Mr O struggled  to repay this loan and took nearly  52 weeks to pay off the loan instead  of the 
original 26 weeks. Mr O said he was having financial difficulties because  of unexpected bills 
and late payment of his wages. Whilst I dont think Satsuma could have anticipated these 
difficulties when deciding  to give Mr O the first loan I think  it should have looked more closely 
at his finances before deciding to give Mr O the second loan.
Just over a month after Mr O repaid the first loan he asked for a further loan of £200  
repayable in 5 monthly instalments of £70. Given Mr Os previous repayment history and the 
information he had given about his income and outgoings I think  that there were signs that 
Mr O was struggling to manage his finances  and further borrowing was likely  to be 
unsustainable. I think that Satsuma should  have done more to check  that Mr O could afford 
to repay  this loan and should have specifically asked whether Mr O had any other short term 
credit. I think Satsuma needed  to do more to verify what Mr O was saying about his financial 
situation given  his declared disposable  income  seemed  to be at odds  with his borrowing 
pattern. Had Satsuma done  these additional  checks it would have discovered that Mr O was 
having problems  managing his money. So, like the adjudicator, I agree that loan 2 should not 
have been given to Mr O. Given the size of the repayment and what Satsuma should  have  
discovered it was likely that Mr O would need  to borrow further to sustainably  repay  this 
loan. 
Mr O repaid loan 2 early  on the 29 November 2017. This might  further  suggest  that he had 
borrowed elsewhere to meet  his repayment. A few weeks later on 30 December 2017 Mr O 
applied to borrow £400. I think at this point  Satsuma could  no longer rely on what  Mr O was 
saying about his finances and should have verified  his income and outgoings  as his 
borrowing pattern  suggested he was reliant  on short term credit.  
Ref: DRN69315293  
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mr O, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Os case, I think this point was reached by loan 3. 
I say this because:
Mr O took out loan 3 for a significant amount only a short time after repaying  loan 2 and 
after a protracted  repayment of loan 1. I think this should have put Satsuma on notice 
that it was likely that Mr O was having problems managing his money. So I think  it should 
have been concerned  that he wouldnt be able to repay the loan sustainably.
Mr O continued to borrow  from Satsuma  without any significant break until he was 
unable to repay what he had borrowed after taking out loan 4.
I think that Mr O lost out because Satsuma  continued to provide borrowing  from loan three 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Os indebtedness by allowing  him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Mr O had been  borrowing 
from Satsuma,  was likely to have  had negative implications on Mr Os ability  to access 
mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  for these high-cost loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 2 to 4. Mr O has had the benefit of the money so 
it is only fair that he pays it back and so Satsuma can deduct any capital amount still 
outstanding after the refund of interest  and charges on the final loan.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
Satsuma should:
refund  all interest and charges Mr O paid on loans 2 to 4 inclusive;
write off any interest and charges not yet paid;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
apply the refund to offset any capital  balance outstanding before paying the balance to 
Mr O.
Refund any adverse  information recorded  about  loan 2.
the number  of loans Mr O has taken with Satsuma and the total length of time hed been 
borrowing from it means any information  recorded about loans 3 and 4 is adverse. So all 
entries about these  loans  should be removed from Mr Os credit file;
Ref: DRN69315294 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mr O a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Provident  Personal Credit 
(trading as Satsuma) to put things right by doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6931529