K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that his mortgage endowment policy was mis-sold.  Mr D says the policy was 
sold to him by an independent  financial adviser  (IFA) but he thinks Bank  of Scotland  plc 
(trading as Halifax) should  be liable as the IFA rented  desk  space in a Halifax  branch.
 background
Mr D took out the policy in April 1988 and it matured in 2013  with a shortfall. Mr D 
complained to Halifax in 2019 and it said it wasnt responsible for the sale of the policy. The 
policy provider has told us the policy was sold to Mr D by an IFA, something it had told Mr D 
in July 2003 and June  2004 when hed previously  complained to it about the policy.
Our investigator said the IFA was responsible for the advice  given, not Halifax. Mr D didnt 
agree so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The IFA wasnt an agent of Halifax for this sale;  the businesses in question  just didnt have 
that relationship.  The fact the IFA had desk space  within a Halifax  branch didnt make it 
Halifaxs agent. And renting out some  desk space to another business doesnt make  the 
landlord business  responsible for the actions of the tenant business. This wasnt  an 
unusual set-up at that time and the businesses remained independent of each  other.
There are no grounds for me to hold Halifax responsible for advice  given by an IFA just 
because that IFA was based in its branch. Mr D appointed the IFA to act on his behalf  as his 
agent and Halifax  wasnt involved in that customer/adviser relationship.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means well not be engaging  in any further consideration or discussion of 
the merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Mr D to accept  or reject  my decision before  8 September 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6468438