K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 1997 at the same time as taking out a mortgage. He applied for 
the mortgage and PPI policy in a meeting with a B&B member of staff which  Mr M says took 
place in his home. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £200 a month towards Mr Ms mortgage 
balance and other related mortgage  expenses in the event of a successful claim.  At the time,  
it cost £13.00 a month, after a period of six months free cover.  
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a crystal engraver. He has told us he was entitled to at 
least three months full sick pay and would also receive redundancy pay equal  to three 
months pay. B&B has sent us documentation from Mr Ms employers at the time and this 
shows he was entitled to six months  full sick pay. Mr M has said he was in good health at 
the time of the sale. 
B&B has sent us screenshots  to show that the mortgage account closed in 2002. 
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ms representative  says:
B&B failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means B&B should have told 
Mr M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means B&B should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr M and the impact 
they would  have had on his chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
Ref: DRN66672142The information Mr M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and been given the 
opportunity to provide their responses  to the adjudicators opinion.  Mr M disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion for several reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1997 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN66672143I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ms case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, contract  (including the express  and implied duty on professional advisers to give 
advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence; the law relating to the utmost  duty of good 
faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness). 
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised  Mr M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
-Whether B&B gave  Mr M sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and B&B,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mr M know he had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ref: DRN66672144Ive been given a copy of the mortgage application  form completed at the time and this 
includes a section about PPI. In this section there is a box to complete  with Yes or No, 
depending on whether the PPI is required.  On Mr Ms form I can see that the word Yes has 
been entered in the relevant box. I can also see that the option to take injury, illness and 
unemployment cover  has been ticked,  along with amounts  entered  detailing the monthly 
benefit required in the event of a claim. Mr M has signed the overall form which  suggests  he 
agreed with everything  that had been  entered. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr M knew  the policy was optional 
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
Both B&B and Mr M agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. 
This means  B&B didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr M. Instead,  it had to give 
him sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable him to make an informed choice 
about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a 
clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of the policy and significant 
limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr M was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the monthly benefit. I 
have reached this conclusion because on the mortgage application Mr M had to choose  the 
level of cover he wanted and he chose the one described as illness, injury and 
unemployment. The application also included information about  the loan repayments  and 
the amount of monthly benefit required.  
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  B&B gave sufficient 
information about the cost of the policy  or the exclusions or limitations before Mr M agreed to 
take out the policy. 
So I dont  think B&B gave Mr M sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers to be poor 
Ref: DRN66672145value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that B&B ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr M? To what extent  did Mr M suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that B&B didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr M. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  he suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr M would  have still 
taken out the policy,  had B&B done  things properly. 
Mr M says he would not have taken  it out and believes  I should  presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr M had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr M thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr M was given about the benefit was clear. But the information about other 
aspects of the policy, such as the cost, limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should 
have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear B&B told him the exact premium at the point he applied  for 
the policy. Having  said that, it seems  likely  Mr M would have been told the cost before the 
policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the costs  were 
significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale,  its possible he might  have  
raised that with B&B at the time, or reconsidered  his decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr M would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
Ref: DRN66672146Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to an injury or illness  of which  Mr M was aware or 
sought treatment  for during the two years before the policy  commenced. This 
limitation ceased to apply when Mr M had been  insured under the policy  for two 
years and had two consecutive years  without treatment or advice; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr M 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
attend to his usual gainful employment  or business or any other  gainful  employment 
or business for which he was fitted by knowledge or training;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude that the policy  
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking  out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. Mr M was eligible  for its benefits and it provided cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest Mr M 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  he didnt have any pre-existing 
medical conditions  and was in permanent  employment. So, I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was unable to do both his job and 
any other gainful employment which, in the insurers view, he was fitted by knowledge and 
training, it might have  played into his thinking  about what he would have done. And I accept 
it may have  given him pause for thought  although  its possible he may not have been 
overly concerned given  that if he was unable (through disability) to carry on his own 
occupation the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
B&B may not have  told Mr M that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-month period.  
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months  
was a longer period than Mr M would have received full sick pay for and his statutory and 
enhanced redundancy  entitlement  was also likely to be significantly less than 12 months 
income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr M would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr M be unable to work in the circumstances  covered  by 
Ref: DRN66672147the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure his home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mr Ms sick pay or redundancy  money for other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what 
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he was made redundant, or unable to work through  accident  or disability. In 
the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr M would have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M would  not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as result  of the sale was the same  position he would  have been  in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude B&B should pay Mr M compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  B&B misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of B&Bs  
Ref: DRN66672148statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1997 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find B&B negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr M and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that B&B had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6667214