K820x#14complaint
Mrs F complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc has treated her unfairly regarding  her mortgage. 
She says it failed to secure two endowment policies to the mortgage and let her ex-husband 
cash one in without  her knowledge. 
She also complains that the mortgage correspondence address was changed  to that of her 
ex-husband and so she hasnt received information for a number  of years and didnt know 
that the mortgage term was ending in 2018. Mrs F says that this led to her missing  out on a 
mortgage through transitional arrangements.
background
In 2003 Mrs F took out an interest  only mortgage  with her now ex-husband. She says that 
two endowment policies were  taken out alongside  it and that HSBC  should have assigned 
these to the mortgage. 
Mrs F and her ex-husband  separated some years ago. Mrs F has remained in the property 
and made  the mortgage payments. The mortgage  term ended  in 2018  and final payment to 
the account was made in 2020.  
She complains, in summary, that HSBC:
failed to register the endowment policies to the mortgage  this allowed her ex-
husband to cash  one in and she incurred  legal costs in recovering the second policy
changed the correspondence address for the mortgage to that of her ex-husband, 
which meant she hasnt  received information for several years and didnt know  the 
term was coming  to an end
caused delays  which resulted in her missing out on a mortgage  through  transitional 
arrangements
declined her application to make  changes to her mortgage
has recorded adverse  information on her and her families  credit files
To put things right, Mrs F would like HSBC  to agree to make changes  to her mortgage  under 
the transitional arrangements, to address the shortfall and allow her to buy her ex-husband 
out of the property. 
HSBC replied to the complaint to say it hadnt  done  anything wrong and that it was the 
responsibility of all parties named on the mortgage to be aware of when it needs to be repaid 
by. It also said it wasnt  HSBCs responsibility  to ensure the endowment policies were 
registered to the mortgage.  
Mrs F brought her complaint to this service. It was initially thought that some aspects of the 
complaint couldnt  be considered as they had been  brought too late, but another  
ombudsman issued a decision  which  concluded that this service can consider her complaint  
about not receiving  correspondence from HSBC from 2012 onwards  in addition to her 
other points.  
The complaint was reviewed by an investigator who thought that HSBC hadnt  treated  her 
unfairly. Mrs F disagreed  and asked an ombudsman to review the matter. 
Ref: DRN68670972my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this is an important 
matter for Mrs F and have  fully considered the submissions that her and her husband  have 
made.  
Endowment policies
Mrs F has said that HSBC failed to register its interest in the endowment policies that, at the 
time of taking the mortgage out in 2003, were  planned to repay the capital. HSBC has said 
that Mrs F and her ex-husband  re-mortgaged from a different lender so it didnt mis-sell  the 
mortgage on this basis and that only the business that sold the endowment  policies would 
know about the sale. It also said that their notes reflect that one of the endowment policies 
was in a sole name.  
Ive considered the original mortgage application  and have  noted  that page  12 states: for an 
endowment type mortgage we do require endowment policies of sufficient value to cover  the 
loan to be lodged  with us and for our interest in them to be noted by the insurer
I think this is sufficiently clear that its the responsibility of the borrower to make sure HSBCs 
interest is registered. Unfortunately, this didnt happen, but I dont consider that HSBC has 
done anything  wrong in this regard.
I understand that Mrs F was able to recover  funds  of around  £14,000 for one endowment  
policy which  was paid to the outstanding balance, but that she incurred legal costs in doing 
so. And the other policy was cashed  in. Considering the mortgage  application,  one of the 
policies appears  to have been  in Mrs Fs ex-husbands  sole name. Whilst I appreciate  that 
this is disappointing  for Mrs F to not have the proceeds of both of these paid towards  the 
mortgage  I dont agree that HSBC  did anything wrong here. 
Correspondence and customer  service from HSBC
The correspondence address was changed some years ago to that of Mrs Fs ex-husband 
and so she hasnt  received letters  and says that she didnt know  that the term was coming to 
an end. She says it was only by chance that they found out the mortgage was coming to an 
end because her and her new husband had been  into a branch to discuss the account. 
I agree  that its unfortunate that she didnt receive  correspondence and that HSBC should 
have been sending these to both parties.  But I think that Mrs F could  have asked HSBC  why 
she was not receiving these letters, especially as she was making the payments. Whilst I 
accept that she might  not have known the exact  date that the mortgage was coming to an 
end, I do think she would  have had an idea of a rough timeframe. It appears that HSBC 
changed the address on the request of the other party and that letters  were  still addressed  to 
the other party and Mrs F. HSBC  doesnt appear to have been  told about the separation until 
2018 so I dont think its treated Mrs F unfairly as it was acting on instructions of one party.
Ive also seen from the contact notes that Mrs F requested a redemption  statement around 
2014, but that this appears  to have been sent to the correspondence address on file  which 
was her ex-husbands address. If she didnt receive this information, I think  she could have 
contacted HSBC. 
Ref: DRN68670973I do appreciate that this is frustrating for Mrs F but I dont think  HSBC has done anything 
wrong here or treated  her unfairly.  And its worth  noting that the balance  was still due at the 
end of the term  regardless  of whether correspondence had been received or not. 
Delays
Mrs F also complains  about delays caused by a branch. She says that she approached a 
branch prior to the term expiring to make changes to the mortgage  and have  it transferred 
into her sole name. She says she was told that the account would be put on hold so this 
could be looked  into, but this didnt happen and the account was transferred  to collections  
and that this meant they cant make changes  anymore.  
Mrs F has said that HSBCs actions  meant  that they missed out on a transitional  mortgage.
I understand that there was some  initial confusion,  but I dont agree that this meant that 
Mrs F missed out on making  changes to the mortgage. As the changes  requested  were  quite 
complicated, this needed  to be considered  by a specialist  team. And HSBC did consider the 
application, but it was declined for different reasons. As the account was in joint names, any 
changes needed  to be agreed  by both parties. 
At this point the balance was due and on hold means that calls and messages would be 
stopped for a period  of time.  It doesnt mean  that the account would be placed on hold and I 
havent seen anything to suggest that it was affected  by being passed to the collections 
team, as HSBC still considered the application.  
Application 
The mortgage term expired in 2018  and Mrs F and her new husband  applied  for a mortgage  
of around £33,000  over 25 years,  on a capital repayment basis.  They have referred  to this as 
a transitional mortgage  following their in-branch conversations with HSBC.  
There are provisions within  the relevant rules that allow for existing borrowers  to apply to 
make changes to their mortgage  that a lender shouldnt decline purely for affordability 
reasons - if it would otherwise be in their best interests to grant it (MCOB  11.7.1). These are 
referred to as transitional arrangements   because they were implemented  to ensure that 
borrowers who held mortgages prior to rule changes are not treated unfairly because  of the 
more stringent checks required. 
 
But in assessing what might be in a borrowers best interests, a lender must consider this for 
all named parties to the mortgage.  Here,  the mortgage was still in the joint names  of Mrs F 
and her ex-husband at the time of applying. And although Mrs F was asking  to buy her ex-
husband out of the property, this requires consent from both parties. Mrs F and her ex-
husband were  jointly  and severally  liable  for the mortgage debt and this means that, they are 
both responsible for a share  or the whole balance separately.  If HSBC  were to remove  one 
party, this reduces their ability to recover the outstanding balance. 
In any event, it could  not do this because it didnt have the consent of both parties  and, as 
Mrs F has said, she and her husband were not in a position to buy the other  party out 
without a mortgage. Its also worth noting  that from the information Ive seen, HSBC did 
consider the application. It assessed how affordable it would have been for Mrs F and her 
husband and concluded that it wasnt, based on the income provided. From what  Ive seen, I 
dont think this was an unfair assessment. And I dont think  HSBC should have granted the 
Ref: DRN68670974mortgage but for this assessment, as, from the information available  to me the payments 
didnt appear to be sustainable so it wouldnt have otherwise been in their best interests. 
I understand that the matter was later reviewed by a court who decided  that the property 
needed to be sold. The account has now been  settled with HSBC.
Credit file
HSBC has said that it hasnt recorded  any adverse information on credit files. But it does 
have a duty to record  accurate information and its recorded that the mortgage was repaid  in 
August 2020.  
Considering this, I dont  think  that HSBC has done  anything  wrong  in recording the correct 
information on Mrs Fs credit file. Im aware  that Mrs Fs husband  has separate  accounts  
with HSBC so this may be a matter he wishes to take up with it separately if he believes hes 
been refused  credit  elsewhere due to HSBCs  actions. 
Conclusions
I understand that this must have been  a difficult  time for Mrs F and can appreciate the 
frustrations shes experienced in trying  to make these changes but ultimately  I dont think 
that HSBC has done  anything wrong or treated  her unfairly. 
And Im mindful that it waited for more than two years after the end of the mortgage term for 
the account to be settled,  without pursuing the balance through litigation.  I think  HSBC  gave  
fair consideration to the application but unfortunately, the changes  were not possible without 
consent of all the parties to the mortgage.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my decision is that I dont  uphold this complaint against  
HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2021.
Camilla Finnigan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6867097