K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) wont  allow him to convert his bank 
account to a Gold packaged  account,  as the Gold account is no longer available.
background
Mr H has held two separate accounts with Lloyds. Ill explain the history of both of them 
before I go any further.
account ending  4560 was:
opened as a Classic  account on 10 August 2015
upgraded to a Platinum packaged  account  on 1 December 2017
account ending  5650 was:
opened as a Silver packaged account  on 20 September 2007
upgraded to a Gold packaged account  on 5 April 2011
closed on 28 February 2017
The Silver,  Gold and Platinum accounts  are packaged accounts. Packaged  accounts  
typically come with a range of insurance  and banking  benefits, in return  for the account 
holder paying  a monthly subscription  fee.
Mr H explains  that the benefits of the Gold account  suited him better than those of the 
Platinum account,  so he asked Lloyds to change his Platinum account bank to a Gold 
account, and it looks like this was around April 2018. Lloyds says it isnt able to do that, as it 
no longer offers the Gold account.
Mr H says that he was never  told that he wouldnt be able to take out the Gold  account again 
if he wanted it. And I note hes provided a screen shot of Lloyds website, which says the 
Gold account is not available to new customers.  Mr H says that this restriction  shouldnt  
apply to him, as hes an existing customer  of Lloyds and not a new customer.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that Lloyds had resolved the complaint unfairly so she 
didnt recommend that Lloyds needed  to put anything right.  Mr H didnt agree so he asked 
for an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
After giving Mr Hs complaint a lot of thought, Im not upholding it. Ill explain why.
Mr H closed his Gold account  in February 2017. His Classic account continued to run as a 
separate account until December 2017,  when it was upgraded to a Platinum account.  The 
contact notes that Lloyds has provided from that time suggest that Mr H took the Platinum 
account because  the benefits  suited his needs.
Ref: DRN61205122I understand that Mr H says he wasnt told at the time of closing his Gold  account that he 
wouldnt be able to have  a Gold account again. Whilst theres little other information about 
that time available, I dont  doubt that Mr Hs recollection is accurate. But I also need to 
consider whether things had gone differently   and thats to say, if Lloyds had told Mr H that 
he couldnt have  had the Gold account again  at some point in the future  whether hed have 
changed his course  of action.
Having carefully thought  about this point, I dont think its reasonable to say that Mr H would 
most likely have kept his Gold account if Lloyds told him at the point he closed it that he 
wouldnt be able to have  the Gold account again.  The reason I say this is because after Mr H 
closed the account, he didnt hold a packaged  account at all for around  nine months. And 
then when he chose  to take a packaged  account  again he took a Platinum  account.  So I 
dont think Mr H wouldve factored the future availability of the Gold  account  into his decision 
to close his account, and I dont think at that point hed have known  he might want the 
account again over a year later. I think its more likely he closed the Gold  account because 
he simply didnt want it any more. 
Lloyds says it sent a letter  to its Gold account customers in 2013 to let them  know  about the 
withdrawal of the Gold account  from sale to new customers  although existing customers 
were able to keep the account. Mr H says he didnt receive this letter.
I accept that Mr H may not have received the letter Lloyds says it sent,  and I havent  seen  
any evidence of it being sent.  But even  so, for the same reasons as Ive already explained, 
this doesnt affect  my decision in the circumstances.  I dont think Mr H wouldve changed his 
mind and decided  not to close  his Gold account,  even if he had received the letter in 
question.
Ive reviewed the screen shot of Lloyds  website that Mr H has provided.  The website 
explains that the Gold account  is no longer available to new customers, but as Ive 
explained, Mr H rightly  says that hes not a new customer  to Lloyds.
I do agree  that Lloyds  website could be clearer about how it defines a new  customer  and 
I can certainly agree that Mr H isnt a new customer in terms of his relationship  with Lloyds.  
But Mr H would be considered a new customer to the Gold account. And whilst I can 
understand why this lack of clarity is frustrating, it doesnt make me think  that Mr H wouldve 
changed his decision  in February  2017  and decide  not to close his Gold account  even if 
the website had been clearer  about  the withdrawal  of that account  from sale.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Mr H has said,  I dont think Lloyds is wrong  not to 
allow Mr H to have the Gold  account which it withdrew from sale in 2013. I appreciate this 
will be disappointing  for Mr H but Im afraid I cant see that Lloyds has made an error that 
wouldve led to Mr H still holding the Gold account  today, if that error hadnt  been made.
Ref: DRN61205123my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6120512