K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited (SMFL)  didnt complete appropriate 
checks before accepting his application for a hire purchase agreement. He says had it done 
so it would have  seen the lending was unaffordable. 
Mr S also complains that after he requested to voluntary terminate (VT) the agreement  he 
shouldnt have had anything else left to pay. But SMFL said the car hadnt been returned  in 
an acceptable condition  and has charged  him for this. He says SMFL has been  chasing him 
for arrears and recorded incorrect information  on his credit  file. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  9 July 2020
My provisional decision is attached below and forms part of my final decision. 
Mr S accepted my provisional decision and reiterated that debt collection agents  had been  
harassing him to pay the outstanding debt SMFL claimed he owed, and this had resulted in a 
default being applied to his credit file.
SMFL didnt  accept my provisional decision in response it said:
Mr Ss application stated he earned £3,000 net monthly income, lived in rented 
accommodation and was single. Income  was verified using  a third partys 
affordability calculator  that checks income  against stable sole turnover or recent 
validated salary.  The tool uses Current Account Turnover (CATO)  data, for which  it 
has 98% market coverage including  all major banks, and information  shared by its 
members regarding  recent validated application  salaries to determine a view of 
income. Information provided includes a match status (High  Low) and a confidence 
level (1-9).
Mr Ss income  was overstated by more than 10%.  Accordingly  an Income & 
Expenditure (I&E) was completed  with Mr S.  During the I&E assessment Mr S 
informed us he earned £2,200 net monthly income, which  was later verified by the 
third party  tool as not overstated. Mr S also informed us that he lived with his partner, 
and the Voters  Roll information indicates that other  adults  were  living  in the property 
at the time. We identified  that the total household expenditure was £1,625.00  and 
that the applicant was responsible for 75% of the household costs; £1,218.75.  Mr S 
informed us he had £350 of personal  borrowing commitments and we derived a 
disposable income of £2,200 - £1,218.75 - £350  = £631.25.
Mr Ss credit file at the time showed a mixture of good and non-prime credit, 
including 2 well paid credit cards and several well paid current  account and comms 
(sic) records. We specialise  in providing finance to customers who may struggle to 
obtain finance elsewhere, we are aware that the finance we provide is to enable the 
purchase of a vehicle,  which many  customers require to be able to fulfil commitments 
around employment and family.
Although Mr S was in a debt management plan the adverse (sic) on his credit  file 
was historic and there was one active Credit Card showing under debt management, 
which was discussed with Mr S during the I&E call. There  was evidence there was a 
previous well paid Hire Purchase  and some  active well paid credit cards. Having 
Ref: DRN67462082limited arrears would  not automatically prohibit someone from obtaining finance 
where there  is evidence  it is affordable. 
Mr Ss circumstances demonstrated  that he would have adequate disposable 
income to service our loan. Mr S had a stable job for the previous 7 months and prior 
to that had been employed by the same company for 9 years with no break  in 
employment. Mr Ss credit file, application  data, and affordability assessment 
demonstrated sufficient  evidence  of creditworthiness and affordability based on his 
circumstances at the time.
The fact that Mr S did not miss any contractual monthly repayments would further 
confirm that the finance provided  was both responsible and affordable.
under the Consumer Credit Act 1974  the amount Mr S was required to pay to be 
able to terminate  the agreement was 50%,  however this can be increased to 
recompense the creditor where  the debtor has failed to take reasonable care of the 
goods. SMFL established this by assessing what  the vehicle should  have been worth 
for its age and mileage against what the vehicle  was sold for at auction.  we 
ought to have been able to sell the vehicle for £5,900 and the actual sale price was 
£4,850, meaning  that when it was sold it raised £1,050 less than the amount it should 
have. However, as a gesture of goodwill we confirmed we would accept £525  as full 
and final settlement of Mr Ss account. We would also note that the vehicle had a bid 
for only £4,200  on or around  15 May 2018, which  further  reflects  the condition of the 
vehicle.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I still think  Mr Ss 
complaint should  be upheld.  I got in touch with SMFL on 28 August 2020 to explain why and 
asked it to make any further submissions  before  7 September  2020. To date, I havent 
received a response. Bearing a in mind a month  has passed since  this extended deadline, 
Im satisfied that SMFL  has had ample  time to make  any further submissions it wished to.  
SMFL hasnt  been able to provide copies of the income and expenditure details taken at the 
initial application so its not clear what Mr S actually declared when he initially applied  for the 
loan. Similarly,  SMFL hasnt been able to provide a copy  of the credit check  or TAC so I 
cant see what SMFL saw before it agreed  the lending.  
Although I think these checks can sometimes be proportionate in certain  circumstances, I 
would still expect a lender  be able to demonstrate what it actually saw, in order to be 
satisfied that what  the lender did went far enough. And in Mr Ss case I dont think  these 
checks on their own are sufficient. 
SMFL has explained that Mr S originally overstated his income  as £3,000  and this was later 
amended to £2,200. 
CONC 5.3.7 R explains:
A firm must not accept an application  for credit  under a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
Ref: DRN67462083completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
And CONC 5.3.8 G goes on to say:
An example of where a firm ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been 
truthful may be that the information supplied by the customer concerning income  or 
employment status is clearly inconsistent with other  available  information.
As SMFL has been  unable to provide details about the original application, its not clear  how 
the discrepancy between Mr Ss originally declared  income and what SMFLs  initial  checks 
showed came about. But a £800 discrepancy  in Mr Ss declared  income  is significant.  
SMFL has also confirmed it was aware Mr S was subject to an ongoing debt management 
plan. Although being in arrears shouldnt mean an application for credit is automatically  
declined, its an indicator to a finance provider to take additional steps to establish any 
additional lending  is affordable because  the applicant is having  difficulty  repaying what  they 
already owe. Id also add that a debt management plan is an indication that any difficulty 
repaying was not short  term or a one off but rather that Mr S proved  unable to maintain the 
agreed contractual payments on some  if not all of his financial commitments  for a sustained  
period. 
So, in these circumstances,  I think SMFL  ought  to have done more  to verify what Mr Ss 
actual income and expenditure was before proceeding and if it could not get this information 
from Mr S decline the lending all together because of the inaccurate information  provided at 
the initial application.  SMFLs failure to have  done  more here means  Im not satisfied that 
the checks SMFL completed  in this instance  were proportionate. 
As explained in my provisional decision I cant say for sure what  SMFL  would  have seen if it 
completed further checks. But Ive reviewed Mr Ss bank statements and his credit  file and 
have determined that his regular monthly financial commitments were  in excess  of £2,000. 
SMFL says it verified Mr Ss regular income  as £2,200 and my review  of his bank statements 
suggested it was around £2,500. But whichever figure is used adding payments of £390.86 a 
month to Mr Ss on-going financial commitments simply wasnt  sustainable. And given that 
he wasnt at that time able to make his full contractual payments on all his debts, I dont think 
providing Mr S with further unaffordable borrowing at that level was fair and reasonable. 
I note SMFLs comments on how long Mr S was able to keep up with the payments  for but a 
customer keeping up with payments doesnt mean  that they were  able to afford them  This is 
especially the case in circumstances  where  some  form of security exists,  such as here,  
which might  lead a customer to prioritise that debt over others. Mr S has said he needed to 
take out additional borrowing to keep up with repayments towards  the agreement. What Mr 
S has told us is supported  by his credit  file which does show he took out short  term loans 
after the lending  was agreed  by SMFL.  SMFLs contact notes also show that hed enquired 
about refinancing  the agreement within a year and ultimately did end the agreement early.  
So, I dont think the lending was affordable and to put things right SMFL should  compensate  
Mr S in line with the recommendations in my provisional decision.  
Ref: DRN67462084SMFL is correct in saying  that the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 makes provision for a finance 
provider to charge  a consumer if they VT and they havent taken reasonable care of the 
goods. But SMFL hasnt  provided any substantive evidence  which  demonstrates that the car 
was returned in an unacceptable condition or that the car was returned  in a condition  any 
different from when Mr S obtained it. As no new evidence or arguments  have  been  provided 
in relation to this, I dont intend  to go into this in any more detail and I remain  of the opinion 
that charge applied  for the condition of the car is unfair and should  be removed.  
Mr S has explained that that debt for this charge has been sold to a collection agent and as 
he hasnt paid it, a default has been  registered against him. SMFL  should recall the debt if it 
can and attempt to ensure  any adverse data recorded  on Mr Ss credit file in relation to this 
agreement is removed.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  I think Mr S has been  caused distress and 
inconvenience as a result  of SMFLs handling  of this issue and I think it should  compensate  
him for that. I still think £250 is fair compensation to put that right.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Specialist Motor Finance  Limited  should:
refund  any overpayments Mr S made towards the agreement after paying £6,800 
adding 8% simple interest per year from the date of each  overpayment  to the date of 
settlement
recall the debt from the collection agent and waive  all the charges for the condition  of 
the car 
liaise with the debt collection agent to remove any adverse data in relation this 
agreement from Mr Ss credit file 
pay Mr S £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience he experienced as a 
result of this matter. 
If Specialist Motor Finance Limited considers  tax should be deducted from the interest part 
of my award,  it should  provide  Mr S with a certificate  showing  how much its taken off. He 
can then reclaim that amount, assuming he is eligible to. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 November  2020.
Chris Bick
ombudsman
provisional decision 
complaint
Mr S complains that Specialist Motor Finance Limited  (SMFL)  didnt complete  appropriate checks 
before accepting his application for a hire purchase agreement. He says had it done so it would have  
seen the lending was unaffordable.  
Mr S also complains that after he requested  to voluntary terminate (VT) the agreement  he shouldnt 
Ref: DRN67462085have had anything  else left to pay. But SMFL said the car hadnt been returned in a good condition 
and has charged him for this. He says SMFL has been chasing him for arrears and recorded  incorrect 
information on his credit  file. 
background
Mr S acquired  a used car in July 2015 and financed this through  a hire purchase agreement with 
SMFL. The cost of the car was £12,500 and Mr S paid a £100 cash deposit in addition to part-
exchanging his old car for £500.  The total amount  repayable was £24,496.60, with monthly  payments 
of £390.86
In March 2018  Mr S contacted SMFL in writing and asked to VT the agreement  and called to chase 
this up a few days later. SMFL then sent him a letter to confirm the VT arrangements. 
After collecting the car SMFL sold the car at Auction in June 2018. It said the car wasnt  returned in 
an acceptable condition  and asked Mr S to pay £1,050.00. Mr S disputed he should  pay this and 
explained that when  the car was collected, he was told it was in an acceptable  condition.  He also 
complained that his credit  file hadnt been updated to show the agreement  had been settled. 
In November 2018 Mr S made another complaint  to SMFL.  He said it should have completed more 
checks before agreeing  to lend to him and the lending was unaffordable. 
SMFL issued a final response in January  2019. It said it completed income and expenditure  details 
during a call with Mr S in July 2015, that he signed a Confirmation of Affordability Declaration and that 
it completed the appropriate  checks  before  agreeing to lend to him. So, it didnt agree  the lending was 
unaffordable. 
SMFL also explained  that:
"The car must  also be in a reasonable state  of repair with a valid MOT. If the vehicle docs require any 
rectifications to bring it up to standard,  you will be liable for these  as per the terms and conditions of 
your agreement
SMFL said the price it charged Mr S was calculated  by taking the clean price from a well-known  
industry guide on car prices (Ill refer to as C) and deducting the price the car was sold for at auction. 
It says this is the cost of what would have been required to put the vehicle  into a good condition.
SMFL didnt agree it had made a mistake but as a gesture of goodwill advised  Mr S it would accept 
£525.00 as full and final settlement of the account so long as he made  an arrangement  to pay within  
14 days. 
Mr S didnt accept SMFLs  response so referred his complaint to this service.
The investigator who looked into Mr Ss complaint didnt think SMFL had acted irresponsibly by 
providing the loan. But she said the charges  it had applied for damage were unfair because SMFL  
hadnt provided any photos to show that any damage to the car was chargeable. She also concluded 
the method SMFL used to calculate the costs of the damage wasnt fair or in line with the agreement  
terms and conditions.  
To put things right she recommended SMFL:
waive the outstanding  amount it asked Mr S to pay.
confirm in writing  the account has been settled with nothing further to pay. 
remove any adverse  information it had recorded  on Mr Ss credit file as a result of this 
issue. 
Ref: DRN67462086SMFL accepted her assessment but Mr S didnt. He explained  he didnt think  that the lending was 
affordable when provided. Because Mr S didnt  accept her assessment its been passed to me to 
decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so I think the complaint  should be upheld. Ive 
explained why in more  detail below.
Before offering borrowing lenders need to consider whether repayments to a loan are affordable and 
sustainable. This is set out in the FCA Handbook - Consumer Credit Sourcebook  (CONC):
CONC 5.2.1R(2)  says a firm must consider:
(a) the potential for the commitments under the regulated credit  agreement to adversely
impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account the information of which
the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b) the ability  of the customer to make repayments  as they fall due over the life of the
regulated credit agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
And CONC 5.3.1G says:
(2) The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking reasonable  steps  to assess the customers ability  to meet repayments  under a 
regulated credit agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequences.
[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box)  and 4.2 of ILG]
(3) A firm in making its creditworthiness  assessment  or the assessment required by CONC  5.2.2R (1) 
may take into account future increases in income  or future decreases in expenditure, where  there is 
appropriate evidence  of the change and the repayments are expected to be sustainable in the light of 
the change.
[Note: paragraph 4.9 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6)  goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC sustainable means the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer:
(a)without  undue difficulties,  in particular:
(i) the customer  should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow to meet  the repayments;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end  agreement , 
within a reasonable period;  and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise  security or assets; and
Ref: DRN67462087unsustainable has the opposite  meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
So, Ive thought about the checks SMFL  completed and whether they were  proportionate
Did SMFL  complete proportionate  checks?
Mr S was required to repay £24,496 60, with payments  of £390.86 each month,  a significant  
commitment with large monthly payments. So, in these  circumstances, I would  expect a lenders  
checks to have obtained a detailed understanding of Mr S income,  expenditure  and disposable  
income before offering borrowing. 
SMFL has provided its contact notes which say: 
Income Confirmed @ £2200   
and
I&E completed. Confirmed all debts  under  debt management, lives with partner and income 
accounted for in split, in line with credit  file disp (sic) income £550.
But I can see SMFL also sent Mr S a letter titled Affordability and Employment Declaration  this letter  
recorded Mr Ss net pay as £3,000 per month and said he was single. I havent seen any explanation 
from SMFL  for the differences in Mr Ss recorded income or marital status. 
The fact Mr S was on a debt management plan showed SMFL that he had had previous  difficulty  
repaying credit as he hadnt been able to make the contractual payments towards  at least  some of his 
creditors. This should have put SMFL on notice that it would have been proportionate to do more  than 
it might normally in order to understand whether Mr S would be able to make his payments. And I 
dont think that relying on Mr S declared income and expenditure  alone was proportionate here.  
SMFL says its underwriting team completed some further  checks,  Ive asked for information about 
what it checked and any documentation it saw at the time. But SMFL hasnt been able to provide 
anything else. 
Overall, Im not satisfied SMFL did enough to verify Mr Ss income and expenditure bearing in mind  
the circumstances. So, I dont think it completed proportionate checks  before agreeing to lend to him.   
was the borrowing affordable?
Because I dont think SMFLs checks were proportionate Ive thought  about what it would have seen  
had it completed sufficient  checks.  I cant say for certain what documentation SMFL would  have seen 
had it completed proportionate checks, but Ive reviewed a recent copy of Mr Ss credit report and his 
bank statements from the time the borrowing  was agreed. Ive done this not because  Im saying that 
SMFL needed to obtain bank statements at the time but because  as were now some years  after the 
event, Mr Ss bank statements  contain  the information I need in one place.  
Mr Ss bank statements  show he was paid weekly,  and this ranged from £445.59 to £796.35.  He was 
paid a total of £2,927.42 in May 2015 and £2,581.33 in June 2015.  I dont know if SMFL  based its 
decision to lend to Mr S based on a monthly income  of £3,000 or £2,200,  as both are recorded. Either 
way I havent seen that SMFL asked  Mr S for any explanation of why his wages differed  from what  
had been declared. I think if SMFL had completed the checks it should have, it would have seen Mr 
Ss monthly  pay fluctuated and it couldnt rely on this being much more  than around £2,500 a month.  I 
certainly cant see that it could  conclude  Mr S had a regular income of £3,000 a month as noted in the 
Affordability and Employment Declaration letter it sent Mr S.  
Ref: DRN67462088Ive also thought  about  Mr Ss expenditure. SMFL hasnt been  able to provide any evidence  of what 
expenditure Mr S declared, but I can see it determined he had £550 disposable  income each  month. 
Mr S has told this service his monthly expenditure  was between  £2,000 and £3,000 a month, that his 
partner generally  paid their utility bills and he was supporting his step-daughter  at university and 
sending her £100 a week. 
Mr Ss credit  report shows that he had agreed arrangements to pay with two of his creditors - a credit 
card and a catalogue shopping account. This means he wasnt making the full monthly  contractual 
payments required. At the time SMFL agreed to lend to Mr S, the outstanding balance  for his credit 
card was £1,313 and he was making  payments of £6 a month towards the account. Its not clear what 
the outstanding balance for the catalogue  shopping account  was, but I can see from Mr Ss bank 
statements he was paying £58 a month towards the account at the time.  
Mr Ss bank statements  also show he was making  regular payments to a debt management  plan of 
around £68 a month. Its not clear what debts these payments were  directed to and Mr S hasnt been 
able to provide a copy of his debt management plan, but it seems likely this was for the credit card 
and catalogue shopping  account. 
I can also see from his credit  file that Mr S had another two credit cards,  with combined credit limits  of 
£3,760. He was using the majority of the available balances and making the contractual  monthly 
payments of around £210. 
At the time SMFL agreed the lending  Mr S had recently settled another  catalogue shopping account  
and also had a number of active contracts with telecommunications suppliers. 
His bank statements show that Mr Ss regular monthly expenditure, including his rent, the money sent 
to his step-daughter and food and petrol  was around £2,112 in May 2015 and £1,815 in June  2015. 
Those figures dont  include  payment for clothes  and Mr S has also explained his council  tax payments 
were £119  a month -but I cant see any of these payments on the statements provided. 
Overall, I think  it would be reasonable to say Mr Ss regular monthly  expenditure  was at least  £2,100 
and this was with him making less than the required payments on two accounts. 
As I think Mr Ss actual income doesnt  appear  to be any more than £2,500 a month and his actual 
expenditure was at least £2,100, I think he had around £400 disposable income each month.  As the 
payments required towards his hire purchase agreement were £390.86, And this doesnt  even take 
into account  the associated running costs  such  as insurance, MOT  and any other payments required  
for the upkeep  of the car. In these circumstances, I think that proportionate checks  would  more likely 
than not have  shown SMFL that these payments  werent sustainable for Mr S, so I dont think it 
should have provided the finance for Mr S in these circumstances. 
As I dont think the loan was affordable for Mr S I think SMFL needs to do something to put this right.  
did SMFL handle Mr Ss request to VT correctly?
The right to VT an agreement is set out in sections 99 and 100 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. It 
allows the consumer to hand goods back to the finance provider during the term of the agreement  if 
theyve paid more than half the total amount payable  under the agreement. A consumer can VT at 
any point but will always need to pay at least half of the amount payable and make up any arrears.
In Mr Ss cases he asked to VT in April 2018. At this point he had £11,529.94  left to pay under the 
agreement - so he had paid more than half the total £24,496.60  due and was up to date with 
payments. So, he was entitled to hand the car back with nothing  further to pay towards the 
agreement.  But section 100(4) allows a lender to charge the borrower to put things right if the 
borrower contravenes  an obligation to take reasonable care of the goods.  So, if upon inspection  the 
Ref: DRN67462089car was returned in a poor condition or damaged,  SMFL could charge  Mr S to put that right.  This is 
set out in the terms and conditions of the agreement:
5.1 On termination of this agreement you will return the Goods,  in good repair and condition,  to us at 
such place as we may specify. If you do not, we shall be entitled to repossess  the Goods  from you 
(subject to CCA 1974).
5.2 To be in good repair and condition, the Goods must comply  with the following;
 the service records must  be returned with the Goods which must record that the Goods have been 
fully serviced by a reputable  garage;
 the Goods  must have a current MOT certificate  If required by law, and require little or no work for the 
issue of a new certificate and
 the Goods  must require no refurbishment  to be ready for retail resale,  be free from mechanical or 
body damage.  In their original paintwork and trim, with the Interior  to original specification free from 
damage.
If the Goods  are not in good repair and condition when they are returned to us, you must pay to us the 
amount needed to put them in good repair and condition.
So, if I thought Mr S had returned the car in an unacceptable condition, I think  it would be fair for 
SMFL to charge him to put that right. 
So, the first thing Ive thought  about is whether  the damage was potentially  chargeable.  The British 
Vehicle Rental & Leasing Association (BVRLA) guide The Industry Fair Wear & Tear Standard  sets 
out industry standards for acceptable damage for drivers of leased and financed  cars,  so I think its 
relevant industry guidance  that I should consider.
The guidance explains:  
if the BVRLA member  intends  to charge you for damage or missing equipment when the vehicle has 
been inspected, you must be advised of those charges no later than four weeks after the vehicle  was 
returned. The BRLA member must  provide  you with a summary breakdown  of the charges, an 
explanation of how the charges have  been  calculated and photographic/video  or other  documentary  
evidence supporting why the charges have been made.
I can see that Mr S dropped the car off on 13 April 2018. From the account  notes it doesnt look like 
SMFL made  Mr S aware it was intending to charge him for the condition  of the car until 15 June 2018 
- well outside the four weeks. 
Despite requests  from this service SMFL  also hasnt  provided a copy of the invoice detailing  what Mr 
S is being charged for. And its been unable  to provide a report or any photos  showing the condition  of 
the car. 
In cases  like this when the customer  has taken ownership of a second-hand  car, I would expect there 
to be some evidence of the condition of the car at the point  of sale, such as an inspection report  
and/or photos. Without such evidence  theres no way of knowing  if any damage was there before the 
customer collected the car. In this instance the car was around  three years  old when Mr S collected  it, 
so would  already have  suffered from some wear and tear and possibly  damage,  I cant  see that there 
was any report on the cars condition at the time Mr S collected it or from when he dropped it off. 
Ref: DRN674620810So, I dont think SMFL has followed good industry practice  when charging Mr S for the condition  of the 
car. Mr S has said the car was returned in good condition. SMFL  cant say what condition the car was 
in when Mr S collected it, what was wrong  with the car when it was returned or why this was outside 
of fair wear  and tear. So, I dont think its reasonable  for Mr S to be charged anything for the condition  
of the car.
I think  its also important to address the method SMFL says it used to calculate  how much Mr S 
should pay for the condition of the car. 
SMFL said:
The vehicle  was returned  and was independently appraised (taking into account  general wear  and 
tear) and was sold at auction for the best possible price. We would not repair the vehicle prior to being  
sold at auction and therefore the vehicle should  be returned in a retail condition and in accordance 
with 5.2 of the terms and conditions of the agreement you would  be liable for the difference between  
the C Clean Price (Car Auction Price,  so what price it is expected to make at auction) and the actual 
sale price.  We can confirm  the C Clean price was £5,900.00 and the actual sale price was £4,850.00, 
therefore your liability is £1,050.00 
The terms  and conditions of the account dont explain that this is how charges  for the condition of the 
car will be calculated so I dont  think it would be reasonable for this approach to be used,  even if 
SMFL was able to show the car wasnt returned  in the condition it should have been.  
The price a car is able to achieve at auction will vary depending on the price people who attend are 
willing to pay on the day. I note SMFL declined  bids at the initial  auction it attempted to sell the car at 
because it didnt think they were high enough. I dont think it would be fair to penalise Mr S for the 
difference between a generic valuation and what was actually  achieved at auction.  
Overall, I dont think SMFL treated Mr S fairly after he VTd the agreement. I dont think  its fair for him 
to be charged  anything for the condition of the car and the agreement 
what should SMFL do to put things right?
Because I dont think the lending should  have  been  provided to Mr S, I dont think its reasonable for 
SMFL to apply any interest or charges to the agreement. But Mr S did benefit from the use of the car 
and I think its fair he pays for that.  Im not persuaded monthly  repayments of almost £400 a month 
are a fair reflection of the use Mr S had of the car. This is because a significant proportion of those 
repayments went  towards repaying interest - which  made up around half the total amount due under 
the agreement. 
There isnt an exact formula for working  out what a fair monthly  repayment would be to reflect Mr Ss 
use of the car. But in deciding whats fair and reasonable Ive thought  about the type of car, its age 
and mileage when Mr S acquired it, the amount of interest charged on the agreement, Mr Ss likely 
overall usage  of the car and what his costs  to stay mobile  would likely have been if didnt have this 
car. In doing so I think a fair amount Mr S should pay is £200 for each month he had use of the car. 
Mr S collected  the car in July 2015 and returned it in April 2018,  so had use of it for around 34 
months. This means SMFL  can ask him to repay a total of £6,800.  As Mr S has already paid more 
than this back  SMFL should treat everything over this that Mr S has paid as an overpayment. It should 
refund each overpayment adding  8% simple  interest per year from the date of payment until the date 
of settlement. 
As Mr S shouldnt have been given  the borrowing, it isnt fair for him to have any adverse  information 
recorded on his credit  file about this debt. SMFL should therefore arrange to remove any adverse 
data in relation to this agreement from Mr Ss credit file. 
Ref: DRN674620811Since the VT was accepted,  I can see Mr S has been  chased for payment and had late payments and 
a default recorded on his credit file, which wouldnt have  happened were  it not for SMFLs mistakes. 
Given that Mr S was already  in some financial  difficulty I think he would  have found this upsetting and 
I can see hes made a number  of calls to SMFL to try and sort this out. So, I think  SMFL needs to do 
something to put this right.  Examples  of awards for this type of compensation can be found  on our 
website. I think the distress and inconvenience experienced by Mr S would fall into the moderate 
category of awards and SMFL should pay him £250 to put this right.  
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions I receive, Im minded  to uphold  this complaint.  To put things right 
Specialist Motor Finance  Limited should:
refund any overpayments Mr S made towards the agreement after paying £6,800 adding 8% 
simple interest  per year from the date of each overpayment to the date of settlement
waive all the charges for the condition  of the car 
remove any adverse  data in relation this agreement  from Mr Ss credit file 
pay Mr S £250 compensation  for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced as a result  
of this matter. 
If Specialist Motor Finance  Limited considers tax should be deducted from the interest part of my 
award, it should provide  Mr S with a certificate  showing how much its taken off. He can then reclaim 
that amount, assuming he is eligible to. 
Ref: DRN6746208