K820x#14complaint
Mr L and Mrs Q (the consumers) complain  that Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited (the business)  continued to take direct debit payments after they instructed it to 
cancel their term assurance policy. 
background
In 2016, the consumers were advised to change their term assurance provider. They say in 
September 2016, they cancelled the policy they had with the business  but the business 
failed to action  this and continued to take a further  two monthly  premiums.   
In June 2018, the consumers made  a direct debit indemnity claim  and the premiums were  
paid back. However  the business  is insisting they pay back the premiums. 
The business says it received instructions to cancel the policy  which began in July 2012 
costing £67.81  in September  2016 but it had already been cancelled in August 2014 when 
the consumers  set up a new policy, which they continued to pay for until June  2018.     
In July 2014, the business says the consumers applied for a new policy, with the same 
premium as before,  which began  in August 2014   the day the previous policy  ended. It was 
recorded on the application  from that this was to replace the previous policy  which  they 
continued to pay for until June 2018.  
The consumers provided an email from their IFA which  requested the cancellation  of the 
2012 policy, they claim is identified by the policy number. The business maintains it has 
nothing on file to say that it received  this email. 
One of our investigators  considered the complaint but didnt think  it should be upheld. In 
summary, he said:
Hed seen a copy of the email  dated 30 September 2016, so couldnt understand why 
the business didnt have a copy. If it did, it wouldve  been able to action this request. 
That said, the policy number contained on the email  had already  been cancelled. 
It was the responsibility  of the requester   in this instance the consumers or anyone 
authorised to act on their behalf   to provide the correct details it wasnt for business 
to figure  out if another policy  was being  referred to.  
The consumers disagreed with the investigators  conclusions. Mr L said he still feels its 
unfair as the email  was sent,  and two payments continued to come out of the account. Mr L 
says the business should have contacted them rather than take payment. 
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the investigators conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  
Ref: DRN65418302On the face of the evidence, and on balance, despite what  the consumers say, Im not 
persuaded that the business  has done  anything wrong. 
But before I explain  further why this is the case,  I think its important for me to note I very 
much recognise the consumers strength  of feeling about this matter.  
They have provided detailed submissions to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy. 
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by them and the business,  and reach what I think is an independent,  
fair and reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case. 
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I can take into account the relevant law, regulation  
and best industry  practice but Im not bound  by it. Its for me to decide, based on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
There appears to be a possible oversight / miscommunication but not one that I can attribute 
to the business.   
I understand that the email was sent  correctly addressed  so I cant  see an obvious  
reason why it wouldnt have been  received. Its possible  that it ended  up in the junk mail box 
or some other firewall. But the fact remains that the business says it didnt receive  the email  
and Im satisfied that it didnt. Im unable to say that it wouldve received it and not tried to 
action the request. 
That said,  I think its more likely (than  not) that even if the business had received the email it 
wouldnt have done anything differently. Its only obligation wouldve been to act upon (or try 
to act upon) the instructions as presented by the consumers  IFA. 
As we now know, the policy number referred  to had already been cancelled, so I dont think 
the business wouldve needed to do anymore so far as the instructions were  concerned.  On 
balance I dont think it was under  an obligation  to respond as suggested  by Mr L  the point 
is academic.  
The circumstances are what  they are, and in this instance the business has done nothing  
wrong by not responding, to the email  dated  30 September  2016   that contained the 
incorrect policy information  and therefore  incorrect instructions  that it didnt receive in the 
first place.  
I appreciate the consumers will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion as the 
investigator. Furthermore, I realise my decision isn't what they want  to hear. But on the face 
of the available evidence, and on balance, Im unable to uphold  this complaint and give them  
what they want. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019.
Ref: DRN65418303Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6541830