K822xcomplaint
Mr A and Mrs M complain about delays in dealing with a transfer  of their shared equity 
mortgage into Mrs Ms sole name  and delays  in the process for re-mortgaging their main 
mortgage. The loan is administered by Target Servicing Limited.
background 
Mr A and Mrs M bought  a property using the help  to buy scheme. This involved taking out a 
shared equity loan in addition to their main  mortgage. The shared  equity  loan was lent by a 
government body, and administered on its behalf  by Target. Throughout, Mr A and Mrs M 
have dealt with Target.
Mr A and Mrs M have since separated. They asked Target to transfer  the loan into Mrs Ms 
sole name.
In a previous complaint, we found  that Target hadnt  handled that application well. It 
continued to chase Mr A and Mrs M for a fee theyd already  paid. It removed Mr A from the 
loan account before the property had been transferred into Mrs Ms name, and then refused  
to talk to Mr A because  he wasnt named on the loan.  And it delayed  in completing the 
application. Our investigator recommended  it pay them £300 compensation.
This complaint is about further  delays.  Mr A and Mrs M say that the delays have caused 
them to incur further costs. Mrs M wasnt able to complete a re-mortgage with her existing 
lender into her sole name in time. The offer expired and the lender wasnt prepared  to 
extend it. So she had to move to another lender   paying an early repayment  charge (ERC)  
to the old lender, as well as a broker fee to find another  mortgage. And Mr A and Mrs M also 
incurred additional  legal  fees caused  by their solicitors having to chase Target.
As Mrs M was re-mortgaging, she needed  a deed  of postponement so that the shared equity 
lenders charge would  sit behind  that of her new mortgage lender.  They  first applied to 
Target early in 2018, and Mr A was removed  from the account  in July 2018.  By September,  
the deed of postponement  still hadnt been received  and the solicitors chased  it up. They 
chased again in November, and then complained to Target. 
Mrs Ms mortgage offer expired in December 2018. 
Target accepted that it was responsible for the delays. It had everything it needed to issue 
the deed of postponement  in September 2018. It said that the delay was due to a staff 
member leaving and communication  with the shared equity lender, which  went to his no 
longer active email address, not being picked up as a result. It said the deed of 
postponement went through  in January  2019. It offered Mrs M £275  compensation, but it 
said Mr A was no longer  its customer.
Mr A and Mrs M said that didnt  cover  their losses. They said their solicitor had charged them 
£924 in connection with abortive work on the original  mortgage offer. Mrs M had to apply for 
a new mortgage,  which had cost £350 for a broker  fee and £2,733.11 in early  repayment 
charge (ERC) to their old lender. They  also had to pay a further £71.04 in additional interest 
to Targets lender, and had paid Target  £115  in fees for the previous application and £250  
for the new one. And they had paid £840 for a valuation which  had expired.
Ref: DRN63846422They said they had to pay an ERC  to the previous lender because the mortgage offer 
expired and it was no longer prepared to renew  it. That meant an ERC was payable when 
Mrs M found  a new lender   and she needed the help of a broker  to do that. And the solicitor 
had charged them  separately for the costs  wasted on the offer that had expired   £924  and 
the costs of completing the later offer, which they werent claiming from Target.
Our investigator said that Mr A and Mrs M would  always have had to pay the £115 even if 
their application  had gone through  without problems. However,  she said it should  refund
£840 for the first valuation;
£924 solicitors costs;
£250 fee for the second application;
£350 for the mortgage broker;
£2,733.11  ERC;
£71.04 additional interest.
Mr A and Mrs M accepted  that. But Target didnt.  It said solicitors costs  and a valuation  fee 
would always have  been required, and it was Mrs Ms choice  to use a broker. And it said it 
hadnt seen evidence the previous mortgage  lender  wouldnt  have extended  its offer  
avoiding the ERC. So the case comes to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  here that Target  mis-handled Mr A and Mrs Ms applications. The issue  I 
have to decide is what it needs  to do to put matters  right. 
Some of the costs incurred would have  been incurred by Mrs M alone, in connection with her 
application for a new mortgage in her own name to take the property over from Mr A. But 
Mr A was liable for some of the costs as well  the ERC, for example, would have been 
charged on redemption  of his former joint mortgage. Both Mr A and Mrs M are party to this 
complaint and recognise some costs were  incurred by one, and some  jointly. They are 
content to treat this as a joint complaint. Rather  than separate  it out into multiple complaints I 
intend to make a single award of all the costs incurred for Mr A and Mrs M to divide between 
them. This is a single complaint which has caused  both parties loss.
Im satisfied  indeed, Target accepts  that Target was responsible for delays in processing  
the application.
The effect of this was that Mrs Ms new mortgage  offer from her existing lender expired. It 
wasnt willing to extend the offer, so Mrs M was required to look elsewhere. That meant that 
the existing joint mortgage, in both their names,  couldnt be transferred  to hers alone  with the 
same lender.  It had to be paid off and Mrs M re-mortgage with a new lender alone.  
As a result, there was an ERC incurred in repaying  the old joint mortgage. Im satisfied this 
wouldnt have been incurred if Mrs M had been  able to take the old mortgage over in her 
own name, but this wasnt possible when the offer expired due to Targets delays. Therefore 
Target is responsible  for the ERC. Target is also responsible for the first valuation being  
wasted and needing to be done  again  so it should refund that cost too.
Ref: DRN63846423Given that Mrs M needed to find another lender quickly,  I dont think it was unreasonable for 
her to use a broker to help find one. This wouldnt have been needed if shed been able to 
stay with the existing lender, so Target  should refund the broker costs  too.
The solicitor  has made  clear that it has separated  the costs wasted on Targets delay from 
the costs chargeable on dealing with the re-mortgage. Therefore Target should fairly  refund 
those additional  costs as well.
I note that Target  has offered £275 compensation. Im satisfied thats fair compensation for 
the delays it caused  in addition to covering the financial loss Mr A and Mrs M incurred. 
Mr A and Mrs M have confirmed that they incurred all costs  jointly,  except the broker fee 
which was paid by Mrs M alone.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I direct Target 
Servicing Limited to refund the following costs,  adding  in each case  simple  annual interest of 
8% running  from the date Mr A and Mrs M incurred  the costs to date of refund.
These costs should be divided equally between Mr A and Mrs M, with each half paid to them 
separately:
£840 for the first valuation;
£924 solicitors costs;
£250 fee for the second application;
£2,733.11  ERC;
£71.04 additional interest.
This cost should be paid to Mrs M alone:
£350 for the mortgage broker.
In addition, Target has made a fair offer of £275  compensation. It should  pay that too, again 
divided equally between them, if it hasnt already made payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 January  2021.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6384642