K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold Miss C payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully the comments of Miss C and her representatives. However, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why:
I dont have  strong  evidence  to show that Lloyds failed to follow the proper practice of 
making Miss C aware the PPI was optional; or that it didnt ensure that she freely  chose  to 
take it. Miss C has said she wouldnt have taken the PPI if it had been offered as an 
option, although she has also acknowledged  that its hard to easily  remember what 
happened so many years  ago. But I can see that there  was a separate application form for 
PPI which she signed, and also a place on the mortgage form which  has been ticked  tick 
to say she wanted to apply  for PPI. So I think its likely  Lloyds did present it as a choice.
Overall, without  stronger evidence, it wouldnt be fair for me to say that Lloyds acted 
wrongly in that way.
Lloyds recommended  the PPI to Miss C, but it doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based 
on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time.  Being unable  to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would  have paid benefits if Miss C couldnt work  
due to sickness.  It would have paid unemployment  benefits in addition to any 
redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when she would need to fall back on 
any savings. This all would have put Miss C in a more  secure position, if she eventually 
lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
Its hard to know how well Lloyds explained  the costs and benefits  of the policy. But I 
dont anyway  think full and clear information  about the costs  would  have affected  
whether Miss C took the PPI.
Its possible Lloyds  didnt clearly point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Miss C would have been  affected  by any of these.
Ref: DRN63971452my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6397145