K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Inter Partner Assistance SA didnt pay all of his claim under his 
damage refund insurance policy.
background
Mr B hired a car and took out this damage refund policy with it. He was involved in an 
accident and the hire car sustained damage. So he made a claim under his damage refund 
policy to Inter Partner. 
It accepted his claim and paid it, but it excluded the location surcharge imposed by the car 
rental company. It said that charge wasnt covered under its policy.
Mr B disagreed but Inter Partner wouldnt change its stance. So Mr B ultimately brought his 
complaint to us. 
Initially Inter Partner  said Mr B had brought his complaint to us out of time. But then since its 
final response letter failed  to give Mr B details of this service,  it agreed to permit  us to 
investigate his complaint.
The investigator didnt  think Inter Partner  had done  anything wrong.
Mr B didnt agree so his complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Given Inter Partner agreed that this service could look at this complaint, I wont consider any 
jurisdiction issues in this decision as theres  no need to. 
The location  surcharge which the car hire company asked Mr B to amounted to €123.00. 
Inter Partner said the policy on which it relied to refuse payment of this charge is as follows 
(translated into English):
" GENERAL  EXCLUSIONS The following exclusions apply to the whole of your 
policy: We will not cover  you for any claim arising  from the following: 
9. Any loss caused as a direct or indirect  result of anything  you are claiming for."
In simple terms this means what is covered is the cost of the damage only.  Any other loss or 
charge is excluded from payment. Insurance policies routinely limit the extent  of the liability 
for claims.  This is normal and therefore not unusual. This is a policy  which aims to cover the 
costs of the damage to the hire car only. A location  surcharge imposed by the car hire 
company simply isnt covered by virtue  of this exclusion as it is a loss Mr B has incurred by 
virtue of his contract  with the car hire company and not a cost for the repairing the damage 
to the hire car.
Therefore I dont consider Inter Partner  did anything  wrong in not refunding Mr B the €123.00 
charged by the car hire company since that was a location surcharge only.
Ref: DRN68522842my final decision
So for these reasons its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6852284