K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complained  that they were mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy by Yorkshire  Building Society  (then trading as the Barnsley Building  
Society)(YBS)
background
Mr and Mrs H bought  the PPI policy when they took out a mortgage in 1999.  They  applied  
for the mortgage  through a broker, and the application form shows a request for an 
illustration for the PPI. It appears  that the PPI was taken out after that. Mr and Mrs H couldnt 
remember much about the sale, but said they didnt know about the PPI being added  to the 
mortgage, and werent  given  a choice about  it. 
The policy provided  accident, sickness and unemployment cover for Mr and Mrs H at a 
monthly cost of £15.75. The monthly  benefit  was £250, but its not clear how this was split 
between Mr and Mrs H. If either had made  a successful claim, the policy couldve paid out 
for up to 12 months per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed, and asked  that it be 
referred to an ombudsman for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
YBS sent in copies of the mortgage application  form and mortgage offer.  I can see from the 
application form that Mr and Mrs H ticked a box to say they wanted PPI, and theres a note 
to say they wanted an illustration. They couldve ticked a different box to say they didnt want  
PPI at all. YBS couldnt provide any more documentation from the point of sale (which is not 
entirely surprising  given that the sale took place over 19 years ago) but I think  its likely that 
YBS provided the illustration in response to their request. Theres nothing  on the mortgage 
application form or mortgage offer to suggest  that the PPI was compulsory.  So I think  Mr and 
Mrs H were aware of the PPI and were given  a choice  about taking it  and decided to do so. 
I think they probably just dont remember  it as it was so long ago. 
Its not clear whether  Mr and Mrs H later spoke to anyone at YBS about the PPI, or whether 
everything was done by post. But that doesnt  affect my decision. Ive no reason to think  they 
were given advice  about the PPI, so YBS didnt need to make sure that the PPI was suitable 
for them. But it shouldve  given them enough information for them to make  an informed 
choice about it.
I have a copy of the PPI policy  that was in force  from October  1999.  I cant  know  how the 
main limitations and exclusions in the policy might have been explained to Mr and Mrs H, but 
I cant see that they wouldve been affected by any of these. 
Ref: DRN69548302Mr and Mrs H both said that they wouldnt have been entitled to sick pay from their 
employers. They mentioned having  six to twelve months savings, some life insurance  and 
equity in the property. From  all this I think Mr and Mrs H couldve found it difficult  to meet the 
mortgage payments  for any length  of time if one of them was off sick or had lost their job. 
And I think its unlikely they wouldve been able to use the equity in the property without  
selling it. Ive kept in mind  that the policy couldve  paid out for up to 12 months in the event 
of a successful claim, allowing them to use their savings  for other  everyday living expenses. 
So overall, I think the PPI couldve provided a useful benefit  to protect what was a major 
commitment.
Its not clear how the cost of the PPI was set out to Mr and Mrs H, but the monthly  premium  
was £15.75, and Ive no evidence to suggest that cost was an issue.  And as Ive said, I think  
Mr and Mrs H could reasonably have wanted to protect an important commitment.  Indeed,  I 
note that Mr and Mrs H made a successful  claim on the policy  in 2009  YBS sent in copies 
of letters  about  the payments. 
On balance, although I cant say for certain  that YBS clearly explained all of the policy  
details, I think Mr and Mrs H would still have bought the policy.  It couldve provided valuable  
protection if theyd  been unable to work. This means  I dont think  the PPI was mis-sold. So 
YBS doesnt  need to refund everything  Mr and Mrs H paid for it. 
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs H paid on their PPI  and whether YBS 
treated them  unfairly. 
YBS told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs PPI was less than half of what  they paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how YBS has been working this out and, based on what  
weve seen, it looks as though its right  Mr and Mrs Hs commission was less than half the 
cost of the PPI. As thats the case, I dont think it needed to tell them about the commission, 
so I dont think YBS treated them unfairly.  This means it doesnt  need to pay Mr and Mrs H 
back any of the commission they paid for the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 March 2019.
Jan Ferrari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6954830