K820x#14complaint
Mr H has complained that CIS General Insurance Limited unreasonably increased his 
premium for his motor  policy each  year. 
background
Mr H was a customer of CIS from 2011.  In 2017,  he changed the car to be insured to a 
similar car with the same  engine size. 
He complained to CIS about the price increases, but it didnt think it had done anything  
wrong. So Mr H brought  his complaint  to us.
The adjudicator also didnt think CIS had done  anything wrong. Mr H didnt agree so his 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. And Ill now explain  why.
As the adjudicator explained  this service is not the regulator, the Financial Conduct  Authority 
(FCA) is. That means  we dont tell insurers what to charge their customers, or how they 
should increase  or decrease their premium amount for the risk to be covered. Thats in the 
domain of the FCA and not this service. 
All insurers, being commercial enterprises,  are entitled to decide what  risks they want  to 
cover and what premium to charge for that cover. My role and that of this service  is to make 
sure CIS here, didnt treat Mr H any differently from any other customer with the same 
circumstances as Mr H, so as to ensure Mr H wasnt singled out unfairly.
Obviously, how each  insurer works out any particular risk is commercially sensitive 
information. This cant be shared with Mr H given its commercial sensitivity and the fact we 
publish our decisions.  I do understand this is frustrating for Mr H. However, like the 
adjudicator, Ive looked at the information  given to us by CIS and theres  no evidence its 
treated Mr H unfairly or singled him out.
Premiums change or rise for many different reasons, and each insurer takes its own view on 
these reasons. A change of car will invariably increase a risk if nothing else simply because 
the car is new to the policyholder. But these reasons are continually reviewed,  and Ive seen 
no evidence that Mr H wasnt treated like any other customer of CIS with similar  
circumstances. Therefore, I dont think CIS has done anything  wrong.
Mr H has showed us various media reports about motor insurers increasing premiums 
unfairly on renewal and taking advantage of customers loyalty. However, its not in my 
power or that of this service to deal with this. That is more  a matter for the regulator,  the 
FCA.
In the case of Mr H, Ive seen no evidence CIS has treated him in particular, unfairly or 
unreasonably.
Ref: DRN69376882my final decision
So whilst I appreciate  Mr H will be disappointed with my decision, for these reasons, its my 
final decision  that I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6937688