K820x#14complaint
Mr Y complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading  as Birmingham  Midshires)  has treated him 
unfairly. In particular he says it sent a field agent  to his buy-to-let property without informing 
him beforehand. 
Mr Y wants  Birmingham  Midshires to compensate him for the trouble and upset the visit 
caused.
background
The buy-to-let mortgage Mr Y held with Birmingham  Midshires (BM) was in arrears. BM told 
Mr Y that its field agent would contact him before visiting the property.  However, the field 
agent did not notify Mr Y in advance of his visit. 
Mr Y says the agent attached a letter to the front door of the property. He says that having  
read the letter his tenant was very concerned  that the property might be taken into 
possession. Mr Y said it caused him a great deal of inconvenience to re-assure his tenant  
that the property  would not be repossessed.
Mr Y complained to BM. It accepted  that it had incorrectly  told him that its field agent  would 
write to you separately to let him know when the visit would take place. It said it should not 
have said this, as this was not its usual process for buy-to-let mortgages.  
It paid Mr Y £100 for the trouble and upset  this matter had caused  him.
Mr Y was not satisfied  with BMs offer and brought his complaint  to this service.  
Our adjudicator said he felt the offer BM had made was fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
He accepted that Mr Y had expected BMs field agent to contact him before visiting  the 
property. But he noted that BM had previously  written to Mr Y about the arrears and had 
asked Mr Y to contact it. Mr Y had not contacted it to discuss  the arrears. As Mr Y had not 
engaged with it and the arrears were increasing, BM made arrangements  for a field agent  to 
visit the property. 
Our adjudicator said he was satisfied that BM was entitled to take action  to address the 
arrears. He also noted that the visit would not have gone ahead if Mr Y had engaged with 
BM about the arrears.  
Mr Y remained unhappy  with £100  BM had offered. He said he felt he should  receive  more  
for the trouble and upset  this matter had caused.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I think the offer BM has made is fair and I dont  think  it needs to do any 
more to resolve this complaint. Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN63264662It is not in dispute  that BM incorrectly told Mr Y that its field agent would contact him before 
visiting the property.  What is in dispute is whether the £100 BM has paid Mr Y is sufficient 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this error  caused.
As our adjudicator noted, Mr Y chose not to engage with BM when it contacted him about 
the arrears. Mr Y was required  to maintain the mortgage payments. As he had not done so, 
or contacted  BM to arrange a plan to repay  the arrears, I think  it was entitled to instruct a 
field agent to visit the property.  I note that the mortgage was around four months in arrears 
at the time of the visit.
I appreciate that Mr Ys tenant  was concerned  about  the letter attached to the door of the 
property. But as our adjudicator explained  if Mr Y had engaged with BM about the arrears it 
would not have needed to send a field agent.  
In the circumstances of this complaint  I think the offer BM has made is fair and I dont think it 
needs to do any more to resolve this matter.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6326466