K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS), trading as Audi 
Financial Services, refused to refund payments hed made to his finance  agreement after his 
car was written off. 
background
Mr B took receipt of a new car in March 2018.  He financed the deal through a hire 
agreement with VWFS but unfortunately the car was involved in an accident in April 2019  
and was written off. The insurance  company  provided a settlement to VWFS but Mr B thinks  
VWFS should repay the finance instalments hed paid towards  his agreement.  He says he 
was only half way through the hire period at the time of the accident.
VWFS rejected his complaint so Mr B referred it to this service and our investigator  provided 
her view. She explained that Mr B was paying  for the use of the car and, as hed had that 
use, there was no reason for VWFS to refund  the payments hed made  for the use hed had 
of the car.
Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators view and he asked  for a final decision by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr B so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a hire agreement. This is a regulated  consumer credit 
agreement and as a result our service is able to look into complaints about  it.
Mr B was paying to hire the car and VWFS agreed to provide the car to him for a period  of 
two years on the provision  that Mr B paid them  instalments each month.  At the time the car 
was written off Mr B had made several payments but these were to fund the use hed 
already had of the car. So they were not refundable and there was no right under the terms 
of Mr Bs contract  to have those instalments refunded. Im therefore  not asking VWFS to 
take any further action.
Ref: DRN67193552my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6719355