K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Bank of Scotland plc, trading  as Halifax (Halifax), mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a mortgage  in 2007.
Ms B applied for the PPI at a meeting in branch. The policy was sold as part of a packaged  
protection policy called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan. This protection  plan included  a 
PPI policy   which covered consumers for accident, sickness and unemployment.  The 
protection also had separate  life cover and critical illness  cover, which  Ms B took as well.
This complaint only focuses on the sale of Ms Bs policy  and not the life cover or critical 
illness cover  she was sold.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case. 
After having looked at the sale of the policy Ive decided not to uphold Ms Bs complaint.  Ill 
explain why.
Ms B has said it wasnt made clear to her that she had a choice about taking the PPI so Ive 
looked at whether the policy was presented as optional. Halifaxs  mortgage  illustration  
document explained that Ms B didnt have to take out any insurance as a condition of the 
mortgage. It also confirmed the Optional  insurance Ms B had chosen. So I havent seen 
enough to persuade me it misled her about the PPI being optional.  So I think  its more likely 
Halifax made Ms B aware that PPI was optional and that she chose to take it after a detailed 
discussion about the various types  and level of protection that were  available.
Ms B doesnt recall being given  any advice  but Halifax  has confirmed it did recommend the 
policy to her. Halifax has been able to give us some  computer records and correspondence 
from the time of the sale which shows there  was discussion  about the PPI.
And it looks like Ms B was asked questions about  her health and working  circumstances. 
And these  questions were  answered  as part of a discussion about  her eligibility for the policy 
and whether it was suitable for her. This process is in line with what  I know  of Halifaxs  sales  
practices at the time. And the computer records and correspondence suggest Ms B took a 
meaningful part in the conversation.
Ref: DRN61501052As Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms B it had to make sure it was right for her based on 
her circumstances at the time. Ms B was employed and would have been entitled to 
generous employee  benefits if she wasnt able to work  between six and twelve  months  
pay. Ms B has also said she could  have relied  upon  her parents for financial help if she had 
needed to. 
But the policy would have covered Ms Bs repayments for 12 months  per claim if she wasnt 
able to work because  of accident or sickness, or was made  redundant. So she could have 
used any employee  benefits she would have  received for other household costs  or bills she 
would have had. 
By having the policy it would have meant Ms B wouldnt have had to rely upon her parents. 
And while no doubt they would be willing to help financially this offer of help could not have 
been guaranteed as their own personal circumstances might have changed. 
Ms B was solely responsible for the mortgage  repayments and the policy  was designed to 
protect against the unexpected. And the consequences for missing mortgage payments are 
significant  even going so far as losing your home  so I think Ms B would have seen the 
policy as a financial benefit she wouldnt otherwise have had and given her piece of mind  in 
the event she wasnt able to work. 
I cant be sure how clearly  the cost of the PPI policy  was explained  by the adviser.  But the 
cost was detailed  on the Total  Mortgage Protection  Plan  plan schedule . And this clearly 
set out the monthly cost of the PPI and also of the life and critical illness cover for Ms B. So, 
overall I think its clear that Ms B would  have been  aware how much the policy  cost per 
month. 
I havent seen  anything to suggest that the PPI was unaffordable or unsuitable in Ms Bs 
circumstances. And even if everything  had been explained clearly, I think its likely  that she 
still would  have bought it. I say this because it looks like the policy  could have been  useful  to 
her as I explained above.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Ms B doesnt  
appear to have been affected by any of those things, so I dont think  more information about  
this would have  changed her mind  and stopped her from taking the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Bs complaint  about PPI being mis-sold  to 
her by Bank  of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN6150105