K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains that Bank of Ireland (UK) Plc delayed a foreign exchange 
transaction resulting in losses. C is represented by its director,  who Ill refer to as Mr E. Mr E 
says C suffered losses of about £2,000.
background
Mr E called Bank of Ireland on 10 January 2019. He wanted to transfer €50,000 to €100,000 
from Cs euro account to its sterling account  as the exchange rate was favourable at that 
time. Mr E says he was transferred to the customer services team which  could only offer a 
tourist exchange rate. He was told someone  with the right expertise would call him back. 
This didnt  happen.  
Mr E says by the time he heard from Bank of Ireland the exchange rate had moved 
significantly. He says C paid sterling  invoices from its euro account and he lent sterling to C 
from his own account to reduce the amount of the loss. Due to the poorer exchange rates, C 
has losses of about £2,000 which would  have been avoided if Bank of Ireland had returned  
his call and completed  the exchange transaction on 10 January 2019.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said Mr E could 
have contacted Bank of Irelands global markets team, as hed done previously, when it 
became clear the customer  services team couldnt offer him the rates he wanted.  While it 
was poor service for Bank of Ireland not to call him back, Mr E could have  contacted Bank of 
Ireland again.
C didnt agree. Mr E said Bank of Ireland only gave him contact details for the global markets 
team later in January.  Previously, hed called customer  services and been transferred. 
my finding
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr E called Bank of Ireland on 10 January 2019. He says he wanted  to transfer either 
€50,000 or €100,000 from Cs Euro account to its Sterling account. Hed seen that the 
exchange rates that day were favourable. His call was transferred to customer  services, who 
couldnt help him. He was told hed be called back by someone that could help, but this 
didnt happen.
Mr E says exchange rates then moved unfavourably so he didnt make the transfer. He says 
he lent Sterling to C so that it could make  payments without  exchanging money  at a poor 
rate. Mr E says C made Sterling payments from its Euro account in March and April 2019. 
Mr E says C would have made these payments from its Sterling account  if Bank  of Ireland 
had returned his call on 10 January  and completed the funds transfer.  The actual exchange  
rate used when  C made the payments was less favourable. 
Ref: DRN63241982Bank of Ireland  says C has a direct  dealing account,  set up in July 2018, so that it can deal 
with its global markets  team. Mr E had spoken  with the global markets  team  previously and 
had converted  €100,000 into sterling  in November 2018. 
Bank of Ireland  cant confirm whether Mr E had previously called the global markets  team  
directly or called another number  and was transferred. It cant  provide evidence it gave him 
contact details for the global  markets team before 10 January 2019.
Bank of Ireland  gave Mr E contact  details on 15 January 2019 so he could contact its 
dealers directly. It says its dealer tried to contact Mr E on 16 January 2019,  without  success.
C also transferred money using foreign  exchange providers, including  about  €100,000 in 
September 2018.
did Bank of Ireland make an error?
I think Mr E contacted Bank of Ireland about  making a transfer on 10 January 2019. This is 
consistent with the evidence  hes provided  and other occasions when C transferred lump  
sums from its Euro account to its Sterling  account.
I think its likely Bank  of Ireland made an error: it said it would call Mr E and failed to do so. 
what should happen now?
Id generally consider it reasonable  to require a bank  to pay compensation for financial loss 
caused by its error and which  it could have foreseen.  Id also take into account efforts  by a 
customer to reduce their losses.
This transfer  wasnt for a payment that had to be made that day. Rather,  Mr E wanted to 
take advantage of the prevailing exchange rate. 
From what  Mr E has said, when he called Bank of Ireland he hadnt decided  whether to 
transfer €50,000 or €100,000. Its unfortunate that call recordings arent  available.  But, as it 
is, Im not sure that Bank of Ireland was aware that Mr E would definitely  transfer  money that 
day or if it thought he was enquiring  about rates so that he could make a decision whether to 
do so. Bank  of Ireland couldnt  have  known whether the terms it offered would be accepted 
by C. 
Id also expect C to take steps to reduce any loss. C made similar  transfers previously, with 
Bank of Ireland  and with an exchange  rate provider. Mr E had been in contact with the right 
team at Bank of Ireland before  either by calling directly or after being transferred. So if he 
did want to ensure the transfer happened  that day, Id expect him to contact  Bank of Ireland  
again. I do appreciate  that he wouldnt have needed  to do this if Bank  of Ireland had 
returned his call. But, if Mr E had wanted  to ensure the transfer  happened  on that day, Id 
expect him to chase  Bank of Ireland or contact another provider. Theres no evidence he did 
this.
Overall, I dont  think its sufficiently certain  from the available  evidence  that C would 
definitely have  transferred  money that day if Bank  of Ireland had called him, or that Bank of 
Ireland knew this. And I think C could have taken steps to reduce its loss. 
Ref: DRN63241983I understand this is disappointing for Mr E. But I dont think  its fair and reasonable to require 
Bank of Ireland  to pay compensation to C for losses related to changes  in exchange rates 
after 10 January  2019.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6324198