K820x#14complaint
Miss E complains  that Phoenix Life Limited failed to pay the surrender sum on a mortgage 
endowment policy which was encashed in 2003.
background
The policy was taken  out in 1990  in joint names  with Miss Es then husband,  Mr T. Following 
their separation the policy was amended so whilst they both stayed as lives assured,  
Miss E became the sole beneficiary (policy owner).
Due to the passage of time the correspondence  and paperwork is largely  illegible so dates 
and details are unclear,  but it seems the policy amendment was applied  for in 1995.
Its appears at some  point  after that Miss E asked Phoenix to put the policy in Trust for the 
benefit of her children  and there  were  some issues with that as the paperwork wasnt  
returned. Its not clear  when the Trust was finally created or whether it was still in force  at the 
time the policy was surrendered. It seems  Miss E was a co-trustee with her brother.
It looks like Miss E applied to surrender the policy  in late 2000 but was told the surrender 
request would need to be signed  by all the trustees  and the funds would be paid to the 
trustees (rather than Miss E personally).
In late 2002 or early  2003 Miss E complained that the policy had been  mis-sold. Phoenix 
upheld the complaint and sent a redress  cheque  for just over £5,500 in March 2003.  It 
seems there was a further request to surrender the policy  at around the same time.
Phoenix says a separate cheque for just over £6,000 was sent which was the surrender 
value for the policy, but due to the passage of time it cant  confirm who the cheque  was 
made payable  to or when it was cashed. It says, however, that if the cheque hadnt  been 
cashed it would have shown as cancelled  on its system after six months had passed.
Miss E complained again  in January 2018  that the policy had been  mis-sold. She said shed 
only recently found out about mis-sold endowment policies and would have complained  
much earlier if she had been informed. There was no mention of her not having  received the 
surrender value.
Our investigator said we couldnt look at whether the policy had been mis-sold as Miss E had 
already been compensated  for that in 2003 and that there was nothing to show  that the 
surrender value hadnt been paid out by Phoenix.
Miss E didnt agree and so its been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres simply not enough persuasive evidence to fairly or safely  conclude that Phoenix 
failed to pay out this money.
Ref: DRN65091132Miss E initially complained in January 2018 that the policy had been mis-sold, saying shed 
only recently found out about mis-sold endowment policies which is why she hadnt 
complained sooner. But thats not correct. Miss E complained back in 2003 that her policy  
had been mis-sold and shed received over £5,500 in compensation.  Miss E also told us she 
had no knowledge  of the policy being put into a Trust, but again  the evidence  points to the 
fact that was done as Miss Es own request, so it would be held in trust for her children. 
Given these events took place about 15 years ago I dont believe that any party  
complainant or business  has a perfect recollection of what  occurred. As I said above, 
Miss E said she hadnt previously complained  about the sale of the policy, but we know she 
did. So it seems when  complaining in 2018  shed forgotten about cashing a cheque for over 
£5,500 in 2003. And its not therefore surprising if she doesnt  recall the similar pay-out at 
about the same time for the surrender value. It would be very unusual if someone  is 
expecting a cheque  for just over £6,000 (that theyd requested), then they wouldnt follow it 
up if the cheque  wasnt received.
I accept Miss E has told me what she remembers but memories  over such  a long period of 
time are unlikely to be entirely reliable. I cant ignore the fact that the evidence doesnt  
support Miss Es other recollections, so I simply cant safely uphold  her complaint.
I accept the evidence about  how and when the money was paid is unsatisfactory. But 
Phoenix isnt required  to hold information about  accounts or policies which  were  surrendered  
more than six years ago, so I cant fairly say it is in the wrong for not having a full, and 
checkable, trail of where and when the money was paid. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im 
required to ask Miss E to accept or reject my decision before 27 July 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6509113