K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (MPPI) policy.
Ms B bought a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP)  alongside a mortgage in 2003. TMPP 
can be split into sections,  namely Mortgage Repayments Cover (which  is a form of MPPI), 
Life Cover and Critical Illness Cover (CIC).
                
Ms B has only complained about the MPPI  cover  so Ive only looked  at the sale of the MPPI  
element of the package in this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Ms B disagreed so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Ms Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ms B says that she was unaware that she had agreed to purchase MPPI  and that she 
didnt know that the policy was optional.  She feels that things werent clearly explained to 
her, and she was just pleased to be able to get a mortgage at the time. 
BoS isnt able to provide a copy of Ms Bs mortgage application  although this isnt unusual 
for a sale that took place so long ago, and businesses arent required to keep records 
indefinitely. But BoS has been able to provide  copies of paperwork in use at the time that 
Ms B wouldve had to complete to get her mortgage. This shows that the MPPI policy 
wouldve been presented as optional.  And I havent  seen  anything to suggest  that BoS did 
anything differently when it sold the MPPI  to Ms B. So I think  its more  likely that the policy 
was presented as optional.  
I appreciate that Ms B was rightly excited to be able to secure a mortgage to buy her home   
and that this wouldve been  her main focus.  But at the same  time, Ms B was entering in to an 
important financial contract, so I wouldve  expected her to read through  her paperwork 
thoroughly.
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Ms B so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for her  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Ms B about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for her if something went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the MPPI would have  
put her off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN64776682Ms B has also asked us to confirm how she paid for the policy  as she was concerned  she 
may have  paid upfront for the cover. I can confirm that the policy  was paid for on a monthly  
basis.
Ive thought about everything Ms B has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the MPPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6477668