K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C are unhappy  that TSB Bank  plc wont refund them  the money they lost from 
their joint account after Mr C was the victim  of a scam.
background
In June 2018, Mr C was contacted by what he thought was an investment company through  
an unsolicited email.  The company offered him a three-year bond with a rate that he thought 
was a good offer. Mr C was also told he would receive dividends each quarter. 
Mr C has told us that he tried to do some research  on the investment company and found a 
registered office within the UK. After speaking  with the fraudsters, who said they worked for 
the investment  company, he believed he was dealing with a genuine business.
After agreeing to go ahead with the investment, and apparently passing the required know  
your client and anti-money laundering  checks,  Mr C received another email  containing the 
account details  where  the funds were to be sent.  He was assured he would receive  all the 
necessary documentation once the payment had been made. Mr C was never asked to sign 
any documents, nor did he receive any more detail about the investment before he was due 
to make the payment.
Mr C then visited his local TSB branch and asked the cashier  to transfer £85,000 to the third-
party account. Once the payment was made,  Mr C received confirmation from the 
investment company. It told him everything was in order. He then also received a copy of 
what appeared to be a bond certificate  and some correspondence on company letterhead.  
There were a few errors on the certificate.  And on asking for these to be amended,  they 
were. So, Mr C wasnt alerted at this point  that anything suspicious was going  on.
Three months later, Mr C was expecting  to receive the first dividend payment he had been 
promised. But this never appeared. Mr C attempted to contact the investment company but 
was unsuccessful. The website hed previously  used also no longer existed. At this point 
Mr C realised hed been scammed and contacted TSB. It immediately contacted  the 
receiving bank to try and recover  the funds, although these had been  withdrawn in the days 
following the original  transaction. 
TSB investigated Mr Cs complaint. But it didnt think it had done  anything wrong. It has told 
us that this level of financial  transaction wasnt unusual for Mr C and it didnt think  that its 
branch staff would have  been alerted to anything unusual. So, they wouldnt have needed to 
ask Mr C any further questions or give him any scam warnings. It says that even if it had 
questioned Mr C further, given that hed done  some  investigation into the investment 
company before making  the transfer,  and he didnt discover the fraud for three months,  he 
wouldve still gone ahead and sent the money.
Our investigator thought that although  the payment was authorised  by Mr C, TSB hadnt  
done enough to challenge him on the reasons for the payment whilst Mr C was in branch  
especially as there hadnt  been  any comparable activity on the account in the lead up to the 
payment. The investigator highlighted a series of questions she wouldve expected  the 
branch staff to ask  including (but not limited to) how Mr C came to be in contact with the 
company and what documentation he had received.  And if this had happened,  she was 
persuaded this line of questioning wouldve raised some  concerns.  And ultimately the loss 
could have been prevented.
Ref: DRN60656272As a result, she asked TSB to refund the scam payment, with interest, and the CHAPS fee 
incurred when Mr C made the payment.
Mr and Mrs C accepted  the investigators  view, but TSB didnt. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, like our investigator, I think that the fair and reasonable outcome  is that this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
consider relevant law and regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards,  codes of 
practice, and (where appropriate) what I consider  to be good industry practice at the time 
(the relevant  considerations).
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the Payment  
Services Regulations 2017 and the terms and conditions  of the customers account.
I accept that this was an authorised payment, even though Mr C was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He went into branch and used  his security credentials to request the 
payment. So, although  he didnt intend for the money to go to the scammers, under the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017,  and the terms and conditions of his account, Mr C is 
presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.   
But, considering all the relevant considerations, TSB should  fairly and reasonably:
have been  taking care to monitor  any payments made or received to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism and 
preventing fraud and scams;
have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer;  and
in some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
In this case I need to decide whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr 
C when he authorised the payment  from his (and Mrs Cs) joint account - or whether it could, 
or should, have  done more before processing  it. 
Ref: DRN60656273Did TSB act fairly  and reasonably in Mr Cs case?
As Ive already  mentioned,  its good  practice for banks to be on the lookout  for any payments 
made by their customers which appear  to be unusual or out of character. So, Ive gone on to 
firstly consider if the payment for £85,000  would be unusual for Mr and Mrs C.
Having done so, Im satisfied that it is unusual when compared to recent activity on their 
account. I appreciate  TSB have highlighted that there have been notable  payments on the 
account in the past. But the transactions it has highlighted  took place anytime between two 
and seven years before  the scam payment.
Thats a substantial amount of time, and far enough in the past where  I dont consider it to be 
a fair and accurate reflection of how the account  was being operated around the time of the 
scam payment. For example, the largest payment I can see in the year before the scam was 
for just over £19,000,  and most other  payments were considerably  less than this. 
TSB also asserts that as there was a high balance on the account  both before  and after the 
transaction, it didnt  think branch staff should  have been alerted to anything  being amiss. I 
dont consider that to be a reason not to alert a customer to the possibility of a scam. Indeed, 
the more money  a customer  has, the greater protection  they may well need to avoid losing a 
significant sum to an unscrupulous  fraudster.  And not all scams involve the draining of 
accounts.
As I think  the £85,000 payment was, at the time,  unusual, and in any event was a significant 
amount to be transferring in branch, I think it was right for TSB to have asked Mr C some 
relevant questions about it. 
It does appear that Mr C was at least asked what the payment would be for. And he 
answered that it was an investment. But most of the questioning was done  in line with the 
banks anti-money  laundering requirements.  So, it was more  interested in Mr C showing who 
he was and where the money had come  from, rather than where  it was going and if this 
could be a scam.
When considering  what was a large and out of the ordinary payment, Im not satisfied that 
solely asking about the nature of the payment was enough on this occasion  especially with 
TSBs responsibilities  to make sure it was doing  all it could to help protect  its customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm as a result of fraud and scams.  
Had TSB asked Mr C some further  questions  about this investment, I think  its more likely 
than not the scam wouldve become apparent   and ultimately have been prevented. Ill 
explain why below.
As the TSB branch staff were on notice  about  the nature of the payment, they shouldve  
been aware of the risks involved with this type of payment, alongside the fact that these 
types of arrangement can often be a common form of scam. On this occasion, just by asking 
Mr C how hed been contacted by the investment company, or whether he had any 
paperwork, or had signed any documentation  beforehand, wouldve revealed the possibility 
that something was amiss here.
Mr C wouldve been able to confirm hed been  contacted out of the blue and hadnt 
received/signed any documentation before being  asked to make the payment  which is 
clearly unusual, considering the amount he was being asked to transfer.  These two pieces of 
additional information alone  wouldve allowed the branch staff to provide a more  detailed 
Ref: DRN60656274warning to Mr C about the possibility of this being a scam. And with this further  
warning/context, Im satisfied the likelihood of a scam wouldve become apparent  to Mr C 
and the payment wouldnt have been made. After all, this was a significant  amount of money 
for Mr C. And I think that if hed been warned, he would have made additional checks on the 
fraudulent business  which  had sold him the product  as well as the business  to whose 
account the funds were  being transferred.   
Ive also thought about whether Mr C did enough to protect himself (and Mrs C) from the 
loss. I can see he did attempt to carry out some checks on the company and did have some 
contact with a couple  of individuals  in the lead up to the payment being  made.  And whilst he 
didnt receive any documentation  before the payment  was made,  he was assured on multiple 
occasions, by clearly sophisticated fraudsters,  that everything was legitimate. So, overall,  I 
do think he acted with reasonable care in relying on his initial research and correspondence  
with the third parties. So, I dont think there  was any contributory negligence on Mr Cs part 
in allowing this scam to be successful. 
Ive noted that Mr C was also unhappy  that the response to this complaint was addressed  by 
TSB to his wife, even  though it was him that had made the complaint. TSB has explained 
that Mrs C has the lead profile on this joint account. And thats  why the banks 
documentation was set up in her name for the transaction.  I expect its also why she 
received the notification that the bank had been  unable to recover  the funds. Whilst this was 
unfortunate, I dont  consider that it has any real bearing on the outcome  of the complaint, nor 
have Mr and Mrs C suffered as a result  of it. So, it isnt something  that I will be including  in 
my award of redress below.
Putting things  right
As Ive found that TSBs lack of questioning and failure to provide any fraud warnings directly 
contributed to this scam being successful,  I think its fair and reasonable for TSB to refund 
the amount Mr and Mrs C lost through the scam and the CHAPS  fee for the payment. 
Mr and Mrs C also havent had the use of this money  since it was lost to the fraudsters. So, I 
think TSB should pay interest on the lost funds  at our usual interest rate. 
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold this complaint.
I require that TSB Bank plc pay Mr and Mrs C £85,030 within four weeks of receiving 
notification of their acceptance of this decision. To this it should  add interest  on that amount 
at the rate of 8% simple  a year from the date of the transfer to the date of settlement.
TSB may be required by Her Majestys Revenue  & Customs to deduct tax from the interest. 
If it does,  and if Mr and Mrs C request it, TSB should  provide them with a certificate  showing 
how much  tax has been taken off, so they may reclaim it if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 January 2020.
James Kennard
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6065627