K821x#15complaint
Mr H and Mrs H (the complainants) are represented. Their representative says an 
appointed representative (AR) of The On-Line  Partnership Limited (TOLP) did, in the main,  
as follows:
Gave the complainants unsuitable advice, in late 2016, to surrender their pre-existing 
Investment Bonds  (IBs).
Gave the complainants unsuitable advice, in early 2017,  to place £400,000 of assets 
(including the proceeds of the surrendered IBs) on the Transact investment platform  
pursuant to investments that were never subsequently recommended  (or executed).
Obtained a payment from the complainants (related to estate/will planning)  through 
intentional misrepresentations.
Received fees/charges from the complainants but did not provide the requisite 
service. 
background
One of our investigators  applied thorough treatment to the complaint issues. In the course of 
doing so she issued an initial view and discussed  it with both parties  (including  discussions 
about its implications  and about  both parties comments  on the view). The investigator  then 
issued a revised (and final) view on the complaint.
The investigator upheld  the complaint. Both of her views did this. The complainants and their 
representative welcomed  the conclusion that the merits  of the complaint had been  upheld. 
TOLP defended its position in the course  of the investigation, but since the investigators  
conclusions it does  not appear  to have disputed the upholding  of the complaints merits. 
The complainants  were in their 70s and they sought  advice from the AR for estate/will  
planning (with a focus on safeguarding their family  home within  their estate), for inheritance 
tax (IHT)  planning and for a review of their pre-existing investments in the context of 
estate/will and IHT planning.  In their complaint (as summarised above), they claimed a full 
refund of fees,  compensation for financial loss, compensation for the trouble and upset  
caused to them, compensation for the tax implications that arose from the IBs they were  
advised to surrender and redress for the potential negative impact of the proceeds  of the IBs 
upon their future financial eligibility for care home fees. 
In summary,  and with regards to merits, the investigator found as follows:
The AR misled the complainants  to believe that one firm was being  instructed to 
undertake work in planning their will, when  another firm (which  was concealed from 
them) had been instructed for this purpose. He misrepresented  the relevant 
arrangements to the complainants,  including  in the course of obtaining payment from 
them for the will planning services of the concealed firm.
The ARs initial investment advice was subsequently abandoned  by him. He claimed 
to have revised his advice and that he was yet to conclude it pending the outcome of 
the will planning exercise. His documentation  for the advice is inconsistent  and 
unreliable; no recommendations appear  to have been provided to the complainants;  
and his claim about a conclusion  to his revised  advice  being dependent on the will 
planning exercise is both implausible  and unsupported by evidence   especially as 
he did not progress  the will planning exercise  he had initiated. 
Ref: DRN67962692The complainants  did not receive suitable  advice from the AR. His proposed IHT 
solution (a Discounted Gift Trust)  was the idea he subsequently abandoned, and he 
appeared to be lost for ideas thereafter.  The complainants were advised to transfer  
their assets (including the proceeds  of the IBs which the AR advised them to 
surrender) to the Transact platform   which they did  yet the AR had no investment  
plans in place  for them and appeared misguided in the matter. This resulted in a 
prolonged period of inactivity, with the stagnant assets being  eroded by advisers 
fees and administrative  costs,  until the complainants were frustrated in the matter  
and transferred agency for their assets  to another firm.
The investigators concluding findings on redress were as follows:
It is not possible to determine  whether (or not), or the extent to which, any detriment 
might arise from the proceeds  of the IBs upon the complainants financial  eligibility  for 
care home fees. In terms of tax implications,  the chargeable  gain and gross  tax 
liability that arose from the surrendering  of the IBs concluded  with no net tax liability  
due to deductions made  for Top Slicing relief and the Notional Tax from gains treated 
as paid. Therefore,  there is no basis for compensation in this respect.
In the absence of precise knowledge  about  what suitable investment(s) the 
complainants would have made, but for the ARs  unsuitable advice, a benchmark 
comparison exercise should be conducted  to calculate if compensation is due for the 
unsuitable investment  advice  they were given  (and, if so, how much).  The notion of 
reinstating the complainants previously held investments   or the notion of 
compensation that seeks to replicate this  is unsupported by evidence  that they 
sought to review and change  their investments in any case,  irrespective of the ARs 
unsuitable advice.  As such, the benchmark  comparison  exercise  is appropriate and a 
refund of advice  fees would not be  given that such fees would have been  incurred,  
in any case, in the course of the review of investments they sought.
The complainants  should be refunded the £3,000 they paid for the will planning 
service, given that they did not receive  the benefit  of that service. Interest at the rate 
of 8% simple should also be paid on this amount. For £2,700, interest  should  run 
from the date the payment was made to 20 February 2018 (when this amount was 
refunded to the complainant and declined by them);  for the remainder £300 interest 
should run from the date the payment was made to the date of settlement.
The complainants  should be paid £1,000 for the trouble  and upset caused  to them  by 
the complaint  matter(s).
TOLP accepts the investigators redress proposals and it put a settlement offer (and 
calculation) to the complainants based upon  them. The complainants  disagree with the 
investigators redress proposals. In the main, they and their representative say:
A costs award should be granted to the complainants.
A refund of fees should be awarded  to the complainants.
It is unfair to limit calculation  of interest  on the £2,700 amount. The complainants  
considered it necessary  to decline the refund cheque sent to them in February 2018 
because they did not wish to condone  the ARs deceptive and potentially criminal  
activities in falsely extracting the initial  payment from them;  and did not wish to be 
complicit in this respect.
Compensation for financial loss should capture the complainants loss arising  from 
the income and growth they have  been deprived of since their IBs were surrendered.
The matter  was referred to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN67962693my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I do not consider  that the merits of the complaint require further or detailed treatment by me. 
As I said above, the investigator gave thorough treatment to this. I have considered  and 
reviewed her findings. I consider that she addressed the issues very competently  and 
comprehensively, that she provided  reasoned findings in each  respect and I endorse  and 
incorporate into this decision   those findings. As I address below, the same applies to her 
findings on redress.
The complaint issues as alleged by the complainants  and their representative  and as 
summarised at the outset   are supported by the balance  of available  evidence,  so the 
complaint is upheld. As I noted above, TOLP does not appear to have challenged the 
investigators findings on merit.
TOLP has accepted the investigators findings  on redress and it proposed   to the 
complainants  a settlement based  upon them. There is dispute in this respect because the 
complainants do not accept the same findings. I treat the issue of redress  (including the 
complainants points) as follows:
£1,000 is a fair amount to serve as compensation  to the complainants for the trouble 
and upset caused to them by the complaint and by the matters within it. I am mindful 
of the breach of their trust by the AR and the sensitive context (that is, estate and will 
planning) in which that happened.  Such breach would ordinarily be troubling, but I 
consider that the distress caused to the complainant was likely to have been 
compounded by its occurrence in such a context. I am also mindful  that, overall, their 
entire engagement with the AR appears  to have been a waste of their time and effort.  
It is for these reasons that I support the award,  to the complainants,  of £1,000  
which is comparable to awards made by this service in similar cases  and is at the 
higher level of the awards we make  for trouble and upset.
It is normally the approach within this service that costs awards are not automatically 
granted if complaints are successful.  The regulators rules  say that cost awards from 
this service are the exception  not the rule. The complainants  have  been  
represented very well by their representative.  However, this service has addressed  
comparable complaints in which the complainant(s) was un-represented. I have not 
seen any aspect  of the present complaint that makes it exceptional  or that suggests  it 
could not have been pursued without the representative. I am not persuaded that a 
costs award is appropriate.
A credible argument can exist for a refund  of advice related fees where, for example, 
unsuitable advice  was unsolicited or where  unsuitable advice was given to change 
investments that the complainant had not wished  or planned to change. In such 
cases, the points  could be that the complainant  did not actually want  the advice 
service, that the advice  given  was unsuitable and that but for the unsuitable advice 
(and/or the unsolicited advice) it is more  likely  than not that the complainant would 
have done nothing with any pre-existing investments. In the present case,  the 
complainants were on enquiry for advice and in pursuit of a review  of their 
investments. The ARs  advice  to them was unsuitable. However,  the points to note 
Ref: DRN67962694are that they are to be compensated (below) for any financial loss arising  from that 
unsuitable advice  and that they would have incurred  advice fees in any case (given  
the investment  review  they sought). In this context, I am not persuaded that they 
should receive a refund  of advice  fees.  This rationale is also reflected in the absence 
of any deduction  for fees in the calculation of any financial loss they have suffered. 
I understand the concerns the complainants expressed with regards to the refund of 
£2,700 they declined  in February 2018. I consider that they held those  concerns  
sincerely at the time, but that does not automatically mean that the ARs  attempt to 
make the refund  to them can be fairly  ignored.  It cannot. He gave this partial refund 
(out of the £3,000  payment for the will planning service) to the complainants. In terms 
of using interest to compensate them for being deprived the payment amount it 
cannot reasonably  be said that they were  or continued to be deprived of £2,700 (out 
of the total payment)  when the cheque for £2,700  was sent to and received by them. 
They were entitled to decline it as they did, but the fact remains  that they were no 
longer deprived  by the AR of this amount from that point onwards. From that point 
onwards they deprived themselves of this amount, so it would not be fair for TOLP be 
responsible for interest from such a point onwards.
The investigator has followed  this services approach for the compensation of 
financial loss arising from unsuitable investment advice. In the absence of evidence 
about what a complainant would probably have invested in, but for the unsuitable 
advice, we would normally  use the benchmark exercise proposed by the investigator. 
As I explain below, this applies to the complainants complaint.
fair compensation
In deciding what is fair my aim is to put the complainants as close  as I can to the position 
they would  probably now be in if they had not been given unsuitable advice  by the AR. They  
wished to review their investments, but they do not appear to have had predetermined or 
pre-considered investment options  within their objectives. 
This is not a criticism, it was reasonable for them to rely upon professional  advice and 
guidance in this respect, without having  any pre-existing ideas of their own. 
However, this means that whilst it is clear the complainants wanted  to review their pre-
existing investments, what they would have invested  in but for the ARs unsuitable advice 
appears to be unknown. They would  have invested  differently  but because  it is not possible 
to say precisely what they would have done differently the benchmark comparison exercise 
ordered below becomes  appropriate. 
I am satisfied that what I have set out below  is fair given the complainants  circumstances 
and objectives  at the time. 
what must  TOLP  do?
To compensate the complainants fairly,  TOLP  must:
Compare the performance of the complainants investment with that of the 
benchmark shown  below and pay the complainants the difference  between the fair 
value and the actual value  of the investment. If the actual value is greater than the 
fair value, no compensation is payable. Pay interest as set out below.
Ref: DRN67962695Refund the amount of £2,700 to the complainants.  Pay interest at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date the [£3,000] payment (for the will planning  service)  was 
made by the complainants,  and up to 20 February  2019.
Refund the amount of £300  to the complainants. Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple 
per year from the date the [£3,000] payment (for the will planning service) was made  
by the complainants,  and up to the date of settlement.
Pay the complainants  £1000 for the trouble  and upset caused to them.
Provide the details of the calculations to the complainants in a clear  and simple 
format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Investment status Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
The 
complainants 
investment  
assets (which  
were on the 
Transact 
platform)transferredfor half of the 
investment,  the 
Bank of England 
average return 
from fixed rate 
bonds;  and for the 
other  half, the 
FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income 
Total Return  Index  
(prior to 1 March 
2017, the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  
Income  Total 
Return Index)date of 
investmentdate 
transferred 8% simple  
per year 
from the 
end date to 
the date of 
settlement 
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark. To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed  rate bonds  as the 
benchmark, TOLP should  use the monthly average rate for fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 17 
months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown  
as at the end of the previous month. Those  rates should be applied  to the investment on an 
annually compounded basis. 
Ref: DRN67962696Any withdrawal, income or other  payment  out of the investments should  be deducted  from 
the fair value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return  in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number  of regular  payments,  to keep 
calculations simpler, I will accept if TOLP totals all of those  payments and deducts that figure  
at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have decided on this method  of compensation because:
The complainants  wanted growth and income,  with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to capital. The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income Total Return  Index is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds,  and would  be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.  
I consider that the complainants were in between,  in the sense  that they were 
prepared to take a small level of risk to attain their investment objective. The 50/50 
combination above  would  reasonably put them into that position and it broadly 
reflects the sort of return they could have obtained from an investment suited to their 
profile.
The additional interest is for the complainants being deprived of the use of any 
compensation money since  the end date.
compensation limit
Where I uphold  a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, £160,000, £350,000 or £355,000 (depending on when the 
complaint event occurred  and when  the complaint was referred to us) plus any interest that I 
consider appropriate. If fair compensation exceeds  the relevant compensation limit the 
respondent firm may be asked to pay the balance.  Payment of such balance is not part of 
my determination or award. It is not binding on the respondent firm and it is unlikely that a 
complainant can accept my decision and go to court to ask for such  balance. A complainant 
may therefore want to consider getting  independent  legal advice in this respect before 
deciding whether (or not) to accept the decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr Hs and Mrs Hs complaint. I order  The On-Line 
Partnership Limited to pay them compensation as set out above and to provide them with 
calculations of the compensation in a clear and simple format. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6796269