K821x#15complaint
Mrs D complains that Tesco Underwriting Limited  unfairly charged her a mid-term additional 
premium for her home insurance after she made a claim. 
background
Mrs D had home insurance with Tesco for a number of years. In August 2015 Mrs D claimed 
under her policy for subsidence damage to her home. When the claim was settled in 
December 2017,  Tesco recalculated her 2017/2018 premium  mid-term and charged  her an 
additional premium  of £3,739.11 spread over the remaining monthly payments for that policy  
year. Tesco increased  Mrs Ds monthly  direct debit from £112.70 to £773.57.
Mrs D complained to Tesco. Tesco said it had calculated  the figures correctly but, because 
its pricing structures were  commercially sensitive it couldnt give her a breakdown  of how itd 
done so. It apologised for sending her a letter saying that the increased premium would be 
charged from February 2018 when it shouldve confirmed it would apply from January 2018.  
It refunded the additional premium it had collected  by direct debit in January 2018 (£660.87). 
Tesco said its terms and conditions stated  it could amend its premiums  mid-term providing 
10 days notice was given. It said it had complied with this requirement as it had sent her a 
letter on 20 December 2017.  
But Mrs D remained  unhappy that that shed been  charged a mid-term additional premium. 
She said it wasnt fair so she cancelled  her policy. Shortly after doing so she received a letter  
from Tesco to say she still owed  it £371.54.
Mrs D complained to this service. Our adjudicator investigated he complaint and 
recommended that it was upheld. He didnt think that Tesco  had treated Mrs D fairly by 
increasing her premium mid-term instead of waiting for renewal. He recommended  that 
Tesco refund  any additional premium it had collected from Mrs D together with interest at 
this services usual rate of 8% simple  per year. He also recommended Tesco  pay Mrs D 
compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset it had caused  her by telling her it was 
increasing her monthly direct debit by such a substantial amount. 
Mrs D agreed  with our adjudicators findings  but Tesco didnt. It said it couldve applied  the 
claim to Mrs Ds policy far sooner  so she wouldve paid an increased amount for longer 
either with itself or another insurer. It said it felt penalised for administering  the claim in a 
way that benefitted its customer. It said that if it had rated the claim from the date it was first 
notified then it was unlikely our adjudicator would now be finding  against it. But by rating  the 
claim after it was settled   something  that was in Mrs Ds favour  it was being penalised. It 
said itd waived the cancellation  fee and the portion  of the additional premium it collected in 
error in January 2018. 
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to change his mind so the complaint was passed  to me for 
a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I think this complaint should be upheld. Ill 
explain why. 
Ref: DRN67607132Its this services approach that for a mid-term increase in premium to be justifiable it must be 
required by the contract, be notified to the consumer and be of a sufficiently fundamental 
nature to the basis of that contract.
At no point  has Tesco  said the type of mid-term adjustment to premium that it sought to 
apply to Mrs D was required  by the contract between  them.  This service  has asked Tesco 
where in the contract it states its allowed  to re-underwrite the policy and increase the 
premium mid-term  when  a claim loss crystallises. Tesco hasnt answered our question. 
Tesco did indeed notify Mrs D that it intended  to increase her remaining monthly premiums. 
But it didnt state  the contractual basis for doing  so nor had it obtained Mrs Ds agreement  
for doing so. Whilst it argues that the fact it didnt apply the claim to the policy at the point it 
was first notified benefitted Mrs D, its worth  commenting that, even if it had I wouldnt 
consider that to be fair either. Thats because that too would have been a mid-term 
adjustment. 
If there had been a non-disclosure by Mrs D then other remedies  would be available  to 
Tesco. But there hasnt  been. In the absence of either a non-disclosure or an agreement  (at 
renewal) about  the potential for a later adjustment, Im unable  to agree that its fair for Tesco 
to unilaterally re-rate the policy  and charge a mid-term additional  premium  as a result  of the 
loss crystallising.  
The crystallisation  of an insured risk shouldnt lead to a mid-term re-pricing. Thats because 
a customer is effectively  presented with an entirely new quote  at a point when they dont 
have an entirely free choice (to seek  cover elsewhere). Tesco  was aware  of the loss (if not 
its value) at the time of the previous renewals but chose not to rate on it. It could indeed 
have done so and, as it rightly says, rating the claim at renewal would most likely have 
meant that I wouldnt be recommending this complaint is upheld. But thats because at 
renewal the customer is free to search  the market should they be unhappy with the renewal 
quote offered.  
Here it unilaterally varied Mrs Ds contract  in circumstances where there  was no contractual 
provision that allowed  it to do so. The additional premium  it sought to charge Mrs D was 
substantial. Not unreasonably she cancelled the policy.  I know  that Tesco  waived the 
cancellation charge but that is something  this service considers to be good  practice in such 
circumstances in any event. It also refunded  the difference between the old and the new 
premium incorrectly collected in January 2018. As it was incorrectly collected, it was only 
right that it did. 
Its not clear to me when exactly Mrs D cancelled the policy  from, why Tesco  says she still 
owes it £371.54 nor how this figure had been  calculated (is it based on the revised premium 
post mid-term adjustment for example). But, as I consider the mid-term premium adjustment  
to have been unreasonably  applied to Mrs D, it follows that any use of that premium  in 
calculating what outstanding premium (if any) Mrs D owes  Tesco  wouldnt be fair. If Tesco 
has collected any additional premium from Mrs D it should refund that to her together with 
interest at this services  usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date it was paid to the 
date it is returned.  The additional monthly premium Tesco sought to collect from Mrs D was 
substantial. For the trouble and upset  that caused her, I think that Tesco should pay 
compensation of £200 to Mrs D. 
Ref: DRN67607133my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. 
I require Tesco Underwriting Limited to do the following:-
Refund any additional premium collected from Mrs D together with interest* at this 
services usual rate of 8% simple per year from the date the payment was taken to 
the date it is returned;
Pay Mrs D compensation of £200 for the trouble  and upset it caused her by 
substantially increasing her premium mid-term. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
*If Tesco Underwriting  Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mrs D how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs D a certificate showing this if she 
asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6760713