K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that his final invoice from Reynolds & Co failed to take account of a 
previous agreement and so was too high.
background
Mr W is a beneficiary  of a Small Self-Administered  Pension Scheme  (SSAS).  Reynolds & Co 
provides various  services  to that scheme including trustee services, annual  reporting, and 
investment advice. Reynolds & Co charges the SSAS an annual fee based on a percentage 
of the fund value.  The SSAS has two beneficiaries. But I understand that Reynolds & Co 
charges its fees separately based  on the value of the assets  attributed  to each beneficiary. 
So for simplicity when I refer to the SSAS in this decision  I am only considering the part 
attributable to Mr W.
Reynolds & Co first begun  work on the SSAS in 2003 whilst Mr W was still in employment. 
At that time Reynolds  & Cos fees in relation to the SSAS  were  paid by Mr Ws employer.  
Mr W left his employer in late 2009 and from that time the annual fees became payable (in 
arrears) from the assets  held by the SSAS.  
Since 2010 Reynolds & Co has reduced  the fees that were payable by the SSAS although 
the reason for that reduction is a matter  of dispute.  I will therefore consider the reduction in 
the main body of my decision. But the reduction that was applied by Reynolds & Co between  
2010 and 2017 was clear  and consistent.  Reynolds & Co didnt charge its fee on £166,590 of 
the fund assets  that formed an amount that could have been taken by Mr W as a tax free 
lump sum at the commencement of his pension benefits. However he had not yet chosen  to 
take that sum from the SSAS.
In April 2018 Mr W decided to end the agreement between the SSAS and Reynolds & Co. 
I understand that both parties  accept  he provided the required notice under the servicing 
agreement. But the final invoice that Reynolds & Co issued  did not contain the fee reduction 
that had been applied  since 2010. The invoice was charged based on the full fund value 
including the amount  of the previously  discounted sum.
Mr Ws complaint  has been assessed  by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think it had been 
reasonable for Reynolds & Co to charge its invoice for the year ending  March 2018 on the 
basis of the full fund value.  So she asked  Reynolds  & Co to refund the additional charge to 
the SSAS plus some compensatory  interest  for the time that Reynolds & Co had held that 
additional fee. And given  the trouble and upset  this matter would have caused to him she 
asked that Reynolds  & Co pay Mr W additional compensation in the sum of £75.
Reynolds & Co didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process. If Mr W accepts  my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
Ref: DRN64513822In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Reynolds & Co and by Mr W. Where the evidence is unclear, or there are conflicts, I have  
made my decision based on the balance of probabilities.  In other words I have looked at 
what evidence we do have, and the surrounding circumstances, to help me decide  what 
I think is more likely to have happened.
I think there are some parts of this complaint that are not in dispute.  Between 2010 and 2017  
Reynolds & Co charged its fees based on the value of the SSAS less the £166,590 that 
Mr W had been entitled to take as a tax free lump  sum when he commenced  his pension. 
And, in April 2018 Mr W provided Reynolds & Co with appropriate notice that he wished to 
end their arrangement  in relation to the servicing of the SSAS.
The dispute  revolves entirely around  the invoice that Reynolds & Co presented to Mr W in 
relation to its services  for the period  April 2017 to March 2018. That invoice would normally 
be presented after the end of that period, when Reynolds  & Co received an up to date 
valuation of the assets of the SSAS.  But I dont think Mr W had given any indication to 
Reynolds & Co during  the period covered by the invoice  that he was intending ending their 
relationship.
There is a disagreement  between Reynolds & Co and Mr W about the reason and basis  for 
the reduction in fees that started in 2010. Mr W says that the reduction was offered in 
response to an offer from another provider to replace  the services  offered by Reynolds & Co. 
Reynolds & Co suggests that there  wasnt any such offer,  and it simply offered to reduce its 
fees as a gesture of goodwill to acknowledge the strength of its relationship with Mr W. And 
so it considers it entirely reasonable to revoke that gesture of goodwill when the relationship 
was ended by Mr W in April 2018.
Ive looked at the documentation both parties  have given me from around 2010. There  isnt 
any documentary evidence from that time showing  that Mr W had received an alternative,  
cheaper, offer to replace the services provided by Reynolds & Co. But that of course doesnt 
mean such an offer didnt  exist. A significant period of time has passed since  2010 and it 
wouldnt be surprising if Mr W no longer  retained  information about a proposal  he decided  
not to accept. But in any case, I dont think the existence, or not, of such an offer has a 
material impact  upon  my decision.
I have seen an email from Reynolds & Co to Mr W that was sent in November 2009 as part 
of the transition following  Mr W leaving his employer. In that email Reynolds & Co wrote;
I agreed with you that it would be reasonable in future years  to exclude your 
protected as at 6/4/2006 tax free cash lump  sum from the calculations as you are 
leaving that sum in the fund purely  for tax reasons  and are unlikely to invest it in any 
precarious manner. I am quite happy  that next year we merely  deduct the figure  
(£166,590) from the calculations. 
I have also seen a letter from Reynolds & Co to Mr W that was sent in June 2010.  In that 
letter Reynolds & Co wrote;
Please note that as we agreed  I have deducted  the amount of your protected  tax free 
lump sum as you are very unlikely to invest that amount.
Ref: DRN64513823Reynolds & Co has pointed out that very shortly after the letter  it sent in 2010  Mr W did 
invest the tax free cash lump sum. I understand that he invested  that amount in some 
income bonds, and that investment remains to date. But I am also persuaded that 
Reynolds & Co was aware  of that investment at the time, that it recommended  the 
investment to Mr W, and it assisted Mr W in making the investment.
There is some dispute about  whether the investment  of the tax free cash lump sum should  
make the offer Reynolds  & Co made  to reduce the fees null and void. I dont think it does. 
The original  offer from Reynolds & Co talked about  Mr W being unlikely to invest  the amount 
in a precarious manner. Given that as part of its recommendation of the income bonds 
Reynolds & Co said they were guaranteed by the Chancellor of the Exchequer and as such 
should be safer than any bank account  I dont think I could reasonably conclude the 
investment was precarious. I appreciate that the later letter  only mentioned  investing  the 
amount  but I dont think that in any way changed  the agreement from the year before.
I have seen that Reynolds & Co has clearly shown the agreed reduction in its fees on each 
of the invoices it issued between 2010  and 2017.  The invoice I have seen for 2014 was a 
replacement. I havent seen the original,  but Mr W recalls that invoice incorrectly failed to 
reflect the reduced fees. So Im persuaded that, even though it was aware that Mr W had 
invested the tax free cash lump sum, Reynolds & Co was content that it was still reasonable 
to reduce the fees it was charging in line with its agreement in late 2009.
So I dont  think there is any reason for Reynolds & Co to not apply the discounted fees to the 
final invoice it sent to Mr W in May 2018.  I dont consider that the offer it made  to Mr W in 
2009 was contingent on his tax free cash lump sum funds not being invested. If that had 
been the case Reynolds & Co would have withdrawn the discount much sooner. And 
I havent seen  anything that makes  me think the fee reduction was contingent on Mr W 
maintaining his business with Reynolds & Co indefinitely.  But even if that were the case I am 
mindful that the fees being charged  relate to the period ending  in March 2018   a time when 
there was no indication that Mr W intended to end his relationship with the business.
I have seen that, under threat  of debt recovery proceedings, Mr W paid the disputed invoice 
in full. So given  I dont think it was reasonable that the agreed  discount was removed I am 
going to direct Reynolds & Co to refund the amount  of £1,669.50 plus VAT to Mr Ws SSAS.  
I can see that payment  was sent by Mr W to Reynolds & Co on 18 June  2018.  So since  that 
time the SSAS  has been without investment return on those funds. I understand from Mr W 
that those funds would have attracted interest at a rate of 1% per annum. So I will direct 
Reynolds & Co to add interest at that rate to the refund  from the date it was paid until the 
settlement is sent to Mr Ws SSAS.
I have no doubts  that this matter has also caused  an amount of trouble and upset to Mr W. 
So I am directing  Reynolds & Co to pay an additional amount of £75 to Mr W in that regard.
Ref: DRN64513824my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint and direct Reynolds & Co to put things 
right as detailed below.
Reynolds & Co should, within four weeks of being notified of Mr Ws acceptance of 
this decision, pay the sum of £1,999.08 (£1,669.50 plus VAT) to Mr Ws SSAS.  
In addition Reynolds & Co should  add interest to this refund at the rate of 1% per 
annum from the date it was paid to the date of settlement.
Reynolds & Co should  pay the sum of £75 to Mr W in respect  of the trouble and 
upset he has been caused by this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6451382