K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken in 1997  when    
Mrs E applied for a credit card by post.  Mrs E says Nationwide Building Society mis-sold her 
the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Es case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mrs E says she doesnt remember much about the sale.  Nationwide has provided a copy of 
Mrs Es application form. Looking at this, it asks applicants  to tick a box to say yes or no if 
they want the PPI or not. The yes box has been ticked  on Mrs Es form and shes  signed  
the application. 
So, I think Nationwide made it clear that Mrs E didnt have to take out the PPI - although  I 
can understand why Mrs E cant remember this.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs E, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs E got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mrs E says she had sick pay benefits  from her employer.  The PPI would have paid out 
alongside her employee  benefits  and for longer - as well as covering her repayments  if she 
became unemployed. And I cant  see that she had any other means  such  as savings  to 
make her repayments. So I think it would have been useful for her if something  went  wrong. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  But Nationwide has paid back some of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs E because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs E about that. Because  Nationwide didnt tell Mrs E, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs E.
Ref: DRN65329572But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mrs E any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs E to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 April 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6532957