K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about a car he bought  on credit  provided by Blue Motor  Finance Ltd.
background
In October  2016 Mr M acquired a used  car (registered in May 2009) under a hire purchase 
agreement financed by Blue Motor. He immediately began having problems with the car. On 
the same  day the oil pressure warning  light came on. He told the dealership he wanted to 
reject the car, but it would not let him. So he took it to be serviced at a local garage 
(recommended to him by the dealer), which carried out a repair, but the repair was 
unsuccessful (this was not immediately apparent),  and the car broke down a few days  later.  
As a gesture  of good will, that garage replaced  the engine  for free. But it still charged Mr M 
about £1,500 for some  other repairs it did on three  other occasions. The dealership  agreed  
to contribute £400 towards that cost. But he was still left out of pocket by over £1,300 (which 
included over £200 of repairs at another  garage). The garage also noted  that the oil warning 
light had come on at least  86 times  before.
Mr M complained to the credit broker, which paid him another  £800 which he accepted in full 
and final settlement of that complaint. But that still left over £500 which  he had paid himself, 
and he says he continued to have problems  with the car. He continued to take the car back  
to the second  garage another six times in 2017 (and one other visit to a third garage in 
2016), incurring more  expenses  totalling nearly £1,600.
Meanwhile, Mr M settled the hire purchase agreement early  in April 2017. In late 2017  he 
complained to Blue Motor, and shortly afterwards  he sold the car. Blue Motor asked him for 
more information,  but on receiving no reply  it closed his complaint. He complained again a 
year later, and Blue Motor  told him it was too late, and did not uphold his complaint. So he 
brought this complaint to our Service. As well as the problems with the car, he also 
complained that the car had been  advertised  as having a full service history, which  was not 
in fact true.
Blue Motor  agreed  that Mr M was entitled to some compensation, but it argued  about how 
much. It pointed out that the car had passed  its MoT test with no advisories in July 2017,  and 
had passed again (with  one advisory which  was not relevant to this complaint) in July 2018.  
It said Mr M had continued to drive the car until he sold it, and so it must have been repaired.  
It noted that he had settled his agreement early, and had not brought his complaint to Blue 
Motor until months later,  and he had not pursued  it in 2017. Mr M explained that when the 
dealership had not allowed him to reject  the car, he had been  obliged to keep  driving it 
because hed had no other choice  he needed a car. Hed settled his agreement  early to 
save money.
One of our investigators  upheld this complaint. He thought the car had been  faulty  when it 
was sold, and that the dealer had probably  known about the incomplete  service history. He 
recommended that Blue Motor refund Mr M 50 per cent of all of his monthly  payments  and 
50 per cent of the early settlement figure,  refund all his repair costs, pay him interest on all 
the refunds,  pay him £350 for his inconvenience,  and remove any adverse information from 
his credit file.
Mr M accepted that opinion. Blue Motor did not, for the reasons  summarised  above.  It asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision,  and so this case was passed to me. I wrote a provisional  
decision which read as follows.
Ref: DRN68062462my provisional findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is clear  evidence  that the car was defective  when it was sold to Mr M, and that isnt in 
dispute. I dont  think I need to say more about  that for the purposes of this decision. I dont 
think it has been disputed  that Mr M asked  to reject the car immediately, but for the sake of 
completeness I will say here that I accept that he did. I also accept Mr Ms explanations 
about why he continued to drive  the car after the dealership  wouldnt let him reject it, and 
why he settled the agreement early.  His reasons  are plausible.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  Mr M was entitled to reject the car and have the 
agreement cancelled. That didnt happen, and the car was mis-sold to him, and so for those 
reasons I will uphold  this complaint.  In deciding what his compensation should  be, I start 
from the position that he should be put back in the position he would have been in if nothing 
had gone wrong,  or as close to that position  as possible. However that is only a starting 
point, and I can depart from it in order to take into account other matters if I think it is fair to 
do so.
I have seen a report explaining that the reason the car broke down was because Mr Ms 
local garage botched the original repair job. So I have considered whether this should mean  
that Mr M should not be allowed  to reject the car, even though Blue Motor hasnt asked me 
to. But I dont think that would be fair, for three reasons. Firstly,  that wouldnt have happened 
if the dealership  had just let Mr M reject  the car in the first place,  as it should have done. 
Secondly, I have seen  evidence (in the form of emails) showing that the dealership  had 
recommended that garage to Mr M. Thirdly,  the garage bore the cost of replacing the engine.
I have seen three invoices  dated  2016 from that garage, and two more  from two other 
garages, also in 2016, which all relate to the repair of the relevant faults or related parts.  
(There is also a sixth invoice for the new engine which, as Ive said, Mr M was not in fact 
charged for.) They all add up to £1,810.81.  £1,200 of that has already been refunded to him 
by the dealership and the credit broker, leaving £610.81 left over. I think  that Blue Motor 
should pay for those  repairs.
However, I have seen six more invoices from various dates throughout 2017,  which  add up 
to £1,460.08. Our investigator thought that these were further evidence  that the car was 
faulty when it was sold, but I disagree.  I think they are all for things Mr M would have  had to 
pay for anyway. One of these invoices was for his MoT test, which  as I have  said before, the 
car passed with no advisories. It passed  again in 2018 and in 2019. I think this is evidence 
that once the repairs  in 2016 were completed, the faults had been fixed. I do not accept that 
they continued to recur.
The other five invoices from 2017 all seem to relate  to matters of wear  and tear, or things 
that would  have had to be done  even if the car had never been defective. I will summarise  
them briefly.  In February, a bulb was replaced and a diagnostic check was carried out. In 
March, Mr M bought brake fluid. In June, he bought new oil and antifreeze.  In August, the 
brake discs  and pads  had to be replaced: I think this is normal wear  and tear for what  was 
then a five year old car. In September, the NO x sensor and two injectors were replaced.
Ref: DRN68062463I have thought about that last one, because the injectors were replaced in 2016. However, 
because the car passed its MoT test with no relevant advisories before and after that repair, 
I doubt that it is a recurrence of the original fault. So I think  all of these six visits to the 
garage  I cant call them six repairs  are just normal maintenance. I cannot agree that Blue 
Motor is liable for any of them. So Blue Motor should contribute £610.81 to the repairs  (with 
interest), but no more.
I now turn to the payments  Mr M made  under the hire purchase agreement.  He paid a 
deposit of £200; that should be refunded in full. I would  normally require that all of the 
monthly payments  and the early  settlement  payment should be refunded  in full too, but 
I have to consider  the fact that Mr M did have use of the car, and what  difference (if any) this 
should make.
I take into account the fact that Mr M didnt want to continue driving the car once  he saw the 
oil warning light; he wanted  to return it, and he wasnt allowed to. That weighs in favour of 
refunding everything. His use of the car in 2016  was so impaired that I will refund both of his 
payments for that period  that is, the payments he made in December  2016  and January 
2017. These add up to £373.72. But after that, I dont think it would be fair to make Blue 
Motor refund everything he paid, because he was able to drive the car at least  10,000  miles 
before he sold it. (Mr M has disputed the mileage figures, but there is no evidence  to support 
his claim that one of the garages  wrongly adjusted the mileage, so I accept  the mileage 
figures which were recorded at the 2017 MoT test and on some of the 2016  invoices.)  I also 
take into account the fact that if the dealership had allowed Mr M to reject  the car, then he 
would still have spent  money on some  other  car instead. If I allow a full refund of everything,  
then Mr M would effectively have had a car for free. So I dont agree that Blue Motor should  
refund half (or indeed any) of the monthly payments Mr M made  after January 2017.
On the other hand, if I only allowed Mr M to have a refund of half of the early settlement 
figure, that would not be restoring his position to what it would have been if he had been  
allowed to reject the car, or if the car had not been  mis-sold in the first place. So I will refund 
all of it, minus  what he sold the car for.
By settling  early Mr M received an interest rebate of over £2,000, but that still left him liable  
for about £6,500 (for a £7,000 car). However, he sensibly mitigated his loss by selling the car 
after a year. There is conflicting  evidence about how much  he got for it. He initially  told us he 
sold it as scrap for £800. Our investigator checked  with the buyer, who initially  told him he 
had paid Mr M £1,250.  The buyer then revised  this figure to £2,800; he said he had not 
bought the car for scrap but to repair it and then sell it on. On checking his bank statements, 
he found that he had actually paid Mr M four payments totalling £2,750. Since  that figure is 
the only one based on any records, I will accept that one. Deducting  that amount from 
£6,506.23 makes £3,756.23.
I think that £500, rather than £350, better  reflects the inconvenience caused.
I will therefore order Blue Motor to pay Mr M the sum of the following:
£610.81 for repairs,
His deposit of £200,
Two monthly payments of £188.86 each,
£3,756.23,  being the difference  between the early settlement figure and the proceeds  
of re-selling the car,
£500 for his trouble.
Ref: DRN68062464That adds up to £5,440.76. But Blue Motor should  also pay simple  interest  on the refunds, at 
eight per cent a year.  I would  normally award interest for a period up to the present day, but 
that would  mean that Blue Motor  would be rewarding Mr M with more  interest  because  he 
delayed complaining to them until October 2018.  I understand  why he did not complain  to 
them immediately, because he already had a complaint with the credit broker,  which  was not 
closed until 8 September 2017. But I think he ought  to have complained  to Blue Motor  then,  
and so I will award interest up to that date instead.
Finally, if there is any adverse information recorded on Mr Ms credit file in respect of the hire 
purchase agreement  (although  I dont think there  is), then it must be removed.
responses to my provisional  findings
Mr M accepted my provisional decision.  Blue Motor did not. It argued that by awarding Mr M 
the difference between the early  settlement figure  and the proceeds of the sale,  I had 
effectively given him a free car for the period between March  2017 (when he settled the 
finance agreement) and November (when he sold the car). And by not selling  the car when 
he settled the agreement but continuing to drive it for about eight months and 10,000  miles 
and then selling it, Mr M had allowed the car to depreciate in value, and so he had not sold it 
for as much as it would have been  worth  if he had sold it straight  away.  My decision meant  
that Blue Motor would bear the cost of that depreciation in value.
Blue Motor  also suggested  that £350  would be fair compensation for Mr Ms trouble, rather 
than £500. Finally, Blue Motor said that by not pursuing his complaint while  he still had 
possession of the car, Mr M had deprived Blue Motor of the opportunity to affect the 
outcome of the complaint  while it still could.
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think that Blue Motor  has made a sound argument  about depreciation, and I agree with it. 
So while I still intend to uphold this complaint, I will reduce  the compensation to take that into 
account. I will explain why. However, I cannot  agree that the compensation I proposed is 
equivalent to giving  Mr M a free car for the period from March to November 2017, because  
when he paid the settlement figure,  he paid for the car in full (less the interest rebate to 
which he was entitled).
A person who suffers financial  loss is expected  to take reasonable steps to mitigate,  or 
reduce, his loss insofar as it is in his power  to do so. As I mentioned  in my provisional 
decision, Mr M did mitigate his loss by selling the car. But by waiting until November 2017 to 
do so, and driving it in the meantime, the value of the car depreciated, due to its increased 
age and mileage.  So I agree with Blue Motor that it would  not be fair to make  Blue Motor  pay 
the full difference between the settlement  figure and the diminished sale price of the car.
Blue Motor  proposed that I deduct  eight monthly payments from the compensation, to reflect 
the eight months  of use Mr M had of the car. In fact, this should only be seven monthly 
payments, because the whole April payment was included in the settlement figure.
Ref: DRN68062465I dont agree that it would  be fair to deduct a full seven  months  worth  of payments from the 
compensation. Mr M has already paid for the seven  more months he had the car for, in his 
settlement figure (minus some interest), and the car is unlikely to have depreciated by the 
same amount over that time  it was nearly eight years old when he sold it. So I have used 
https://www.themoneycalculator.com/vehicle-finance/calculators/car-depreciation-calculator/ 
to calculate an estimated  depreciation figure  of £91 a month.1 Seven times  £91 is £637. 
Deducting that from the partial refund of the settlement figure gives a new refund figure of 
£3,119.23.
I still think that £500 is fair compensation for Mr Ms inconvenience.
my final decision
So my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order Blue Motor Finance Ltd to pay 
Mr M the following sums, with simple  interest on each of them  at eight per cent a year,  
worked out as follows:
For the repairs:
-£91.32, with interest from 24 November 2016  to 8 September 2017,
-£52.95, with interest from 5 December 2016 to 8 September  2017,
-£360.54, with interest  from 8 December 2016  to 8 September 2017,
-£106.00, with interest  from 22 December 2016  to 8 September 2017,
A refund of the £200 deposit, with interest from 31 October 2016 to 8 September  
2017,
A refund of the £188.86 paid in December 2016,  with interest from the date that 
payment was received to 8 September  2017,
A refund of the £188.86 paid in January 2017,  with interest from the date that 
payment was received to 8 September  2017,
£3,119.23,  being a partial refund of the early settlement figure, but with interest on 
the full early settlement figure of £6,506.23 from the date Mr M paid it to 8 September  
2017, and
£500 for his inconvenience (this figure does not attract interest).
I also order Blue Motor Finance Ltd to remove any adverse  information  it has recorded on 
Mr Ms credit file in respect of his hire purchase  agreement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
1 Based on entering  a purchase price  of £6,995, a time kept figure of 1 year and 1 month,  an age at 
purchase figure of 7 years, an annual  mileage of 15,000 miles (i.e. 10,000 miles  divided by eight 
months and then multiplied  by 12 months), and a custom three year depreciation mode  of 40% 
(obtained from the website).
Ref: DRN6806246