K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Capital One (Europe) Plc (Capital  One) failed to cancel his payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when  he asked them to in 2013.
For the avoidance of doubt  this complaint is not a mis-selling  complaint. So, although Mr A 
has also referred to the sale of the policy in making his complaint,  I wont be considering  
anything to do with the sale of the policy here.
background
Briefly:
Mr A says that shortly  after receiving  a final response from Capital One in 2013, in which it 
rejected his PPI mis-selling  complaint, he telephoned Capital One to cancel his policy.  Mr A 
says Capital One failed to do so  so he wants a refund  of the premiums  he paid from 2013 
up until the policy was cancelled.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint should be upheld. In summary, they said 
there wasnt enough evidence to say that Capital One received an instruction from Mr A to 
cancel the policy or that they failed  to act on it. The evidence shows the policy was still 
active and that Mr A should reasonably  have  known this was the case.
Mr A disagrees  so the complaint comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, while I know this isnt the answer Mr A was hoping for, Ive decided not to 
uphold his complaint. I think  the adjudicator has reached a fair and reasonable outcome here 
and theres not much  more I feel can usefully add to what  Mr As already been told.
Mr A says he telephoned Capital One shortly after getting the answer to his PPI mis-selling  
complaint to cancel  the policy  I can see the response letter said the policy  was still active  
and could only be cancelled if specifically requested. Id add here that it wasnt unusual for 
businesses around  this time to not automatically  cancel a policy  upon  receipt  of a mis-sale 
complaint but to ask for specific  instructions  to do so.
I asked Capital One to search its records for evidence of Mr A having given instruction to 
cancel his policy and to provide copies of Mr As account history  for the relevant period. 
Capital One has done that and provided  screen shots of its records between 2013 and 2015. 
Ive looked closely  at these, and Ive seen nothing here which  records Capital One having  
received any instructions  from Mr A to cancel  his policy  whether by phone  or in writing.  I 
would expect to see it recorded here if it had.
In light of this, and in the absence of anything more  from Mr A, Ive seen no supporting  
evidence that Capital One received an instruction from Mr A to cancel his policy  or that it 
failed to carry out his instructions to do so.
Ref: DRN67421002Capital One has provided further evidence which would suggest it was reasonable for Mr A 
to have known  that his policy wasnt cancelled  and was still active  after 2013 when he says 
he gave instructions to cancel it. For example,  Mr As monthly  account  statements showed 
ongoing PPI charges; Capital One sent out annual PPI account statements; and it also 
explicitly said Mr As PPI was still active when it wrote to him telling him it was partly  
refunding his PPI premiums in 2017  due to unfair  commission and profit  sharing.
So, if Mr A had given  instructions to cancel his PPI in 2013, then upon receipt of subsequent 
information between  2014 and 2017 that would  indicate his instructions hadnt  been carried 
out, I mightve expected him to query  it sooner.
Once again, Im sorry to disappoint Mr A  but in conclusion  Ive seen no evidence  that he 
gave Capital One instructions to cancel his PPI policy or that it failed to carry them out. This 
means Capital One does  not need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6742100