K820x#14complaint
Ms W says Canada  Square Operations Limited  mis-sold her a payment  protection insurance 
(PPI) policy. 
background
Ms W bought the policy in 2001 at the same time as taking out an Egg credit card online.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Ws complaint  because:
 Ive seen a screen print of the part of the online  credit  card application process where  
PPI wouldve been offered  to Ms W. This shows that she wouldve  had to choose 
whether she wanted PPI or not before she could  continue  with her application. Eggs  
record of the application  data shows that Ms W selected the PPI. So I think Egg made 
her aware that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it.
 Ms W says that she didnt need the PPI because she was entitled to generous sick pay 
from her employer.  But Egg didnt recommend the policy to Ms W so it didnt have to 
check if she needed it or whether it was suitable  for her. As Ms W chose to take the 
PPI, I think  she wanted to protect  her repayments  against  illness  and unemployment.
But even if Egg had recommended the policy to Ms W, I dont think it was unsuitable 
for her, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. The policy  wouldve 
paid out in addition to Ms Ws employer sick pay and would  do so, it seems,  for longer. 
So I think Ms W wouldve had some use for the policy despite her existing 
arrangements.
 Its possible the information Egg gave Ms W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But its unlikely Ms W wouldve  been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover. Ms W says she had good employee benefits,  but the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to these.  The policy was also competitively priced  and 
had a reasonable benefit. So I dont think better information wouldve stopped her 
buying it. 
Ref: DRN62583862my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6258386