K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Freemans Plc (trading as Bon Prix) have closed his account and sold it 
to a debt management company.
Background
Mr W had a store account with Freemans,  and each  month he made a manual  payment 
towards the outstanding balance. In early  2018, Mr W had been unwell and spent some time 
in hospital, so he set up a direct debit online with Freemans to ensure  his payments would 
be made in the event  he wasnt able to make them manually.
Several months later,  Mr W received a letter from Freemans saying that late payment 
charges had been added to his account  as they hadnt received the minimum monthly 
payments as expected. Mr W says he was surprised when he checked his account that there 
wasnt a direct debit in place, so he contacted  Freemans to make a complaint. He also set 
up another direct debit  to make the required payments. 
Shortly after, Mr W received a further  letter from Freemans saying that his account had been 
closed and the outstanding balance had been passed  to a debt collection agency to recover. 
Mr W was unhappy that he hadnt received a response to his complaint. And he felt 
Freemans actions were unfair as hed tried to make his payments. So, he asked this service 
to look in-to his complaint.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said there was no evidence 
showing the original  direct debit had been set up. He also said there  wasnt any evidence  
that Mr W had told Freemans about  his circumstances  at the time of the missed payments. 
And as Freemans  had written to Mr W about the missed payments and the default being 
applied to the account, he felt Freemans  had done  what wed expect  of them.  
Mr W didnt agree as he felt the information  hed provided hadnt been considered. So, he 
asked for an ombudsman to look at his case.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Direct Debits
I recognise Mr W has told us he set up a direct debit in early  2018 before hed missed any 
payments, however I havent seen any evidence  that this is the case. The only direct debit 
that Ive seen is the one recorded on Mr Ws account in late August 2018 which he has 
provided screen shots of. But this doesnt prove  that the original direct  debit  was in place  
only that there has been once since August 2018  and that its still in place currently.  Ive also 
seen that Freemans  asked for confirmation  from their IT team  whether there was any record  
of this, but there wasnt anything showing.  
I understand Mr Ws concerns about  how weve looked at the information hes provided, but 
where there  is a lack of evidence on the circumstances of a case, I need to make a decision 
Ref: DRN65764772based on what I think is most likely to have happened. And from the evidence  Ive seen from 
both parties, I think its unlikely the original direct debit was set up on the account.  So, it 
would be unfair  for me to ask Freemans to take responsibility for this.
Ive seen that Mr W contacted Freemans  via web-chat in early  June 2018 to discuss an 
issue with his direct debit, as hed received  information that his account had gone  into 
arrears and incurred  charges.  I think Mr W ought to have reasonably been aware at this 
point that he wouldve needed to make  a payment as soon as possible towards  the 
outstanding arrears, but I cant  see that any payments or attempted payments were  made  at 
this point. 
Ive also seen that on the web-chat Mr W expressed  his frustration and requested a direct  
debit be set up by Freemans. However, as he didnt speak to an agent, no further action was 
taken by them at this point. And as an agent didnt have the opportunity  to respond to the 
web-chat, I cant reasonably say Freemans  did anything wrong by not contacting Mr W to 
discuss his concerns.
I think there was some  responsibility on Mr W to check in June 2018 that a new direct debit 
had been set up. Even if he didnt specifically check his Freemans account, he would have  
been able to see from his bank statement from this point  that the direct debit wasnt  being 
collected. But I havent seen anything to suggest Mr W followed this up with Freemans  until 
he contacted them again in late August 2018. 
Mr W has told us he was going through  a difficult period with his health which is why he 
wanted to set up the direct debit. However, I havent  seen any evidence that Mr W made 
Freemans aware of this until August 2018, after the deadline to clear  the arrears  had already 
passed, and the account was already in the process  of being passed to a debt collection 
agency. So, I cant say they treated Mr W unfairly  by not taking  his circumstances into 
account. 
Its not in dispute  that a web-chat took place  between  Mr W and Freemans  in late August 
2018 or that hed set a direct debit up on the account several days  earlier. And I recognise  
Mr W has told us he wasnt  able set up a new direct  debit  at this point. However, this was 
already several  months after he acknowledged hed received a letter saying his account was 
in arrears, and after the default notice had been issued to him a month earlier.  Hed also just 
set up a new direct debit a couple  of days earlier which was still showing as active on his 
account  so I cant reasonably hold Freemans  responsible for this. 
Mr W also told us that he wasnt able to make a manual  payment.  But Ive seen on the web-
chat that he said hed make  a manual payment  when he got paid, and this was 
acknowledged by the agent.  However,  I havent  seen  any evidence Mr W tried to make  the 
payment or was obstructed from doing  so by Freemans. So, I cant  say they treated Mr W 
unfairly. 
Ive also seen that Mr W was told on a webchat with Freemans in January 2018  that his 
statements would be sent on the 28th of each month  and his payments needed  to be 
received by them by the 21st of each month. So, I think Mr W ought reasonably to have been 
aware he needed to have  made a payment to his account before the 21st of August 2018  to 
meet the terms and conditions of his plan,  and that setting up a direct debit after this date 
wouldnt prevent  the default being  applied. 
Ref: DRN65764773The terms and conditions  of the agreement say missing payments could have severe  
consequences including our using debit collection agencies and legal proceedings against 
you. Missing payments  will be reported  to credit reference agencies. Looking at the contact 
notes, I can see Freemans  sent monthly statements to Mr Ws registered address from April 
2018 to July 2018 which showed he was in arrears  on his account and the amount  he 
needed to clear them. The July statement also said that Freemans  were  preparing to start 
debt collection procedures for Mr Ws account. A default notice was also enclosed  with this 
statement which said if payment wasnt made  by the 21 August 2018,  then the default would 
be applied. 
The Information Commissioners  Office  (ICO)  says when  a consumer is at least three  
months behind with their payments then a default  may be registered. And it would expect a 
default to be registered by the time the consumer is six months behind with their payments. 
Ive seen copies  of the statements and various letters  which Freemans sent to Mr W, so I 
think they attempted to contact him several times to let him know what  would happen if he 
didnt bring his account up-to date. So, I cant reasonably  say Freemans acted  unfairly by 
applying the adverse credit information, and the default to Mr Ws account  so I wont  be 
asking them to remove this. 
Complaint handling  and customer service
Mr W has told us he feels that Freemans didnt deal with his complaint reasonably  when he 
initially raised it. When considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to consider relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what is considered to have  been  good industry practice  at 
the time.  
Ive seen that Mr W raised a complaint with Freemans  at the end of August 2018, and that 
due to an error they didnt acknowledge it until several months  later. Freemans have 
acknowledged they made a mistake by not logging Mr Ws complaint when he initially  asked 
them to. However, theyve also said that even  if the complaint had been logged  at the time, it 
wouldnt have changed the outcome of their decision as Mr Ws account had already 
defaulted by the time that hed raised  his complaint. 
When deciding a complaint, I may ask a business  to pay compensation in recognition  of the 
distress and/or inconvenience  theyve caused a consumer. Although in this case, Freemans 
error meant Mr W didnt receive  the eight-week  holding letter including  his referral  rights to 
this service when he should  have, Mr W had already brought his complaint to us before the 
final response letter had been issued. And Freemans delay in raising the complaint  wouldnt 
have had any impact on the outcome of the complaint as the default letter had already been 
issued a month earlier. So, I dont think there are grounds to ask Freemans to pay Mr W 
compensation for the delay. 
I recognise this has been a difficult time for Mr W, and Id like to reassure him that Ive 
carefully read all the information hes provided.  I understand  why Mr W feels  strongly about 
what happened and I realise this wont be the outcome he was hoping for, but I dont think  
Freemans have treated  him unfairly.  So, I wont be asking them to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN65764774My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6576477