K820x#14complaint
Ms T complains, on behalf of her business  which Ill call TB, that Metro Bank PLC wont 
refund an amount debited from the business account for goods  not received.   
background
Ms T paid a deposit  of £1,800 for her daughters wedding  dress from her business  bank  
account in April 2018. The due date for the dress  was 31 May 2018 with a final collection 
date of 20 June  2018. 
The dress hadnt  arrived by 20 June 2018.  But it had arrived  by 22 June  2018,  albeit that it 
had to be collected from a different store (it isnt clear  if this is part of the same merchant or 
not). But Ms T and her daughter werent happy  with the finish  of the dress, it had beads 
missing, the colour  didnt  match  and it had stains on it. Although they asked the shop for 
help none was forthcoming. So they refused the dress and didnt pay the remaining balance  
of £450. 
On 7 July 2018,  Ms T made a chargeback request for goods not as described. She was 
asked to provide  further information  about  the dress  including invoices and photographs. 
Although Ms T provided some information, she didnt provide  everything asked for. On 23 
August 2018 Metro  asked Ms T to provide evidence the goods had been returned. But this 
wasnt relevant as Ms T refused to collect the goods. And so Ms T complained about the 
process. Metro proceeded with the chargeback  request on a goods not provided basis and 
temporarily refunded  £1,800 in September 2018 to TBs account.  
The merchant defended the chargeback, explaining  the goods  had been provided as 
requested. It also provided  a copy of its terms which show  that deposits  are non-refundable 
as the goods are hand-made to order. As the chargeback was defended Metro  wrote to Ms T 
asking her to provide  further information  or the amount would re-debit  the account in 7 days. 
Ms T didnt reply  to that correspondence. 
Ms T got back  in touch with Metro in March 2019 to complain that she hadnt  had a refund. 
Metro didnt uphold  the complaint and so Ms T asked us to look into this matter.  Our 
investigator obtained pictures  from Ms T which showed missing beads,  poor finishing and a 
stain on the dress. However, Metro didnt think this changed the position even had they been  
provided in time as it still didnt have an example of what  the dress was supposed to look 
like. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as she was satisfied the chargeback process 
had been followed  correctly. And she wasnt persuaded  a chargeback  of goods not received 
would be successful as the goods  were delivered  and there is no chargeback right for goods  
received late. She also thought it would be disproportionate to ask Metro for a refund as she 
couldnt be sure the merchant had been given an opportunity to put right what  had gone 
wrong. 
Ms T has asked for the matter to be referred to an ombudsman as she remains  out of pocket 
for the dress which the merchant still has.  
Ref: DRN68631202my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below. 
A chargeback is not a legal right that Ms T or her business has. Chargeback schemes  are 
voluntary schemes  set up between card issuers   such as Visa, Mastercard  or American 
Express  and merchants.  In this case, I understand the debit card was a Mastercard  and so 
it is Mastercards scheme rules that apply to this chargeback. 
I should also explain that it isnt Metro that decides  whether  or not a chargeback  is 
successful. Thats a decision made by Mastercard  and not something I can consider here. If 
Mastercard decides a chargeback is successful, the amount is debited from the merchants 
account (not refunded by the customers bank as suggested by the investigator) and 
refunded to the customer. But if Mastercard  decides the chargeback  has been successfully 
defended by the merchant, then the bank  must  re-debit the amount  from the customers 
account. Here I can only consider Metros actions in requesting the chargeback.
I think it should have  been apparent from what Ms T described had happened that the goods 
werent as described  and for that reason they werent collected. The chargeback right for 
goods not as described includes goods that are defective. And now having  seen the photos  
it is quite clear the finish isnt what one could reasonably expect with beads missing  and I 
certainly wouldnt expect  a stain on the fabric. I dont  think seeing a picture of what  the dress 
should have looked like was necessary for that. 
Ms T was asked to provide pictures when she initially raised her chargeback in July 2018,  
but she didnt  provide  any. And so I think it would have been  hard for Metro  to request the 
chargeback on the basis  of goods not as described  (or defective) when Ms T hadnt provided 
any evidence. And as Ms T reiterated the goods hadnt been provided  it raised  the 
chargeback on that basis. The merchant provided evidence which Mastercard accepted  as 
showing the goods had been provided.  Metro correctly put this to Ms T and asked for her for 
further submissions,  particularly to refute  the points made by the merchant. So Im satisfied 
Ms T was given a further opportunity to provide evidence to support her chargeback request. 
But she never replied  to Metro until March 2019  and then it was to complain, rather than 
provide the evidence asked for. 
Ms T didnt provide any evidence in relation to the quality of the dress until the matter was 
being investigated here. The Mastercard scheme  rules require chargebacks to be raised 
within 120 days of when  the goods or services  should have been supplied  or received. By 
the time Ms T provided the information it was substantially  outside of the time limits allowed. 
And Im afraid the card issuers strictly adhere  to the time limits involved. So although  Ms T 
has now provided the evidence needed, and there  were some very understandable reasons  
for her delay, its too late for another chargeback to be raised.  
Overall, Im satisfied Metro followed the correct process to chargeback  the payment and that 
it was successfully defended by the merchant. As per the scheme  rules,  Metro had no 
choice other  than to re-debit the account.  Although  Im not upholding the complaint against 
Metro Bank,  Ms T may have other  avenues open to her to pursue the merchant for a refund, 
but that is something shell  need  to do outside  of our service.  
Ref: DRN68631203my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T, on behalf of 
TB, to accept or reject my decision before 9 November 2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6863120