K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains about how Assurant  General Insurance Limited  handled a claim for a 
damaged mobile  phone under her insurance  policy. 
background
Mrs N made  a claim for a damaged mobile  phone under her insurance  policy  provided by 
Assurant.   
Assurant dispatched  a replacement phone to Mrs N but delivery  attempts were  made  to the 
wrong address  twice.
The replacement phone was successfully  delivered three days  after the first failed delivery 
attempt. 
Mrs N complained to Assurant, who offered her £50 compensation.  Mrs N remained 
unhappy so she brought  her complaint to the Financial Ombudsman  Service.
Our investigator thought a total payment of £100 compensation would be fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances. Assurant didnt agree so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The delivery company  was appointed  by Assurant  to deliver the replacement phone  in 
fulfilment of Mrs Ns claim under  her insurance  policy so I think  Assurant is responsible  for 
any errors or delays  in the delivery  being completed. 
Assurant has acknowledged  there  were two delivery attempts made  to an incorrect  address. 
I can see Assurant attempted to rearrange deliveries later on in the day of the first failed 
attempt and again on the day before the phone was successfully delivered.  But what I need 
to decide here is what impact I think the failed deliveries had on Mrs N. 
I can see from Assurants call notes that Mrs N initially mentioned  she was losing business 
through not having a phone. But Assurant has acknowledged it was later made aware 
Mrs Ns son was ill in hospital at the time and she needed a phone to keep in contact with 
him.   
I understand Assurant  says it aims  to deliver  replacement phones within three working  days  
and Mrs Ns phone was delivered only one day outside of this timeframe. But the first 
unsuccessful delivery attempt was made on the day the phone was dispatched so Mrs N 
should have had the phone that same day. Instead she had to wait for a further three  days  
because of the mistakes  that happened. 
Ive thought about the impact of the two failed  delivery attempts on Mrs N, the timescales 
involved and the situation she was in. Having done  so, I dont think an offer of £50 fairly  
compensates her for the inconvenience and upset she suffered. Instead  I think a payment of 
£100 compensation would be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN61898312my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ns complaint. 
Assurant General Insurance Limited must  pay Mrs N a total of £100 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she suffered. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6189831