K821x#15complaint
Miss M says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about five loans Uncle Buck provided to Miss M between  March  2015 and 
October 2015. Miss Ms borrowing history is as follows:
LoanDate taken 
outInstalments Date  Repaid Loan amount Repayment
1 31/03/2015 1 27/04/2015 £200 £244.80
2 30/04/2015 1 27/05/2015 £300 £367.20
3 29/05/2015 1 26/06/2015 £350 £431.20
4 29/06/2015 3 25/09/2015 £650 £324.56
5 07/10/2015 3 *Debt sold on £560 £264.02
*Uncle Buck have  told us that loan 5 was sold on to a 3rd party.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ms complaint about loans 4 and 5 and thought  these loans 
shouldnt have been given. Uncle Buck disagreed on the basis that its pre-application 
checks didnt reveal anything that suggested she was having problems managing her money 
and she had made all her repayments  for loans 1 - 3 on time. So, the complaint has been 
passed to me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN68531032the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Miss M could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ms complaint.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Ms complaint  about loans 1  3. Miss M seems to have 
accepted this, so I havent considered these loans further. However,  I have thought about 
these loans when  looking at the overall  picture of Miss Ms lending  history with Uncle Buck.  
Uncle Buck  told us it has a robust process for confirming the customers  affordability at the 
point of application which included checking  the income and expenditure information 
provided by the consumer. It also says that it carried out credit checks on Miss M which 
wouldve revealed more  information about Miss Ms financial situation at the time. But I think  
Uncle Buck  shouldve realised from the way Miss M was borrowing  that she was having 
problems managing her money.   
Loan 4 was Miss Ms fourth loan in four months and Miss M had been  indebted  to Uncle  
Buck for the whole time. And not only had Miss M been taking out a new loan within  days of 
paying off the previous, the amounts  increased  each time to the extent that by loan 4 Miss M 
had requested to borrow  three times  the amount of loan 1 - so Miss Ms indebtedness  was 
increasing still.  
Uncle Buck  says Miss M had made almost all her repayments on time, so there  was no 
indication she was having trouble managing  her money. But I disagree, even though these  
first three loans were  all paid on time, the fact that she had to take out another payday loan 
so soon after suggests she was unable to repay  her loans because she was having to 
borrow again so quickly in order to fill the hole left in her finances by having  to repay the 
previous loan. So, I think this suggests  she was becoming reliant  on short-term lending  and 
overall, I think this pattern  of lending shows that the loans were  unsustainable for her.   
So, I dont think Uncle Buck shouldve given Miss M loans 4 and 5 and I think  Uncle  Buck 
should put things right as set out below.
Ref: DRN68531033putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
If Uncle Buck has sold the outstanding debts, it should buy these back  if its able to do so 
and then take the following steps. If Uncle Buck is not able to buy the debts back, then it 
should liaise  with the new debt owner to achieve  the results  outlined below.
A.Uncle Buck should add together the total of the repayments  made  by Miss M towards 
interest, fees and charges on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not 
including anything  Uncle Buck  has already refunded.
B.Uncle Buck should calculate 8% simple interest*  on the individual  payments made by 
Miss M which were considered as part of A, calculated  from the date Miss M originally 
made the payments, to the date the complaint  is settled.
C.Uncle Buck should remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the balance  on loan 5, and 
treat any repayments made by Miss M as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on any outstanding loan. If this results  in Miss M having made overpayments 
then Uncle Buck should refund  these  overpayments with 8% simple  interest* calculated 
on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments  would have  arisen, to the date the 
complaint is settled. Uncle Buck should  then refund the amounts calculated in A and 
B and move to step E.
D.If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding loans. If this results  in a surplus, 
then the surplus  should be paid to Miss M. However,  if there  is still an outstanding 
balance then Uncle Buck should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Miss M. 
Uncle Buck shouldnt pursue outstanding balances made up of principal it has already 
written-off. 
E.Uncle Buck should remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Ms credit file in 
relation to loans  4 and 5. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
should give Miss M a certificate showing how much tax it has deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ms complaint. Uncle Buck  
Finance LLP should pay Miss M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6853103