K820x#14complaint
Mr N is unhappy with the way Zurich Insurance  PLC has handled  a claim under his home 
insurance policy for an escape  of water.
background
In May 2018  Mr N made a claim to Zurich  after a water leak caused damage to his property. 
He said his carpets and kitchen  units  were  damaged.
Zurich appointed a loss adjuster to handle the claim and sent a surveyor  to inspect the 
damage. Shortly after the surveyors visit in June 2018 Mr N told Zurich  hed also discovered 
a significant amount of water damage  to items hed kept in a built-in  wardrobe in a bedroom. 
In August  2018  Zurich said that the loss adjuster would no longer be involved and it would 
manage the claim in-house. Its claims handler  wrote  to Mr N saying that he needed to meet  
Mr N face to face to obtain more information  about the claim and to take a written statement 
from him. Mr N complained to Zurich  about  this. He thought Zurich was trying to bully him. 
Zurich said it wouldnt progress his claim unless he agreed to such  a meeting. It also said it 
wanted a mechanical engineer specialising in water  leaks to inspect  the property.
Mr N brought his complaint to this service.  Our investigator didnt uphold it. She didnt think 
Zurich had treated  Mr N unfairly.
As Mr N didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms and conditions provide that Mr N must give Zurich all the information and 
help it needs in connection  with a claim.  Thats  a standard  provision. The issue  I need to 
decide is whether  Zurich  has acted reasonably in saying that it wont  progress Mr Ns claim 
any further until he agrees  to a face to face meeting with its investigator.
One of the reasons Zurich  decided  it wanted a further meeting at Mr Ns property was that 
when its surveyor visited the property, hed reported  that there wasnt  much damage and the 
carpets in the hall and bedroom were dry. Shortly afterwards Mr N told Zurich that a large 
number of expensive  books on the floor of a cupboard  in the bedroom together  with other  
items had suffered water damage. He said they were worth over £7,500.
Zurich had other concerns too. For example, it said Mr N was claiming for buildings items in 
his kitchen which its surveyor  didnt  think were damaged. It also wasnt clear to it how so 
much water could have leaked  from the washing machine waste pipe, so it wanted  a 
specialist to look at that aspect.  In my opinion these  are all things which  an insurer might 
reasonably want  to look into.
Consumers often feel that theyre  suspected  of making a fraudulent  claim when an insurer  
wants to investigate a claim. Thats not necessarily the case.  While  the specific  nature of the 
investigations will depend  on the exact  nature of the claim, investigators tend to follow a tried 
Ref: DRN63400622and tested series of steps. Making a home visit and taking a written statement  is a very 
common part of that process. 
Its also often the most efficient way of getting information from a consumer. Zurich said it 
didnt consider it practical to deal with these  issues through correspondence or phone.  I dont 
think Zurich acted unreasonably in saying  that the most appropriate way of addressing these 
issues was to have  a meeting and take a formal statement from Mr N. 
Mr N has provided evidence  of the mouldy/damaged items hes claiming for and estimates  of 
the cost of replacing them.  He thinks this shows how hes co-operated with Zurich  and wants 
to progress the claim. I agree that this information  might well be very helpful to Zurich  if it 
accepts liability. But its not for Mr N to decide what information Zurich needs  to reach a 
decision on his claim.
Zurich is contractually entitled to make these requests to Mr N and it doesnt  have to move 
the claim along until its enquiries  have been satisfied. I would recommend Mr N should  
agree to meet Zurichs  claims investigator. Thats because  I dont  consider Zurichs  position 
to be unfair  or unreasonable.  
Ive also looked  more generally at how Zurich has handled Mr Ns claim. I can see there was 
poor communication on Zurichs part from time to time including a delay in responding to a 
letter from Mr N and not returning his phone calls.  I think this would have added to the stress  
Mr N suffered as a result of his claim. To its credit  Zurich  has accepted that and paid Mr N 
compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset its caused him. All in all, I think this is an 
appropriate amount  of compensation and in line with what Id have awarded if Zurich  hadnt 
already offered it.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6340062