K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P say they were mis-sold a regular  premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy by HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC).
background
Mr and Mrs P took out a joint mortgage with HSBC  in 2000. At the same  time they took out a 
regular premium PPI policy in Mr Ps sole name to cover their mortgage repayments if Mr P 
was unable to work  due to accident or sickness or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld because  she didnt think there  
was enough information to show that the policy wasnt presented  as optional and thought 
that the policy provided a suitable benefit to Mr and Mrs P.
Mr and Mrs P disagree. They say they didnt need  it and thought taking PPI would ensure 
they got the loan.  
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.
The sale took place  over 15 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
HSBC had to make  it clear Mr and Mrs P had a choice in taking the policy  and that it wasnt  
a condition of the mortgage. The policy was sold during a meeting. HSBC havent been  able 
to provide us with the sales documentation but I can see from the financial planning review 
that PPI and other products  were recommended and that Mr and Mrs P signed a declaration 
confirming what was discussed in the financial review  as well as receiving literature about 
the products on offer. 
So I think its likely that HSBC wouldve made them aware that PPI was optional and I think 
Mr and Mrs P had a PPI policy because they chose to take it after being recommended it. 
And because the mortgage was in Mr and Mrs Ps joint names  and they were both working I 
wouldve thought  that if PPI was compulsory to get a mortgage  both borrowers  would have 
had to be covered  under  the policy.
HSBC advised  Mr and Mrs P to take the policy. What this means is that HSBC  not only had 
to provide information about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Mr and Mrs P 
could make an informed  choice about buying PPI. It also had to make sure that if it were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to Mr Ps needs  and circumstances.
Ref: DRN65811582I dont know if HSBC  did take all the steps  it shouldve. But I think the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs P for the following reasons:
Mr P was eligible  for the policy and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make a successful claim.
Mr P says he was entitled  to some sick pay and their family and friends wouldve been 
able to help with their repayments if he couldnt work. But there  is no guarantee their 
friends and family would  be in a position to help and a successful claim on the policy  
wouldve covered  him for up to 12 months  if he couldnt work  due to accident or sickness 
or lost his job. 
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs P in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to Mr and Mrs P at the 
time. And if they decided they no longer wanted  the policy they could cancel  it.
I also need to consider  whether HSBC  gave Mr and Mrs P information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take the policy out.
I dont know if HSBC  did give all the information as it shouldve.  But for the same  reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr and Mrs P have told us about their 
circumstances at the time, I think they wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if theyd been 
given all the proper  information.
So this means  Mr and Mrs P arent worse off as a result of any wrong doing by HSBC.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against 
HSBC Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 February  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6581158