K820x#14complaint
Mr L complains  that he was unable to transfer £10,000 from his account with National 
Savings and Investments (NS&I) to his bank  account. 
background
Mr L lives abroad and wanted to transfer  money  from his NS&I account to his bank account, 
so he could exchange it for the local currency and use it for everyday spending. 
In July 2018 he logged onto his online account  and requested a transfer. NS&Is security  
processes required  an automated  security call to be made to Mr Ls phone.  Hed be asked to 
input a code from his computer screen using his phone keypad, in order  to verify that the 
transaction request was genuine.
NS&Is system attempted this call five times. The first time it was correctly made to Mr Ls 
foreign phone number, including the country code. But Mr L was unable to get past the first 
step of the authorisation  process and so wasnt able to enter  the security code. He therefore 
tried again.  On each  of the four subsequent calls, however, the number dialled was correct,  
but the country code used was 0044   the UK code  not the code  for Mr Ls country  of 
residence. The calls therefore failed, and after the fifth attempt Mr Ls account was locked as 
a security measure.
NS&I said this was because Mr L had entered his contact  number incorrectly. It says hed 
registered two numbers, which were essentially the same  except  for a difference in country  
code. One number had a UK country  code, the other had the code  of the country  Mr L now 
lives in. It says the first call was made correctly, but for the other  calls Mr L must  have 
selected the UK code  and so the number was invalid.
Mr L doesnt think he registered two numbers. Hes said that NS&Is  security process didnt 
work properly  and this has caused  him financial loss. He asks for NS&I to compensate  him 
for the difference  in exchange rate he suffered as a result of the problems, as well as a 
refund of the international calls he made to resolve  the issue.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and thought that NS&I  hadnt done anything  
wrong. Mr L disagreed,  pointing to a paragraph in NS&Is final response  letter  that he 
believes admits fault.  Our investigator didnt agree with Mr Ls interpretation of the paragraph 
and as a resolution  couldnt be found, the complaints been  referred  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  Mr Ls 
complaint.
Ref: DRN66115862Ive listened to the call Mr L made to NS&I immediately after being locked out of his account.  
He describes the one security call he received as repeatedly asking him to press the hash 
key before cutting  out. Its not clear  why the call didnt go on to allow  Mr L to enter  the 
authorisation code  he needed to make the transaction. But from the way he describes it, it 
sounds like there may have been  a problem  with the hash key, in that the system didnt 
recognise it had been  pressed. I dont know whether or not this was connected  to Mr Ls 
phone. But I dont think I can fairly  say this was because of anything  NS&I did wrong.
The next four attempts  at a security call used the wrong country code. Mr L says he didnt 
register two numbers, but NS&I has provided  its system notes showing two numbers were 
recorded. It was for Mr L to select which number he wished  to be contacted on and I think  its 
most likely he inadvertently selected  the wrong number for the subsequent attempts. So I 
cant say it was NS&Is fault the calls didnt go through.
NS&I sent its final response to Mr L two days after his first call alerting it to the problem. 
It enclosed a forgotten password form and an income bond  repayment form, which,  if 
completed, would  allow  Mr Ls intended  withdrawal to be processed. Owing  to the delays in 
post between  the UK and Mr Ls country  of residence, his completed forms werent received 
back until three weeks later  but the payment was processed and a new password sent out 
on that day. So I think NS&I acted as quickly as it could to resolve  Mr Ls problem.
Mr Ls referred to a paragraph in the final response letter, which  says [r]egrettably,  as the 
security phone call failed  on the fifth attempt to call you, your password was suspended  and 
the system prompted  you to contact us. He says this is NS&I  admitting to problems with the 
security calls.
I dont agree. I think NS&I  intended  in this paragraph to say what happened   that the calls 
didnt connect  to Mr L  and express  its regret that Mr Ls account had been locked. I dont 
think it means there was an inherent issue with the security system or that it didnt work as it 
was supposed  to. Theres no dispute that Mr L didnt receive the second, third, fourth  or fifth 
call, but I cant say this was due to a failing  of NS&I.
Mr L has also mentioned  the poor service he received from NS&I in attempting to resolve  the 
problem, including  failed  phone calls and missing emails. I can see NS&I  tried to contact 
Mr L on several occasions  sometimes the call didnt go through,  other times it did but Mr L 
wasnt able to answer it. And it appears  the missing emails were delivered eventually,  
though its not clear  why they didnt  come through at first. I appreciate  this would have been  
a frustrating experience  for Mr L. But I think NS&I generally dealt with his concerns quickly, 
and did make efforts to contact him. So overall I dont think NS&I  needs to do anything more.
Ref: DRN66115863my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ls complaint against  National Savings and Investments.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Cara Goodbody
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6611586