K820x#14complaint
Mr C says he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy when he took out a 
credit card in 2004 with Barclays Bank  UK Plc.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this case and said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr C 
disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Barclays records show Mr C took out his credit card in 1999, without taking any PPI. The 
PPI was added much later, in 2004,  after a telephone call. We dont have a recording of the 
call or much  information about it, but after some 15 years thats  not unusual.
However I think its more likely  Mr C agreed  to the adding of the PPI policy  to his existing 
account. Because hed been operating his card without any PPI for around 5 years,  I think  
he would  have known  the PPI wasnt something he needed to have. 
I note his credit card statements also started to show the PPI being charged  on his account 
in 2004. And because  these were described Payment Insurance  Plan  Mr C would have 
been aware the policy had been  set up for him. 
So on the basis of these things I think Barclays would have properly obtained his consent.
Barclays concedes this was probably an advised sale so it had a duty to make sure the 
cover was suitable for him. Overall,  I think it was.
This is because I think Mr C was eligible for the cover which, at 79p per £100  of the 
outstanding credit card balance, appears  to have  been an affordable charge. Mr C says he 
already had some pay with his job. But Im afraid this doesnt necessarily mean  the policy 
wasnt of use. The PPI could have reduced  his credit card balance by 10% a month for up to 
a year in the event  of a successful claim. I therefore  think the policy was suitable.
Barclays also needed to provide clear  enough  information for Mr C to make an informed 
choice. I cant say for sure if it did this and I accept Barclays  could have probably done  more 
to spell out some of the rules and exclusions.  But this doesnt  affect  my decision.
The evidence shows its more likely that Mr C wanted the policy and I think  the phone call 
would have involved the exchange  of information about what  the policy did and how much it 
cost. So Im afraid I cant say the cover was mis-sold.
my final decision
Ref: DRN67138922I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold. So Barclays  Bank  UK Plc does not have to pay any 
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 May 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6713892