K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy with the way that Ageas Insurance  Limited  dealt with their home 
insurance claim for fire damage. 
background
In July 2018 Mr and Mrs W suffered a fire at their property when sunlight caught a 
magnifying mirror in their daughters bedroom.  The fire caused considerable damage  and 
they had to move out to alternative  accommodation  with their family. This was initially  in 
rooms over a local pub, then into a friends house and Mr and Mrs W had to fund this 
themselves. They appointed  a firm of loss assessors (H) to represent their interests.  Ageas  
appointed forensic  examiners  to confirm the cause of the fire. Also as it was concerned 
about possible underinsurance it appointed  surveyors to assess the value of the property. It 
received the forensic and surveyors reports in early  August 2018  and as a result accepted 
the claim,  without proposing any deduction  for underinsurance. It made an interim  payment 
of £5,000 to Mr and Mrs W.
The claim proceeded slowly after that, in October 2018 an asbestos survey showed  there  to 
be some  asbestos deposits  which had to be dealt with. The repair works were  put out to 
tender, and the successful applicant appointed towards the end of February 2019. The 
building works  got under  way. In April/May 2019 Mr and Mrs W had to move out of their 
alternative accommodation into a different property and agreement had to be sought as to 
how removals could take place, and as the new property was unfurnished, as to payments 
for temporary furniture.  
The building works stalled as the contents  hadnt  been cleared out as they hadnt been 
agreed on. A payment  of £50,000  for the contents  was agreed by Mr and Mrs W in early 
June 2019 so the works could get under way. The works again  proceeded slowly. On two 
occasions the builders threatened to pull out because their interim invoices werent paid. As 
of February 2020  (when Ageas sent in its file to us) there were still outstanding payments 
owed to Mr and Mrs W. I assume  that they have now moved  back  into the property, though I 
should emphasise that Im not considering any events after February 2020 in this decision.
Mr and Mrs W complained about  the slow progress of the claim, the fact that they had to wait 
for months  to get paid for their alternative  accommodation, that they werent assisted  with 
such accommodation in any way, and that they incurred a number of expenses  which  still 
havent been refunded  to them. They accepted the contents pay-out but only because they 
were under pressure to get the building works  completed. They also had to pay a large 
amount for FLEE (Fire, lightning, earthquake explosion) insurance for their property  while it 
was unoccupied.
Ageas agreed  there were  delays but said these were mostly due to Hs actions.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said there had been  serious  delays, particularly in 
getting repairs under way and in responding to Mr and Mrs Ws requests for payment of their 
expenses. She said Ageas should pay various  costs relating to removals and living  in 
alternative accommodation. She further  said it should consider a further  payment for the 
contents since it had assessed the payment based on its own contractors replacement rates 
and hadnt factored in the cost of restoration  of some of the items. She further said it should 
pay compensation of £1,200.
Ref: DRN61653472I issued a provisional decision. In it I said that Ageas should  make further payments in line 
with what the investigator proposed. I also said it should pay a further  £5,000 for the 
contents to settle  the matter and reimburse Mr and Mrs W for the difference  in cost for them 
having to pay for a FLEE, unoccupied property policy  during  the repairs.
Mr and Mrs W accepted my decision,  though queried how they would  prove the cost of their 
fuel in picking up borrowed  furniture  for the alternative accommodation.
Ageas has received the decision but has made  no comment  on it. I believe it has paid the 
compensation of £1,200.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional findings were as follows:
delays
There were some delays by H, though I have to say that there is evidence  that H had to do a 
lot of chasing on Mr and Mrs Ws behalf.  I think there were unacceptable delays on Ageas 
part in getting  the claim agreed and the repairs  under  way. Ageas wouldnt accept the claim 
or pay for any alternative  accommodation  until it had the report  from its forensic expert  as to 
the cause of the fire and from its surveyor as to the value of the property for insurance 
purposes. It took three  weeks  to appoint both, and another  two weeks  before the claim was 
accepted. In the meantime Ageas had declined to provide  any assistance with the cost of 
alternative accommodation.
There were delays in getting  the repairs under way. The extent of asbestos in the property 
wasnt discovered until October 2018, and it then took until the end of February 2019 for the 
successful tender to be agreed.  Unfortunately the appointed contractors went  bankrupt and 
alternative contractors had to be found, though  it doesnt appear that anyone was at fault in 
respect of that. As the contractors appear to have been arranged  through H any delays after 
that were those concerning interim payments.  In particular so far as the contractors were 
concerned Ageas slow response to payment of their agreed accounts  caused them  to 
threaten to withdraw on two occasions.
Mr and Mrs W constantly had to chase,  through H, for interim payments. The first interim 
payment of £5,000 took two months to be received.  Mr and Mrs W used  this for a deposit  on 
their accommodation. And in August  2018  H requested a payment  of £10,000 for 
accommodation costs.  No payment was received until February  2019.This  meant  that 
Mr and Mrs W had to be entirely self-funding  for their accommodation during that period.
moving between  accommodation
In April 2019 Mr and Mrs W had to leave  their first alternative accommodation. They  
requested that Ageas  pay for an overlap so that they would  have time to move stuff to the 
new property. The second property was unfurnished so they asked  in the alternative for 
enough to buy temporary  furniture, particularly beds. They were offered £500, and Ageas 
declined to pay for any overlap in the cost of accommodation. I think that bearing in mind 
that the new property was unfurnished if Ageas  wasnt prepared to pay for an overlap (which 
Ref: DRN61653473reasonably it shouldnt have had to), it should at least have made a reasonable contribution 
towards temporary furniture for Mr and Mrs W and their family.  As it was Mr and Mrs W had 
to borrow furniture from various friends which they had to transport in several trips in their 
car. The landlord of their new property allowed them to store furniture  prior to moving in but 
charged £500 for this. Ageas should  pay this (subject to the production of the invoice).  
Ageas should  also pay a reasonable  contribution  towards fuel costs (Mr and Mrs W should  
provide details of the journeys and the fuel bought). 
contents
Ageas carried out a desktop analysis of the value of the contents both of the entire house 
and those damaged beyond  repair, rather than checking the contents at an early stage when 
they could have been inspected more thoroughly. By its own account this appeared to be a 
rough and ready calculation. It assessed  Mr and Mrs Ws claim as being  modest  when 
considered against the value insured. It assessed, without any real considered  estimate that 
a number of items were  repairable  or not affected  by the fire. Mr and Mrs Ws claim was for 
£68,000. Ageas has confirmed  its costs are based on its contractors assessment of those 
costs. While it says the costs were agreed  with H, I think  the reason Mr and Mrs W accepted 
the £50,000 pay-out was because unless they did so the building works couldnt  continue.  I 
think that taking  into account that some of the items needed restoration and that the pay-out 
was based on Ageas  contractors rates, a fair and reasonable payment for the contents (in 
total) is £55,000. So Ageas should pay a further £5,000.    
further expenses
As Mr and Mrs W couldnt get a wi-fi signal at the rented property they had to pay for a 
mobile router contract.  I think  Ageas should refund the cost paid under that contract.
Ageas should  also pay for the council  tax for the rented property.  Mr and Mrs W also had to 
pay for bottled gas there and Ageas should  refund that cost.
I dont propose to require  Ageas to pay the costs of Mr and Mrs Ws utility or other bills at 
their home, as those  costs would have been  incurred  any way. I bear in mind that Im asking 
Ageas to pay the costs of the rented property.
Ageas should  add 8% interest  to any costs it pays out from the date those costs  were paid 
until it reimburses Mr and Mrs W. They should provide any necessary invoices to Ageas.
FLEE insurance 
Mr and Mrs W say that they had to take out expensive FLEE  insurance  to cover the 
unoccupied property once their insurance  expired in December 2018. The normal  approach 
to this sort of case is that even if the insurance  comes up for renewal during the claim, the 
insurer should nevertheless continue to renew the insurance and not apply any uplift 
because of the claim. This is at least  until the renewal after the claim concludes.  This doesnt 
appear to have been addressed by Ageas.  My view is that Ageas  should assess the 
premium it would have  charged to renew  the insurance from its renewal date in December 
2018 (ignoring  any uplift in respect  of the claim itself) and repay  to Mr and Mrs W 
compensation equivalent to the cost of the premiums they have had to pay for FLEE 
insurance less the cost of any premium it would have charged. If it cant  assess  the likely 
premium I would propose that the previous years premium be taken as a baseline with a 5% 
uplift.
Ref: DRN61653474compensation
This claim  caused Mr and Mrs W a huge amount of stress. A lot of that was caused  by the 
distressing nature of the claim itself. And I understand that delays can be caused where the 
consumers are represented by a third party. Nevertheless Mr and Mrs W were left to 
shoulder the burden of the cost of alternative accommodation themselves over a number of 
months. The claim itself was delayed because of Ageas initial enquiries and then by the 
delay in carrying out an asbestos  inspection.  Further  delays were  caused  by Ageas not 
reviewing the contents until some  months  into the claim, and by the contractors not being  
paid. Our investigator  proposed compensation of £1,200 which  I think is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
In respect of proof of the various costs involved,  where possible Mr and Mrs W should 
supply invoices and/or  proof of payment. With regard to the fuel costs  I appreciate  that 
invoices wont be available but the parties  should be able to calculate them  if Mr and Mrs W 
provide details of the dates and the mileage for the jourmneys.
As the parties have made no substantive  comments, my provisional findings are now final 
and form part of this final decision. If Ageas has already paid the £1,200 compensation, then 
it will only need to pay the other  payments set out in my decision,  below,.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Ageas Insurance Limited to pay to Mr and Mrs W:
a further £5,000 for the contents.
the cost of fuel and storage in respect of moving furniture to their rented accommodation 
in April/May 2019 (subject to proof of the storage costs).
the cost of their mobile router contract.
council tax and gas bills in respect of their rented property (subject  to the provision of 
invoices).
compensation equivalent to the difference in the premiums charged to Mr and Mrs W for 
FLEE insurance and the assessed  cost of their normal insurance. If this cant  be 
assessed then the previous years figure for their insurance  plus 5% should be taken as 
that latter cost.
simple interest* at 8% per year on all the above payments from the date they were paid 
by Mr and Mrs W until reimbursement  by Ageas, save  for the contents payment where 
interest* should  run from the date of the claim until payment.
£1,200 compensation. If Ageas has already  paid this compensation  figure following my 
provisional decision, it has discharged its liability in this respect.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2021.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6165347