K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that First Response  Finance  Ltd (FRF) mis-sold him a single premium 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in conjunction with a hire purchase agreement. 
background
Mr C took out a hire purchase agreement when he bought  a car in October 2010. At the 
same time FRF sold him a PPI policy.
The policy cost just over £17 each month and it covered Mr C in the event he wasnt working 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment  and it wouldve provided  a monthly benefit 
equivalent to his loan repayments  following  a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed  so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding Mr Cs case.  And having  done so, Ive decided  the policy  wasnt  
mis-sold.
Ive been able to listen to a call recording of the conversation between Mr C and the 
FRF advisor. And Im satisfied that the advisor explains that Mr C has a choice about 
purchasing the PPI. The advisor gives Mr C a quote  for the loan with PPI and without 
PPI and asks Mr C how hed like to proceed.
The credit agreement that Mr C signed also refers to the optional nature of the PPI  
its referred to as Optional  Payment Protection Insurance.  On this agreement a tick 
has been placed next to the option for PPI and Mr C signed separately  to agree to 
take it out. 
Taking all this into consideration,  Im satisfied that FRF gave Mr C a choice about 
purchasing PPI and the he agreed  to take it out.
FRF recommended  the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover   
he told us he was employed and in good health.  And he seems to have had a need  
for the cover  he had no other work  benefits  or other means  that he couldve  used  if 
he wasnt working due to accident,  sickness or unemployment. 
Its possible the information FRF gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But the cost of the policy was shown on the hire purchase 
agreement  including the amount of the premium,  the interest payable on the 
premium, the total cost, and the monthly  cost  so I think  Mr C wouldve reasonably  
understood how much the PPI would cost if he kept the policy for its full term. 
Ref: DRN65015012Mr C wouldve got back only a limited  refund of the PPI premium if he cancelled the 
policy early.  I know FRF explained this in the telephone  conversation Ive listened  to 
 but I dont know whether its explanation was detailed  enough  for Mr C to 
understand. But I havent seen  anything to suggest  he thought hed repay  the loan 
early. So I dont  think this meant the policy wasnt right for Mr C  or that better  
information about this wouldve stopped him buying it.
I think that Mr C chose  to take it out - so it looks  like he wanted this type of cover.  
And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would 
have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything else Mr C and his representatives have said,  but these points 
dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr C paid on his policy  and whether FRF treated 
him unfairly.  
FRF told us that the commission for Mr Cs policy was less than half of what he paid for each 
premium. Weve looked at how FRF has been  working this out and based on what  weve 
seen it looks like its right  Mr Cs commission was less than half the cost of the policy.  As 
thats the case, I dont think it needed  to tell him about the commission   so I dont  think FRF 
treated him unfairly. This means it doesnt need  to pay back any of the commission Mr C 
paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6501501