K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc did not offer him enough compensation 
when it upheld his claim under  section 74 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 about a defective 
car.
background 
In May 2017  Mr C bought a second-hand car. He paid for it partly  by part-exchanging 
another car, and partly with a credit card provided  by RBS. He immediately  encountered  
some problems with the car, and he took it to a garage three  days  after he bought it. The 
garage detected  a number of faults. It also found that the car had not been serviced for over 
two years.  Since  the car had been  advertised as having a full service  history,  Mr C said that 
the car had been misrepresented to him, since  he would not have bought  it  or would have 
paid a lower price  if he had known.
Mr C asked RBS to compensate him under section 75 (which, where applicable,  makes  the 
provider of credit jointly  and severally  liable for a breach of contract  or misrepresentation by 
the supplier of goods or services paid for with the credit). In November RBS offered him 
£2,000 for some  of the defects, but said that the other defects  were  only to be expected for a 
car which by then was ten years old. Although that was indeed the amount Mr C had initially  
asked RBS for, he decided to bring  this complaint to our Service and ask for £4,000.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint,  but not for everything Mr C was claiming. He agreed 
that RBS was not liable for all of the defects, and recommended that RBS pay Mr C a total of 
£2,243.44. Mr C and RBS both agreed with this opinion, and so our investigator wrote to 
RBS and told it that as Mr C had accepted the proposed settlement, the complaint would be 
closed. RBS wrote to Mr C telling him that he would be paid within five days, which  I believe 
has been done.
However, on receipt of that letter Mr C questioned  how the compensation figure  had been 
calculated. He pointed  out that the breakdown of that figure included items described  as the 
investigation of some faults, instead  of the repair of those faults. The complaint was re-
opened, as the investigator agreed  that RBS should  be liable to repair any faults  which were 
found to have been present when  the car was sold. In addition to the defects RBS had 
agreed to pay for, the investigator also recommended that it pay for the cost of fixing the 
EGR valve, glow plugs and spill pipes. The total cost of that is £1,321.36. RBS did not agree, 
and Mr C now wants to reject  the car for a full refund. So this complaint was referred  to me 
for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have thought about whether it is fair to reconsider this complaint at all, given that the 
parties had agreed  a settlement and RBS had paid the agreed amount to Mr C. My starting 
point is that once a complaint is closed it should stay closed, and a party  should not be 
allowed to come back with further  points and ask for more compensation. I think there  
should be a strong presumption  against  that.
Ref: DRN65632772However, I accept that when Mr C agreed to the settlement, it was not made clear to him at 
the time that the settlement figure was only for the investigation and not the repair of certain 
faults. The investigators initial opinion, dated  23 January 2018,  said:
I am therefore recommending The Royal  Bank of Scotland pay for the repairs to 
[Mr Cs] car  This is because the work needed  to rectify the faults falls under the 
category of making the car safe, work such as investigating fault codes,  investigating 
the oil leak and replacing the brake discs.  I am therefore asking The Royal Bank 
of Scotland to refund [Mr C] £256.53 and pay for the costs of the repairs under  
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.
(The refund itemised in the last sentence  was for the cost of fixing  some faults identified in 
an MOT test carried out in May 2017,  which the car had failed.)
That paragraph does  indeed list investigating twice in a list of examples of things that need 
to be done to fix the car. However, that list was not exhaustive, and must  be understood in 
its proper context. It appears in a paragraph  which begins by saying that RBS must pay for 
the repairs and then goes on to say that work  is necessary to make  the car safe.  Clearly,  
merely investigating a fault without repairing it does not make a car safe. Only a repair  can 
do that.
So notwithstanding the use of the word investigating in the quoted paragraph,  I do not think 
it was unreasonable of Mr C to think that he was agreeing to a settlement which  would cover  
the cost of repairing all of the faults  for which RBS was liable  that is, faults which  were  
present in May 2017, including any which had not yet been  identified. I therefore think that it 
would not be fair and reasonable of me to hold Mr C to a settlement which he had not 
properly understood when  he agreed  to it, and to refuse to consider this complaint again.
However, when Mr C agreed to the settlement, he did understand that the investigator had 
not upheld his complaint about misrepresentation, or about certain defects such as the 
timing belt. I therefore do not think it would be fair for me to uphold  those parts  of this 
complaint now.
So although  I am reconsidering  Mr Cs complaint, I do not find that RBS is liable for any 
misrepresentation, or for the timing belt, spare  wheel and jack, or brake discs and brake 
pads.
In May 2018  Mr C provided  a quote  for a number  of itemised repairs totalling  £4,278.22. 
However, many of the items on that list are items which were already included in the 
investigators recommended compensation figure  which  RBS has already refunded  or 
items which he had concluded RBS was not liable for. I have checked  that list, and I see that 
most of the items on it are things  which Mr C was not complaining about in May 2017. I infer 
that they are things  that have gone  wrong  since, or things which  are the result  of fair wear  
and tear. In both instances, RBS will not be liable for these issues.
The only items which I think  RBS might be liable for are the EGR valve, the glow plugs,  and 
the spill pipes. That is because these faults  were  identified as a result of checking fault 
codes, and although those fault codes are not mentioned in the May 2017 MOT certificate, 
they are mentioned in the more detailed report of the same  date,  entitled  Vehicle Health  
Check. In that report, in the entry for warning lamps, it says erased  dtcs and road tested, 
same dtcs still present,  will req further  time to investigate. (I presume dtcs means DTCs  
or Diagnostic Trouble  Codes.) I infer that these are the same fault codes that RBS had 
agreed to pay to investigate.
Ref: DRN65632773On the balance of probabilities, I find that it is more likely than not that those  fault codes 
were present  because  the EGR valve, the glow plugs, and the spill pipes were faulty in May 
2017, when the car was sold. I therefore think it is fair that RBS should pay for them to be 
repaired. I will add the cost to the £2,243.44  which RBS has paid to Mr C already.
The quote  for those  repairs  was £1,321.36, but that was 15 months ago. The price  may have 
gone up since then,  so I will simply require  RBS to pay for the repair of those items.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint.
If, within 60 days of the date of this decision  (see the box on page  1), Mr C provides  
The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc with a written quote or invoice, on headed  paper  
from a garage,  for the repair of the exhaust  gas recirculation valve,  the glow plugs 
and the spill lines, then I order The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc to pay Mr C the cost 
of those repairs, as stated on the evidence so provided.
If Mr C fails to do that, then I order The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc to pay him 
£1,321.36 instead,  being the estimated cost of those repairs in May 2018.
That payment (whichever sum it is) is in addition to the payment RBS has made 
already; that is, the £2,243.44 which was paid to Mr C in March or April 2018. But just 
in case that payment  was cancelled by RBS when Mr C asked to re-open his 
complaint, I also order The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc to pay Mr C £2,243.44  if it 
has not done so already, in addition to the compensation I have awarded above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.  If he accepts it, then this decision will be 
binding on both parties. If he does not, then neither party will be bound  by it.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6563277