K820x#14Complaint
Ms P complains  about the treatment  she received  from branch staff at 
Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) when a new passbook  was required. 
Background
During a visit to Halifax on 7 January 2019 a new passbook  was required. In order to 
process a new passbook branch staff asked Ms P for some  evidence of her identity. Ms P 
says that no request for identification has been  made when new passbooks have been 
issued in the past. 
Ms P says the branch  staff were abusive and unnecessarily offensive. She feels  there was a 
deliberate intention to make  the process harder than it needed to be.
On 22 January 2019 Ms P wrote to Halifax and complained. Ms P set out how the issue had 
impacted her health. Halifax responded on 24 January 2019  and said the branch manager 
was concerned to hear how upset Ms P was following her visit. Halifax said the branch 
manager wanted the opportunity to discuss  what  happened with Ms P and provided their 
phone number. 
On 25 January 2019 Ms P contacted  Halifax and asked it to provide  a full final response to 
her complaint. On 28 January 2019  Ms P wrote to Halifax again and set out her concerns in 
detail. Ms P later said the matter would  be referred to this service. 
Ms P referred her complaint to us and it was passed  to an adjudicator. The adjudicator didnt 
uphold Ms Ps complaint and said that Halifax had sent evidence to show  that verifying 
customers was a standard  part of the process when issuing a new passbook.  
Ms P didnt accept the adjudicators view and said hed failed  to answer all the points she 
raised. As Ms P didnt  accept her, complaint  has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background  above  as Ms P and Halifax  have 
both sent us detailed explanations of the circumstances surrounding  the complaint. In 
addition, Ms P has sent us detailed submissions explaining how the situation  has affected 
her health  and why she doesnt feel the way Halifax has dealt with her complaint goes far 
enough. 
I havent referred to all the points Ms P has made  when setting out my decision and have  
focused on what I feel are the key issues. I hope Ms P wont take that as a discourtesy, it 
simply reflects the informal nature of our service. 
The key event in this case took place  in branch when Ms P was asked to provide 
identification so a new passbook could be issued. Ms P says shes never  been  asked  for this 
information before and I can see she found the request to be unusual and upsetting. But 
Halifax has sent us its process manual for issuing new passbooks.  The process  guidance 
Ref: DRN65984192shows that Halifaxs standard approach  is to verify  the customer at the point of issuing a new 
passbook. One of the ways Halifax can do that is to ask for identification. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Ms P but I dont agree that Halifax acted incorrectly or made a 
mistake when it requested  identification  to verify her on 7 January 2019.  I appreciate  Ms P 
has previously had passbooks replaced and has told us she didnt need to take that step.  
But Halifax  has provided clear evidence that shows at the time of her visit on 7 January 2019 
the process involved verifying the customer.  Halifax has confirmed that the person who 
served Ms P was new and didnt know her. That meant they had to verify Ms P via another 
method. And Im satisfied that asking for identification was a reasonable step for Halifax to 
take in order to verify Ms Ps identity. 
The branch  manager became involved during Ms Ps visit. Ms Ps told us that she was asked  
if Halifax had her signature on file but has pointed out she wouldnt have that information  as 
she doesnt work for the bank. I take Ms Ps point but Im not persuaded Halifaxs staff 
members were trying to be difficult or cause her distress.  I think they were discussing the 
different routes available to verify Ms Ps identity and were running through  the options.  I 
dont think there was any intention to upset  or offend Ms P. 
Ms P has raised concerns  about  the response  Halifax sent her after she complained. I 
appreciate Halifaxs  final response doesnt offer an alternative solution  but I think that 
reflects the fact it acted in line with the process for issuing new passbooks when she visited 
the branch. The branch manager  offered  to discuss the issues with Ms P. Ms P was upset by 
Halifax s actions and doesnt want to take that step,  but I think the offer was genuinely  made 
in an attempt to put her at ease so she could visit the branch again. 
I also note that whilst Ms P wasnt  happy with the content in Halifaxs  final response it did 
explain that she had recourse to refer it to our service if she wasnt  satisfied. 
I can see how upset Ms P is following her visit to Halifax  and shes given us a lot of 
information detailing  how her health concerns have been exacerbated. Im sorry that Ms Ps 
health hasnt been good since the events shes told us about. But as I havent  found 
anything to show Halifax made a mistake  or treated Ms P unfairly, Im not persuaded it would 
be fair to tell it to pay compensation.  
Im very sorry to disappoint Ms P as I can see how strongly she feels in this matter.  But Im 
satisfied Halifax was following the right process  when  it asked  her for identification on 
7 January 2019. As I havent found  that Halifax treated Ms P unfairly  or made  a mistake,  Im 
not upholding this complaint. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6598419