K821x#15complaint
Miss Bs representatives have complained  about  Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limiteds decision not to pay a claim under  a critical illness insurance policy.
Sadly, Miss B died during  the course of the complaint. The complaint has been  taken 
forward by the representatives  of her estate.
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which was sent to both parties.
In summary,  Miss B took out a decreasing life with critical illness  cover  in July 2016  online.
In October  2017, Miss B was diagnosed  with cancer so she made a claim under her critical 
illness benefit. But this was declined by Legal & General.  It also cancelled Miss Bs policy 
and returned the premiums  shed paid. This was because after reviewing  her medical  
history, it had thought Miss B hadnt  answered  a question in her application correctly. 
Legal & General said if itd known Miss B hadnt  fully completed medical examinations for a 
gynaecological condition  in 2012,  it wouldve postponed the application until all 
investigations were  complete  and the results  were known. And it concluded that under her 
circumstances, there  wouldve been no policy in place for Miss B to claim under when she 
was diagnosed with cancer  in 2017.
Miss B complained. She said shed  answered the application questions  honestly and to the 
best of her memory  Miss B said she had forgotten about the appointments she had with 
her doctors in 2012 and didnt recall being told she had to attend  a hospital appointment 
following an ultra sound scan. Legal & General didnt change  its decision so Miss B referred 
her complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld. He accepted a relevant 
question in her application  hadnt been  answered  correctly. But he felt if Miss B had 
answered this question differently this wouldve led to a further  question  as follows:
Are you waiting for hospital investigations or a surgical procedure  to remove  the
fibroids?
Our investigator considered that if Miss B had been asked this follow up question  she 
couldve correctly have  answered no as she was not awaiting investigation or surgery to 
remove a fibroid. He concluded because  the question was ambiguous,  the claim must fall in 
favour of Miss B.
Legal & General didnt agree. It considered the question to be clear with no ambiguity and 
clearly applied to the facts  in question. It said if Miss B had answered the question 
differently, her policy wouldve been postponed  until further investigations  had been  
undertaken.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me to make  a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN61707522Although Id reached the same outcome  as the investigator, I did so for different reasons. 
So, I issued a provisional decision.  I concluded that Miss B had acted honestly and 
reasonably by answering no to the question any gynaecological condition  for which  youve 
not yet been discharged from follow up. So I considered Legal & General acted unfairly  in 
declining Miss Bs claim for misrepresentation.
Miss Bs representatives accepted my findings  and had nothing  further  to add. Legal & 
General made a number of comments which I thank them for. I will now reconsider the 
complaint in light of the further information Ive received.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Im going to uphold 
Miss Bs complaint. 
In my provisional decision,  I said the following:
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding  approach  to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading),  provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer  doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
was there  a misrepresentation?
In her application submitted in July 2016,  Miss B was asked:
 
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last
5 years have you seen a doctor, nurse  or other health professional for:
 any gynaecological condition for which youve not yet been  discharged  from follow up, or a 
cervical smear requiring  further investigations?  Please ignore routine cervical smears  if the 
results have been normal.
Miss B answered no to this question.
When considering  Miss Bs claim Legal  & General asked  for her medical records. From 
these records, it noted several entries with her GP in 2012  about gynaecology problems 
Miss B had suffered at the time. This led to a referral for a scan which Miss B attended. And 
a referral to hospital  to see a consultant about  her condition which Miss B did not attend.
Whilst Im satisfied  that Legal  & General did bring to Miss Bs attention  that she needed to 
answer the questions  fully and accurately, and the consequences if she didnt do so, I dont 
think the question  in the application clearly fitted  her particular circumstances. And I think  the 
way Miss B answered the question  was reasonable.  
Legal & General said the question was clear and was seeking to find out whether Miss B 
was under any investigations for gynaecological  issues. But what Miss B was asked was 
whether she had a gynaecology condition for which she had not yet been  discharged.  I 
Ref: DRN61707523think this meant that the question posed  did not apply clearly to the facts  in question. By the 
time of her application  in July 2016,  Miss B had been discharged  from follow up 
appointments by the hospital  four year previously to this. Miss Bs medical records  clearly 
say this. Her GP uses the word discharged  in her medical notes dated 30 July 2012 and 
then offers  Miss B a re-referral in a letter dated  2 August 2012. The only issue in question  is 
the reason leading to Miss B being discharged from her hospital appointment.
Legal & General says because Miss B missed  her appointment before her condition  was 
fully investigated, she cannot  be considered  discharged.  I can see Miss Bs medical notes 
clearly show she was referred to the hospital. The GP wanted to look at options for Miss B to 
be fitted with a different form of contraception as well as to check there was no other  cause 
other than a fibroid. I do think  that Miss B was likely to have discussed fibroid with her GP at 
the time.  But I can also see the main option  discussed to help her symptoms  was around her 
contraception which had been  newly fitted.
Miss B says she didnt  remember  receiving  the hospital appointment or her GPs letter  from 
2 August offering to re-refer her. Given the letters were correctly addressed, I think its likely  
that they were  received by Miss B, but for whatever reason, possibly due to the passage  of 
time, she had forgotten about  them. I can also see that Miss B says she didnt follow  up any 
further appointments because her symptoms had subsided soon after her ultra sound scan. 
Along with the explanation shed received from the medical professionals  that her new 
contraception may be the cause of her internal bleeding, she didnt think  there  was anything 
to follow  up once her symptoms had settled down.  I think Miss Bs explanation is plausible 
given she was symptom  free for a further four years by the time of her application.
I also think its likely that because of the lack of reoccurring symptoms for quite  a long 
period, shed forgotten about  these appointments by the time she came  to complete the 
application some  four years later.
So all things  considered, I think given Miss Bs particular circumstances, there was no 
reason why shed  still think she was undergoing investigations for the things  she reported to 
her GP in 2012.  Therefore,  I think she acted honestly and reasonably by answering 
negatively to the question any gynaecological condition for which youve not yet been 
discharged from follow  up. 
what should Legal & General have  done  differently?
Legal & General classified Miss Bs misrepresentation  as careless. Under  CIDRA, when its 
found a consumer has made a careless misrepresentation, the insurer can take whatever 
action it would have  taken if the correct  answer  been given at the point of application. Under  
CIDRA, this allowed Legal  & General to cancel the policy and refund the premiums  paid, 
which is what it did. But for the reasons Ive outlined above, I dont think Miss B made  any 
misrepresentation. So Legal & General needs  to reconsider  Miss Bs claim in light of this.
Im conscious that Legal & Generals decision to decline the claim was particularly upsetting  
for Miss B and came  at a time when  shed been  diagnosed with a serious illness.  But I also 
accept there  were issues in Miss Bs medical  records which meant  it was reasonable for 
Legal & General to carry out some further  enquires and unfortunately this has led to delays.
Having reviewed everything again,  including  Legal & Generals further comments in 
response to my provisional  decision, Im satisfied that the above holds true.
Ref: DRN61707524Legal & Generals points mainly cover  issues I had already considered  as part of my 
provisional decision. The majority of its comments refer to the extracts  from the Miss Bs 
medical records which I had considered  at the time of my provisional decision.
I appreciate how strongly Legal & General feel about this claim.  But Im still of the view that 
the question it asked did not clearly  fit Miss Bs particular  circumstances.  So, I think a 
reasonable person still wouldve answered  the question  as Miss B did.
I will now deal with some  specific points that Legal  & General  raised:
Miss B was not discharged as she had not followed  up her medical appointment
As I noted  in my provisional decision, Miss Bs medical records show she was discharged  
from further medical appointments. I accepted she had not attended her hospital  
appointment. But as the GP has stated  discharged  in her records,  I think its fair to assume 
that the GP considered her to be discharged. I also noted that the reason she did not attend 
her further  appointment was because her symptoms had improved. As I noted  above, I think  
given Miss Bs particular  circumstances,  there  was no reason why shed still think  she was 
undergoing investigations for the things  she reported  to her GP in 2012. Therefore, I think 
she acted reasonably by answering negatively to the question  posed any gynaecological  
condition for which youve not yet been  discharged from follow up.
The reasons  for Miss Bs referral was for fibroids
The medical notes  make it clear there were issues with Miss Bs contraception as well as 
fibroids, but I accept  Miss B was aware  shed been  diagnosed with a fibroid. But based on 
her medical records, I dont think it was unreasonable for Miss B to believe that her 
symptoms were related  to her new contraception.
In any event, the question posed does not specifically ask what  the medical condition was  
it says any gynaecological condition for which youve not yet been  discharged.  So if Miss B 
had not been discharged from her appointment I wouldve expected  her to answer yes to 
this question as whether  her bleeding  was related  to fibroids or contraception it would rightly 
have been classified as gynaecological. As I said in my provisional decision, the issue  was 
whether Miss B considered she had been  discharged from follow  up. By the time Miss B 
completed her application,  around  four years had passed without  any recurrence of 
symptoms or further prompts from her GP to follow up on the investigations in 2012. So, 
overall, Im satisfied Miss B answered  the question reasonably  and I think any other person 
in those circumstances wouldve  answered  the question  in this way. 
The question was clearly  worded 
Whether the question was clearly worded or not was not in dispute. The issue  is that the 
question did not fit Miss Bs particular circumstances as I described in my provisional 
decision. Therefore,  I consider the way she answered it was reasonable.
The answer Miss B gave  was a careless  misrepresentation
As noted above,  I consider that Miss B answered  the question  reasonably.  I therefore  do not 
agree it was a careless misrepresentation.
 
Ref: DRN61707525The underwriting decision wouldve been  different if Miss B had answered  positively  to the 
question
I accept that this would  be the case. But for the reasons  set out in my provisional decision, 
I think how Miss B answered the question was a reasonable response to the question.
So taking everything into account, including the further comments  submitted by Legal  & 
General, Im upholding  the complaint.
my final decision
Im upholding Miss Bs complaint brought by the representatives of her estate. For the 
reasons Ive outlined  above, I dont think Miss B made any misrepresentation. So I require 
Legal and General Assurance Society Limited to reconsider  Miss Bs claim in light of this and 
reassess Miss Bs claim under the policy. If it finds that the claim should be paid, it should 
pay the appropriate sum to Miss Bs representatives  less the amount  it paid her as a refund 
of her premiums. It should add interest to the amount payable of 8% simple interest from the 
date it received her medical records to the date of the settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives on behalf of the estate of the late Miss B, to accept or reject my decision 
before 29 April 2019.
Yolande McLeod
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6170752