K822xComplaint
Mr H is unhappy with what  The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc has done to put things right 
following his complaint about the sale of payment protection insurance (PPI).
Background 
Mr H applied for four loans between September 2000 and 2005. Alongside each  loan Mr H 
bought PPI policies. The cost of each policy was added to each loan, so hed repay  the extra 
he borrowed, with interest, as he repaid  each  loan.
Mr H thinks these PPI policies  were  mis-sold.
RBS investigated  Mr Hs complaint. It didnt  think  a policy paid for up front was right for him. 
But RBS thought the policy would  have been right for him if hed paid for it on a month by 
month basis by taking out a regular premium policy. So RBS offered to pay back  the 
difference in cost between what Mr H actually paid and what  he would have paid if hed 
taken out a regular premium  policy  instead. It worked out the compensation would be 
£10,402.56.
Mr H signed a form to accept this offer. 
But in 2006 Mr H had granted a trust deed for the benefit of his creditors  under Scottish 
insolvency law. This is an informal alternative to bankruptcy, or sequestration, and meant  
Mr H didnt fully repay  everything he owed.  So RBS deducted some of what Mr H didnt 
repay following the trust deed from the compensation. So it paid him £7,349.23.
Mr H doesnt think this is fair  he thinks RBS should pay all the compensation to him 
directly. 
An adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought that what  RBS had done was fair. But 
following our involvement,  RBS agreed that Mr H wouldnt  have  bought the PPI policies at all 
 and paid Mr H the difference between its original  offer and an offer to put him in the 
position hed be in if he hadnt bought the PPI. It worked this out to be £2,240.21. It also said 
it got a larger dividend than it expected when the trust deed  ended  and so paid Mr H a 
further £1,810.20. 
Another adjudicator  looked at all of this, and thought that what RBS had offered for mis-
selling PPI was fair.
As Mr H is still unhappy, the complaint has been referred to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
In considering what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case, the rules  I 
follow say I must take into account  relevant law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  
and standards;  codes  of practice;  and, where appropriate, what  I consider to have  been  
good industry practice at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN61003052RBS has agreed that Mr Hs complaint about how the policy was sold should  be upheld.  So I 
just need to look at whether what theyve offered is fair. 
Im aware that the Scottish  courts have said that in some cases the compensation might  be 
paid to the consumer directly.
In Dooneen v Mond  [2018] UKSC 54 the UK Supreme Court considered the effect  of a 
discharge following  a final distribution  by a trustee. In that case, the discharge was held to 
terminate the trust which meant that any unrealised assets were returned to the debtor  
including the PPI compensation that nobody had known about  at the time.
In Donnelly  v The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc [2017]  SAC (Civ)  1, the Sheriff  Appeal Court  
considered whether RBS could offset  PPI compensation against the amount that hadnt 
been repaid when the trust deed  ended. The terms of the trust deed in that case meant  RBS 
had, in effect, agreed that the debt would be extinguished  and it couldnt  later revive this 
debt to offset any PPI compensation. (I note RBS is appealing this judgment,  so the outcome 
may change.)
I dont know if the terms of Mr Hs trust deed  were the same as in the cases above, though I 
understand those  terms were used widely  but no longer used today. But I acknowledge 
that in some cases the Scottish courts might say a business needs  to pay PPI compensation 
to a consumer, notwithstanding any amounts that might  have  gone  unpaid when the trust 
deed came  to an end.
But while I appreciate Mr H feels very strongly  that he should get all the compensation 
directly I dont think this would be fair. Ill explain why.
First, Im satisfied that the rules  I must  follow require  me to determine  complaints by 
reference to whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of the complaint. Though I must 
take into account Scots law Im not bound to follow it.
RBS says its claim in the trust deed was over £15,000. Though  RBS got some  of this money 
back in dividends, the trust deed  means Mr H didnt  have  to repay a considerable part of 
what he owed. 
Ive thought about what Mr H has said about  that. He says that RBS agreed to accept less 
than he owed as part of the trust deed.  And he feels that RBSs  behaviour  is sneaky  and 
an attempt to cheat  him out of the money.  
But the trust deed means RBS cant chase  Mr H for the extra  he owed. And RBS now owes  
Mr H compensation for mis-selling  PPI. I dont think it would be fair for all the money  to be 
paid to Mr H directly when, thanks to the trust deed,  he didnt have to repay RBS everything 
he owed. So I think its fair for RBS to deduct what Mr H didnt have to repay from the 
compensation for mis-selling  PPI.
When I decide, or a business agrees, that a complaint about the sale of PPI should be 
upheld, Id expect  the business  to put the consumer as far as is practical in the financial 
position theyd  be in if they hadnt bought the policy. If Mr H hadnt bought  PPI, I think its 
likely hed have owed  less when he entered the trust deed. And thats the position  RBSs 
offer puts him in.
Ref: DRN61003053Im also mindful that the only reason Mr H would get the money now is because  he didnt 
make this complaint  about the sale of PPI until after the trust deed had come to an end. If 
Mr H complained about the PPI while the trust deed  was still active,  RBS would clearly have 
been allowed  to deduct all the compensation from the amount Mr H owed. Or the money  
could have been paid to the trustee  for the benefit of Mr Hs other creditors.  He would not 
have got all this money  directly.
Finally, I note that even  after deducting some of what Mr H owed from his compensation, 
RBS says theres still a large amount that it didnt  deduct. So looks  as though RBS has paid 
Mr H rather more directly  than Id have told them to.
In all the circumstances, I think what RBS has now done is more than fair.
My final decision
For the reasons  above, my decision is that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc has paid fair 
compensation for mis-selling  PPI. So I dont make a further award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6100305