K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with the cash settlement  amount Admiral Insurance Company Limited 
(Admiral) has provided to him under his motor insurance policy, after his car was declared  a 
total loss.
background
Mr S needed to make a claim  under his motor insurance policy,  after his car was 
unfortunately damaged. Admiral accepted Mr S claim   and explained  the car was 
considered a total loss. So, it said it would provide a cash settlement to him.
It offered  Mr S an amount of £5,713.62. It said that in coming  to this settlement figure it had 
taken into account  the market value  of Mr S vehicle,  the policy excess and the fact Mr S 
hadnt paid 100% of the premium Admiral had been due. It said this was because  Mr S 
hadnt declared a speeding conviction. And if it had known about  this conviction it would 
have charged a higher premium for the policy.
So, it said it would be settling the claim based  on the proportion on the premium  Mr S had 
paid. Mr S raised concerns about  Admirals decision to provide  a proportionate cash 
settlement to him. And we considered  a complaint  here at the service in this respect.  We 
decided this approach was fair. So, I wont be considering these concerns again as part of 
this complaint. 
But Mr S remained of the opinion the settlement amount offered to him was unfair,  in 
particular because of the amount he had paid for the car when he bought it. So, he asked 
this service to conduct an independent review.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. And he thought the settlement Admiral had 
offered was fair. He said Mr S policy explained  it would  base  any cash settlement  on the 
market value of the car. Having checked  the relevant trade  guides, which provide details of 
market values he felt the amount offered was fair  and was based on the highest valuation 
Admiral had found. So, he didnt think Admiral needed to offer an increased  cash settlement.
He also addressed Mr S concern that he wasnt told he could keep his car. Our investigator 
said Admiral hadnt  told him he couldnt  keep the car  and it had talked  through how 
receiving a cash settlement offer would work. In addition, he accepted  there was a delay in 
Admiral providing the cash settlement to Mr S. But he said this was because  of 
investigations that needed to be completed, after it was noted Mr S had a previous SP30  
rather than because of any misinformation  Admiral gave Mr S.
Because Mr S disagreed  with our investigators opinion this complaint has been referred to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold this complaint.  Ive explained why below.
Ref: DRN64064292Ive reviewed Mr S policy documents, to see what his policy  says about how any claims will 
be settled. And I can see his policy booklet  does  say that if Mr S car is damaged it will settle  
a claim as follows;
We will decide how to settle  your claim and we will either:
pay to repair your  car, or
pay a cash settlement, to replace the damaged car or item. We may reduce the 
settlement, or ask you to pay a contribution towards the pair costs,  if the parts were 
already worn or damaged or for audio/visual  equipment that had been removed from 
your car
A decision will be made based on the garage/engineers  recommendation.
If we give you a cash sum, the most  we will pay is the market value of the car or items 
claimed for. If your car cannot be repaired economically, we will get it moved  to a place pf 
storage as soon  as possible.
Because Mr S car was considered a total loss Admiral decided  to give Mr S a cash  
settlement for his car. So, as above, it would need to do this based  on the market value of 
the car. The policy defines  the term market value.  It explains that this means the cost of 
replacing the vehicle with one of a similar  make, model, year,  mileage and condition.  
So, Ive needed  to consider whether Admiral has acted in line with these terms, and provided 
a fair settlement  to Mr S, based on the market  value of his car.
Admiral said the market value of Mr S car was £8,790, and that it arrived  at this figure based 
on national trade  guides.  Ive looked  at these trade guides too to see whether the offer 
Admiral has made is in line with these  guides or not. Ive done  this because using motor  
trade guides is the accepted industry practice for valuing a car  they are based on 
nationwide research.  Having done so, I can see that based on the make, model, year,  
mileage and condition  of Mr S car Admiral has provided a higher settlement that the trade  
guides note  the highest guide details  a figure  of £8,590. So, I think the basis of Admirals  
cash settlement is fair. 
Admiral has deducted  the policy excess from the cash  settlement provided to Mr S. And, 
because Mr S paid a lower premium  for his policy than he should have (because his SP30 
conviction wasnt disclosed) it reduced its cash settlement  offer in line with the premium he 
actually paid. So, it paid 84.56%  of the claim  value, because Mr S had paid 84.56% of the 
premium due for the risk involved. Mr S has to pay the first part of his claim (the policy  
excess), and this service  has already  decided Admiral  acted  fairly  in proportionately reducing 
the claim amount.  So, I think Admirals  approach  here is fair. Ive looked at the final cash 
settlement figure provided to Mr S. And Im satisfied the correct  cash  settlement figure of 
£5,713.62 was made to him. So I dont  think Admiral needs to do anything  more in this 
respect.
Mr S has raised concerns over the mileage Admiral used to value his car. He said when he 
completed an online search information he found  the mileage on his vehicle was noted  as 
75,000 miles. He said this wasnt right  the mileage was higher than this. Ive looked to see 
what mileage Admiral  based its assessment on. And I can see it used mileage information  
Ref: DRN64064293of 86,163 miles. Ive not seen anything to say this was the incorrect mileage for Mr S car  
and Mr S hasnt said this was wrong.  So, Im satisfied Admirals offer is fair and reasonable.
Mr S has said he wasnt told he could keep  his car. And he was now aware this was back on 
the road. I listened  to telephone call recordings between Mr S and Admiral. During one call 
Admiral explained  the cash settlement process  and Mr S agreed to this. And there was no 
suggestion that Mr S wanted to keep his car. If Mr S had suggested this I would have 
expected Admiral to consider the request  and reduce the cash settlement offer based  on it 
losing the salvage value  of the car. Because this didnt happen, I dont  think  Admiral acted 
unfairly.
Mr S said the cash settlement was delayed in being sent to him because  he was told he 
needed to complete the V5 document before a cash settlement could be released.  Ive 
looked at the notes  Ive been provided with  as well as listening to the above mentioned call 
recordings. And I and cant  see any firm evidence Mr S was told this. I can see it took 
Admiral some time to provide Mr S with the settlement offer  because  it needed  to consider 
whether the SP30 Mr S received affected his policy. I dont think Admiral acted unreasonably 
by looking into this before  it provided  a cash settlement on the claim. So, I dont  think  
Admiral needs to do anything more.
my final decision
Given the above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. So, I dont require 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  do anything more. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6406429