K822xcomplaint
Miss A complains  that Shop Direct  Finance Company Limited (SDFC)  closed her account, 
wasted her time on the phone, and lost some items she ordered.
background
Miss A had a catalogue shopping account with Shop Direct Home Shopping (trading as 
Very), financed by SDFC. In December  2018,  she ordered nearly £2,000 worth of presents 
for Christmas (in three orders), but she says she never received some  of them. She 
complained, and after an investigation  she was refunded for the missing items. But she 
complains that this was a stressful  ordeal, as on repeated phone calls she had to keep 
repeating the list of which items were missing, and this took up her time and made the 
situation more  difficult. She spent a lot of time on hold.  Then  in January 2019 Very closed 
her account  and SDFC withdrew her credit facility.  She complains about her account  
closure, and says she is concerned about  the impact this may have had on her credit score.
Initially, SDFC insisted it had done  nothing wrong.  It said Very had been  entitled to close the 
account, and without the account there had been no need  for the credit facility. Her credit  file 
had not been affected. The missing items had been  refunded in a timely manner. Our 
investigator agreed with those points, but after listening to the call recordings he concluded 
that the calls could have been  handled  better, as Miss A had had to repeat herself and this 
had been avoidable. In response to his opinion,  SDFC  offered Miss A an apology  and £50 
compensation. Our investigator thought this was fair, as the other problems would still have  
happened anyway,  so he did not recommend that SDFC do anything more. But Miss A said 
this was inadequate. The experience had been  stressful, and she had had to take time off 
work over Christmas. She asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that the fact that the items ordered  were  Christmas presents, and that they went 
missing just before Christmas, must  certainly have been stressful.  I can well understand why 
Miss A wanted to be refunded  immediately. But I think  that Very was entitled to carry out an 
investigation to see if the items could be found, and to make  sure that they had definitely  not 
been delivered, before it paid her a refund. That seems to have been  carried  out within  a 
reasonable timescale, and some of the refunds were credited to her account before  
Christmas, although  some were refunded after Christmas. All of the refunds were paid in 
December. There is no evidence that it was Verys fault that Miss A did not receive  the 
items, and so since a third party may have been  to blame, I cannot hold Very or SDFC liable 
for that.
It should not have been  necessary  for Miss A to have  to keep repeating  the list of missing 
items on the phone. They should have been written down by the first call handler  to speak to 
her. It was a very bad line (that is not in dispute), but if the call handler couldnt  hear what  
she was saying, then the best solution  would have  been to tell Miss A to send  her list in 
writing, instead of pretending to copy down  what she said and then making her speak to 
someone else and start again. That must  indeed  have been frustrating for Miss A, especially 
when at that stage  she did not know if she was going to get a refund or not. But I think  that 
Ref: DRN61817592an apology and £50 is in line with what our Service would typically  award  for that sort of 
difficulty, and I agree  with our investigators  decision not to increase it.
Verys terms and conditions say they can close an account after giving seven days  notice. 
Miss A says this made her feel like a criminal, and she suspects that it was just because she 
raised a complaint. But since Very refunded her for the all the items  she had reported 
missing, I dont think it meant to imply  that she had done anything  wrong  or that the items 
had not really gone missing. I think the same  thing about SDFC. Very told her at the time 
that it was closing her account because this was not the first time it had had to refund her for 
missing items, and so her account  was not profitable. I think  that was a commercial decision 
it was entitled  to make, and I have seen  nothing to suggest that it was some  sort of 
punishment for complaining.
I take a slightly different  view about SDFCs decision to end the credit agreement. The 
agreement says that SDFC must give two months  notice, except in certain circumstances 
when it can do so more  quickly, but those circumstances did not apply. Instead, SDFC says 
it did this because her Very account had been  closed, so there  was no longer a reason for 
the credit  agreement to continue. I accept that is right, but that is not one of the 
circumstances in which the credit agreement could  be closed early, according to its own 
terms and conditions. But at the time, Miss As account balance  was nil, and so the early 
termination of her credit agreement didnt mean  that she had to pay anything  back early,  and 
no interest was incurred. No adverse data was recorded on her credit  file. I therefore think 
that this was harmless, and so I do not uphold her complaint about  that matter.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 July 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6181759