K822xcomplaint
Mr M, through his representative, complains that the advice he was given by Hallmark  (East 
Midlands) Ltd to transfer three personal  pension plans to a SIPP  (Self Invested Personal 
Pension) failed  to meet the regulatory  standards required of it. He says it failed to meet  the 
firms obligations under the Conduct  of Business Rules. And it breached common law, 
contractual law and contractual duties of care. Mr M considers hes sustained financial 
losses as a result of the firms poor advice. 
background 
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 25 April 2019. The background and 
circumstances to the complaint and the reasons  I thought  it should  be upheld  were set out in 
that decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to provide any more evidence  or arguments  that they wanted me to 
consider before I made  my final decision.  
Mr M accepted the provisional decision.  
The representative for Hallmark said it had nothing further to add about  Mr Ms claim.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from my provisional finding  that the complaint should be upheld. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I order that Hallmark (East Midlands)  Ltd calculate  and pay compensation to Mr M as 
outlined in my attached  provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67475592Copy of Provisional  Decision
complaint
Mr M, through  his representative,  complains that the advice he was given by Hallmark (East 
Midlands) Ltd to transfer  three personal pension plans  to a SIPP  (Self Invested Personal  Pension)  
failed to meet  the regulatory   standards required of it. He says it failed to meet  the firms obligations 
under the Conduct of Business Rules.  And it breached  common law, contractual law and contractual 
duties of care.  Mr M considers hes sustained financial losses as a result of the firms  poor advice. 
background
Mr M was advised to transfer  his pensions  in 2010. My understanding is that at that time he was in his 
early 60s, married and had an income  of about £15,000 per year which  came from his business. His 
wife had an income  of about £20,000 from her pension. They owned their own property outright.  And 
they had another property  worth about £100,000. They also had about  £150,000 in a building  society  
account. 
Mr M had three personal pension plans  with three different providers. The fact find recorded  that Mr M 
was not happy with the performance of his plans and wanted to consolidate them. It was noted that 
Mr M wanted to look at different classes of assets other than equities. 
Mr Ms tolerance  to risk was recorded as active.  Out of five categories this sat between  balanced and 
aggressive. A suitability report  given  to Mr M described  an Active portfolio  as designed  for 
investors with a relatively high tolerance for risk and a longer time horizon.
The suitability report also provided comparisons of the possible benefits from the existing  pension 
plans at three  rates  of return compared to a personal  pension plan and SIPP at age 70. The 
projections for the exiting plans were £64,667, £71,543, £83,119. For personal pension plans they 
were £62,237,  £73,267,  £85,847. And for the SIPP £51,700, £61,200,  £72,100. The report said the 
charges on the existing plans were around 1%, whilst the SIPP were based on a wrapper charge of 
4.28%.
The report also noted that stakeholder and personal  pensions were considered but discounted. This 
was largely because  Mr M was a sophisticated investor and wanted access  to a wider choice of 
investment opportunities  and greater flexibility. It said the personal and stakeholder pensions were too 
restrictive. 
Three transfer  values were  paid to the SIPP in July 2010. In total the three transfer values amounted 
to £48,726. £20,000  was then invested in Verdant Australian Farmland,  again in July 2010.  And 
£25,195 was subsequently invested in Carbon Credit Farming in December 2010.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Like the adjudicator, Im satisfied that Hallmark is responsible for the advice to transfer and as such  
was obliged to consider the suitability of the transaction as a whole. This included  the suitability  of the 
underlying investments. The regulator has made this obligation clear to firms  on a number of 
occasions. 
The adjudicator didnt think the transfer to a SIPP  was unreasonable in itself given the fact find 
recorded that Mr M wanted to consolidate his pensions  and have the flexibility offered  by the SIPP 
through drawdown. However the fact find and recommendation letter  dont appear to suggest that 
Mr M wanted to access  his pensions immediately,  but rather he wanted the flexibility offered by 
drawdown at some point in the future. Its recorded that Mr M was intending to continue working. And 
Ref: DRN67475593the projections of possible benefits were at age 70  several years away.  One of the funds  was 
intended to be held for an eight year period  which  would  also tie in with taking  benefits at age 70. So it 
appears to me that the main  driver behind  the advice  was that Mr M wasnt happy with the existing 
funds performance and he wanted to consolidate his pensions. 
The charges on the SIPP were significantly higher than Mr Ms existing pension plans. The 
projections to age 70 showed that Mr Ms existing  plans were estimated to provide significantly higher 
benefits than the SIPP. I accept that better performance following a transfer could more than offset 
the increased  charges. However although  it doesnt appear that Mr M had plans to draw  his benefits 
immediately, he was already in his 60s. And the projections showed  that even assuming  he didnt 
take benefits until age 70, the existing plan projections  were  higher than the personal pension  at the 
lower growth rate. And significantly higher than the SIPP  by about 25%. So its clear  any new plan 
would have needed to work hard in terms of investment performance  to make up for all the costs of 
the transfer itself. 
In my view,  given there is always some uncertainty about when benefits  will be taken  as 
circumstances can change quickly at Mr Ms age, Mr M would have needed to invest  in assets 
presenting appreciable risk in order to offset  the charges associated with the transaction within a 
potentially limited timeframe  .
Mr M did have  about  £150,000 savings in a building society.  He also owned  another  property as well 
as his main  residence.  So he did have  capacity to accept some risk. But he didnt have any other 
significant savings  or investments of a type that might suggest he was a risk taker. And Ive seen no 
evidence to show hed had previous experience of more sophisticated investments like those 
recommended.
The firm invested  about 90% of the transfer value  in unregulated investments. In my view these  
investments presented significant risks both in terms of capital erosion and illiquidity. Taking  all the 
circumstances into account, Im not persuaded the advice  to transfer was suitable for Mr M at the 
time. In my view there were significant costs associated with the transfer at a time when the 
investment timeframe to recover those costs was uncertain. Mr M could have switched  funds with his 
existing providers if he was unhappy with fund performance at much lower cost. And the transfer 
presented significant risks both in terms of potential loss of capital  and the risk of being unable to 
access the money when it was required. 
The adjudicator recommended using the FTSE UK Private  Investors Income Total  Return  Index for 
calculating fair compensation. Hallmark didnt  agree. It said given Mr Ms circumstances and that his 
representative had said this was his only pension  and it was important that it wasnt put at risk, 
redress should be calculated  against a more cautious portfolio. 
As I have said above, I think Mr M did have capacity to accept some risk. But I think  that suitable 
advice in his particular circumstances, particularly given his age and the uncertainty  of the investment  
term should  have been to limit the risk he was taking. And this is consistent with the submissions 
provided on behalf of Mr M. So I tend to agree with Hallmark  that a comparison against  a more 
cautious benchmark is appropriate in the circumstances.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold this complaint. 
I intend  to order that Hallmark (East Midlands)  Ltd calculates  loss and pays compensation to Mr M if a 
loss is found in the following  manner. 
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close as possible to the 
position he would probably now be in if he had been  given suitable advice. 
Ref: DRN67475594In my view Mr M should have  been  advised to stay with his existing pension  providers and switch to 
appropriate funds. I think Mr M would  have invested differently. But its not possible  to say precisely 
what he would have done. Im satisfied  that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr 
M's circumstances and objectives when  he invested.
what should you do?
To compensate Mr M fairly Hallmark should:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment  with that of the benchmark shown below. If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value 
is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Hallmark should also pay any interest as set out below.
If there  is a loss, Hallmark should pay such amount as may be required into Mr Ms pension plan, 
allowing for any available tax relief and/or costs, to increase the pension plan value by the total 
amount of the compensation and any interest. However compensation should  not be paid into the 
pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing  protection  or allowance.  
If Hallmark is unable to pay the compensation into Mr M's pension plan, it should pay that amount  
direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided a taxable income.  
Therefore the compensation  should be reduced to notionally allow for any income tax that would 
otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr M's marginal rate of tax at the time he takes his 
benefits. I think its likely that Mr M will be a basic rate taxpayer and so the reduction should  equal  the 
current basic  rate of tax. However,  if Mr M would have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the 
reduction should only be applied to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Hallmark (East  Midlands) Ltd should pay Mr M £400 for the distress and inconvenience 
Im satisfied the matter has likely caused him. 
Hallmark should provide  details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Hallmark considers that its
required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest, it should  tell
Mr M how much  it has taken off. Hallmark should also give Mr M a tax deduction certificate if he asks 
for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN67475595investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date) (end date)additional 
interest
The SIPPstill existsfor half the investment:  
(FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income  total 
return index  formerly  
known  as FTSE WMA 
Stock  Market Income 
Total  Return  Index); for 
the other  half: average 
rate from fixed rate bondsdate of 
investmentdate of   
decision8% simple 
per year from 
date of decision 
to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation  
is not paid 
within 28 days 
of the business  
being notified of 
acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual  amount payable  from the investment at the end date. If, at the end date, the 
investment is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the open market), it may be difficult to find 
the actual value of the investment. So, the actual value  should be assumed to be nil to arrive at fair 
compensation. Hallmark should take ownership  of the illiquid investment by paying  a commercial 
value acceptable to the pension provider. This amount should be deducted from the compensation 
and the balance paid as above.
If Hallmark is unable to purchase the investment the actual value  should be assumed to
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Hallmark  may wish to require that Mr M provides an undertaking 
to pay it any amount he may receive from the investment in the future. That undertaking  must  allow 
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Hallmark 
will need  to meet any costs  in drawing up the undertaking.
fair value
This is what the investment  would  have  been  worth at the end date had it produced a
return using the benchmark.  
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the investment should be deducted from the fair 
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that 
point on. If there  are a large number of regular payments, to keep calculations simpler, Ill accept if 
Hallmark total all those payments and deduct that figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen this method of compensation because:
Mr M was willing  to accept some  risk to his capital. But I think in his circumstances  he only 
had limited  capacity  for risk. 
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to his capital.
Ref: DRN67475596The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is a mix of diversified indices representing 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a fair measure  
for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that it was suitable to take a 
small level of risk to attain  his investment objectives. So the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr M into that position. It doesnt mean that Mr M would have invested 50% of 
his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather, I 
consider this a reasonable  compromise that broadly  reflects the sort of return Mr M could 
have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required  to ask Mr M to accept  or reject my 
decision before 25 May 2019.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6747559