K820x#14complaint
Mr G says a previous Appointed Representative (AR) of Equitrade Markets Ltd (EM) mis-
sold him a Contract  For Differences (CFD) trading account  operated by a third party  firm 
(the account  provider)  in February 2016, without explaining the risks associated  with CFD 
trading and without  conducting due diligence about the affordability of such  trading for him. 
He seeks to recover around £60,000 in alleged financial  loss.
background
EM disputes the complaint. It says the execution only account was not mis-sold  to Mr G; that 
the account was assessed as appropriate for him; that he was aware  of what  he was 
venturing into and was given relevant risk warnings; that he gave a signed  authority to the 
previous AR to trade  on his behalf,  conducted  some trading directly himself and was in 
receipt of all contract notes for the trades;  and that his trading loss is miscalculated and is 
around one sixteenth of what he claims.
EM also suggests that the complaint  has resulted from a conspiracy, to cause EM problems,  
between Mr G and the previous  AR, potentially designed by the previous AR, for reasons it 
shared with us. One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint. She focused on the key 
issues within it and said, mainly, as follows:
There is no way of confirming exactly what happened between Mr G and the 
previous AR when  they met for the purpose of opening the account.
In terms of documentary evidence, she referred to the signed authority Mr G gave the 
previous AR in order to open the account; to evidence  related to the online account 
opening process; to the relevant terms and conditions; to evidence  of his responses  
to the questions in the Appropriateness section of the account opening process  
confirming his previous CFD trading  experience; and to evidence  from his trading 
history suggesting that his alleged financial loss had been miscalculated.
Based  on the above, the complaint should  not be upheld as she did not consider  that 
the account had been mis-sold to Mr G or that he was unaware of the risks of CFD 
trading.
Mr G disagreed with this outcome. His position,  in the main,  is as follows:
There is no evidence that the previous AR, on behalf of EM, explained the risks of 
CFD trading to him before he signed  the application form to open the trading 
account. 
Information about his alleged previous CFD trading experience is incorrect and 
suggests that evidence about  the Appropriateness assessment  presented  by EM is 
unreliable.
The assertion  that he traded directly in the account is incorrect,  the previous AR 
traded on his behalf.
The previous  AR did not inform him about completing any forms or an online 
application on behalf of EM  he only found  out about EM when  he sought to pursue 
his complaint. He had never seen the online application forms before the adjudicator  
forwarded them to him and they appear to be inadequate.
He accepts that he signed the paper form to open the account with the account  
provider, but nothing else.
The adjudicator was not persuaded  to alter her view.  She summarised that: 
Ref: DRN66701962She had enough evidence  to show that Mr Gs trading account was opened by the 
previous AR to whom he gave authority to do so.
The account provider  sent him welcome  documents which  referred to his CFD 
account but he did not question  these despite  his claim  that the account had not 
been opened in the proper way.
Trading then took place in the account without  any queries from him. 
Based on these elements, and on her previous view,  she retained the conclusion  that the 
complaint should  not be upheld. Mr G asked for an ombudsmans decision. EM made 
submissions to expand  its initial position  and to question the credibility of Mr Gs 
assertions/arguments and overall complaint. The matter was referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Gs complaint to EM, in February 2018,  refers to him opening the account around 
February 2016 with £12,000, then  thereafter,  over time and up to the date of his complaint 
 funding the account with deposits  totalling  around £66,000. I consider this to be a reliable 
admission, on his part, that he had direct access to the account from the outset  onwards.  
Such access was used to make the deposits he mentioned.
In February 2016  Mr G signed and dated  an Appointment of Agent (AoA) document in 
which he expressly appointed EM as his agent for the trading account, in which  he gave  full 
unrestricted and unconditional power and authority to EM to trade on the account and in 
which he instructed the account provider to grant EM full access to the account. This serves  
as evidence that, in addition to his dealings with the previous AR, Mr G was also aware of 
the existence and role of EM from the outset.
In February 2016  Mr G received two forms of communication from the account provider in 
relation to his trading account. One is an email  which appears to have been sent to his 
correct and current email address  introducing his account manager, giving him information 
on accessing his CFD trading account  and information related  to the account. The email  
refers to his account  number;  it refers to a password he  chose when filing out the 
application form; and it also includes six links intended to get him started, one of which is 
entitled Ensure you understand the risks of trading leveraged products. The other 
communication is a letter  which appears  to have  been sent to Mr Gs correct and current 
postal address. It too refers to his CFD trading account, his account  number  and his 
password. The letter then says  Spread betting and CFD trading are leveraged products 
which can result  in losses greater than your initial deposit. Ensure you fully understand the 
risks.
In February 2016  an electronic document described  as a New Accounts  Applicant  form 
was completed with Mr Gs details. Evidence  of the form provided to us shows  that its 
completion began with EM and then continued  with the account provider, that a declaration 
was agreed with a Yes on the form and that the account could not have been opened 
without agreement to the declaration. The declaration included  confirmation that the 
applicant had read and understood the risk warning notice and understood the nature and 
risks of trading Spread Bets/CFDs.
Ref: DRN66701963EM has referred to evidence of Mr G passing the appropriateness assessment in 2016 prior 
to his account being opened. Mr G disputes this evidence. Precisely what  happened 
between Mr G and the previous  AR, in terms of what they did jointly or separately to open 
the account is not clear. I agree with the adjudicator  in this respect.  I do not have  enough 
information to determine the details of how the appropriateness assessment  took place. 
Based on wider evidence  I am persuaded, on balance, that it took place and that EMs 
evidence of the questions put to and answered by or on behalf of Mr G is reliable. Those 
questions and answers confirmed previous CFD trading experience,  which was one of the 
basis on which the account was determined appropriate for him.
I have not been dismissive of Mr Gs dispute.  However, I am not persuaded by it. Wider  
evidence shows that he was aware  of a CFD trading account being opened in his name and 
aware of risk warnings   at the very least, directly from the account provider. EM says he 
would have also been aware  of risk warnings within its terms and conditions, and I consider 
this to be plausible.  
Based on the AoA document, Mr G gave the previous AR (who was a representative of EM), 
full authority to access and trade  in his account on his behalf. This related to CFD trading  
which Mr G had been told was risky and required his full understanding. If he did not have 
such full understanding, it is more likely  (than not) that there would  be evidence of him 
demanding such an understanding from the previous AR, after receiving the notices to 
ensure he understood the risks and before proceeding to make  deposits or to permit trading. 
No such evidence exists.  Instead evidence shows that trading in the account and deposits 
into it continued thereafter, without queries about the notices from Mr G. This suggests that 
Mr G understood the risks and did not find it necessary to query the notices. It also supports 
the evidence presented  by EM about  him having previous CFD trading experience.
Overall and on balance,  I consider  that the CFD trading account was properly assessed as 
appropriate for Mr G and that he was warned, at the outset, about the risks in CFD trading. 
His admission of signing only one document (the account application form) appears to 
extend to an admission of signing at least two documents  the AoA document,  which bears 
his signature,  and the application  form he refers  to. On balance, I agree with EMs assertion 
that Mr G knew  what  he was getting  into in terms of his arrangement with the previous AR. 
Mr Gs complaint also appears to suggest unsuitable trading advice. The account  was based 
on an execution only service but there is evidence of the previous AR having discretion to 
trade in the account on his behalf. Given that the account (and trading within it) was 
appropriate for Mr G and as it appears that his complaint relates primarily to the sale of the 
account and the financial loss alleged  to have arisen  from it, he does not appear to have 
established a basis to consider suitability of advice for individual  trades. No such  individual  
trades have been  specified and I have not seen evidence of advice related to individual 
trades, potentially because no such advice was given in the context of the AR trading on a 
discretionary basis for Mr G. Overall,  if unsuitable  trading advice  is suggested (or alleged) 
within Mr Gs complaint,  I do not consider that it has been established.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Ref: DRN66701964Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6670196