K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complaint is about the safeguarding of her assets by Walker Crips Investment 
Management Limited, formerly  Walker Crips Stockbrokers Ltd (WCS), and about WCS 
accountability for them. She says WCS did not uphold these obligations. Both parties are 
legally represented.
background
WCS says the arrangements relevant to Mrs S complaint are:
Her investments  were advised by a third party independent financial adviser (IFA).
The IFA and WCS had a master  agreement between them, in November 2007, for 
the IFAs use of WCS  deposit  service.
In December 2007 the IFA entered into a separate agreement with WCS, for the 
IFAs introduction of underlying clients to WCS  the indirect customer service.  
From  2008 to 2011 the IFA opened and managed a WCS execution only nominee 
account for Mrs S, under  WCS indirect customer service.
According to Mrs S solicitor, the key issues in her complaint are:
Unauthorised investments made  by the IFA through  her WCS  account.  Mrs S says 
the investments  were  the K fund, £15,000  invested  in this between  August and 
September 2010, and the T fund, £44,000  invested in this between  April and June 
2011  giving a total of £59,000 invested.
Unauthorised advisers  fees withdrawn by the IFA from her WCS account. Mrs S 
says this took place between  July 2008  and April 2011. Her solicitor says about 
£56,000 was withdrawn in this respect.
Delayed and insufficient disclosure about  her WCS account  between 2012 and 2014.  
Mrs S says she was alerted to the IFAs conduct  in early 2012. Her solicitor says 
WCS undertook to investigate the matter but did not update her thereafter. Having 
heard nothing from WCS  her pursuit  was resumed  in 2014, after which  she received 
information  but there is some doubt  over the completeness of it.
I issued a very detailed  provisional decision on 30 November 2018, covering our jurisdiction 
to consider the complaint  and the merits of the complaint. A copy  is attached  below, so I do 
not propose to repeat  all of its contents. 
WCS solicitors were concerned that the thrust of the complaint had changed since  its 
inception. I provisionally  concluded that:
 the underlying  complaint issues  remain the same as I have summarised  above  and as 
this service has treated  to date. I am not persuaded that the thrust  of the complaint  has 
changed. The complaint was presented, at the outset, and remains on the basis  of an 
alleged breach of a duty of care and an alleged breach of safeguarding responsibilities 
(which relates to custodian responsibilities).
In terms of our jurisdiction, I provisionally concluded that:
Ref: DRN65483622The complaint  features the regulated activity  of safeguarding and administering 
investments.
Mrs S is an eligible complainant because she  was a consumer and her complaint 
arises from a relationship  with WCS that was covered by the regulators rules. The 
reasons for this provisional conclusion were  given  in the provisional decision.
In terms of the regulators time limits for complaints  The issues within Mrs S 
complaint began in August 2010 and her solicitors Letter of Claim to WCS solicitor 
was sent on 16 January  2015,  so her complaint  was made  within the regulators six 
years time limit.
In terms of the merits of the complaint I provisionally concluded, in summary, as follows:
by December 2010, at the latest, WCS ought reasonably to have notified Mrs S about the 
difficulties and its concerns about the investment, the [K] fund and the IFA.
If WCS had notified Mrs S in December 2010 it follows  that her awareness of what  was 
happening at the time would have led her to take control of her assets.  It also follows that the 
T fund investments between April and June 2011  would more  likely (than  not) not have been 
made.
The TOB [terms  of business] did not oblige  WCS  to monitor the fee withdrawals from Mrs S 
account. However, it follows that if WCS had told her about its concerns about the K fund 
and the IFA in December 2010 she would have been on notice from then. She would have  
learnt about the unauthorised fees and she would have prevented  any further fee 
withdrawals. As such, I consider that WCS should  be responsible for all fee withdrawals by 
the IFA, including any erroneous fees, from December 2010 onwards.
Mrs S ought not to have been subjected to the delays,  between 2012 and 2014, in WCS 
meeting her requests for disclosure about her account and assets. That disclosure  would 
have been an urgent matter for her at the time,  given the realisation that something  had 
gone wrong with her assets. The delay is more  likely  (than not) to have compounded the 
distress and anxiety she was probably facing at the time.
a delay  in obtaining full disclosure from WCS, which continued for around two years  into 
2014, would  have taken its toll on Mrs S. For the trouble  and upset caused to her in this 
respect she should be paid £500.
 there is no merit in the suggestion that [Mrs S] complaint to this service  duplicates her 
complaint to the FSCS. 
 the regulators rules say that cost awards from this service  are the exception  not the 
rule. I acknowledge that Mrs S has been  competently represented by her solicitor.  However, 
I do not consider  that there  was an absolute requirement for legal representations  on behalf 
of her complaint  or a requirement to an extent  that warrants  a cost award  against  WCS.  
This service has addressed comparable complaints in which  there were no legal 
representations on behalf of the complainant.
Both parties  were invited  to comment on the provisional decision. Mrs S solicitors said a 
number of matters should  be considered further.  In summary, they said:
By August and September  2010 WCS  was already experiencing concerns about the 
K fund and about the IFA, so consideration should be given to whether (or not) WCS 
Ref: DRN65483623ought reasonably  to have acted upon  the IFAs instructions in relation  to investment 
in the K fund at the time.
Based  on the provisional findings, the ombudsman should consider any other fees or 
charges that Mrs S should be compensated for. 
Mrs S complaint is an exceptional case which has involved complex issues  and, like 
her, WCS  also instructed solicitors for assistance and representation. As such, Mrs 
S legal costs ought to be acknowledged.
WCS solicitors say their client  does not accept that it is liable for the complaint,  but in order 
to see an end to the matter it is prepared to compensate Mrs S in accordance with the 
redress outlined in the provisional  decision.  In response to the matters  raised  on her behalf 
they say the point about the K fund is a repeat of allegations that stood before the 
provisional decision; the point about  compensation for other  fees or charges has been made 
without a basis; and they disagree  with the assertion  that the complaint is exceptional (in 
terms of the claim for legal costs).
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have not been 
persuaded to alter the findings  and conclusions in the provisional decision.  I incorporate 
those findings  and conclusions into this decision.  The basis upon which  the complaint is 
upheld remains the same as stated in the provisional decision.
I respond to Mrs S solicitors  points as follows:
The provisional decision gave  reasonably  thorough consideration to when, on 
balance, WCS ought reasonably to have been  concerned about the K fund and the 
IFA  in the context  of Mrs S complaint. It referred  to evidence suggesting that such 
concern ought  reasonably to have  arisen by December 2010. I said I did not have 
enough evidence  that it arose before the K fund investment, in Mrs S case,  in 
August/September 2010. I invited  any evidence that might  assist in this respect.  I do 
not consider that Mrs S solicitors have presented such  evidence. They appear to 
have recited an argument  that the provisional decision already addressed. I am not 
persuaded that any progress has been made in terms of evidence  showing that WCS  
ought reasonably  to have been  concerned about the K fund and the IFA at a 
particular time before  December 2010.  I retain the conclusion that WCS ought 
reasonably to have  been concerned in these respects by December 2010.
In terms of considering further compensation for other fees or charges I agree with 
the comment from WCS solicitors. The suggestion  to consider such compensation 
does not appear  to have been  presented with reasons   or persuasive reasons. I am 
not persuaded that there are grounds  to consider any such  additional compensation 
in this respect.
I note the points made by Mrs S solicitors  about the range of issues  that have arisen 
and been considered  in addressing  the complaint. These are issues that this service  
has considered  and addressed. Representations  from both parties  solicitors  have 
been competent and helpful but it remains the case that they were not necessary for 
us to address  the complaint (and its issues)  in the manner that we have. It would 
have been within  our remit and responsibility to address those  issues  even if the 
Ref: DRN65483624parties were  not legally represented. Overall, I retain the conclusion  stated in the 
provisional decision in terms  of Mrs S legal  costs. 
fair compensation
In terms of redress, my aim is to put Mrs S back into the position she would have  held if 
WCS had notified her in December 2010 as I have described in the provisional  decision 
(which is incorporated  into this decision). I consider that a reasonable start date for redress  
is 1 December 2010. In this respect WCS must:
Identify and refund to Mrs S all of the fee payments from Mrs S account, to the IFA, 
between December 2010 and April 2011.
Refund to Mrs S the unauthorised payments from her account to the T fund between 
April and June 2011.
Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of each  of the payments 
mentioned above to the date of settlement.
In addition to the redress  payment WCS must also pay Mrs S £500  for the trouble  
and upset caused to her by its delay in meeting her disclosure requests.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in the provisional decision, I uphold  Mrs S complaint about 
Walker Crips  Investment  Management Limited,  formerly Walker Crips Stockbrokers Ltd. I 
order Walker Crips Investment  Management  Limited, formerly Walker  Crips Stockbrokers 
Ltd, to calculate  redress  as stated above  and to pay Mrs S the result,  in addition to £500  for 
the trouble and upset caused to her. I also order Walker Crips Investment Management 
Limited, formerly Walker  Crips Stockbrokers Ltd, to provide a copy of the calculation,  in a 
clear and simple format, to Mrs S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mrs S complaint is about the safeguarding of her assets by Walker Crips  Stockbrokers Ltd (WCS) 
and about WCS accountability for them. She says WCS did not uphold these  obligations. Both parties 
are legally represented.
background
WCS says the arrangements  relevant  to Mrs S complaint  are:
Ref: DRN65483625Her investments  were advised by a third party independent  financial adviser (IFA).
The IFA and WCS had a master agreement between them,  in November 2007,  for the IFAs 
use of WCS deposit service.
In December 2007  the IFA entered into a separate agreement with WCS, for the IFAs  
introduction of underlying clients to WCS  the indirect customer service. 
From 2008  to 2011 the IFA opened and managed a WCS  execution  only nominee  account for 
Mrs S, under WCS  indirect customer service.
According to Mrs S solicitor, the key issues in her complaint  are:
Unauthorised  investments made by the IFA through her WCS  account. Mrs S says the 
investments were  the K fund,  £15,000  invested in this between August and September 
2010, and the T fund, £44,000 invested  in this between April and June 2011  giving a total 
of £59,000 invested.
Unauthorised  advisers fees withdrawn by the IFA from her WCS account. Mrs S says this 
took place between July 2008 and April 2011. Her solicitor  says about £56,000 was 
withdrawn in this respect.
Delayed and insufficient  disclosure about her WCS account between 2012 and 2014. Mrs S 
says she was alerted  to the IFAs conduct in early 2012. Her solicitor says WCS undertook to 
investigate the matter  but did not update her thereafter.  Having  heard nothing from WCS  her 
pursuit was resumed in 2014, after which  she received information  but there is some doubt  
over the completeness of it.
These issues were raised in a complaint by Mrs S solicitors to WCS   separately, a complaint was 
made against  the IFA to the Financial Services Compensation Scheme (FSCS). 
WCS solicitors said, to us, that the manner  in which  Mrs S solicitors have  presented and re-
presented the complaint since its inception  alters the thrust of the complaint.  They  said the complaint 
was previously about WCS  alleged duty of care towards Mrs S and that it then morphed  into a 
complaint about WCS alleged duties as a custodian. In any case, the issues that prompted the 
complaint at the outset are as summarised  above and they remain the main issues within the 
complaint at present.
WCS solicitors responded to the complaint on its behalf. The complaint was not upheld.  In the main, 
WCS said:
It had no responsibility towards Mrs S (its contractual relationship was with the IFA only), no 
responsibility to report to her during  the IFAs management of her account,  no responsibility  to 
monitor the investments  the IFA made through her account and no responsibility to question 
the fees the IFA withdrew from her account.
Mrs S (or anyone that was advising her at the time) bears  responsibility for not making herself 
aware of the IFAs  conduct before  2012.
Its response to the request for disclosure  was reasonable.
Mrs S was out of time to complain about any events that were  more than six years old.
In terms of Mrs S referral of the complaint to this service,  WCS  said we do not have jurisdiction  to 
consider it. It gave reasons for us to dismiss it. An ombudsman (the first ombudsman) considered 
our jurisdiction with regards  to whether  the complaint was a duplication of what  Mrs S submitted  to the 
FSCS and whether the complaint was more appropriate for a court.  In September  2016,  she 
concluded that we have jurisdiction to consider  the complaint and that it should not be dismissed. Her 
reasons can be summarised as follows:
Ref: DRN65483626There is evidence from the FSCS  that the complaint it has for Mrs S is distinct  and separate  
from the complaint  that has been submitted to this service  so the FSCS complaint ought not 
to be a reason for us to dismiss  the complaint.
Contrary to what WCS solicitors assert,  sufficient evidence has been submitted  to this service 
to allow it to consider  the complaint.
Contrary to what WCS solicitors assert,  there does not appear to be a parallel pursuit, by Mrs 
S and against WCS, in the courts and it does not appear to be Mrs S plan to mount such  a 
pursuit.
 
The first ombudsman  then issued a provisional  decision on the merits  of Mrs S complaint. In 
summary she said:
WCS was the sole custodian  of the assets in Mrs S account, so WCS  held a direct obligation 
towards her in this respect. 
The regulators rule at COBS 11.3.2  required WCS to do more than it did in relation to the K 
fund when  it experienced a delay  in receiving  contract  notes  and certificates from the fund.
Had WCS  informed Mrs S about the problem in the K fund, as it should have,  she could have 
prevented the unauthorised  fees withdrawn  by the IFA thereafter and the T fund investment. 
WCS should also have  been prompted to notify Mrs S in October  2010 when  the IFA 
withdrew fees of £3,762  only 10 days after withdrawing fees of £1,292 from the account. This 
contrasted with the pattern of fee payments of around £1,000 per quarter previously and 
should have alerted WCS to the need to inform Mrs S.
Mrs S should  receive  redress for what WCS did wrong and £500 for the trouble  and upset  
caused to her.
Both sides submitted  responses to the provisional decision. In summary:
WCS  solicitor repeated  that WCS was not obliged  to monitor  the account or the fees 
withdrawn from it. It said that the process for obtaining  documents for the K fund only became 
unusual around June 2011  when WCS began to consider alerting  the regulator  about  the 
matter; it alerted the regulator in December 2011 after exhausting  its efforts to resolve the 
matter; it had no cause to query the T fund especially as it was an addition to an existing 
holding from 2008; this service should not accept Mrs S claim about the alleged fraud on face 
value, we should verify  the details  of her FSCS  complaint, query the arrangement between 
her and the IFA and verify the investment  updates  and suitability reports the IFA sent her.
Mrs S solicitor disagreed with WCS  assertions and argued that, because the investments 
were unknown  and unauthorised, Mrs S cannot  be expected  to have the investment updates 
and suitability  reports  that WCS says we should verify. It also said that, in the event  of the 
complaint being successful, Mrs S legal  costs  should  be paid by WCS.
Mrs S complaint was referred  to me in order to address  both parties  comments and in order to 
consider and determine the complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
In order  to address WCS solicitors concern about a change  in the thrust of the complaint, I have 
referred back to the initial complaint submitted to WCS by Mrs S solicitors on 16 January 2015. The 
second paragraph of the complaint letter  says:
The purpose of this letter is to set out our clients  concerns regarding  [WCS] negligent administration 
of our clients portfolios and its failure  to safeguard our clients assets 
Ref: DRN65483627The letter proceeds  to address the issue  about information disclosure from WCS, the issue about  
unauthorised payments  to the IFA and the issue about unauthorised investments by the IFA. 
Reference is made to an alleged breach  of duty of care by WCS  but, as quoted above, reference is 
also made to an alleged failure of WCS safeguarding  responsibility over Mrs S assets. 
I consider that the underlying complaint issues  remain the same as I have summarised  above and as 
this service has treated  to date. I am not persuaded that the thrust of the complaint has changed. The 
complaint was presented,  at the outset, and remains  on the basis  of an alleged  breach of a duty of 
care and an alleged breach of safeguarding responsibilities  (which relates  to custodian 
responsibilities).
Jurisdiction
For the sake of completeness, I too have considered our jurisdiction to address Mrs S complaint. I 
have taken a reasonably comprehensive approach in considering the issues below  which were  not 
addressed by the first ombudsman. 
Regulated Activity.
In the context  of investments, the regulators rules require us to establish that the subject of a 
complaint relates to a regulated activity and/or an ancillary activity   we cannot consider an 
investment related complaint if it does not. As I said above, the complaint is essentially about 
the level of care and safeguarding that was given to Mrs S assets and investments. This is 
catered for under  the regulated activity of safeguarding  and administering investments. This 
activity is carried out only where assets consist of or include any investment that is a security 
or is a contractually based  investment. Mrs S assets,  such as the funds mentioned  above, 
are covered by this, so her complaint features the regulated activity of safeguarding and 
administering investments .
Eligible Complainant.
In the context  of her complaint and in order to establish that she is an eligible complainant 
Mrs S needs to show that she was a consumer  and that her complaint arises from a 
relationship with WCS  that was covered by the regulators  rules. 
A consumer  is defined, by the regulator, as any natural person acting for purposes outside 
her trade,  business  or profession. I have not seen evidence to suggest that investment 
dealing or management, safeguarding or administration  of investments was part of Mrs S 
trade, business or profession. In addition, it does  not appear that Mrs S arrangements with 
the IFA and WCS were  undertaken for purposes related to her trade,  business  or profession.  
As such, I am satisfied that she was a consumer.
It is less straightforward to consider whether Mrs S had a relationship with WCS that was 
covered by the regulators rules. This is because, as stated above,  the arrangement was 
presented by WCS and the IFA as being a relationship only between  the two of them. 
However, I can and will review whether this was the case in real terms.
Within the terms  of the indirect customer agreement between WCS and the IFA, WCS agreed 
to treat the IFAs customers as its clients for the purposes of all the Rules of the FSA   
reference to the FSA relates to the industry regulator at the time, the Financial Services 
Authority, now the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA). Within the same terms, WCS  also 
said it would categorise the client in accordance with the regulators rules  and that it would 
deal exclusively with the IFA, who will be acting on behalf of its underlying customer.
In the context  of agency , this arrangement  meant that despite the absence  of a written 
contract between WCS and Mrs S, there nevertheless existed a contractual relationship 
between them. The IFA was Mrs S agent in its relationship with WCS and Mrs S identity and 
Ref: DRN65483628existence as the principal was known to WCS  there is evidence to support this in the form of 
account opening documents completed  by WCS and portfolio valuation  documents  produced 
by WCS,  all of which bear Mrs S full name.   
I have not seen any evidence of WCS receiving express authorisation  from Mrs S that the IFA 
was acting  for her. The indirect customer terms of business  entered into between WCS  and 
the IFA say that the IFA warranted  that she had the underlying clients authorisation to act 
within the terms  of business  and that WCS was to assume the IFA had the underlying clients  
authorisation for the IFA to give her express consent  on behalf of the client, where the clients 
consent was needed.  As a known and disclosed principal in the relationship between  WCS  
and the IFA, Mrs S had an undeniable presence and rights in the relationship  one of which, 
as expressly stated in the indirect customer agreement and as mentioned above, was the 
right to be regarded as WCS client.
Arguably and because of this content within the indirect  customer  agreement, Mrs S might not 
even need to rely upon  the law of agency  to establish that she was a client of WCS.  The 
regulators rules cover the relationship between a client and a business. In the context of the 
relationship between  WCS  and Mrs S, Mrs S was a client  of WCS  under  the regulators rules. 
The rules say a client is a person to whom a firm provides, intends to provide or has provided 
a service in the course of carrying  on a regulated  activity. WCS  provided Mrs S the nominee 
shareholding account  service in the course of the regulated activity of safeguarding and 
administering investments. 
The regulators rules did provide for a firm like WCS to have treated  the IFA as its client,  not 
the underlying  customer  the relevant  rule is COBS  2.4.3(1). However,  because WCS  had 
confirmed in writing (with the IFA) that it would treat Mrs S as its client then COBS 
2.4.3R(2)(a) applies to the relationship and means that Mrs S was WCSs client.  Mrs S was a 
consumer and her complaint  arises from a relationship with WCS  that was covered by the 
regulators rules. To be considered an eligible complainant Mrs S also needs to be a 
customer of WCS, on its natural meaning. For the reasons set out above, I consider Mrs S to 
have been a customer of WCS because she received services from WCS  and paid a regular  
fee for this. I consider that none of the exceptions within the rules apply to negate her status  
in this respect.
Time.
The regulators rules say that we cannot consider a complaint referred more than six years 
after the event or (if later) more than three years after the complainant knew or ought  
reasonably to have known there  was cause  to complain  unless the complainant has a 
written (or some other) record that shows a complaint was made  in time.  A late complaint can 
be considered  where exceptional circumstances have caused the delay.
The issues within Mrs S complaint began in August 2010 and her solicitors  Letter  of Claim 
to WCS solicitor was sent on 16 January 2015, so her complaint was made  within  the 
regulators six years time limit.
Merits
The complaint about unauthorised investments and fee withdrawals prompt  the consideration  of the 
obligations that WCS had as a regulated firm safeguarding Mrs S investments. Before  doing so, it is 
worth briefly noting what happened to the IFA and the K fund:
The IFA and his partner  in the firm were directors of the K fund,  which failed after Mrs S 
investment.
Subsequently:
oThe IFAs firm had its permissions withdrawn by the regulator  (for non-payment of the 
regulators fees);
Ref: DRN65483629oThe IFA was disqualified  as a director; and
oThe regulator issued  a prohibition order against the IFA, based on the information 
contained in the IFAs director disqualification  undertaking. This included (i) misusing 
clients funds and (ii) using clients funds  for inappropriate investments. 
Overall, I accept Mrs S claim  that the three investments were unknown  by her until early 2012 and 
that they were unauthorised.  The IFA provided an advisory and investment management  service  to 
Mrs S. The arrangement related to investment recommendations from the IFA to Mrs S and required 
Mrs S instructions prior to investments. I have not seen evidence of recommendations  or requests for 
instructions for her two investments. Mrs S says she was not sent such  documentation  and I have not 
seen sufficient  evidence to doubt her account, so on balance I accept it. As such and as her solicitor 
has argued, it follows that she cannot reasonably  be expected to produce suitability or investment 
update documents that do not appear to have been sent to her by the IFA.
WCS obligations in relation  to the unauthorised investments
Principles
WCS had to comply with the regulators principles for businesses and any wider safeguarding and 
reporting related responsibilities that arose from them,  as well as the regulators  COBS and CASS  
rules discussed below.  In this context,  the question  for me to address is whether  (or not), given the 
regulatory obligations placed on WCS by the principles as well as other rules discussed below,  WCS 
acted fairly and reasonably  in not alerting Mrs S and/or, in wider  terms,  the regulator to its concerns 
about the issues it eventually  raised  with the regulator, at some point before it contacted  the regulator 
in December 2011. 
In this regard I note the following:
Principle 6  WCS has a duty to pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly. As I concluded above, Mrs S was WCSs customer and WCS  therefore  had a duty 
to consider her interests and to treat her fairly.
Principle 10  WCS  has a duty to arrange adequate protection for its clients assets when  it is 
responsible for them.  As I have  concluded above, Mrs S was WCSs client and therefore  it 
had a duty to arrange  adequate protection for her assets while it was responsible for them, as 
it was while it held her assets in an execution-only  nominee account.
Principle 11  WCS  has a duty to disclose to the regulator anything  related  to its work that the 
regulator would reasonably expect to know.  Relevant to this duty is the Supervision rule 
under SUP 15.3 (General notification requirements). SUP 15.3.1 R (3) says a firm must notify 
the regulator immediately it becomes aware  of  any matter which could affect the firms  
ability to continue  to provide  adequate services to its customers and which could  result in 
serious detriment  to a customer of the firm  a customer like Mrs S. Also relevant are the 
CASS rules  quoted  below, which also give rise to a principle 11 obligation in certain  situations 
(CASS 6.5.13R and CASS 7.6.16R). 
On balance, I conclude that WCS had a regulatory obligation  to notify  Mrs S. As I said above,  she 
was WCS client and WCS was providing  her with the regulated service of safeguarding  and 
administering her investments. The consideration  that follows from that is  what obligations  did WCS  
have directly towards Mrs S in discharging  its regulated service? In this respect, the rules below, from 
the regulator, have featured in the debate between both parties  and I will address  them. I consider 
that, as a minimum, the obligations upon WCS  which  were imposed by the above Principles meant 
that it did not act fairly and reasonably in not alerting  Mrs S and/or the regulator  to its concerns 
sooner. The reasons  behind this view are the same  as those  addressed further below. 
On balance, I conclude that WCS had obligations  to Mrs S under principles 6 and 10 that are relevant  
to the circumstances of this complaint. As I said above, she was WCS client and WCS was providing 
her with the regulated service of safeguarding and administering her investments. The consideration 
that follows  from that is  what  obligations did WCS have to notify her directly of its concerns? In this 
Ref: DRN654836210respect, the rules discussed  below have featured in the debate between  both parties  and are also 
relevant to the question of what WCS should have told Mrs S and when  and I will address them 
below. I consider that, as a minimum, the obligations upon WCS, from principles 6 and 10, meant that 
it did not act fairly  and reasonably in not alerting her to its concerns sooner. The reasons  behind this 
view relate to WCS knowledge and concerns about the IFAs conduct  related  to the failure  to provide 
contract documentation for the K fund investment.
With regard to principle 11, this obligation is relevant because WCS decided to make a principle 11 
notification to the FSA about the IFAs conduct in December 2011, including the IFAs potential 
conflicts of interest. If it had made this notification sooner, the chain of events which followed the 
December 2011 notification (resulting in Mrs S becoming aware of the investments and fee 
withdrawals made by the IFA), would  have  started sooner  and she would  have been able to take 
control of her money and investments sooner. As explained below,  I have concluded  that by 
December 2010 WCS was aware  (or ought  to have been aware) that the lack of contract  
documentation provided for the K fund investment (and WCSs related inability  to perform the 
appropriate reconciliation) and its knowledge about the IFAs conflicts  of interest gave it cause to be 
concerned about the IFAs conduct. Therefore, in all the circumstances of this complaint I think it is 
fair and reasonable to have expected WCS to notify the FCA about those  concerns sooner  than it did, 
and by December 2010 at the latest.  
Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS)
I consider the COBS rules  as follows:
COBS 2.4 (Agent  as client  and reliance  on others). This rule relates  to investment services  
and activities (including ancillary services) carried out by a firm  some parts  of the rule relate  
to firms covered by the Markets in Financial Instruments Directive (MiFID). WCS  was covered 
by MiFID however,  as this service recently verified with the regulator, the IFA firm was Article 
3 MiFID exempt between November  2007 and 29 March 2011.  This means  that, during this 
period, the IFA did not come within the FCA Handbook definition  of MiFID investment firm, 
and therefore certain parts of COBS do/do not apply accordingly.
COBS 2.4.4R applies  specifically to arrangements  where a MiFID  firm provides its service  to 
a client through another MiFID firm. WCS solicitors have relied upon a part of this rule that 
says the service providing firm is entitled to rely upon information about  the client given to it 
by the intermediary firm and that the latter remains responsible  for dealing directly  with the 
client. The suggestion  appears to be that this applies  to Mrs S case and negates  the notion  
that WCS  had any duty to deal directly with Mrs S about  events  in the nominee account.
WCS argument is that the COBS rules above apply to limit its responsibility  in Mrs S case and that it 
could not reasonably have  been expected to verify matters  with Mrs S directly. For the reasons given  
below, I do not agree  that WCS responsibility  is limited in this way. I consider that wider and other 
COBS rules also need to be considered.
COBS 2.1.1R  This sets the clients best interests rule and requires a firm to act honestly, 
fairly and professionally in this respect. I consider this relevant to the idea of Mrs S receiving 
notice of WCS concerns about the IFA and about  his behaviour in relation to the K fund. If 
such notice had been  given Mrs S would  have been alerted  to an investment  she was 
unaware of and had not instructed. She would have been in a position  to take control  of her 
assets (or remaining assets) from that point. 
I also consider  it relevant  to the idea of Mrs S being made aware of the IFAs conflicted  
interests. Had WCS given such notice  to Mrs S she would  have been alerted  to it, she could  
have considered that it was against her best interests and, perhaps more importantly, she 
would have been alerted  to the K fund that she had not instructed. Again, she could have 
been in a position to take control of her assets (or remaining assets)  from that point. 
Ref: DRN654836211Evidence suggests that WCS knew about the IFAs conflict of interests before its letter to the 
regulator in December 2011. There is email correspondence between WCS and the IFA in 
June 2011 and onwards in which queries are put by the former to the latter in relation to 
issuing contract or unit related documentation  for investments (related to a group of clients)  in 
the K fund. WCS sought those documents and they should  have been issued by the IFA, his 
colleagues in the K fund; and/or the administrator of the fund.  
It appears that when WCS efforts were frustrated in its dealings with the administrator,  and 
by June 2011,  it reverted  to the IFA in the hope of achieving progress. This suggests that by 
June 2011 WCS knew the IFA was involved in the K fund but, on balance,  I am persuaded  
that WCS  knew about  the IFAs conflicted interests earlier. Evidence exists  in the form of an 
email from WCS to the administrator on 10 February 2011  about investments by WCS 
group of clients into the fund in July 2010 for which  documentation  was still outstanding. This 
suggests that WCS began  its pursuit in 2010, at a time after the investments in July that year 
when the delay was noticeable. I do not consider  that the delay would have been unnoticed 
by the end of 2010, five months after the clients investments were made, so it is more likely 
(than not) to have been  noticed and to have  prompted  WCS  pursuit by December  2010 at the 
latest. 
My provisional  conclusion is that it is more likely (than not) that WCS was aware  of the IFAs  
involvement (and conflict of interests)  in the K fund at a point between July and December 
2010 and that it should have notified  Mrs S about the IFAs conflict  of interests at the time. I 
do not have enough evidence to say precisely when,  during this period in 2010, it was aware  
of the IFAs conflict of interests  so I invite evidence from both parties  that might help to 
determine this.
In addition, I provisionally conclude that the matter of missing contract documentation, on its 
own or as was relevant  to the conflict of interests issue, was one that WCS  should  also have 
notified Mrs S about before  the end of 2010. An email  from WCS to the K funds administrator  
in June 2011  says that, at the time, it had been waiting  to receive documentation for its group 
of clients  for  12 to 18 months  since the clients investments were made into the [K fund].  
That suggests  a starting point between January and June 2010.  Mrs S investment in the K 
fund was made around August/September  2010 and by then WCS  was already experiencing 
a delay, from the fund, of between three to nine months. After Mrs S investment  and by the 
end of 2010 the delay  would have been  between  six months to a year. On balance, I consider 
that by the end of 2010 the length of the delay was sufficient to have led WCS to inform  Mrs S 
about the matter  due to its COBS 2.1.1R obligations, but also because of its CASS 6 and 7 
obligations as discussed  below. WCSs principle 6 and 10 obligations described above  are 
also relevant.
COBS 2.4.6(2) says A firm will be taken to be in compliance with any rule in this sourcebook 
that requires it to obtain  information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by another person . 
COBS 2.4.4R as mentioned  above and as cited by WCS solicitors, does not apply to this 
complaint until after 29 March 2011 when  the IFA became a MiFID firm (because it ceased to 
enjoy the relevant  exemption). The implication for Mrs S case is that the manner in which 
WCS should have treated any investment instructions received from the IFA after this date 
would have been subject  to this rule. The argument would  be that, as the rule says,  WCS was 
entitled to rely upon such instructions  being instructions from an intermediary MiFID firm  
and was not obliged  to question  them despite  what I have said above (and will say further  
below) about  WCS questioning the IFA from the end of 2010 onwards. 
Its alternative is COBS 2.4.6(2), under the heading  Reliance on others: other situations. 
Where this rule applies,  a firms reliance  on an intermediarys instructions is subject to the firm 
showing it was reasonable  to so rely. COBS 2.4.8G provides guidance as to what is 
reasonable and it says It will generally be reasonable   for a firm to rely on information  
Ref: DRN654836212provided to it in writing  by an unconnected authorised person  unless it is aware or ought  
reasonably to be aware of any fact that would give reasonable grounds to question  the 
accuracy of that information. 
In terms of the isolated  matter of instructions received,  by WCS, from the IFA after 29 March 
2011 I accept that the relevant rule on WCS reliance on such instructions is COBS 2.4.4R. 
However, I consider it fair and reasonable to take a composite  not isolated   approach to 
this point. For the period leading  up to 29 March  2011 COBS 2.4.4R would  not have applied,  
COBS 2.4.6(2) would have applied instead. This complaint is about  a continuous  period over 
which the IFA and WCS interacted with each other over investment instructions  for Mrs S 
account and the remittances of fees from the account.  In the context of our fair and 
reasonable approach it would be somewhat  artificial  and arguably unfair  to say, with reasons, 
that WCS  had cause to question instructions from the IFA from the end of December onwards 
(and up to 29 April 2011),  that it ought to have done so but that only because  of a change  in 
the IFAs MiFID  status such cause disappeared from 30 April 2011.
I consider that the reasonableness of WCS relying upon information from the IFA at a time 
when it had ongoing concerns about the IFA must be called into question. I consider that this 
applies to both the investments and the fee payments (discussed below) within  the nominee 
account. I consider that, on balance,  WCS ought  to have had cause to inform Mrs S about 
concerns related to the contract  documentation and the IFAs conflicted interests by 
December 2010 at the latest. In the context  of WCS raising such concerns it follows that from 
December 2010 until at least the end of March 2011  and arguably thereafter  it would not 
have been reasonable  for WCS to rely upon information from the IFA. 
I do not have enough evidence to conclude  that WCS reached this point  of frustration  
and/or concern about the IFA  before Mrs S K fund in August/September 2010. If so, a 
compelling argument  is that it would  not have been  reasonable for WCS to rely upon any 
representation the IFA gave about  Mrs S consenting to or being  aware of investment  in the K 
fund. Given that this is a provisional decision,  I invite any relevant evidence that might  assist 
in this respect. Otherwise and in the absence of such evidence, I consider  that all the 
instructions WCS received  from the IFA from December 2010 onwards ought reasonably  to 
have been questioned  to put it another way, WCS could  not have reasonably relied  upon 
anything the IFA said in relation to Mrs S account from December 2010 onwards. 
Guidance (at PERG 2.7.9 G) within the regulators rules says safeguarding relates  to a firms 
role as custodian of the customers property. In investment terms, this includes holding  assets 
such as money and share certificates. The difficulties  that WCS had with the K fund, its 
administrator and the IFA related to completion of investments and production of certificates 
and documentation  relevant to those investments.  Those difficulties were also the basis on 
which WCS became frustrated with, became concerned about and, eventually, lost trust in the 
fund and the IFA.
For the reasons  given  above, I consider that by December 2010,  at the latest, WCS ought 
reasonably to have notified Mrs S about the difficulties and its concerns about the investment, 
the fund and the IFA. I do not suggest that WCS should have  known, at that time,  that the 
fund was due to fail and/or  that the IFA would  be prohibited by the regulator in relation to the 
fund. However I am persuaded that, on balance, it knew enough to notify Mrs S as I have 
explained above. If WCS had notified Mrs S in December 2010 it follows that her awareness  
of what  was happening  at the time would have led her to take control  of her assets.  It also 
follows that the T fund investments between April and June  2011 would  more likely (than not) 
not have been made. 
CASS Client Assets Rules
Ref: DRN654836213This complaint is about  the safeguarding and administering of Mrs S investments (her assets). It 
follows that there are CASS rules, especially  in relation to the safe custody of such assets, which  are 
applicable to the issues. I consider the following:
The rule under CASS  6.5.6 (R), as it was in 2009 and 2010, said  A firm must conduct  on a 
regular basis, reconciliations between its internal  accounts and records and those of any third 
parties by whom those  safe custody assets are held. The guidance at the time, under  CASS  
6.5.7 (G), said  Where  a firm deposits safe custody assets  belonging to a client with a third 
party, in complying with the requirements of CASS 6.5.6 R, the firm should seek to ensure  
that the third party will deliver to the firm a statement  as at a date or dates  specified by the 
firm which  details  the description and amounts of all the safe custody assets credited to the 
account, and that this statement is delivered in adequate time to allow the firm to carry  out the 
periodic reconciliations required in CASS 6.5.6 R.
Further guidance at CASS 6.5.8 (G) said  A firm should perform the reconciliation  required 
by CASS 6.5.6 R:
(1) as regularly as is necessary; and
(2) as soon as reasonably  practicable after the date to which the reconciliation  relates;
to ensure the accuracy of its internal accounts and records against those  of third parties  by 
whom safe custody assets are held.
In the event that problems arise, the rule at CASS 6.5.13 (R) said  A firm must  inform [the 
regulator] in writing without delay:
(1)If it has not complied with, or is unable, in any material respect, to comply  with the 
requirements in CASS 6.5.1 R, CASS 6.5.2R or CASS 6.5.6  R
There were  broadly  similar provisions under  CASS 7.6 at the time of the events  in  Mrs S 
case.
I refer again to the email  evidence from February 2011 between WCS and the fund 
administrators for the K fund. On 10 February WCS queried contract  notes for investments  in 
the fund that had not been received  and it said it wanted to know why they had not been 
received at the time, as the contract notes  would enable [them] to verify all investments as 
they were made.  In the June email I mentioned earlier above,  WCS referred  to the matter 
having  been  dragging  on for 12  18 months since the clients investments were made  
and said it had an obligation  under the regulators rules  to reconcile the investments but 
[were] unable  to do so until [the fund/its administrators]  provided  the requisite documents  
(including the contract  notes).
This provides an insight into what appears to be WCS awareness, at the time, of its 
reconciliation obligation  under CASS 6.5.6 (R). The obligation  was to do this on a regular 
basis  and guidance at the time said this meant it was to be done  as soon as reasonably 
practicable after the date to which  the reconciliation  relates. As I provisionally  concluded 
above the delayed documentation appears  to have related to WCS clients investments  in the 
K fund from around  January 2010 onwards, Mrs S investment was around August/September 
2010 and I said that by December 2010 the delay for the clients investments was between six 
months to a year old. It follows that no reconciliations took place during the delay  so by 
December 2010 those reconciliations were overdue  overdue for Mrs S investment and 
perhaps acutely overdue for those who invested long before her. I provisionally  conclude that 
by December 2010,  at the latest, WCS was obliged  under CASS 6.5.13  to notify the regulator  
about its problems in discharging its reconciliation obligation. It delayed,  unreasonably, in 
doing this for another year until it wrote to the regulator  in December 2011.
Fee Withdrawals
Ref: DRN654836214The first ombudsman  provisionally concluded that WCS should  have been prompted to notify Mrs S in 
October 2010 when the IFA withdrew  fees of £3,762 only 10 days after withdrawing fees of £1,292 
from the account. She considered that the withdrawal contrasted  with the previous pattern of fee 
payments and that it should have  alerted WCS to the need  to inform Mrs S.
The TOB did not oblige  WCS to monitor the fee withdrawals from Mrs S account. However, it follows 
that if WCS had told her about its concerns about the K fund and the IFA in December  2010 she 
would have been on notice from then. She would have learnt about  the unauthorised fees and she 
would have prevented any further fee withdrawals. As such, I consider that WCS  should  be 
responsible for all fee withdrawals by the IFA, including  any erroneous fees, from December 2010 
onwards. 
WCSs disclosure  to Mrs S
I consider that Mrs S ought not to have been subjected to the delays, between 2012 and 2014,  in 
WCS meeting her requests for disclosure about her account and assets.  That disclosure  would have 
been an urgent matter for her at the time, given the realisation that something had gone wrong with 
her assets.  The delay is more  likely (than not) to have compounded the distress and anxiety she was 
probably facing at the time. In the context of the notification(s) from WCS  which this decision  has 
provisionally concluded ought  to have been given  to Mrs S since December 2010, WCS  ought  not to 
have delayed  such disclosure in 2012. In 2012 it knew the matter  concerning the IFAs conduct  was 
serious because it had referred it to the regulator in December 2011,  Mrs S solicitors became directly  
involved in the matter by March 2012 and by July 2012 the regulator  informed it that the IFAs 
authority had been cancelled.  Given such apparent gravity  in the matter, I consider  that a delay in 
obtaining full disclosure from WCS, which continued for around two years into 2014,  would have 
taken its toll on Mrs S. For the trouble  and upset caused to her in this respect she should be paid 
£500.
FSCS Complaint
For the sake of completeness, I confirm that I have verified the details  of Mrs S FSCS complaint  
against the IFA. The compensation received relates to investments separate and distinct from those 
that feature in her complaint within this service  against WCS.  As such, there is no merit  in the 
suggestion that her complaint to this service duplicates  her complaint to the FSCS. 
Legal Costs
I have noted the argument presented by Mrs S solicitor in this respect.  However, in straightforward 
terms, it is normally  the approach within this service  for complaints like       Mrs S that cost awards 
are not issued if they are successful. 
As Mrs S solicitor  has noted,  the regulators rules say that cost awards  from this service are the 
exception  not the rule. I acknowledge that Mrs S has been competently  represented by her solicitor.  
However, I do not consider that there was an absolute requirement for legal representations on behalf 
of her complaint  or a requirement to an extent that warrants a cost award against WCS. This service 
has addressed comparable complaints in which there were no legal  representations on behalf of the 
complainant.
fair compensation
In terms of redress, my aim is to put Mrs S back into the position she would have held if WCS had 
notified her in December 2010 as I have described  above. I consider that a reasonable start date for 
redress is 1 December 2010 . In this respect WCS must: 
Identify and refund to Mrs S all of the fee payments from Mrs S account, to the IFA, between  
December 2010 and April 2011.
Ref: DRN654836215Refund to Mrs S the unauthorised  payments  from her account to the T fund between April and 
June 2011.
Pay interest at the rate of 8% simple per year from the date of each of the payments 
mentioned above  to the date of settlement.
In addition to the redress payment WCS must also pay Mrs S £500 for the trouble  and upset  
caused to her by its delay in meeting her disclosure requests.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I provisionally uphold  Mrs S complaint against Walker  Crips 
Stockbrokers Ltd. If this provisional decision  is retained I will order Walker Crips  Stockbrokers Ltd to 
calculate redress as stated above and to pay Mrs S the result, in addition  to £500 for the trouble and 
upset caused to her. I will also order Walker Crips  Stockbrokers Ltd provide  a copy  of the calculation, 
in a clear  and simple format,  to Mrs S.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6548362