K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about Ageas Insurance Limiteds handling of a claim submitted under his 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
Ageas use intermediaries  to administer their legal expenses insurance, so any reference to 
the insurer within this decision should  be taken to include the actions/omissions of such 
intermediaries. 
background
In September  2018, Mr B made a claim for the legal  costs of pursuing  action against his 
neighbours for a land grab and obstruction of a right of way. He says Ageas failed to deal 
with his claim appropriately; requested unnecessary information; asked for documents  it 
already had; and contacted his solicitors  without his permission.
Ageas say Mr B asked  it to contact his solicitors to obtain the information  required but that 
this wasnt forthcoming  from the solicitors  or Mr B. So Ageas assessed the claim on the 
limited information it held. Based on what it had seen, it didnt think the claim fell within  the 
policy cover   so it was declined. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said Ageas  had been  clear about the 
information it wanted to assess the claim.  And he didnt think it was unnecessary.  He noted  
that some  of the documentation Ageas wanted had been provided on another  claim. But he 
didnt think it was reasonable to expect Ageas to go through thousands of pages of 
information to find what it needed when Mr B could just as easily  send it over. He said it was 
for Mr B to prove he had a valid claim.  And much of the information needed was about the 
new dispute which hadnt been provided previously.
Our investigator had seen  correspondence  from Mr B asking Ageas to contact  his solicitors 
directly about the new claim. So he didnt think it had acted inappropriately or without 
permission when contacting them. 
Mr B disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to reconsider  his complaint. Since that time, 
Ageas has located  documents  from previous claims and obtained a counsels opinion  on 
Mr Bs legal claim. This opinion was supportive, so Ageas have agreed to consider covering 
the claim,  and offered £250 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 30 March 2020.  I said I didnt intend to 
uphold Mr Bs complaint,  and set out my provisional  findings:
From the information provided, I can see that Mr B notified Ageas of a new claim by email  on 
20 September 2018. He said there  had been a further land grab which  he believed to have 
occurred in 2016. He didnt say when it had been discovered. Mr B sent a subsequent email  
later the same day. This said hed managed  to gather most of the material together  
regarding his further claim and that his solicitors were fully aware  of the issues and best 
placed to deal with it. 
Ageas responded the same day asking for full details of the new claim so that it could be 
assessed. It said this should  include the addresses  of the other parties; the actual details  of 
the land grab; when  it took place; when  it was identified  and the extent. 
Ref: DRN64615882Mr B replied  saying he could provide this, but it might be best for his solicitors  to do so. He 
said there is evidence  in the form of surveys, statements and a video from the previous 
claim.
On 22 November 2018, Ageas contacted Mr B again asking when hed be in a position to 
provide the information on his new claim. He responded to say he thought hed left 
instructions and hell look into what had happened. He later responded to say it had 
appeared his solicitors  hadnt received the material sent via recorded  delivery.  He said he 
would pursue it further when he returned  from working abroad.
I understand Ageas then didnt hear from Mr B until his email  of 1 February 2019. He 
provided a summary  of the land grab, and that he hadnt had access  to his land for three 
years due to an obstruction to his right of way. He said that it would be best for his solicitors 
to deal with this, as they had all the knowledge,  materials and contacts to do so cheaply and 
easily. 
On 6 February 2019, Ageas wrote  to Mr B to say the claim wasnt covered by the policy.  It 
referred to an exclusion  which says the policy will not pay forclaims of trespass or 
nuisance as the result of a dispute relating the use of a right of way or public footpath  
running through the holiday home [sic].
Mr B responded to Ageas on the same day. He said the right of way in question was to the 
property, not over it. As such, he didnt believe  the exclusion applied.  
Ageas wrote  to Mr Bs solicitors on 18 February  2019 reiterating the policy  exclusion.  It also 
explained that the policy required any claim to be notified within 90 days. So it needed to 
know when the land grab occurred and when Mr B became aware of it. Ageas set out all 
information it needed and said it would give further  consideration to the claim on receipt of 
this.
On 4 March 2019,  Ageas  received a letter from the solicitors  which  had been dated 
19 February 2019. This provided details of the incidents giving rise to the land grab and 
obstruction of the right of way. But it didnt address the questions of when the incident  
occurred or when it was discovered. Nor did it provide  the surveys,  statements and video  
which Mr B had said were available but were yet to be provided. 
In further correspondence between Ageas and the solicitors, it was agreed the solicitors  
would provide a copy  of the deeds. But Ageas said within their final response letter dated 
17April 2019 that, at the time of writing, it had not received this. 
Ageas is entitled  to assess a claim before making  a decision  on whether cover  is available. 
To do this, it will need the co-operation of the customer to provide all information to evidence  
that they satisfy  the requirements of cover under the policy. 
In this respect, Mr Bs policy says specific conditions: you must  give us any information and 
evidence we need (you will have to pay any costs involved in this). 
I appreciate Mr B was abroad for some time and dealing with court action on another  case. 
So not much  happened  on his claim between  September  2018 and February  2019.  But 
Ageas had already made it clear what information it wanted to see. And after Mr B got back  
in touch, he still didnt  provide the information. Nor did his solicitors. So Ageas wasnt  in a 
position to fully consider it. 
Ref: DRN64615883Mr B says this information was available on documentation previously submitted on another  
claim, which was in the form of thousands  of pages in seven lever  arch files. Whilst I agree 
that some  of the documents  mentioned had been  provided previously, I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Ageas to ask Mr B to provide the specific information it needed, rather  than 
spending time going through  different  claim  files involving several thousand pages of 
documents to find Mr Bs evidence for him. 
And even  if Ageas did have the majority of information available on the previous claim file, it 
still needed the details of when the new incident complained of occurred and when it was 
discovered. And I note that when Ageas did subsequently locate the information/paperwork it 
required, the barrister  who undertook the legal assessment of Mr Bs claim said that certain  
documents were  not sufficient to show the precise  location of the infringement,  such  that 
further details  were still required.  I dont consider this information to be unnecessary. And, as 
highlighted above, Ageas are entitled to ask for information it feels is relevant to adequately 
assess whether cover  is available. 
Having now obtained  a legal assessment of the claim, Ageas are satisfied there is cover 
available. And in hindsight, it has accepted it couldve handled matters differently. It 
concedes that the claim was declined prematurely and without full consideration. So its 
offered £250 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience this wouldve caused, along  
with waiving Mr Bs policy  excess.  However, Mr B does not feel this is commensurate  to the 
distress and inconvenience he has suffered and submits that further  compensation ought  to 
be paid.
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award  must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had.
But Im not persuaded that Ageas ought to pay any more than it has offered already. Whilst I 
appreciate it may have  declined Mr Bs claim prematurely, Im satisfied it made  clear  what 
information it needed. And although  some of the information may have already been  
available in previous files  as set out above   I dont  think it was unreasonable (for the sake 
of expediency) for Ageas to ask Mr B to provide specific  pieces of information that were 
required rather than searching  through thousands of documents that may or may not have 
produced what it needed.  And as noted above,  it appears that the documentation it 
subsequently located was not sufficient for the purposes of the new claim in any event, given 
that it did not show the precise location of the infringement. So Ageas made a decision 
based on the limited  information it had available at the time. I dont think  thats unreasonable  
given that Mr B hadnt provided the information that had been requested.  And in any event, 
Ageas has since reconsidered the claim.
Our service doesnt award compensation to fine or punish a business. We also do not take 
action against  particular individuals in a business  that the customer is unhappy with. Our 
service awards compensation in recognition of any distress and inconvenience caused  
based on impact the business actions has had in a particular case. 
I appreciate that Mr B has had other negative experiences with Ageas and its intermediaries 
in the past, which has resulted in this service making substantial awards. But the distress 
and inconvenience  caused by those  past experiences has already been recognised by the 
compensation paid,  so I am only looking at the impact of Ageas recent actions  and handling 
Ref: DRN64615884of the claim since September 2018.  And to award further compensation, Id have to be 
satisfied that the actions  or omissions of Ageas has caused more  than moderate 
inconvenience or upset, which I cant say it has in these  circumstances.
I appreciate that the experience has been  frustrating for Mr B. But I cannot see that his legal 
case has been adversely affected  by what has happened.  So Im looking solely  at the 
distress and inconvenience he wouldve experienced as a result of Ageas handling  of the 
claim. And, Im satisfied that £250  compensation and waiving the policy excess is a fair and 
reasonable offer in these  circumstances.   
Mr B has also said that Ageas didnt have his permission to contact  his solicitors. I believe 
my description of his emails to Ageas noted above adequately demonstrates that it was his 
instruction for Ageas to contact his solicitors. And even if it wasnt,  based  on what he had 
said, I dont think it was an unreasonable assumption for it to have made. So I dont agree 
with this complaint  point,  and nor do I consider that Ageas were  purporting to instruct his 
solicitors at this point, as he has claimed.
In any event Ageas has since accepted that it has obliged Mr B to instruct  solicitors. And it 
has offered to pay the legal costs Mr B has incurred,  which  I consider to be a reasonable 
gesture.
In summary  whilst I appreciate that Ageas rejection of Mr Bs claim may have  been  made  
prematurely, Im satisfied  that it had tried to obtain  the information it needed to do a full 
assessment of cover. And it did subsequently  reconsider  the claim when further information 
was located. So I consider the £250  compensation  it has offered, as well as the waived 
excess, to be fair compensation in the circumstances.  For these reasons, I do not intend 
asking Ageas to do anything  further.
I invited further submissions and evidence from both parties.  Ageas accepted my proposals, 
but Mr B disagreed.  He rejected the conclusion that the compensation paid by Ageas  was 
adequate but provided no further evidence or arguments for consideration. He also said that 
the issues of fraud, impropriety and an inherent  culture of corruption within the offices of 
those involved has not been addressed. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Given that neither party has provided any 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the findings 
set out in my provisional decision. 
Mr B says that I have  not addressed the issues of fraud and impropriety he has raised. But 
Id like to assure Mr B that I have considered all aspects  of Ageas handling of his claim 
since September 2018. And while I acknowledge that its handling of his claim could have  
been better,  I dont consider its actions to amount to fraud or dishonest conduct  at least not 
based on the evidence I have seen  in any event. 
It is also not within the remit of this service to conduct wider  reviews or investigations into the 
culture of a regulated firm or their appointed  intermediaries. We can only consider individual 
complaints on their own merit, which I have done within this decision. And for the 
shortcomings identified   and having considered  the matter holistically  Im satisfied the 
Ref: DRN64615885compensation offered by Ageas is fair in the circumstances. So I will not be asking it to do 
anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint as I consider  the compensation 
already awarded  by Ageas to be fair in the circumstances.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6461588