K821x#15complaint
Mr W and Miss B are unhappy with the service  received from Union Reiseversicherung AG 
(URV) when it contacted  them for assistance  whilst abroad under their travel insurance  
policy.
All reference to URV includes its agents  and claims handlers. 
background
Mr W and Miss B had the benefit of a single trip travel insurance, covering their holiday in 
May 2019.
Because of Mr Ws medical condition,  he requested  that he and Miss B board his return flight  
back to the UK first. However,  this didnt happen  and as a result Mr W suffered a severe 
panic attack. The airline agreed to put him and Miss B up in a hotel  overnight  and Miss B 
contacted URV to let them know what happened. 
URV advised them to go to hospital  but the hospital  they were taken to was a private facility 
which didnt have a psychiatric department. URV then advised Mr W and Miss B to travel to 
a nearby public  hospital. Whilst there,  Mr W and Miss B say Mr W was subjected  to abuse 
whereby he was unnecessarily restrained by staff and assaulted.
He was discharged  the following day and was repatriated back to the UK on 7 June 2019.
Mr W and Miss B are being  represented  by Mr Ws mum. They say URV:
didnt provide accurate information  about  how far the other hospital was from the 
hospital Mr W had been taken  to, resulting in the journey being much  longer than he 
and Miss B expected;
didnt arrange  for a translator to go to the hospital or call the hospital asking it not to 
physically restrain Mr W despite several  requests for this to happen;
unreasonably raised  doubts about  whether the claim might be covered on the basis  
that tests showed that Mr W was under  the influence of an illegal  substance and had 
consumed a large amount of alcohol  at the time of being admitted to hospital;
hasnt paid, in full, the costs associated with Mr Ws dad traveling abroad to be with 
Mr W; and
unreasonably turned down a claim to cover  the costs of Mr W being represented to 
bring a legal claim against the public hospital for personal injury.
URV do accept that it shouldve handled  Mr Ws and Miss Bs claim better  than it did and 
provided better customer service. It offered  them £700 in compensation. 
Mr W and Miss B didnt think this adequately compensated them. Our investigator agreed 
and recommended URV to pay £1,000 to Mr W to reflect the trouble  and upset URV caused  
him and £350  to Miss B.
All parties  didnt agree  - so this complaint has been  passed to me to look at everything  
afresh and make a decision.
Ref: DRN68658052my findings
Before I set out my findings, I want to let Mr W know that I recognise the extremely difficult  
situation hes been in since May 2019.  He is right when he says I cant imagine how he feels 
or fully appreciate  the devastating  effect  certain incidents have had on him and his family. It 
was exceptionally  brave of him to give a written account of how he was feeling, and I 
appreciate the time and effort this mustve  taken him in the circumstances.  
Ive considered everything he and his mum has told us along  with all the rest of the available 
evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. And although his mum has made detailed representations on Mr Ws behalf   
which Ive considered in their entirety - Ill only refer to the points which  I think  are central to 
my findings.  I mean no discourtesy by doing this. 
I also havent requested  recordings  of calls that Mr Ws mum - and others  - had with URV  
whilst Mr W and Miss B was abroad. URVs system notes are relatively detailed  in this 
particular case and arent inconsistent with her account. So, I dont think I need  the 
recordings. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses, which URV must follow, including:
Principle 2  A firm must conduct its business with due care, skill and diligence 
Principle 6  A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat 
them fairly 
The relevant  industry  guidelines also include ICOBS 8.1.1R which  says:
An insurer  must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate  
information on its progress; and
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim.
Ive considered what this means in Mr W and Miss Bs case.
the treatment Mr W received at the public hospital
I cant hold URV responsible for the standard of care or treatment Mr W says he received  at 
the public  hospital. Although, URV did request  Mr W and Miss B attend  that hospital,  its not 
responsible for the actions / inactions  of its staff or the medical decisions taken by them. 
Mr Ws mum has provided some negative  online  reviews of that hospital but having 
researched it, there  are also some more  positive reviews. So Im not persuaded that theres  
enough to find that URV  shouldve reasonably been aware that by advising Mr W and Miss B 
to attend that hospital, it was potentially endangering Mr W.
Ref: DRN68658053But I am satisfied URV didnt do enough when it was first told about the serious  allegations 
that had been made  against the medical  staff and security guards at the hospital shortly  after 
being Mr W was admitted to the public hospital.
A call note made at 3.07am reflects that Mr Ws mum said the hospital staff didnt speak 
English and requested URVs representative  call the hospital - and a translator  be sent 
immediately - to tell them to stop restraining Mr W and that he was threatening to take his 
own life. The system notes suggest that three more calls were made over the next 12 hours, 
detailing the inappropriate way Mr W was being  treated  and asking for either a translator to 
be sent or the hospital to be called.  One of the call notes  timed  at around 9.50am - reflects 
that URVs representative said it would arrange for a call to be made.  
So, Im persuaded  that an attempt to call the hospital was made a lot later than I would 
reasonably expect, given how vulnerable Mr W was, the serious nature of the allegations 
being made and his mental state  at the time.
URV says it doesnt offer translators  to be with customers outside of the UK. That might be 
the case, but the system  notes dont reflect Mr Ws family was told this. Further, URV 
operates a 24 hours service and it accepts its staff are multi-lingual specialists. So, I think it 
shouldve arranged for someone to call the hospital on Mr Ws behalf much earlier than it  
did; to get an understanding of the emerging  situation, to make  the hospital  aware  of the 
Mr Ws vulnerability and at least  find out whether  and why - he was being restrained. 
So Ive thought about what  is likely to have  happened if URV had been more  proactive. 
Given the time of day, its possible it wouldnt have been able to get through  to anyone at the 
hospital. Im also conscious that even if it had spoken to someone, it wouldnt have 
prevented Mr W from initially  being  restrained or being supressed  by the guards - and it 
might not have altered the course  of the treatment Mr W received until he was discharged 
later that afternoon.  So, although the way in which Mr W and Miss B describes how Mr W 
was mistreated at the hospital was inappropriate and highly distressing, on the balance of 
probabilities Im not persuaded that had URV intervened and attempted  to contact the 
hospital earlier than it did, Mr W wouldve been treated differently.
However, Im satisfied that Mr Ws family and Miss B were  under the impression that URV 
was proactively trying to arrange some communication  with the hospital  and even though I 
accept Mr W was in a very distressed state, its likely he thought someone would be 
speaking to staff in a language that they could understand to hopefully assist  him. Im also 
persuaded that from Mr Ws perspective he was badly let down by URV  particularly at a 
time when  he was at his most vulnerable, in an anxious state  and experiencing regular fits 
and seizures. And knowing  that it didnt arrange a call to the hospital to assist  him soon after 
it was told about  the treatment  he was receiving is likely to have exacerbated an already 
very distressing situation for him  and caused  Mr W and Miss B additional,  unnecessary 
upset.
customer service
URV accepts the level of service Mr W and Miss B received whilst they were away  wasnt  to 
the required standard. It accepts that it:
shouldnt have  provided guidance  on how long it was likely to take to travel  to the 
public hospital  as travel times  as travel  times  are often unpredictable; and
didnt respond  as quickly as it shouldve to communications.
Ref: DRN68658054So Ive looked  at the effect each of these  failures on Mr W and Miss B.
URV accepts Mr W being told incorrect information about how long the journey to the public 
hospital would take caused him clear distress  and confusion . It acknowledged the effect  
this mistake can have on a person, especially in such a vulnerable position.
The majority of the phone calls that took place  were between URVs representatives and
Mr Ws parents.  As their not named as beneficiaries on the policy  and dont have a contract 
of insurance directly with URV, I dont have any power  to award them  any compensation for 
any distress,  frustration and inconvenience caused  by things like not receiving  call backs at 
times promised, having to contact URV  for updates and / or bracing Mr Ws mum for bad 
news even though it was about  to notify her that it would be covering Mr Ws claim.
However, I think its likely,  given the situation  Mr W found himself in and the deterioration in 
his mental health,  that they wouldve been in regular contact with him, and as theyd not 
been receiving  regular updates or calls back when promised, is likely to have unnecessarily 
exacerbated the anxiety and stress he was experiencing. 
URVs initial concerns about whether the claim was covered
The hospital  medical report identified: cannabis,  opiates and methamphetamines positive in 
urine and Mr W was reported to have had large amount of alcohol - but his blood 
alcohol  concentration levels hadnt been tested.
In light of the contents of the report, I can see why URV had concerns about whether the 
panic attack Mr W experienced when he was due to fly back  to the UK mightve  been  
connected to the substances which showed  up in the toxicology report  and why it made 
further enquires of the hospital.
Thats because the policy says: you are not covered for you being under the influence of:
-drugs (except those  prescribed  by your registered doctor);
-alcohol (a blood alcohol level that exceeds 0.19%...)
However, URV accepts  that it shouldve completed those further enquiries, and conferred 
with its own medical team  to see whether the results  couldve been connected to the amount 
 and combination   of prescribed medication Mr W had taken, before raising concerns that 
it might  not be covering  the claim. 
URVs system  notes reflect that - in response  to being told that there  were  concerns in the 
medical report which meant that he might not be covered  under the policy - it was told Mr W 
had ran and jumped from a ledge at the hotel he was staying at. At the time of doing  this, 
URV were told that he didnt know how far the drop was from the ledge. As it transpires it 
was six foot and serious injury was avoided. However, Im satisfied that this gives  an insight 
into his state of mind  at the time. Had URV  sought  medical opinion  about the contents of the 
report and the results of the tests, before suggesting Mr W might not be covered, as it 
accepts it shouldve done, Mr W is unlikely  to have taken this action. Im satisfied that his 
worry, stress  and anxiety levels  which the evidence  suggests were already high  were  
unnecessarily increased as a result. 
declining to cover  the cost of legal representation
Ref: DRN68658055The policy can also cover  the cost of Mr W being  legally represented in particular legal 
actions  including pursuing claims for compensation due to personal  injury whilst away  - 
subject to the other policy terms. 
URV is entitled to appoint  a law firm to initially  assess the merits of Mr W succeeding in 
obtaining a reasonable  settlement  sum,  as set out in the policy.  That sort of term isnt 
uncommon and generally we dont  think its unfair.  Thats  because  it wouldnt be reasonable 
to expect an insurer to fund a claim that isnt likely to succeed,  or where a privately paying 
client wouldnt be advised to start,  or continue with, legal action.
Although the legal advice  obtained by URV isnt long or very detailed,  it does  say: prospects 
(of succeeding in the claim) are probably  less than 50% and the value would be such  that 
the case is simply uneconomic to pursuethe  physical injuries  are minor and with the pre-
incident medical history  causation would also be very difficult.
I think URV reasonably  relied on that advice  when deciding not to cover Mr Ws claim to 
pursue legal action  particularly considering  that the solicitor  providing the advice  has 
significant experience in personal injury claims occurring whilst abroad,  including criminal 
injury and clinical negligence. 
Mr W says hes subsequently instructed a different  lawyer to represent  him on a no win, no 
fee basis. If Mr W has a legal opinion which differs from the law firm and advises that its 
more likely than not that hell succeed  in his claim, he should forward that to URV so that it 
can decide whether  that opinion alters its position.  
Mr Ws dads costs 
I understand URV has covered  the majority of the costs claimed by Mr Ws dad including the 
cost of his flight abroad to be with Mr W and hotel costs.
But the policy says the costs of taxi fares, loss of earnings and food and drink  are excluded. 
So, although  URV agreed to pay two taxi fares as a gesture of goodwill, I dont think its 
unfairly concluded that it wont cover Mr Ws dads  food costs whilst  away. Nor do I think  it 
would be fair or reasonable to hold URV responsible  for the loss of earnings  experienced by 
Mr Ws dad travelling abroad to be with Mr W. 
other issues
Mr W is unhappy that URV only agreed  to extend  his hotel accommodation  each day in 
advance which created some uncertainty for him. However, I dont think  that was 
unreasonable in this particular case. URV had initially agreed to cover a couple of days 
hotel accommodation  for him and Miss B as a gesture of goodwill. And whilst it was awaiting 
receipt of his medical records  and then confirmation  about whether the toxicology results in 
the medical report would affect cover, it agreed  to cover his accommodation costs  one day in 
advance. Once it took the decision to cover the claim   and began to plan for his repatriation 
back to the UK, it agreed to cover  the hotel costs  for a longer period in advance.   
Ive also thought about whether URV unreasonably asked Mr W and Miss B to travel to the 
public hospital,  and I dont think it did. The hospital they were initially  taken to was a private 
facility and I understand couldnt medically assess Mr W, or confirm  whether he was fit to fly, 
as it didnt have  a mental health specialist. The system notes reflect that the private facility 
Ref: DRN68658056advised Mr W and Miss B that they would need to go to a nearby island for assessment. 
However, the public  hospital was on the same island as they were staying and did have a 
psychiatric department.
putting things right
URV accept  it caused Mr W distress and inconvenience and its offered to pay him £700 by 
way of an apology.  However, given my findings   and the impact  its wrongdoings had on 
him, I dont  think is enough  to reflect  the trouble and upset Mr W experienced. I direct URV  
to pay him £1,000  which is in the substantial category for our service. I know  Mr W will 
think this in no way compensates  him for what he has been through. But Ive considered 
very carefully the impact of URVs wrongdoings in this case  and I think  this amount fairly  
reflects the substantial  trouble and upset URV caused him. 
I havent seen  any medical evidence showing that URVs wrongdoings have  caused  or 
significantly contributed  to what Mr W and his mum has described has happened  since  being 
discharged from hospital  on 26 May 2019  and subsequently returning  to the UK  including  
the substantial  deterioration in Mr Ws mental  health, the money he has spent online and the 
level of debt hes now in and the breakdown in relationships.  Thats not to say that there isnt 
evidence that Mr W is in debt and that his mum has taken over control of his financial affairs,  
or that he is under the care of mental  health specialists and prescribed medication for his 
conditions. But I dont  think  I can reasonably hold URV responsible  for this.
I also direct  URV to pay Miss B £350 to reflect the moderate amount of distress  and 
inconvenience URVs wrongdoings  caused  her. She was clearly  distressed by the way in 
which she says Mr W was treated whilst in hospital. And again, although I dont think URV 
was responsible for this, its likely she thought  URV would be arranging  for someone to call 
the hospital to speak  with staff but that didnt happen. I accept that wouldve caused her 
upset and disappointment. Im also satisfied that she wouldve been worried by Mr Ws 
reaction to URV prematurely  revealing that it might not be providing  cover  under the policy  
and by incorrectly telling them  how long it would take to travel to the public hospital. 
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and direct Union  Reiseversicherung AG to put things right in 
the way Ive set out above. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr W and Miss B to accept  or reject  my decision  before 7 May 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6865805