K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained to The Prudential Assurance  Company Limited  about  the sale of her 
Teachers Additional Voluntary Contribution (TAVC)  pension  plan.
Mrs B is being assisted with her complaint  by a third party  but for ease of reading the 
decision, Ill refer to all submissions as being  made  by Mrs B.
.
background
Mrs B took out a TAVC  plan in 1991.  Unfortunately, theres limited sales paperwork  available 
but its been determined that at the time of the sale Mrs B was 46 years old and was working 
as a teacher.  Shed  been a member of the Teachers Superannuation Scheme (TSS) since  
1984 and was expected  to retire at the age of 60 with 21 years service.  Mrs B contributed 
the maximum to her TAVC  that being 9% of her salary. 
Mrs B complained to Prudential that she hadnt  been advised that there was an alternative 
option  past added years - available to her for topping  up her retirement benefits. She said 
that had she been told about buying  added years  she wouldve opted for this instead of 
taking out the TAVC plan. 
Prudential reviewed the complaint but it didnt  think it had done anything  wrong. Mrs B didnt 
agree so she referred her complaint to our service  for an independent  review.  
One of our investigators  reviewed matters but she didnt think that Prudential  had done 
anything wrong. In summary  she said that the Prudential  representative  couldnt  provide 
advice on added years;  they only had to make  Mrs B aware that this was an alternative 
option. And at the time of the sale it was expected  that the benefits  achieved by contributing 
to the TAVC would exceed the benefits  achieved from contributing  the same  amount to the 
added years arrangement.  
Mrs B didnt accept the investigators findings. In summary she said that there were 
significant benefits to buying added years. And the 9% she was contributing  wouldve 
purchased an additional  six years  service in the TPS, thereby increasing her final pension 
considerably. In addition shes said that she was a cautious investor  and this is consistent 
with the with-profits  fund her TAVC was invested  in. But had she been given information on 
added years, being cautious, she would most likely have opted for this option. 
The complaint has been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Ref: DRN62670262I think its very likely  that when Mrs B joined the TPS she wouldve been provided with a 
scheme booklet either by her employer or the scheme administrators. And I think its likely 
that this booklet  explained  the various  options she had for paying  extra  contributions to 
increase her pension provision  including the option  of buying added  years.  So I think,  on 
balance, Mrs B had most likely been  provided with information regarding the added years 
option before she met with the Prudential adviser  in 1991. But given that Mrs B joined the 
TPS in 1984, several years before starting  the TAVC, I can appreciate that she may not 
recall receiving a booklet. 
It is of course possible that Mrs B wasnt aware of added  years before she met with 
Prudential. And because there is only limited paperwork available  now from the time of the 
sale, I cant say with certainty that Prudential definitely told her about this alternative  option 
for increasing her retirement benefits.  
Mrs B has said that she shouldve been told about  the significant  benefits of buying added  
years. But the Prudential  representative was only authorised to provide advice on Prudential  
products; they couldnt have advised Mrs B on the added years option. So they wouldnt 
have been able to say added years would have been of benefit to her. All the representative 
had to do was make Mrs B aware that added years were an alternative  option and refer her 
to the TPS for further information. 
With only very limited information,  I cant be satisfied  that it did this. So Ive thought  about  
whether Mrs B wouldve most likely  opted  for added years, rather  than the TAVC policy, if 
shed known about them. But for the reasons set out below, I dont think  I can say that she 
wouldve chosen added years in 1991.  
The investigator explained that the cost of added  years  of service in the TPS was 
determined by the Government Actuary  using conservative assumptions of likely future 
investment experience. This made them more expensive than if a less conservative (or more 
optimistic) set of assumptions had been  used. The aim was to make sure,  as far as possible,  
that the cost of added  years would be met by the members. The intention  was that this 
would mean  there would be no shortfall that would have to be picked up by the employer.
Given that Mrs B was a teacher, I think its reasonable to assume  that she wouldve 
remained in the same profession  (and a member  of the TPS) until her expected retirement  
age of 60. This means that she wouldve been  19 years short of receiving the maximum 
scheme benefit. Had she contributed 9% of her salary to the added years  arrangement  as 
opposed to the TAVC, she would have only been able to purchase  six added years of 
service in the TPS.   So she would still have been  left with a significant shortfall. And I think 
its very likely that at the time it wouldve been  shown  that the projected benefits  from the 
TAVC would  be greater than the benefits  provided  by purchasing six years of added  service. 
So its difficult to say now that Mrs B would definitely have considered added years the cost 
effective option.  
Ive also thought about Mrs Bs attitude to risk. She says she was a cautious  investor  but 
added years would generally have been considered suitable for someone that was risk 
adverse. Mrs Bs TAVC  was invested  in Prudentials with-profits  fund which,  as Mrs B seems 
to agree, was generally considered lower risk. So I dont think  the TAVC  plan was unsuitable 
for Mrs B at the time it was sold. 
Ref: DRN62670263Whilst it is disappointing that the benefits from TAVC may have been  lower than the benefits  
that the added years  wouldve provided  this could not have been  foreseen at the time of 
advice in 1991. The advice in 1991  wouldve been reasonable, based on the expectation the 
TAVC arrangement would leave Mrs B with greater  benefits than the added years approach. 
Overall, I dont  consider  Prudential did anything wrong and I dont uphold  Mrs Bs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6267026