K820x#14Complaint
Miss H has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont  refund
transactions, which she says she didnt make.
Background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Miss H and Halifax have  accepted  my provisional conclusions.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As both parties have  accepted my provisional  conclusions, I see no reason to change  my 
decision. On balance, considering all the evidence, I dont consider that Miss H authorised 
the transactions. I think its fair and reasonable for Halifax  to refund the ATM  cash 
withdrawals and remove any charges incurred arising from the disputed  transactions.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im upholding this complaint  and I am asking Bank of Scotland plc 
(trading as Halifax)  to:
refund  the disputed  transactions  totalling £1,710 and
pay 8% simple interest on the above  from the date of the withdrawal to the date of 
settlement and
refund  any overdraft charges arising  from the disputed transactions.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask to Miss H accept 
or reject my decision before 4 June  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN65280062Complaint
Miss H has complained that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) wont refund  
transactions which she says she didnt make. 
Background
Miss H went  on holiday with a friend on 26 August 2018 and returned on 3 September 2018.
On her return, she couldnt  find her debit card. On 4 September,  as a safety  precaution, she logged  
on to her online  bank  account and transferred the money in her current  account to her savings 
account. A little later that day, she reset the password for her online account.
Between 11:51pm on 4 September and 5.36pm on 5 September, there were  multiple ATM
cash withdrawals and other transactions:
    five ATM  cash withdrawals totalling £1,710
    12 balance inquiries
    4 declined ATM  transactions  totalling £540
    1 declined contactless  payment (£7.86)
    3 declined point of sale transactions (£1,176)
During this period, someone logged in to her online account  and:
    changed the email address on the account
    made two unsuccessful  attempts to extend the overdraft limit
    extended the overdraft limit to £900
    transferred  £440  from the savings  account to the current account
    made three unsuccessful applications for payday loans
    made a successful application for a payday loan, which was paid into the account
    changed the debit  card PIN at an ATM (after all other transactions had occurred).
Miss H reported  her card as missing on 5 September 2018. This was after shed logged on to her 
online account and saw the ATM cash withdrawals, the loan and overdraft extension. 
Miss H said she didnt  make the cash withdrawals, or other transactions, and she didnt apply for 
the overdraft  and loans. She said she last used her debit card on 24 August 2018 to buy foreign 
currency for her holiday.
She asked  Halifax to refund the cash withdrawals and any bank charges relating  to the 
overdraft.
Halifax decided not to refund  her. It said there was no explanation for how a third party  got hold of 
her card, PIN and her online banking  details,  especially after shed  changed the password.
As Miss H didnt agree with Halifaxs decision, she asked this service to investigate. An 
investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold it
because:
Miss Hs card and PIN were used to make the ATM cash withdrawals (and the 
declined transactions)
there were no incorrect  PIN attempts
Miss H said she hadnt written down the PIN or shared it with anyone
her online banking details were in a folder in her phone,  which was password 
protected
she hadnt lost her phone and it was always with her
the first attempt to apply for an overdraft was made four minutes  after shed 
changed the password.
Ref: DRN65280063Based on this evidence, the investigator concluded it was more  likely that Miss H made  the disputed  
transactions, rather than a third party.  She didnt  recommend that Halifax  refund the disputed  cash 
withdrawals or bank charges.
Miss H didnt accept the investigators view. Shes asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account: relevant  law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, 
what I consider to have been good  industry practice  at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote  a detailed view that sets out in full the facts, the transactions, the relevant 
regulations and the evidence. Both Miss H and Halifax have read the investigators view,  so I wont 
repeat every detail here, only those which  form the basis of my decision. However, I can assure 
Miss H and Halifax that Ive read the file, including  their responses to the investigators view. 
Having done so, my review  of the evidence has led me to a different conclusion to that reached by 
the investigator. I will explain why.
In short, Halifax is required  to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The relevant 
regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (the PSRs
2017). Miss H said she didnt make the disputed cash withdrawals and is seeking a refund of that 
amount. So my primary concern is to come to a view about whether or not I think  Miss H authorised  
the cash  withdrawals.
Having reviewed  the audit reports for the transactions, Im satisfied  Miss Hs genuine card and PIN 
were used in order for the ATM cash withdrawals to take place. But the regulations  relevant  to this 
case say that is not, on its own,  enough  to enable Halifax to hold her liable. So I also need to think  
about whether the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Miss H consented to the 
withdrawals being made. This is where I depart from the investigators view.
The pattern of activity on the account is clearly odd and consistent with fraud.  But, there are 
specific reasons  why I dont think Miss H consented  to the disputed  transactions.
The first disputed use of the card was a balance  inquiry,  which suggests  the person didnt know 
how much  was in the account.  Miss H, on her own admission, had transferred money  from her 
current account to her savings account to protect it. She already knew there was nothing in the 
current account.
Miss H told us she made the transfer as a precaution.  It seems to me this is evidence that she 
wouldnt have consented  to any cash withdrawals.
The unsuccessful cash withdrawals suggest the person using the card didnt know the daily
ATM limit.
There were  multiple transactions made with the card and online from 23:51 on 4 September  through 
to 2:50 on 5 September. Miss H went to work on 5 September. She has provided evidence  she 
clocked in at 8:50 on 5 September. I dont think its likely  she wouldve  been up until 3 am the night 
before work.
Miss Hs timesheet shows she was at work from 8:50 to 12:05. The black box from her car, records 
it was parked outside  her workplace during these hours. Yet, at the same time,  there were  further 
Ref: DRN65280064attempts to use the debit  card in a high street  store, fast food outlet  and at am ATM. There  was also 
an online transfer of money from her savings  account to her current  account.
The email on Miss Hs online  account and the debit card PIN were changed. Again, I see no 
reason why Miss H would do this. The card was also used for a balance inquiry after Miss H had 
reported it missing to Halifax.
Miss Hs online banking was suspended because the log in details were  entered incorrectly 
numerous times. Miss H had to reset the password.  Again,  Miss H wouldve  known  her log in details 
and so I wouldnt have expected her to enter the wrong  details.
I accept  there is activity,  which cant be explained. I dont  know how a third party  accessed her 
online account after shed changed the password;  or how they knew her PIN if shed memorised it 
or her log in details. I think its very likely the transactions were made by someone close to Miss 
H. However, its not my task to identify who carried  out the disputed  transactions or how.  My 
responsibility is to reach a view on whether Miss H authorised the transactions, by either making 
them herself  or allowing  someone else to make them.
On balance, considering  all the evidence, I dont consider  that Miss H authorised the 
transactions. I think its fair and reasonable  for Halifax to refund the ATM cash  withdrawals and 
remove any charges incurred arising from the disputed transactions.
I would like to make it clear that this is a provisional  decision and both Miss H and Halifax may 
respond with additional comments and evidence. Should that happen, I will have to review this 
decision and I may reach a different outcome.  I think its important that Miss H understands this.
My provisional decision
My provisional  decision  is that I am upholding  this complaint and I am asking Bank of
Scotland plc (trading  as Halifax) to:
    refund the disputed  transactions totalling £1,710 and
    pay 8% simple interest on the above from the date of the withdrawal to the date of
    settlement and
    refund any overdraft charges arising from the disputed transactions.
Ref: DRN6528006