K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that Gain Credit  LLC (trading  as Lending Stream) was irresponsible  when it 
gave him loans. 
background
Mr B took out 32 instalment loans with Lending Stream  between  September  2015  and 
February 2017. Mr B says the loans werent  affordable.
Our adjudicator said it wasnt unfair for Lending  Stream to offer loans 1 to 4. But by loan 5 
proportionate checks would have shown Mr B couldnt sustainably  repay more loans. And by 
loan 11 Mr Bs pattern  of borrowing  itself suggested he was reliant  on short term loans and 
further borrowing  wasnt sustainable.
Lending Stream didnt  respond,  and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr B could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Bs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  suggest  that Lending Stream  should  have done more to establish 
that any lending  was sustainable for a customer. Such factors  include the customers income  
 particularly a lower income   the amount of the loan repayments and the time over which 
the loan is to be repaid, and the number and frequency of loans and the time over which  the 
customer has been given  loans. Repeated borrowing can signal that the borrowing has 
become, or is becoming, unsustainable. There may even come  a point where the lending  
history and pattern  of lending itself demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr B took out his first loan (loan 1) with Lending  Stream in September 2015. He repaid  
loan 1 in October  2015. Mr B took out three loans in November 2015 (which he repaid in 
February and March 2016) and another three loans in December 2015  (which he repaid in 
April 2016). Mr B borrowed from Lending Stream without a significant break until early  2017,  
taking out his last loan (loan 32) in February  2017.
The loans were  repayable in instalments, which meant the repayments were smaller  than for 
a normal payday loan.  But of course  Mr B had to maintain  repayments  over a longer 
period. And he took out loans while previous  loans  were  outstanding  which increased the 
total amount he had to pay to Lending Stream  each  month.
Ref: DRN64251482I would also note here that Lending  Stream was required to establish that Mr B could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation.
Mr B told Lending Stream  his monthly  income  was £1,300.  He said his monthly  outgoings 
were about  £700,  which  Lending Stream increased to about  £800 to £900 for the purpose  of 
assessing whether  he could  afford to repay its loans. The loans Lending Stream gave Mr B 
(and the repayments) were small relative  to Mr Bs income, and Lending Stream assessed 
them as affordable. Lending  Stream did credit  checks before it lent to Mr B. The results  of its 
credit check  showed that Mr B had active accounts  with other  lenders. The results  as 
provided to us  dont  show  any defaults  or late payments and the total amount owed is 
small, relative to Mr Bs income.
Given the amount  of the repayments  relative  to Mr Bs income,  I think  the checks made by 
Lending Stream before  it offered loans 1 to 4 were proportionate. I dont think  the information 
it received should  have  prompted it to make  further checks  at this point.
But by loan 5, I think Lending Stream should  have  been alerted  to a possible problem. This 
was his fourth loan with Lending Stream over about  a month and three  previous loans were  
outstanding. Lending Stream knew from its credit check that Mr B had other credit 
commitments. 
I think all this should have  prompted  Lending Stream to ask Mr B for more  information, to try 
to get a better understanding  of his financial circumstances before lending  to him again.  
Mr B provided a copy of his credit report and this shows he took out eight loans with other 
short term or instalment  lenders at about  the time he started to borrow  from Lending  Stream. 
He was late with payments  for one account, and entered into an arrangement for another 
account, in late 2015.
I think if Lending Stream had probed into Mr Bs circumstances  further, as it would have 
been proportionate to do, it would have seen  that he was borrowing from different short  term 
lenders in a futile  attempt  to make ends meet and meet his existing commitments.  I think  
proportionate checks would likely have shown Lending Stream that Mr B was having 
difficulty managing  his money and was unlikely to be able to repay  further loans in a 
sustainable manner.
By loan 11, I think Mr Bs pattern of borrowing itself suggested further  lending  was 
unsustainable. By this time Mr B had been borrowing from Lending Stream for about six 
months, and had taken  10 loans in that time without any real breaks  in borrowing. This 
pattern of borrowing continued  until early  2017.  The loans offered by Lending Stream  were 
intended for short term use. But Mr B didnt make any real inroads into the amount he owed.  
Lending Stream ought to have realised  Mr B was having to borrow  to cover  the gap in his 
finances left by repaying his previous loan.
I think Mr B had to pay interest and charges on loans that Lending Stream shouldnt  have 
provided him with. So I think that he lost out and Lending Stream  should  put things right, by 
doing the following:
A)add together the total of the repayments  made  by Mr B towards interest, fees and 
charges on these loans,  including  payments made to a third party  where applicable, but 
not including anything its already refunded.
Ref: DRN64251483B)calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Mr B which  were  
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr B originally  made the payments, 
to the date the complaint  is settled.
C)pay Mr B the total of A plus B.
D)remove any adverse information it recorded on Mr Bs credit  file in relation  to loans 5 to 
10. The overall pattern of Mr Bs borrowing  for loan 11 onwards means any information 
recorded about them is adverse, so it should  remove  these loans entirely from Mr Bs 
credit file. If Lending  Stream sold any of the loans it should ask the debt purchaser  to do 
the same.  
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to deduct tax from this interest.  It should 
give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I order Gain  Credit  LLC to take the steps and 
make the payments set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6425148