K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI) unfairly declined a claim on her home 
insurance. 
background
Mrs N has a home insurance policy provided by HDI Global  Speciality  SE. She made  a claim 
on her policy  for damage to the property after a period of bad weather. Her claim and initial 
complaint were handled and administered by an agent appointed by HDI.
HDIs agent arranged  for a surveyor  to visit Mrs Ns house. The agent declined the claim. It 
said the damage was the result of wear  and tear, and that the damage  happened because 
the plastic fascia had been fitted  to timber which was in a poor condition.
Mrs N didnt accept this. She made a complaint to HDIs agent. It rejected her complaint. It 
said it accepted  the weather conditions on the day were consistent  with a storm. But it was 
of the view the fascia had fallen down  because of the condition of the timber.
Mrs N brought her complaint to this service. After we received her complaint, HDIs agent 
said the weather  conditions  didnt  constitute a storm. Our investigator  thought  HDIs agent  
hadnt done anything wrong.  He didnt think the weather at the time amounted  to a storm.
Mrs N didnt accept this. She said there had been a lot of publicity about the storm at the 
time. And shed had repairs carried out on the roof previously and there had been no 
suggestion the timber was in a poor condition. She also said her claim had originally been 
declined as shed  made a previous claim and hadnt disclosed this. She asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
With regards to the previous claim,  it seems  that when Mrs N initially informed HDIs agent  
about the claim, its records  showed shed made a previous claim for an escape of water. Its 
checks established that claim had been declined. It didnt seek  to decline this claim because 
of this information. Ive also seen no evidence  the processing of this claim was delayed 
because of the previous claim.  A surveyor was appointed on the same  day Mrs N spoke to 
HDIs agent.
Our service normally looks at three questions when dealing with a complaint about storm 
damage. Firstly, we look at whether there were storm conditions  at the time of the damage.  
Then well consider whether the damage claimed  for is typical of storm damage.  And finally, 
well look at whether  the storm is the main cause of the damage. 
Theres a dispute  as to whether there was a storm at the time the damage  occurred. Mrs Ns 
policy says shes covered for damage to the building caused  by storm. But the policy doesnt 
define the weather conditions which constitute  a storm. HDIs agent initially  accepted there 
was a storm on the date the damage occurred.  But its now saying it doesnt think the 
windspeed on the date amounted to storm conditions.
Ref: DRN62974662I can see from weather reports that the nearest weather station around 5 miles from Mrs Ns 
house recorded a maximum windspeed  of 41mph on the day this damage occurred. 
I understand Mrs Ns view that the damage  occurred during a period of time when a named 
storm was happening.  And I can see there was a lot of press coverage warning residents in 
the area Mrs N lived before this happened. But I havent seen any evidence of widespread  
reports of structural damage  occurring in the area she lives in. 
Im not satisfied I can say there were storm conditions when the damage  occurred.  The 
available evidence I have  suggests the windspeed  wasnt high enough to cause structural 
damage. And I havent seen any evidence  of the named  storm which occurred on that date 
causing damage close to Mrs Ns house.  As Im satisfied the weather didnt amount to a 
storm, I dont need  to consider the other questions.
Mrs Ns policy also provides cover  for accidental  damage to her property,  but doesnt cover  
damage caused as a result of wear and tear. HDI accepted cover  for the damage to the 
fascia, but not the costs  of fitting  it, under the accidental  damage section of the policy. I think  
HDIs actions here were fair. Its accepted cover for the actual damage to the fascia, but has 
said the associated  costs of refitting it can be attributed  to wear and tear. 
In support of its position, HDIs provided  photos  taken by its agent when they visited  Mrs Ns 
property. I can see that these do appear to show that the timber to which the fascia had 
been fitted is in a poor condition. I can also see from the estimate provided by the contractor 
Mrs Ns hired  to carry out the repairs that it includes costs for the removal  of rotten  timber.  
This supports the view that the timber was in a poor condition. And so I think  its more likely 
than not that the fascia fell down in high winds because of the poor condition of the timber  it 
was attached to.
HDIs agent has also offered Mrs N the opportunity  to provide evidence from the contractor 
who fitted the fascia that the condition of the timber didnt contribute  to the fascia falling. She 
hasnt done so to date.  In her most recent  correspondence with us, Mrs N has said shes  
aware the timber  had rotted by the time of the claim. I havent seen anything  which  supports 
the view that this rot was the result  of anything other than wear and tear.
HDI has given reasons for saying the timber  was in a poor condition.  And its offered Mrs N 
the chance to refute its opinion. I dont think I should ask it to do anything  more.
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6297466