K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains about service he received in a branch of Nationwide  Building Society.
background
Mr T told us that he was out shopping  with family, when he wanted  to transfer some money. 
He couldnt log into the app, so he decided to go into a nearby branch.  He wanted to move  
£200 from his savings account into his current account. 
Mr T said that he wasnt able to move money on the banking  machines in the branch, so he 
waited for a teller. He said that when he got to the front of the queue, he was asked some 
questions to verify his ID. One of those questions  was how old he was at his next birthday.  
He said that because he doesnt celebrate birthdays in his religion, he wasnt  able to give the 
teller that information  right away. Mr T said that he was then asked when  he last moved 
house, but he struggled to remember that too. The teller then told Mr T that she couldnt help 
him make the transfer unless he had some  ID.
Mr T said that he left the desk, but realised  almost straight away  that he did have some ID. 
He had a provisional drivers licence. So he went back, and presented this ID. He spoke to a 
different teller, as the first one was busy.  Mr T said that this teller  said shed heard him try 
this transaction  just minutes before, and wasnt happy to serve him, despite  the fact that he 
now had ID. 
Mr T said that the teller  went  to a back room to fetch the manager, because he wasnt  
happy. The manager just told him he should leave. Mr T said that he went  back  to complain 
but the manager told him he couldnt. And he said that Nationwide  had taken his card and 
his ID away from him at one point.  
Mr T said that he was shocked, and felt he was being discriminated against.  
Mr T has since raised a complaint, but he didnt think  Nationwide dealt with it appropriately. 
He wanted Nationwide to apologise, and pay compensation.
Nationwide told Mr T that it didnt think it had made a mistake.  It said that its staff were taking 
Mr T through  the required  security processes to arrange a transfer or withdrawal. Those 
steps are in place  to protect customers.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that it was reasonable for Nationwide  to 
have refused the transaction. Our adjudicator accepted that Mr T wasnt  able to answer a 
question due to his religion and culture,  but at least one substitute question  was asked, and 
Mr T wasnt able to answer that either.  Our adjudicator didnt think that Nationwide was 
treating Mr T any differently to anybody else. 
Our adjudicator said that there was only a very short gap between Mr Ts first attempted 
transaction and his second. Our adjudicator  said that because Mr T had only just failed 
security, and was trying  the transaction again  so quickly, he didn't think  that Nationwide  did 
anything wrong  by refusing the transaction a second  time.  
Our adjudicator said that it was possible Mr T had felt he couldnt complain, when he later 
returned to the branch. But our adjudicator didnt think  that Mr T was significantly affected by 
this, because he did raise  a complaint the following day. 
Ref: DRN62087712Our adjudicator also considered how Mr T was spoken  to. He thought it was likely that there 
had been a misunderstanding. 
Overall, our adjudicator said that he couldnt  say that Nationwide  was being unreasonable,  
and he didnt think it had treated Mr T unfairly.
Mr T didnt  agree with that. He said that we hadnt read between  the lines,  to see how 
Nationwide had treated him. Mr T said that he didnt  think hed been unreasonable, hed just 
asked for his money. He didnt think that the second  teller shouldve taken his ID away  to the 
back office, and he didnt accept that she may have  been upset by their conversation.  He 
said that she didnt  seem upset, and he wouldnt have been unreasonable because he 
wanted help. Mr T didnt think hed come  across as unreasonable when he spoke to the 
second teller, and he was surprised  to be told that was her view. 
Mr T also said that the manager had talked over him, and wouldnt listen to what had 
happened. He said that she shouldve tried to listen, and perhaps taken him somewhere  out 
of the public eye to discuss  the problem. He thought she was being deliberately 
confrontational by confronting him in public and refusing to talk. 
Mr T also said that he thought that Nationwide was hiding things by not providing the CCTV 
and only giving witness statements after the event, not at the time. He said that he thought 
that Nationwide wouldve  recorded how he had behaved at the time, if hed really  done what 
it said. 
Mr T said that he wanted his case to be considered  by an ombudsman, so it was passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall view on this 
complaint as our adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Mr T said that he thinks that he was badly  treated  by Nationwide, and he felt it was 
discriminating against him. Nationwide says that its tellers were  just following its security 
procedures, and it doesnt think it had done anything wrong.  So theres no agreement  about  
whats happened here. And unfortunately, theres no CCTV available of the events in 
question. 
Its not unusual  for businesses to delete  CCTV quite  quickly,  if its not apparent that its going 
to be needed.  And although Mr T says that he thinks it wouldve been clear from body 
language what  was happening,  it seems  to me as if a lot in this case turns  on what was said, 
which CCTV wont help with. So I dont  think  that the lack of any CCTV in this case makes  a 
significant difference. And I dont think that the lack of CCTV evidence supports either side of 
the argument. 
Mr T also said that he thought that Nationwides staff shouldve given witness  statements at 
the time.  I know that the two tellers didnt give their statements  until later,  but the branch 
manager did give her statement  the day after Mr T was in the branch, in response to Mr Ts 
complaint to Nationwide. 
Ref: DRN62087713Mr T said that he wasnt able to answer  one of the questions the first teller asked, because 
he didnt know his age straight away. He was then asked other questions.  Because  
Nationwide didnt insist  that Mr T answered this particular question, it offered him others 
instead, I dont  think that Nationwide has treated Mr T unfairly by asking this. 
I note that Nationwide has told us that Mr T got three out of four security questions wrong. 
Mr T accepts that he couldnt remember when  hed moved house either. I think that both 
sides do agree that Mr T had difficulty with the security questions. So I think it was 
reasonable for the first teller to ask Mr T for ID. 
Mr T said he didnt  remember until after hed left the counter that he had some ID with him. 
So he rejoined the queue,  and expected to be able to make  the transfer. But he was turned 
down again, and he felt that the manager  who then came out to speak to him didnt help to 
diffuse the situation. 
Like our adjudicator, I think its most likely  that there has been a misunderstanding here. Ive 
seen Nationwides  security processes for checking someones identity when they want  to 
make a transfer, and I think that its most likely  that Nationwide was trying  to follow those 
processes. But it was concerned by how quickly Mr T returned  to try the transaction  again. I 
dont think thats  unreasonable.  
Mr T wasnt just unhappy that his transaction had been refused, he was also unhappy with 
how Nationwide handled the issue. I know that he didnt  think  that Nationwides teller  
shouldve taken his ID away, to show the manager. But I dont  think its unreasonable for a 
teller who has concerns about  security to discuss that with someone else, and to show  them  
the ID thats been presented as part of that. 
Mr T told us that he had problems raising a complaint. I can see that Mr T did raise  his 
complaint the next day, so whilst  I appreciate that it wouldve been unpleasant  for Mr T if he 
had difficulties again in the branch, Im glad to see this didnt prevent him from bringing  a 
complaint.
I know that Mr T feels strongly about how Nationwide treated him. But its difficult  to reach  a 
view on whats  most  likely to have happened in the branch, when there are two such 
differing opinions about what  happened, and no independent evidence. 
Ive carefully considered  everything that both sides have said, and I dont think  Im able to 
decide in this case that its more  likely  than not that Mr T was treated differently to other 
customers, or treated unfairly,  by Nationwides branch staff. 
Because Ive not been able to reach  a view that its more likely  than not that Nationwide  
treated Mr T unfairly, or that it treated him differently to other  customers, that also means 
that I dont  think that its more likely  than not that Nationwide has done something wrong. So, 
although I do realise how disappointed Mr T will be by this, I dont think his complaint should 
be upheld. 
Ref: DRN62087714my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6208771