K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Santander UK Plc (Santander) mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs S bought the policy  in 2008 sometime after taking out a mortgage (their  existing  
mortgage started in 2005.) They applied for the PPI policy over the phone.
The policy provided  joint cover for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  around £460 a month   split equally on a 50/50 
basis - towards Mr and Mrs S mortgage  balance in the event of a successful claim. At the 
time, it cost just over £15 a month. 
At the time,  Mr S was employed as a warehouseman. He has told us he was not entitled to 
any (enhanced) sick pay and didnt have any other means of repaying their mortgage  should 
he be unable  to work. Mr S has made no mention of redundancy pay  but given  his 
employment tenure I think its likely he would have been entitled to some  statutory  
redundancy pay. Mr S has said he had a medical condition many  years prior to the time of 
the sale. I will come back to this later on. 
At the time,  Mrs S was employed as a care assistant. She has told us she was entitled  to at 
least six months sick pay but also didnt have any other means of repaying their mortgage 
should she be unable  to work.  As in Mr S case,  I think Mrs S would have  also been entitled 
to some statutory redundancy pay. Mrs S has said she had a medical condition (an injury)  
around three  years prior to the time of the sale. Again   I will come back  to this later on.
Santander has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account  started  in 2005 and 
the PPI policy  was cancelled in 2010.
Mr and Mrs S representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs S representative  says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs S 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and 
Mrs Ss representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Mr and Mrs S about the poor value; 
Ref: DRN62048422The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs S 
and the impact they would have had on their chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long-term transaction   cover would stop just at 
the time it would  be most needed;  and
The information Mr and Mrs S received was misleading. These policies  were  
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs S. I dont intend to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs S complaint.
The mortgage was arranged after mortgage  lending became regulated in October 2004  as 
such this was an FCA regulated mortgage.  That means the unfair  relationship provisions set 
out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme  Court  judgment in Plevin about 
s.140A of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable.
This sale took place  in July 2008  after the sale of general insurance products like this 
became regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005  and after the 
FSA renewed its insurance  conduct rules  in January 2008. So the FSAs and the FCAs 
overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOBS) are applicable to 
this complaint.
Ref: DRN62048423Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider they still represent a helpful guide to good  industry  practice. As 
a result its appropriate for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOBS rules 
and the other relevant considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Santander, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
The sale took place  after the sale of mortgage products became regulated by the FSA. So 
the mortgage conduct of business rules  (MCOB)  are applicable to this complaint. Prior to 
regulation subscribing  lenders and mortgage intermediaries followed a voluntary mortgage 
code. While predominantly about mortgage  related matters, it also included  some insurance-
related commitments.  As with the sale of general insurance, there is much in common  
between the pre and post-regulatory position.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 when 
considering Mr and Mrs S complaint.
key questions
Ref: DRN62048424Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs S with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for them,  given 
their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Santander gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient,  appropriate  and timely information  
to enable them to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs S, I must then go on to consider  whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs S 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs S 
and Santander,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs S know they had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
This was a sale by phone. Unfortunately Santander hasnt got a call recording  although not 
unsurprising given the passage of time. Businesses dont have to keep records  indefinitely. 
But it does  mean  I dont know for certain  how PPI was presented  to Mr and Mrs S.
But Santander has provided a call script,  which it says its representative  would have 
followed during  the call with Mr and Mrs S. So this is the next best evidence of how PPI was 
likely introduced - Mr and Mrs S have not given much detail about what happened.  Looking 
at this I can see the script prompts the representative to read a declaration to ...confirm that 
the policy is optional  and separate to the mortgage... 
Its also the case that Mr and Mrs S had held their existing mortgage without PPI since  2005, 
so it strikes me as odd that they would have  been  led to believe or were under the 
impression that they had to have PPI.
So taking everything into account  and in the absence of persuasive evidence to suggest 
something very different happened in Mr and Mrs S case - I think  its more  likely Mr and Mrs 
S knew the policy was optional  and they agreed  to take it out without undue  pressure.
Ref: DRN62048425did Santander provide advice?
Santander says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mr and Mrs S have said they cant  
remember. Looking at what happened when Santander sold Mr and Mrs S the PPI, on 
balance, Im not persuaded that it provided advice. I say this because  although one piece  of 
evidence in isolation might suggest  that a recommendation  was made, the call script  shows 
that the representative was explicitly prompted  to tell a consumer  that the sale would be 
conducted on a non-advised  basis and to explain to them  what that meant.  Ive not seen 
enough to persuade me that something different happened in Mr and Mrs S case. 
This means  Santander  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs S. 
Instead, it had to give them sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to enable Mr and 
Mrs S to make an informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to 
their attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr and Mrs S were  given a broad description of what 
the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy would protect  their payments if Mr 
and Mrs S were unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment).  I also think  
Santander disclosed the cost and the benefit amount. Ive reached this conclusion because  
not only does  the call script suggest  this was likely  the case, Im mindful  that the only reason 
for the phone call with Mr and Mrs S was to discuss PPI  they werent for example primarily  
discussing borrowing where the PPI was a secondary or tertiary consideration - so I think  its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs S would have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  
was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
But theres not enough evidence from the time of sale to persuade me that Santander gave 
sufficient information  about the exclusions or limitations before Mr and Mrs S agreed  to take 
out the policy. 
So I dont  think Santander gave Mr and Mrs S sufficient, appropriate and timely  information 
to enable them to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to their attention  and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs S representative  has raised a 
number of general points with regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and 
Mrs S. Ive considered these carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs S representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
Ref: DRN62048426-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs S about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further 
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs S representatives views on this. The duty of utmost good 
faith in insurance  law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material 
facts and not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what a court  
would say  I think  its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to 
disclose the claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs S have  suggested.  And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs S? To what extent did 
Mr and Mrs S suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Santander didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy to Mr and Mrs 
S. So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mr and 
Mrs S suffered  loss and damage as a result. To answer this, I must decide whether or not 
Mr and Mrs S would have still taken out the policy, had Santander done things properly. 
Mr and Mrs S say they would not have taken it out and believe that I should presume this to 
be the case given  the significant  failings identified above. Ive considered  the representations 
of both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr and Mrs S had to weigh up in their own minds the cost of 
the policy against the benefits offered and the potential  consequences if they didnt insure  
against the risk of either of them  being unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr and Mrs S chose to take this policy  out. So I consider that its 
reasonable to conclude  they had some  interest  in the benefits offered by this type of 
insurance. But they made this decision based on incomplete information. So what Mr and 
Mrs S thought they were getting is not exactly what they got. The extent  to which  this 
differed is a relevant consideration when determining if Mr and Mrs S have suffered any loss 
or detriment.  
The information Mr and Mrs S were given about  the cost and benefit (including the benefit 
limit of 12 months) was likely  clear based  on my finding that, on balance  the call script  was 
followed (or broadly  followed) in Mr and Mrs S case.  But the information about other aspects 
of the policy, such  as the limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should  have been 
based on the available evidence.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs S thought  they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions and/or symptoms that 
Mr and Mrs S knew about or ought  to have known about  before the start date of the 
policy, or had arranged to see a doctor  about during  the 12 months  before the start 
date  but the exclusion only applied  for the first 12 months of cover; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr and 
Mrs S werent permanent employees.
Ref: DRN62048427The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr and Mrs S be 
unable to do their normal work  or any other work  which  in the insurers view they are 
or may reasonably become qualified for in light of their experience, education or 
training.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr and Mrs S pause for thought  and may well have caused them to conclude  that 
the policy was not as good as they thought and they might  have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover might have dissuaded  some  consumers  in slightly  different  
circumstances from Mr and Mrs S from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr and Mrs S circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  They were eligible for its benefits 
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved beneficial  
to them  should  the insured risks have  become  a reality. Although Mr and Mrs S both say 
they had a medical condition before the policy was taken out, I dont think better information 
about this exclusion  would have put them  off agreeing to it. 
I say this because  neither  Mr nor Mrs S has said that their condition  continued  in fact 
theyve told us they were  not suffering from them at the time of sale. Mr S condition  
occurred more than 20 years prior to the sale and what Mrs S has told us about  appears to 
have been what  might reasonably be described  as a one-off type injury. Its also the case  
that the policy only excluded existing conditions  for the first 12 months  Mr and Mrs S could 
have therefore  claimed  for their conditions after this, if they needed to. So given Mr and Mrs 
S were protecting their mortgage and ultimately their home, Im not persuaded they would 
have changed  their mind  about buying the cover had they been clearer information  about it.
I also havent seen  any evidence to suggest they wouldve been caught  by any of the other 
significant exclusions. So I still think they had some good reasons to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would 
have expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some evidence  
to support that claim.
If Mr and Mrs S had known they could  only claim for disability if they were unable  to do their 
job or any other work  which in the insurers  view they were  or might reasonably become 
qualified for in light of their experience,  education  or training it might have played into their 
thinking about what they would do. And I accept it may have given them  pause  for thought  
although given  Mr and Mrs S circumstances and in particular the fact that the policy  was 
protecting their mortgage, on balance, I still think they would have been interested  in taking 
out the cover.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs S would still have  taken out the policy.  The policy was sufficiently close  
to what its likely they thought they were getting  and provided benefits that would help them  
manage the consequences  if Mr and Mrs S were made redundant, or unable to work through 
accident or disability.  In the circumstances I consider  it more  likely than not that Mr and 
Mrs S would have taken out the policy in any event  notwithstanding  the limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN62048428Mr and Mrs S representatives say the rules about  how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 
3) make it clear  that, where  a significant failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs S wouldnt have bought the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr and 
Mrs S circumstances as detailed above, I consider  it reasonable to conclude  the position  
Mr and Mrs S found themselves in as a result  of the sale was the same position they would 
have been in had the breach or significant  failings  not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs S believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales  
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. Im not persuaded by these  arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs S in the position they would have been in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept its possible they wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not they would still have taken out 
the PPI had they been given clear,  fair and not misleading information  about the policy  they 
were buying.  So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Santander should pay Mr and Mrs S compensation,  as that would put them in a 
better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs S think Santander  misrepresented the terms of the policy  in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Mr and 
Mrs S, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards  I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2008  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs S representative says a court might  take if 
it were to find Santander negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs S and about  
Ref: DRN62048429the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Santander had been in breach  of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs S in a better position than if everything had happened as 
it should have  done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 February  2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6204842