K821x#15complaint
Mr A says PDL Finance Limited  (Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 10 short-term loans Mr Lender provided Mr A between  18 June 2014 
and 05 June 2015. Mr As lending history  is as follows:
Loan 
numberDate lentAmount 
borrowed
Loan  1 18/06/2014 £350.00
Loan  2 10/07/2014 £700.00
Loan  3 02/09/2014 £800.00
Loan  4 27/09/2014 £800.00
Loan  5 29/11/2014 £300.00
Loan  6 23/12/2014 £600.00
Loan  7 21/01/2015 £800.00
Loan  8 12/03/2015 £620.00
Loan  9 07/05/2015 £700.00
Loan 10 05/06/2015 £510.00
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr As complaint and thought the loans from loan 2 onwards  
shouldnt have been given. Mr Lender  disagreed and the complaint was passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr A 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN64710232the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required to establish 
whether Mr A could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr As complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loans 2 onwards would most  likely 
have shown that Mr A had to use a significant  proportion of his income to repay the loans, 
which meant he had little money  left over to cover  his regular expenses.
In particular loan 2 was for £700.  So Mr A was going  to have to use more  than half of his 
declared income of £1,800 to repay it. This was his second loan in around  three  weeks.  It 
was also for double the amount hed borrowed as his first loan  which was rolled over  
suggesting that he was struggling  financially. Then,  around six weeks  after he repaid loan 2, 
he took loan 3 for an even higher amount  of £800. I accept that he was taking this over a 
longer term of 60 days, which  meant  that the two repayments were lower  than for loan 2. But 
they were still significant proportions  of his declared  income.
Three days after Mr A repaid loan 3 with a repayment of £520 he borrowed loan 4, again a 
loan of £800. This was taken over a shorter term of only 20 days which meant  that Mr A was 
required to repay £1,040  within three weeks of taking this loan.
I accept that there was a gap of around  two months  between Mr A repaying loan 4 and 
taking loan 5. And loan 5 was for a lower amount. But loan 5 was Mr As fifth loan in five 
months and I dont think the gap in lending was long enough  for Mr Lender to reasonably  
think that Mr As position mayve improved to the extent  that it didnt need to complete as 
thorough checks.
Ref: DRN64710233Four days after repaying loan 5 Mr A borrowed  again and for double  the previous amount. 
As this pattern of borrow - repay - borrow continued, Ive also looked at the overall pattern of 
Mr Lenders lending history with Mr A, with a view to seeing if there was a point at which Mr 
Lender should reasonably have seen that further  lending was unsustainable, or otherwise 
harmful. And so Mr Lender should  have realised that it shouldnt  have  provided  any further 
loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr As case, I think  that this point  was reached by loan 
7. I say this because:
From  loan 7 onwards  Mr A was provided  with new loans within days  of settling a 
previous one. So Mr Lender ought  to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr A 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving 
in his finances and that Mr As indebtedness was increasingly unsustainably.
Mr A wasnt making any real inroads to the amount he owed Mr Lender.  Loan 10 was 
taken out around a year after Mr As first loan and the amounts Mr A was borrowing  
were not reducing  over time either. 
Mr A had paid large amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Mr Lender  over 
an extended period of time.
I think that Mr A lost out because Mr Lender  continued to provide borrowing from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr As indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr As 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loan 7 and onwards and Mr Lender should put 
things right.
putting things right  what Mr Lender  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr A paid on loans 2 onwards;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 2 to 6 from Mr As credit file;
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loan 7 onwards should be removed from 
Mr As credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must  give 
Mr A a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN64710234my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr As complaint. PDL Finance Limited  
should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6471023