K821x#15complaint
Mr D was advised to transfer his pensions into a SIPP by Easy Financial Planning (EFP), an 
appointed representative of WSW Financial Services Ltd. This was to invest  in a Harlequin  
property. He has now lost his pension funds. He says that he was not made aware that he 
could lose his money or that this was a high risk investment.
background
I issued a provisional decision for this case on 26 April 2019, a copy of which is attached  to 
and forms part of this final decision.
WSW has now been placed into liquidation.  They received my provisional decision and did 
not have any further comments  to make.  They asked for a copy  of the decision to be sent to 
the liquidator.
Mr D accepted the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As there are no further  substantive 
arguments, there is no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I therefore  uphold the 
complaint for the reasons given in my provisional  decision.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint. WSW Financial  Services  Ltd must calculate Mr Ds loss and pay 
redress as set out in my provisional decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN60076882Copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr D was advised  to transfer his pensions  into a SIPP by Easy Financial Planning (EFP),  an 
appointed representative of WSW Financial Services Ltd. This was to invest in a Harlequin  property.  
He has now lost his pension funds. He says that he was not made  aware that he could lose his 
money or that this was a high risk investment.
background
Mr D was referred to EFP after he expressed an interest to invest  in Harlequin property using a SIPP.
A personal document pack was completed. It included a fact find recording personal  and financial 
details. This recorded that Mr D was married with three children. He was employed earning £22,360  a 
year with investment  income of £10,200 a year. He had a personal pension and pension benefits  from 
three different employers. This document was on EFP headed paper  and sent to EFP.
The advice was set out in a report dated 28 June 2011. The report  started by explaining Mr D had 
been referred to them by Spectrum after he expressed a desire to invest in Harlequin  property.  After 
summarising Mr Ds circumstances the report explained that he wanted to invest  in Harlequin to 
increase his retirement income.
The report discussed the details Mr Ds pension benefits. Two of those  were deferred benefits  in final 
salary pension  schemes with previous employers.  Mr D had been in each  of the pension schemes  for 
just over two years. EFP provided figures showing that returns of over 13.2% a year were required to 
match the benefits in one scheme. And returns of over 11.43%  were required to match the benefits  in 
the other scheme. EFPs advice was that Mr D should not transfer his pension benefits. 
Mr D also had an executive  pension plan (EPP) and a personal pension plan (PPP). These were both 
money purchase schemes.
A recommendation was made that investing in Harlequin was a very high risk strategy.  The report 
explained:
With a UK Pension  that comprises onshore  investments, you do have some control, as you 
can:
direct where  your investments are made
monitor your fund on a daily basis
make changes to the investment profile to reflect  your changing attitude to risk and the 
time that you have before  you retire.
Transfer the fund to 100% cash instantly
With a single commercial property asset situated offshore, you would  lose this 
flexibility and control. Although you state that you have  an ultra-speculative attitude 
to risk, to place such a large percentage of your accrued retirement provision into one 
single high risk asset would seem  unduly  optimistic.  Therefore I do not feel that it 
would be suitable  for you.
My best advice to you at this time therefore is not to proceed.
The FSA (Financial Services Authority)  are the body who regulates  advisors such as 
ourselves, and in the past they have  been  particularly  critical when clients have been advised 
to leave  existing  pension schemes in favour of self-invested products  which may be 
unsuitable.
Ref: DRN60076883Bearing in mind your  present circumstances, and the increased risk involved in 
transferring the scheme into an offshore investment, I am strongly advising  against  
proceeding with this transfer.
The report finished with the following final conclusion:
I recommend you do not transfer out of your occupational pension  schemes  because  of their 
guaranteed benefits at retirement.
Furthermore, I recommend that you do not invest any of your existing plans in the Harlequin 
Resorts Scheme for the reasons given  above.
I realise my advice may be a disappointment  to you. However, retirement  planning  is by 
nature a long term plan.  You wish a majority  of your retirement income  to be provided  by your 
pension arrangements,  and you therefore need to satisfy yourself that you are fully informed  
before exposing  yourself to the level of risk associated with this type of investment.
A letter signed  by Mr D dated 28 June 2011 was sent to EFP. This had been typed  with the following 
wording:
I am in receipt of your pension report which  you have prepared for me. Having  read the 
report thoroughly and whilst I appreciate your advice, I would like to continue  with my plans to 
establish a SIPP with my fund.
If you would be kind enough to arrange this for me as soon as possible it would be much 
appreciated.
EFP prepared  a transfer options report addendum dated  11 July 2011. This seems  to be in response 
to the above letter and starts off with these warnings:
I wish to reiterate that you are going ahead with this SIPP property investment against my 
advice and the responsibility for the investment(s) chosen is entirely your own.
The report also said:
Bearing in mind your present circumstances  and the increased risk involved in transferring  
the scheme into an offshore investment, I am strongly advising against proceeding with 
this transfer.
EFP then arranged the transfer. Harlequin  has since run into difficulties. The property hasnt been 
built and it appears unlikely that Mr D will receive  any of his investment back.
Mr D complained to EFP.  WSW investigated  the complaint,  but did not uphold  it. In summary, they 
said:
EFPs advice  to Mr D was not to transfer his pensions or invest in Harlequin.
The recommendation report had clear warnings that this was a very high risk strategy. The 
report explained EFP had not been asked to provide  an opinion about Harlequin and EFP 
accept no liability whatsoever on its use.
Mr D complained that he was not aware he could lose his money  or that it was a high risk 
investment. The evidence contradicted  that statement. EFPs  reports  clearly  explained this 
was a high risk investment.
Mr D was introduced to EFP by an IFA firm as Spectrum  did not operate in the pension  
transfer market.
The concept of Harlequin had been  presented  to Mr D by another body. Mr D had committed  
to buy a unit in the Harlequin Resort before EFPs involvement.
Ref: DRN60076884EFP received no payment for the investment  in Harlequin. The fee was for carrying out Mr Ds 
instructions to transfer funds to his nominated SIPP only. This transfer was on an insistent 
client basis.
In August 2011 EFP consulted the Financial  Services Authority about  their stance  on insistent 
clients. They were  advised that they were only responsible for their advice and not whether  
clients take that advice. EFP were  advised that they could  transact  this business  without 
liability. 
There has since been  clarification from the Financial Conduct Authority on the subject  of 
Insistent Clients. They stated that "If the client does not accept the recommendation but  
from an informed position - states that they want to do something different - i.e. they are 
insistent clients - the adviser can arrange this if they wish.  This is fine so long as the adviser 
is genuine about  providing their advice and the reasons for it and highlighting clearly the risks 
of the course of action the client is intent on taking. Hence the client has been put in the 
position of being able to make an informed  decision." This goes to show that the stance  of the 
two regulators has not altered despite the various  alerts issued  on unregulated products  
In EFPs  follow up report they clearly repeated the warnings to Mr D transferring his pensions 
and investing in Harlequin. Indeed, they advised Mr D that in certain  circumstances  investing 
in these  arrangements could result in a total loss of his investment. They  were  confident that 
Mr D was put into a position to make  an informed  decision.
Ultimately, having  selected  the investment,  Mr D completed an application form with the new 
SIPP provider. At the time of signing  the application form Mr D confirmed that he was an 
Execution only client for the investment in Harlequin  and had not sought financial  advice on 
that investment.
Spectrum and other  third parties were involved in the sale of the investment  in the SIPP. They  
suggested that Mr D should approach them  directly.
They  had evidence that their advice  process  had been undermined  by the activities of an 
outside agency. In certain cases an individual had been advising  clients to ignore EFPs  
advice not to transfer their pensions  into an unregulated  product. That same individual 
arranged the unregulated product and received significant commission payments.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint. He thought the complaint should  be upheld for the 
following reasons:
It was rare for a consumer to go against advice they had received. 
He referred  to alerts issued  by the regulators  about insistent clients.  These referred to 
situations where  an unauthorised introducer has an inappropriate influence over the business  
model. 
In Mr Ds case, he wanted to invest in Harlequin.  This appeared  to be influenced by the 
introducer. 
There were  a number of cases where the same investment was made. And the introducer  
benefited directly from the resulting investment.  
WSW had an inappropriate arrangement. If WSW did not have that arrangement  Mr D would  
not have transferred his pensions or invested in Harlequin.
WSW did not agree. They  explained that EFP was an appointed representative of WSW. Cases were 
introduced to them  by authorised financial advisers. EFP was involved  in advice around pensions. 
They had agreements with over 120 authorised  financial  advice firms. They dealt  with over 1,100  
clients and 1,577 pensions during their existence. Many clients were  advised  not to transfer and many 
took this advice. Less than 1% of cases  received from financial advisers involved investment in 
unregulated or esoteric  products.
WSW also said:
Mr D was treated as an insistent client. 
The adjudicator had defined this is a papering exercise. They didnt  agree. Spectrum 
introduced the case. About 30% of clients introduced received their initial report decided not 
Ref: DRN60076885to transfer. In other cases clients received advice  not to transfer, but did not transfer all of 
their pensions. This shows that the advice is genuine and many clients accepted that advice.
The adjudicators view that the complaint  should be upheld against WSW is inconsistent with 
the conclusion in other cases.
Many clients had attended a presentation on Harlequin before approaching Spectrum. They 
saw this as a good investment opportunity and said at this point they were  introduced to EFP.  
Spectrum arranged the investment in Harlequin. WSW did not arrange  the investment in 
Harlequin and should therefore have no liability.  
Neither WSW  nor EFP received any payment from Harlequin. If another  regulated  adviser 
had received payment  they should  have  some  liability.
The SIPP  provider should also have some liability for accepting the investment  in Harlequin.
The letter  signed by Mr D is important. EFP did not tell him to sign the letter.
Many clients have  been paid part of the commission  as an incentive to invest in Harlequin.  
That has not been investigated.
They  do not have  the benefit of hindsight. And so did not know whether the investment would 
perform well.
Mr D complains that he was told the investment was low risk and if EFP had explained he 
could lose all of his pension he would  not have invested.  This is all not true. EFP clearly 
advised this was a high risk transaction.
They  have become  aware of an individual who was undermining EFPs advice given  to their 
clients. This should be investigated.
Mr D was one of the very first insistent client cases handled by EFP.  The adjudication relies 
on an alleged conspiracy between Spectrum and EFP. It suggests prior knowledge and the 
potential financial  gain from these actions. EFP did not benefit  from the investments made  in 
the Harlequin.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account  relevant  law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, and codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  
what I consider to have been good industry practice at the time.
EFP is an appointed representative of WSW. The principal was responsible  for the actions of its 
representative. The complaint has correctly been set up against WSW Financial Services Ltd.
The regulators rules apply to firms carrying  out regulated business. There  are principles which set out 
a general statement of the fundamental  obligations  of firms.  There  are more  detailed  rules that firms 
have to comply with. One of these is COBS 2.1.1; the clients best interests rule. This says that a firm 
must act honestly, fairly and professionally in accordance with the best interests of its client.
COBS 9.2 required  a firm to gather information about its client to enable it to give suitable  advice. Any 
advice it gave  had to be suitable for the clients circumstances. There is no dispute that EFP gave 
advice to Mr D. That advice was not to transfer  his pension benefits  or invest in Harlequin. I agree that 
was suitable advice for Mr D.
EFP recognised that the transfers and investments were not suitable. It said that the transfer could 
result in the loss of the entire  pension, which would be disastrous for Mr Ds retirement . It is apparent 
that EFP did not believe  Mr D was a high net worth client; nor did it believe he was a sophisticated  
investor. He did not have  experience  of investing in unregulated funds. Mr D was recorded in the 
documentation as having  an ultra-speculative attitude to investment risk. EFP noted  that the transfers 
and subsequent investment was one which not even an ultra-speculative investor  would entertain.
I agree with the advice that EFP gave to Mr D not to transfer his pensions;  or invest  in Harlequin The 
question is therefore whether EFP should have processed the transfer against their own advice.
Ref: DRN60076886The letter Mr D signed in June 2011 was addressed  to EFP. It explains that Mr D had read the report 
advising him not to transfer. He went on to ask EFP to arrange the transfer anyway. In my view, this 
letter should have given some indication of the reasons why Mr D wanted to ignore the advice. I think  
as a minimum EFP should have checked whether Mr D understood the risks and why he wanted to 
transfer against their advice.
In this case, the pension benefits being transferred  were a large part of Mr Ds assets. Its clear he 
could not afford to take any risk with this. Suitable advice  was not to transfer. I think  they should have 
understood why Mr D was prepared to ignore the advice.
The documents passed  to EFP recorded that Mr D was prepared to be ultra-speculative. That is not 
consistent with his existing investments. And I think more importantly he was not in a position to 
accept any risk with his pension.  In my view,  EFP should have made further enquiries to understand 
why Mr D wanted  to invest in Harlequin.  
Clearly, EFP was aware that accepting this type of business came with some  risks. That appears to 
be the reason for calling the regulator to discuss the approach. The result of that conversation  
appears to be that the call handler at the regulator  thought accepting  the business  would not be in 
breach of any rules. There was a moral dilemma about completing business  that was not in the 
clients best interests.
I have carefully considered  how I should approach  this issue.  The regulator  issued guidance for the 
industrywide review  of pensions in 1994.  That guidance  explained how firms should assess cases 
involving insistent clients. The guidance only applied to cases that fell within  the review period which 
finished in June 1994. But, the approach  set out in that guidance can be applied to this case.
The guidance specifically dealt with the review of insistent  clients. It explained that firms  should be 
alert for any signals such as unusually high numbers  of insistent  clients or the use of technical or 
standard phrases  by investors.
EFP told us that from 2010  they received  33 enquiries  from clients who wanted to invest in Harlequin 
or a combination of investments. They gave advice to 30 clients; all of whom were advised not to 
transfer their pensions. Of these 18 insisted  on acting  against the advice. That appears to me to be a 
high number  of cases.
The adviser  at WSW clearly  recognised that this was a risky transaction. He called the regulator  to 
discuss the approach. The discussion with the regulator was about  one case. It also involved 
transferring from a final salary pension scheme to a SIPP.  Ive listened to the call, which  concluded by 
saying that the decision  how to proceed was a moral one. I take it to mean the adviser  thought 
transferring the pension was not suitable for the consumer  involved. The question was whether EFP 
should arrange the transfer.
In my view the moral  dilemma was about acting in the clients best interests. This is one of the 
conduct of business  rules. EFP had already advised against the transfer.  It is clear to me that the 
adviser realised the transfer was not in Mr Ds best interests.
It is clear that a number of transfers were referred to EFP. Weve been told this started  in 2010.  By the 
time Mr D transferred his pension,  I think EFP should have had concerns about the process.
EFP told us it decided to stop taking  business  on an insistent client basis. This was after the regulator  
issued an alert about  transferring monies  to SIPPs  to invest in unregulated products. They  took the 
view this was a change to the position  outlined to them  in August 2011.
The regulator  recently  issued guidance about insistent clients.  I have tried not to take this guidance  
into account  in reaching my conclusion. But, I think this guidance reflects the principles and rules  that 
were in place at the time Mr D transferred his pension  to the SIPP.
Ref: DRN60076887The advice from EFP was not to transfer.  I think it was clear that this was a high risk strategy. But, I 
am concerned  about  the high number  of insistent client cases. This is something I would not have 
expected to see. It isnt clear exactly how many cases had been completed on this basis by the time 
Mr D transferred  his benefits. I think its likely that there had been more than one or two of these.
I accept that EFP advised  against  the transfer.  But I think the crucial point is whether they acted in 
their clients best interests. EFP was only paid if the transfer completed.  This is a conflict  of interests 
and I cannot see how that was managed. This is a significant  factor in my decision making.
EFP was aware  that the transfer was unsuitable for Mr D. And that the transfer was likely to leave  Mr 
D significantly worse  off in retirement.  In my view, EFP should have known  that the adviser  at 
Spectrum or the unregulated firm selling the investments was instrumental in the decision being made 
by Mr D. I think it should have refused  to process the transfer. It clearly wasnt in the clients best 
interests. I consider EFP to be responsible  for any losses Mr D has suffered.
It is possible that Spectrum could have some liability for the losses suffered. It is also possible that 
other parties could have  some liability. But in my view,  the investments could not have been made if 
WSW had treated Mr D fairly. If WSW wishes to take action against  any other party  to recover some 
of the losses it may ask Mr D to co-operate; that is if Mr D is compensated in full.
WSW referred to other cases investigated by this service. They  say those cases  have similar facts  
and so should  reach similar  outcomes. I have considered those cases. They were resolved at the first 
stage of our process  after an adjudicator  gave an initial  view. There  are some  differing facts  in the 
cases. One of the important things is that I am aware that there were a large number of similar cases. 
I think  its likely all of these cases  were  investigated without that knowledge. It is therefore possible 
that those  cases could have  been decided  differently by an ombudsman.  In any event, I am not bound  
by previous decisions  that have been made.
fair compensation
My aim is to put Mr D as close to the position he would  now be in if WSW had acted in his best 
interests. I think that he would have kept his final salary benefits. 
what did WSW do to contribute to Mr Ds loss?
EFP was paid commission of 3% for setting up the SIPP. It split this equally with Spectrum. EFP was 
also aware that an unregulated business was involved. It also dealt with all of the administration for 
setting up the SIPP and the investments.
WSW was required  to act in the best interests  of its client. This is the moral dilemma referred to 
when it spoke  to the regulator. If WSW had acted in the best interests of its client, it should have 
refused to process the transfer.
The transactions would not have been  made but for the involvement of WSW. Ultimately, I regard  
WSW as being responsible for the transactions which occurred.
did EFPs actions cause the loss?
WSW knew that the money transferred into the SIPP  would be invested in Harlequin. WSW realised 
that the investments were unsuitable. It exposed Mr Ds pension fund to significant risk.
the role of Spectrum
Spectrum was clearly involved in the advice to invest the pension funds. But, the transfers could not 
have been made unless WSW had been involved.
Ref: DRN60076888the role of the unregulated firm selling  the investments
Investments were sold to Mr D by an unregulated  firm. Any complaint about that firm cannot  be dealt 
with by this service. One of the purposes  of regulation was to provide consumer protection. I think it is 
appropriate that if losses are suffered the consumer should be compensated for the actions of the 
regulated firm. Being a regulated adviser comes with responsibilities.  If WSW wants  to take an 
assignment of any rights  Mr D may be able to give against any third parties it may do so; if 
compensation is paid in full.
the role of the SIPP provider
It is possible that the SIPP  provider could have prevented the investments  being made. But, I think the 
primary reason  for the loss was the actions of regulated firms giving  advice to Mr D. Again if WSW  
wishes to take an assignment of any rights of action against the SIPP  provider in may do so; if 
compensation is paid in full.
the role of Harlequin and those  involved  with Harlequin
I am aware  that there is currently an investigation into the actions of those associated  with Harlequin. 
WSW could argue that any losses were not its fault and that it cannot reasonably  be held responsible  
for the loss. However, it does not necessarily  follow  that it would  not be fair or reasonable to conclude  
that WSW is responsible for Mr Ds loss.
The outcome of any proceedings  that may arise is not yet known and may be some way off. I am not 
in a position  to make any judgment about the conduct of those  involved in the management of 
Harlequin. But I acknowledge that it may be relevant to how I determine fair compensation for Mr D. 
And I can understand why WSW considers that other parties are responsible, either wholly or in part, 
for Mr Ds loss. I have considered that very carefully, along with more general issues of causation and 
foreseeability.
How a fund is managed is an inherent and foreseeable risk. But where there may have been fraud in 
connection with the running of a fund then this might mean there has been a break  in the chain  of 
causation. This break  might mean that its not fair to say that all of the losses suffered  by a consumer 
flow from the unsuitable advice.
In my view, there  is no doubt that Mr D would not have made  the investment  if WSW  had taken the 
appropriate action. There is enough evidence  here for me to conclude  that WSW was not acting in its 
clients best interests.  I think that fair redress means that it should  compensate Mr D for the loss of his 
pension fund.  That includes the investment loss that could not have happened,  but for its advice.
I think that the losses were foreseeable. These were high risk investments. They were unusual 
holdings, operating in a very specific  way and without a track record.  They  were  complex investments 
that were not easy to understand. They  could suffer large losses, the nature of which  would be difficult 
to predict  or estimate at the outset.
I am satisfied that Mr D would  not have invested, but for the actions  of WSW.  In my view,  it is fair to 
assess compensation on our usual  basis  aiming to put Mr D in the position he would have been in 
but for the unsuitable  advice - despite any arguments around any fraud breaking the chain of 
causation.
Ref: DRN60076889what should WSW do?
My aim is to put Mr D in the position  he would now be in if he had received suitable  advice. I think that 
he would have: a.) kept his existing pensions; b.) wouldnt have invested  in Harlequin  and c.) as a 
result wouldnt have  opened the SIPP (and now be subject to ongoing  SIPP fees).  In setting  out how 
to calculate fair compensation my objective is to address these  three issues.  That is what Im trying to 
achieve.
There are a number of possibilities and unknown factors  in making an award. While  I understand 
Harlequin could allow WSW  to take over the investment from Mr D that is now unlikely.
All the variables are unknown  and each may have an impact on the extent of any award  I may make. 
The facts suggest its unlikely that the property will be completed and unlikely that the contract  and 
any future payments  would be enforceable. While its complicated to put Mr D back  in the position he 
would have been in if WSW  had acted in his interests,  I think its fair that Mr D is compensated now. I 
dont think I should wait and determine each and every possibility before making an award.  What  is 
set out below is a fair way of achieving  this.
WSW should calculate fair compensation by comparing  the value of Mr Ds pensions,  if he had not 
transferred, with the current value  of his SIPP. In summary:
1.Calculate the current  value of Mr Ds PPP and EPP, as at the date of calculation, if they had 
not been  transferred to the SIPP.
2.For the final salary  schemes:  review these transfers in line with the methodology 
issued by the Financial  Conduct Authority  in October 2017.
3.Pay a commercial  value to buy Mr Ds Harlequin Property  investment.
4.Obtain  the actual  transfer value of Mr Ds SIPP on the date of calculation, including 
any outstanding charges.
5.If there is a loss caused  by any of the transfers redress should  be paid.
In addition,  WSW should:
6.Pay five years worth  of future  fees owed by Mr D to the SIPP.
7.Pay Mr D £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
I have explained how WSW  should carry this out in further detail below.
1.Calculate the current  value of Mr Ds PPP and EPP, as at the date of calculation, if they had 
not been  transferred to the SIPP.
It should be assumed that the PPP and EPP would each have achieved a return  equivalent to the 
change in the FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return index (formerly the FTSE WMA Stock 
Market Income  Total  Return Index). That is a reasonable proxy  for the type of return that could have 
been achieved if suitable  funds  had been  chosen.
WSW should assume that any contributions  or withdrawals that have  been made would still have 
been made, and on the same dates.
2.For the two final salary schemes: review each transfer in line with the methodology  
issued by the Financial  Conduct Authority  in October 2017.
Ref: DRN600768810The calculations should  be carried  out as at the date of my final decision;  using the most recent 
financial assumptions  published (at the date of that decision).  This should be undertaken or 
submitted to an appropriate provider promptly following receipt of notification  of Mr Ds acceptance 
of the decision.
WSW may wish to contact the Department for Work  and Pensions (DWP)  to obtain Mr Ds 
contribution history to the State Earnings Related  Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P).  These details 
should then be used to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculations, which  will take into 
account the impact of leaving the occupational  scheme on Mr Ds SERPS/S2P entitlement.
3.Pay a commercial  value to buy Mr Ds Harlequin Property  investment.
The SIPP only exists  because  of the investment in Harlequin. In order for the SIPP to be closed  
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the Harlequin  investment needs to be removed from the 
SIPP. I understand  this can be done. However, I understand that is now unlikely.
The valuation  of the Harlequin  investment may prove difficult, as there is no market for it. To 
calculate the compensation,  WSW should agree an amount with the SIPP provider  as a commercial 
value, and then pay the sum agreed  plus any costs  and take ownership of the investment. If WSW is 
unable to buy the investment, WSW  should give it a nil value for the purposes of calculating 
compensation (including in step 1 above).
4.Obtain  the actual  transfer value of Mr Ds SIPP on the date of calculation, including 
any outstanding charges.
This should be confirmed by the SIPP provider. It should include the value of any money  paid for the 
Harlequin investment if that can be sold.  If the Harlequin investment  cannot  be removed from the 
SIPP it should  be given  a nil value to calculate  the compensation.
5.If there is a loss caused  by any of the transfers redress should  be paid.
If any of the calculations demonstrates  a loss, the compensation should, if possible,  be paid into Mr 
Ds pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges  and any available tax relief. 
The compensation  shouldnt  be paid into the pension  plan if it would  conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If payment into the pension isnt possible or has protection or allowance implications, it should  be paid 
directly to Mr D as a lump  sum. Had it been possible to pay the compensation  into the plan, it would 
have provided a taxable  income. Therefore  the compensation  may be reduced to notionally allow for 
any income tax that would otherwise have been paid.
The notional  allowance should be calculated  using Mr Ds marginal  rate of tax in retirement. Mr D is 
likely to be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement. The notional allowance  should  equate to a reduction in 
the total amount  equivalent  to the current basic  rate of tax. However, as Mr D would have been  able to 
take a tax free lump sum, the notional allowance  should be applied to 75% of the total amount.
Simple interest should be added at the rate of 8% a year from the date of my decision until the date of 
payment. Income  tax may be payable  on this interest.
6.Pay five years worth  of future  fees owed by Mr D to the SIPP.
Had WSW acted in Mr Ds best interests I dont think there would  be a SIPP. Its not fair that Mr D 
continues to pay the annual SIPP  fees if it cant  be closed.
Ref: DRN600768811I think WSW  could buy the investments to allow  the SIPP to be closed. This is the fairest way of 
putting Mr D back  in the position he would have been in. But I dont know how long that will take.  
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power  to tell them  what  to do. To provide certainty 
to all parties, I think its fair that WSW pay Mr D an upfront lump sum equivalent to five years worth 
of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This should provide a reasonable  period for 
the parties to arrange for the SIPP  to be closed. There are a number of ways  they may want  to seek 
to achieve that. It will also provide Mr D with some confidence that he will not be subject to further 
fees.
In return for that, WSW may ask Mr D to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the net amount 
of any payment he may receive from the Harlequin investment. That undertaking  should allow for 
the effect of any tax and charges on the amount  he may receive from the investment.  WSW will 
need to meet  any costs  in drawing up the undertaking. If WSW asks Mr D to provide an 
undertaking, payment  of the compensation  awarded may be dependent upon provision of that 
undertaking.
7.Pay Mr D £250 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Mr D has been caused  some  distress by the loss of his pension benefits.  I think  that a 
payment of £250 is appropriate to compensate for that distress.
my provisional  decision
Where I uphold  a complaint,  I can make a money award requiring a financial business  to pay 
compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest and/or costs that I consider appropriate. If I 
consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may recommend that WSW pays the balance.
I presently intend to uphold the complaint and to direct  WSW Financial Services Ltd to pay fair 
compensation as set out above.
If the amount produced by the calculation exceeds £150,000 then, in addition to the £150,000 plus 
interest I intend to recommend that WSW  pays Mr D the balance plus simple interest at a rate of 8% 
gross a year.
Its unlikely that Mr D can accept my determination and go to court to ask for the balance of the 
compensation owing to him after the money award  has been paid. Mr D may want to consider  getting 
independent legal advice before deciding whether to accept this decision.
Ref: DRN6007688