K820x#14complaint
Miss P is unhappy with Hitachi  Capital (UK) Plcs end-of-lease charge for a vehicle.
background
Miss P hired a vehicle from Hitachi on a two year lease.
Hitachi arranged for a third party to inspect and collect the vehicle at the end of the hire 
period. In its damage  assessment,  the third party reported excessive  contamination on the 
roof of the vehicle with repair valued  at £140,  and a dent measuring  10-30mm  with minor 
paint damage on the front left wing of the vehicle with repair valued at £60.
Hitachi has charged Miss P £200  for the damage  to the vehicle, in line with the third partys 
findings. Miss P is unhappy with these charges. She says the damage to the vehicle is no 
more than fair wear  and tear. Shes  said she was told the damage to the roof was probably 
caused by bird droppings, so she says it was unavoidable.  And she doesnt agree that the 
dent on the front left wing of the vehicle measures more than 10mm.
Miss P has also questioned whether  Hitachi has repaired  the vehicle. Shes suggested  the 
vehicle may have been sold with the damage.
Our investigator didnt  think the charges were unfair. But Miss P didnt agree, so the 
complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The covering  letter Hitachi sent Miss P with her hire agreement refers her to section 3 of the 
agreement, and says:
We refer you to clause 3 of the hire agreement  which you may note requires you to return  
the vehicle  to us in good condition and repair. The condition of the vehicle is assessed  by 
reference to the British Vehicle Rental and Leasing  Association (BVRLA) guidelines.
Section 3 of the hire agreement  Miss P signed  for the vehicle says:
You  agreeto keep the vehicle in good condition and repair.  You will be responsible to us 
for any damage caused to or deterioration  of the vehicle  otherwise than through  fair wear  
and tear as indicated in the guidelines issued  from time to time by the British Vehicle  Rental  
and Leasing Association (BVRLA).
The BVRLA has produced  industry guidance to help determine what a finance  company can 
charge for when  a car is returned. This is the starting point  for me as it represents good  
practice across the industry and is fairly detailed. It says:
There should be no rust, corrosion or discolouration  on any painted  area
Ref: DRN63316482And it says:
Dents (up to 10mm in diameter) are acceptable  provided there are no more  than two (2) per 
panel and the paint surface is not broken.
Ive looked at the photos the third party and Miss P have provided  of the vehicle, and I think  
they support the third partys findings  in its damage assessment. So Im satisfied that the 
damage to the vehicle  falls outside of the BVRLAs  guidelines, and that Hitachi can fairly 
charge Miss P for the damage.
Ive considered what Miss P has said about the damage to the roof of the vehicle being  
unavoidable if it was caused by bird droppings.  But I dont agree. I think bird droppings  
wouldve had to remain on the roof of the vehicle for some time to cause the level of damage 
Ive seen. 
Miss P has suggested the vehicle may be sold without being repaired.  But I dont think this 
should make  a difference to the outcome of the complaint because the BVRLA document 
also says that:
End-of-lease chargescan  still be applied  at end of lease in cases where  the leasing 
company decides for commercial reasons not to repair  damagebefore  the vehicle is sold.
Ive kept this in mind  when thinking  about  whether it is fair for Hitachi  to have passed the 
charges on to Miss P without having the repair work carried out. Hitachi didnt have to repair 
 it could decide to absorb the loss at any re-sale. Considering this and the nature of the 
damage here, I dont  think Hitachi has acted  unfairly in seeking  to charge Miss P £200.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 February  2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6331648