K820x#14complaint
The estate  of the late Mr S have  complained  about  a life policy that he took out with 
Zurich Assurance  Ltd. Theyre unhappy  with the amount paid out following  Mr S passing  
and dont think the product literature and subsequent correspondence made it clear that the 
policy could pay out less than the late Mr S paid in.  
background
In 1993, Mr S applied  for an over 50s life insurance plan. The sum assured was £3,961 
payable on his death and the premiums were £24 a month. Mr S passed away in 2018 and 
Zurich paid out the £3,961. But by this point, Mr S had paid around £7,200 into the policy. 
Mr S son and daughter  were unhappy about this. They explained that their fathers 
understanding was that he had been  investing  money to cover funeral expenses and to 
leave some inheritance,  but that it was not made clear to him that he had paid in more  than 
they would  ever receive back. They pointed out that their father had paid enough  into the 
policy to meet the sum assured by 2006  some 12 years before his death. 
They felt there had been no clear  correspondence from Zurich to let their father know  about 
this, so he was unable to make  an informed decision about how to manage  his affairs   they 
say had he have  known he would have invested elsewhere given his hope to provide some  
inheritance for his granddaughter. 
Zurich looked  into the concerns raised  but didnt agree  theyd done  anything wrong. They  
explained that the policy hadnt been  designed or marketed as a savings vehicle with high 
surrender values  instead the purpose  was to provide  a small lump sum on death to help 
with funeral expenses. They explained  the policy wasnt advised  and didnt take Mr S health 
into account. So they didnt agree they ought to compensate the estate with the additional  
premiums Mr S had paid. Unhappy with this, the estate asked our service for help.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  but he didnt think  Zurich had done 
anything wrong. He explained  that Mr S hadnt taken any financial  advice  in deciding to 
invest, so it was for him to have read and understood  the terms of the product  and to ask if 
he hadnt understood. He also said that while he recognised the pay out was less than had 
been paid in, this was an inherent risk of the nature of this type of insurance contract  and 
had Mr S passed away much sooner (and before hed paid £3,961 in), Zurich  was on risk to 
pay out much more than the premiums paid in those earlier years.  
The estate  remained unhappy  with this, so as no agreement  could be reached the matter 
has been referred to me to review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while Im sorry this will 
come as a disappointment  to the estate,  Ive come to the same conclusions  as the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
As the investigator  pointed out, Mr S policy was sold on a non-advised basis. So all Zurich 
had to do was to provide enough  information  to enable Mr S to make a fully informed
decision about whether this policy was right for him and was something he wanted.  
Ref: DRN61955102The policy schedule set out that Mr S was to pay £24 each month from February 1993 until 
his death and this would  provide the following benefit:
sum assured  an amount equal  to 150%  of the total premiums due up to the date of 
death of the life assured,  increasing to £3961 on the 22nd February 1995.
The estate  have said they feel this was misleading and ambiguous  and they feel that the 
addition of words such  as thereafter  and up to a maximum of would have emphasised  the 
risk of paying in more  than would be paid out. But having considered the application, policy 
schedule and conditions,  I do think it was clear to Mr S what  he was buying. 
Given that both the premiums and the benefit were fixed amounts, Mr S would have been 
able to work out that if the policy was expected to be in place for a long time, the sum 
assured paid upon death risked being less than was ever invested. 
In 1993, Mr S was 60 years old and he lived for another 25 or so years.  Of course, he wasnt 
to know how long hed live at the time  had he have died after 1995 but before 2006, the full 
benefit wouldve  been paid out despite  his premiums  amounting to less  but he did 
thankfully live much longer than that. 
While this then meant  he paid in more to his plan than his estate received, I think it was clear 
from the paperwork that the policy  was always set to pay out £3,961.  I do understand the 
estates disappointment and their feeling  that the plan was not good value for money, but I 
must look at whether  Zurich did anything wrong here  and I cant see that they did. 
The estate  also feel Zurich should have let Mr S know  when the policy payments began to 
exceed the sum assured.  Whilst  this would have been useful and good  practice  neither  
Zurich, nor any business involved in these types  of policies, is obliged to do this. Even if they 
had, to have obtained the benefit upon his death Mr S would have  needed to continue 
paying his premiums anyway  so hed have been  faced  with the choice of whether it was 
worth continuing  to pay into or not, dependent on how long he felt hed live. There was of 
course the option of converting  the policy to a paid up one  but this is something Mr S could 
have asked more  about if he didnt understand the reference to this, as the estate  suggest,  
in Zurichs 2002 letter. 
I know the estate will be disappointed  by what Ive said but all I can do is consider whether  
Zurich did anything wrong in this case.  And as I have explained, given everything I have 
seen, I think Zurich did all it had to in providing  Mr S with the information he required to 
make his own decision about the plan and paying  out what  it said it would. I dont think  
Zurich needed  to, nor would  it have been practical  for them  to, inform all of their over 50s 
plan customers at the point at which their premiums started to exceed the sum assured 
amounts either.
Ref: DRN61955103my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the executors of 
Mr S estate to accept or reject my decision  before 14 June 2020. 
Aimee Stanton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6195510