complaint
Mr S complains that Chubb  European  Group SE (Chubb)  has rejected his claim under his 
employers travel insurance policy, by which he was covered, when a flight delay led to him 
missing a connecting flight and arriving 24 hours late at his final destination.
background
In January 2019 Mr S arranged air travel  from the UK to a foreign destination. This involved 
an initial flight from the UK to his destination country,  and then an internal connecting flight  to 
his ultimate destination.
The initial flight from the UK was delayed by 1 hour 37 minutes and Mr S missed his internal 
connecting flight. The next flight to his ultimate  destination was the same  time the next day. 
So Mr S arrived at his final destination 24 hours  late. He made a claim  against  his employers 
travel insurance policy with Chubb  for travel delay. Under this policy, the travel delay section 
pays £50 for each  four hour period of delay, so Mr S claimed  £300.
Chubb declined  the claim and referred to the Travel Delay section of the policy.  This says:
"Travel Delay
If within  the Operative Time  an air rail road or sea service on which  the Insured Person 
is booked to travel is delayed by at least four hours during any part of an Insured  
Journey the Company shall pay the Insured  for the benefit of the Insured Person up to 
the Sum Insured per Insured Journey shown in the Business Travel Specification."
The policy provides compensation of £50 for each four hour period of delay.
Chubb argues  that Mr S was booked  on two separate air services  and that it was only the 
first leg of Mr Ss journey that was delayed.  Because the delay was for less than four hours, 
it isnt covered by the policy. The second flight,  to his ultimate destination, wasnt  delayed.
Mr S just missed it due to the knock-on  effect  of the first delay.
Mr S argues that the two flights he needed  to take to get to his ultimate destination  were  on 
the same  ticket and so form part of the same  air service and that the Insured Journey 
should be regarded  as the entire journey to his ultimate destination and not just the first flight  
from the UK.
As Mr S wasnt satisfied with Chubbs response  to his complaint he brought it to this service. 
Our investigator didnt consider that Chubb  had acted unfairly as the delay that Mr S had 
suffered was only in his flight from the UK and this delay was for less than four hours, so no 
benefit was payable.
Mr S asked  that his complaint be considered by an ombudsman so it was referred to me to 
make a final decision. As my original view was different to that of our investigator, I issued a 
provisional decision in which  I upheld Mr Ss complaint. In response to my provisional 
decision I received comments from Chubb  and from Mr S. These  caused  me to reconsider 
my findings  and I issued  a second  provisional  decision. In response  to this Mr S repeated 
submissions hed previously made,  specifically  as to his view that an air service was the 
sum of flights covered  by the same ticket number, rather than each single flight.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint and 
Ill explain  why.
Ive looked again at the Travel Delay section of Mr Ss policy, and I accept Chubbs 
interpretation of it. Ill repeat it again:
Ref: DRN6875662If within the Operative Time an air rail road or sea service on which  the Insured 
Person is booked to travel is delayed  by at least four hours during  any part of an 
Insured Journey the Company shall pay the Insured for the benefit of the Insured 
Person up to the Sum Insured  per Insured Journey shown in the Business Travel  
Specification."
I accept that this section  provides cover if there is a delay of at least  four hours  in an air, rail, 
road or sea service which is part of a journey, and not a delay to the journey itself.  A 
consequence of such a delay might be a missed connecting flight,  but the policy  wording 
doesnt cover a delay  to the Insured Journey beyond the delay to the particular service. And 
if this delay is for less than four hours, no claim can be made.  Mr Ss original flight was 
delayed by less than four hours,  and the (missed) connecting flight  left on time.
Im not persuaded by Mr Ss further  submissions that an air service is the sum of flights 
covered by the same ticket number rather than each single flight, and they havent  caused 
me to change my view.
Both Chubb and Mr S have made reference to EC Reg.  261/2004. Ive considered this, but I 
dont consider it has any relevance to Mr Ss claim against Chubb.  It imposes  obligations 
upon airlines, not upon insurers. The obligation of an insurer is to settle claims that fall within  
the policy wording,  as this sets out the risks that the insurer is prepared to accept.  An insurer 
is free to choose what risks its willing to cover, and in this case, Chubb has limited its risk 
exposure by restricting the cover  it provides  to sections of a journey, rather than an entire 
journey which  might  involve a number of legs. Theres  also a limit to the amount that can be 
claimed for travel delay  during the course of an Insured Journey.
Chubb has also mentioned that Mr S had previously  made a similar claim for travel  delay in
2017 which Chubb had accepted. It says it had advised Mr S that in doing  so it was going  
outside the terms of the policy, but did so for business reasons. So Mr S shouldve  been 
aware of how the travel delay cover  applied.
I should mention,  for completeness, that this service tends  to consider that an exclusion in 
a policy  that restricts cover for travel delay to only the first leg of a journey from the UK, or 
the first leg back, and so doesnt  cover  multi-leg trips or connecting  flights, is a restriction  
on cover  that should be clearly highlighted.  However  in this case, Mr S wasnt  the 
purchaser of the policy.  It was his employers policy. So it cant be said that Mr S was 
misled when taking  out the policy.
Chubb has said that it would consider any claim under the Travel  Disruption section  of the 
policy for any expenses  Mr S incurred as a result of the delay between  flights, but I 
believe that his airline has covered these expenses.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint, and I dont  require 
Chubb to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6875662K820x#14
Ref: DRN6875662