K821x#15Complaint
Mr L trading as company L complained  that Society  of Lloyds refused to deal with a claim L 
made under a commercial motor insurance policy. 
background
Mr L bought a commercial  motor  insurance policy with Lloyds. In August 2017 he made a 
claim. An engineer  said Ls car was a total loss. 
Lloyds discovered  that L had been  dissolved in July 2017. So it said there  was no insurable 
interest at the time of the claim.  Ls car was registered in the dissolved company name.
In March 2018 L told Lloyds the company had been restored and so asked Lloyds to 
reconsider the claim. But Lloyds said it didnt make  a difference as L was dissolved at the 
time. 
Our investigator thought Ls complaint should be upheld. He thought Lloyds had acted fairly  
up until March 2018. But once L had been  restored  and because the restoration is 
retrospectively applied   he thought at this point Lloyds should have reconsidered the claim.  
So he recommended  Lloyds deal with the claim and for any total loss settlement it pays, it 
should pay interest on the sum from 29 March 2018 to the date it settles the claim at 8% 
simple interest a year.
L thought Lloyds should cover storage costs incurred since  March  2018, but the investigator  
didnt agree. So L didnt  accept the investigators  findings. 
Lloyds didnt agree.  It said the fact remains the company was dissolved at the time of the 
claim. It feels  its unfair to ask it to pay interest  on a settlement as it believes it hasnt done 
anything wrong. It said Ls complaint about  storage costs is a new complaint.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it in 
part. 
L dissolved in July 2017. L said this was because it failed to submit its accounts on time. 
This meant the company  was removed from Companies House register  and no longer 
existed. So there  was no entity for Lloyds underwriter to insure.
L was successfully  restored in March 2018  under a principle of administration restoration. In 
these circumstances  the following applies as taken from the guidance  Companies  House  
Guidance Strike off, dissolution and restoration:
"If the registrar restores the company it is deemed  to have continued in existence as 
if it had not been dissolved and struck off the register."
Ref: DRN66700822L provided Lloyds with documentation to show L had been  restored on 29 March 2018. So I 
think Lloyds should  have reconsidered  Ls claim  at this point  as the restoration 
retrospectively applies. I therefore think Lloyds  should reconsider  Ls claim from August 
2017 under  the remaining  terms and conditions of the policy.
In October  2018 L told us the car has been  held in storage and accruing  storage costs since 
August 2017.  L said he cant collect  the car as the storage company says its bill is over 
£10,000 which L doesnt believe hes responsible for. He said Lloyds told him not to collect  
his car  even though the storage company contacted him asking him to collect it.
Lloyds said L hasnt  raised a complaint with it about  storage costs. Its told us it believes it 
should be treated  as a new complaint. Lloyds provided us with call recordings. L didnt raise 
a complaint about the collection of his car when he complained  about  Lloyds decision not to 
reconsider his claim in March 2018.
So I cant make  a finding on Ls complaint that hes being  unfairly  charged storage  costs for 
the car  or that Lloyds told him not to collect the car. 
On 9 November  2017 Lloyds said it emailed  the garage where Ls car was being held under 
free storage.  It asked the garage to arrange with L to collect  his car as Lloyds had declined  
the claim.
In March 2018 L contacted Lloyds and said his car hadnt been returned  to him. 
In July 2018 Lloyds told L in an email to make  arrangements to collect the car from storage 
and that, moving  forward, L would be liable for future storage costs
If L wishes to make a complaint about  storage charges,  he will need to contact Lloyds and 
give it the opportunity  to reply to this complaint. If L remains unhappy with the reply, L can 
then ask us to look at this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I require 
Society of Lloyds to reconsider  Ls claim from August 2017 under the remaining terms and 
conditions of the policy. For any total loss settlement it pays,  Lloyds should  pay interest on 
the sum from 29 March  2018 to the date it settles the claim  at 8% simple  interest  a year.
If Society  of Lloyds considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell L how much its taken off. It should also give L a 
tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L trading as 
company L to accept  or reject my decision before 1 March 2019
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6670082