K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Watford Insurance Company Europe Limited  (Watford)  declared his 
motor insurance policy  void.
background
Mr S bought a motor  insurance policy online through a price comparison website. The policy  
began on 10 May 2018.  The policy included Miss S (Mr S sister) as a named driver.
Miss S was involved in an accident  on 25 May 2018. Mr S reported the accident to Watford. 
As part of the claims notification call, Watford asked Mr S to confirm  some details one of 
which was his occupation. Mr S confirmed his occupation as an Auto Electrician. This didnt  
match the details  held by Watford which had his recorded occupation as a Graphic  Designer, 
and so it looked into this further.
Mr S said he had been a graphic designer  previously  but had been in his current job, an 
Auto Electrician, for more  than a year. By way of explanation, he said that maybe  the 
comparison website had stored the information  from before, so the occupation  had been  
filled in by default.
Watford obtained the quote  information  from the comparison  website. It showed  that several 
quotes had been obtained before  Mr S bought the policy. And the information  given in each 
quote was different. The information that changed throughout the quotes was 
Mr S occupation, post code, driving test pass date,  if the policy holder had children under 
the age of 16 and the vehicle value.
Based on this Watford felt this showed  Mr S had used the different information to manipulate  
the cost of the policy. Because of this it said Mr S had recklessly misrepresented the facts 
when taking the policy. So it voided the policy from the start, retained the premiums that had 
been paid and declined the claim,  in line with the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to our service.  The investigator didnt 
uphold the complaint, they felt that Watford was entitled to void the policy, retain the 
premiums and decline the claim. 
Mr S disagreed he said that his sister had obtained  the quotes and she had used the 
different information  as she wasnt sure of all of his details. Because  of this he feels  he isnt 
responsible for the misrepresentation. And so the matter has now been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
Ref: DRN67809982For an insurer to be able to void a policy due to misrepresentation there are a number of 
qualifying steps  which have to be met under CIDRA. 
i. Was a clear question asked
ii. Is the misrepresentation  a qualifying one
iii. Was the misrepresentation  deliberate  or reckless
Ive considered these  below:
i. Was a clear question asked
The policy was purchased through a price  comparison website, so I have looked  at the 
question that was asked on the website for the information that varied through  the numerous  
quotes that were  done. The questions were:
How much is the car worth
Whats your postcode
Do you have children  under  16 years old
Whats your job 
When did you get your licence
Im satisfied that all of these questions  are clear and they should have been able to be 
answered with relative ease.
ii. Is the misrepresentation  a qualifying one
This means  the insurer  has to show that if it had the correct information  it would  have either 
not entered into the contract of insurance  or it wouldve done so under different terms for 
example it might have  charged a higher premium.  In this case Watford has shown that had 
it had the correct information  about  Mr S occupation it wouldve charged a higher premium 
for the policy. This wouldve been higher by around  £260. So Im satisfied that this meets the 
criteria of a qualifying misrepresentation.
iii. Was the misrepresentation  deliberate  or reckless
To show this Watford would need to show the following:
The consumer knew:
a)the information was untrue or misleading or didnt care whether or not it was untrue 
or misleading, and
b)knew that the matter  to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the 
insurer, or did not care whether  or not it was relevant to the insurer
Im persuaded in this case the misrepresentation meets  the above definition,  and Ill explain 
why. There were more than ten quotes  carried out where the information was changed to 
include various combinations  of untrue  answers.  I appreciate that Mr S says that it was his 
sister that carried out the quotes, and she did this because she wasnt  sure of his exact 
details. But she knew enough  to various  combinations of both correct  and incorrect 
information about Mr S. Even so, he is the policy holder and is ultimately responsible  for the 
information that was provided  to Watford.
Ref: DRN67809983Having obtained  all of the quotes Mr S, albeit possibly through his sister, chose to take 
forward the quote that had the lowest premium,  even  though  it contained information that 
was incorrect. So I think its more likely that the information used to obtain  the various quotes 
was manipulated  in order to find out what combination would lead to the cheapest premium. 
And, in fact the policy that was bought was the cheapest of all of these combinations. It 
follows that I think Mr S made  a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation to Watford.
The remedy  available to insurers,  under CIDRA,  in cases  of deliberate or reckless 
misrepresentation is that:
The insurer   
a)may avoid the contract and refuse all claims,  and
b)need not return any of the premiums paid, except to the extent (if any) that it would 
be unfair to the consumer to retain  them.
As Im satisfied that the qualifying  steps  have been  met, it follows  that Im satisfied Watford  
acted fairly  and in line with what  Id expect when it chose to void Mr S policy, retain the 
premium and decline the claim for the accident Miss S was involved in. So I wont  be asking  
it to do anything differently.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 April 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6780998