K820x#14complaint
Mrs S has complained about British Gas Insurance Limited. She isnt happy about  the 
customer service  it provided under her home emergency policy.
background
Mrs S had home emergency  cover with British Gas and wasnt happy about the service she 
received. 
On two separate occasions British Gas failed to attend appointments at her property. The 
first appointment was in relation to a leak during the winter months and the second  was in 
relation to a boiler service. She complained to British Gas and it accepted that it got things 
wrong and that its service  was poor. It went onto offer £150 and £125 compensation 
respectively.
But Mrs S didnt feel that this was sufficient and asked this service  to look into things for her. 
Our adjudicator agreed that British Gas had got things wrong and that its service  was poor. 
But he felt that its offer of £275  compensation was fair.
As Mrs S didnt agree  the matter has been passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree that British  Gas 
has provided poor service  here but I agree  that its offer of £275 compensation is fair in the 
circumstances. Ill explain why.
It is clear that British Gas got a few things wrong here. It cancelled an appointment on Mrs S 
when she had a leak to her water  tank. It mustve  been  frustrating for her but fortunately 
there wasnt any lasting  damage done. But had British Gas have attended in the first 
instance it wouldve  been able to tell her that the claim wasnt covered  under her policy at an 
earlier stage and saved  Mrs S a lot of hassle.
But British  Gas has offered to pay £150 compensation as it missed  an appointment; for its 
lack of service; delay and increased water costs. I know Mrs S thinks the level of 
compensation should be higher but I think its offer is fair.
British Gas also failed  to attend an appointment  during the summer months when it was due 
to undertake a service  of Mrs Ss boiler.  It compounded the error  by writing out to Mrs S 
suggesting that the appointment had taken place. Again this mustve  been very frustrating 
for Mrs S but I think its offer of £125  compensation is fair.
So, although  I can understand how frustrating  Mrs S has found British Gas and its poor 
customer service  I think that £275  compensation (in total) is fair in the circumstances.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN65685512Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6568551