K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC (trading  as QuickQuid)  did not do enough checks  
before lending him money.
background
Mr G had seven loans  from QuickQuid  between 23 June 2010 and 14 Mar 2011 as follows:
Loan Date Amount Due Repayment Repaid
1 23 Jun 2010 £200 30 Jul 2010 £259 On time
2 11 Aug 2010 £200 31 Aug 2010 £237.50 On time
3 3 Sep 2010 £200 30 Sep 2010 £237.50 On time
4 11 Oct 2010 £200 29 Oct 2010 £250 On time
5 8 Nov 2010 £250 30 Nov 2010 £312.50 On time
6 6 Dec 2010 £200 31 Dec 2010 £250 22 Dec 2010 - early
7 14 Mar 2011 £50 31 Mar 2011 £62.50 Extended to 28 Apr 2011
£74.50 outstanding
Mr G says QuickQuid  continued to lend to him even though he was struggling to make  the 
repayments. He says he became stuck in a cycle of debt and fell behind with priority  bills 
due to prioritising the loan repayments. Mr G adds that he was suffering from mental health 
issues and had to borrow from family  members  to help to repay the loans.
QuickQuid says that, as the loans were taken  out more than six years  before Mr G 
complained, it is entitled to reject the complaint without considering the merits. It adds  that it 
hadnt seen any evidence as to why Mr G would  not have been  reasonably  aware he had 
cause for complaint much earlier.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She considered  this 
service could look into the merits of the complaint as she didnt see anything  to show  Mr G 
should have known he had reason to complain any earlier. However, our adjudicator  said 
there was nothing in the information provided, or the information of which  QuickQuid should 
have been aware,  that indicated the loans were unaffordable.
Mr G responded to say, in summary, that he had to take a loan out every month for five 
consecutive months because of the previous repayment. He says QuickQuid was 
irresponsible to continue  to approve the loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN69018932But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr G. These factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that QuickQuid was required to establish 
whether Mr G could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Gs complaint.
Loans 1 to 4
QuickQuid asked Mr G about  his income  and checked his credit  file for these loans. Given  
the repayments were  a relatively small proportion of Mr Gs £1,902  declared  income  and Ive 
seen no evidence that Mr G was in financial difficulty at the time, I cant conclude  QuickQuid 
was wrong to approve these loans. Mr G was repaying all the loans  on time and I dont 
consider it was proportionate  to carry out a full financial  review at this stage  of the lending.
Loans 5 and 6
At this stage, I consider a proportionate check should have included a more  detailed review  
of Mr Gs financial circumstances. But I havent  seen anything in the information provided  
which suggests QuickQuid would have known Mr G wouldnt have been able to sustainably  
make the repayments  on these loans. The repayments were  still relatively  small compared  
with Mr Gs declared income and his repayment  history remained good. So there  was 
nothing to indicate better checks would have shown the loans to be unaffordable  and that 
QuickQuid was wrong to approve them.
Ref: DRN69018933Loan 7
Its possible that Mr Gs borrowing history itself might have indicated  he was becoming 
reliant on short-term lending by this stage.  However,  as the requested amount was 
significantly lower than previous loans, I dont think its unreasonable for QuickQuid to 
consider Mr Gs financial circumstances  were improving when he applied  for loan 7. So, 
based on the available evidence, I cant say it shouldnt  have approved  loan 7.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6901893