K820x#14complaint
Mr N makes a number  of complaints about how Tesco Personal Finance PLC trading as 
Tesco Bank dealt  with his credit  card accounts.
background
Mr N says he asked Tesco on a number  of occasions between  January 2018 and July 2018  
when his credit card payment was due. He says he was given misleading information and 
that Tesco then charged him interest  and charges when his payments were late. Mr N says 
he asked Tesco to provide call recordings but it didnt give them  to him until some  time had 
passed. So he didnt  make payments until they were  received.
Tesco accepts it took some time to provide the call recordings and has apologised for that 
and paid compensation. But it says it gave Mr N correct  information about the payment due 
date and when  those payments were either late or not made it correctly charged interest and 
charges.
Mr N brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  
listened to the calls and didnt think Tesco had made a mistake  about the payment date. He 
also thought Tesco has correctly applied interest  and charges when payments were either 
late or not made.  The investigator thought that as there was a late payment that Tesco 
correctly removed a 0% interest  free offer.
Mr N accepts that Tesco didnt give him incorrect information but says its delay in providing 
the call recordings meant that he withheld payment. So Tesco  should refund the charges 
and interest and remove adverse information  from his credit file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr N will be disappointed at my decision.
Im satisfied that Tesco didnt provide misleading or incorrect information about the payment 
due date to Mr N. Im also satisfied that the payment due date was recorded on Mr Ns 
account statements. So I think  in those circumstances  Tesco  hasnt made a mistake here or 
acted unfairly. I also think it was up to Mr N to make  a payment on time and when a payment  
wasnt made Tesco acted  in line with the account terms and conditions by charging Mr N 
interest and charges.
I can see that Mr N now accepts that Tesco didnt make a mistake or provide him with 
incorrect information about the payment date.  But that he says that if Tesco  had provided 
him with the call recordings when he asked for them then he could have renewed his 
payments. Im satisfied  that it was Mr Ns responsibility to make the payments and that he 
ought to have continued making his payments regardless of him waiting for the call 
recordings. I think Mr N ought  to have realised he owed Tesco money  as he was receiving 
regular account  statements.
Overall I accept Tesco should have provided the call recordings sooner than it did but I think 
its paid a fair and reasonable  amount of compensation for that. I have listened  to the call 
recordings between the parties and Im satisfied Tesco tried to explain the position to Mr N 
Ref: DRN68855802but he made clear  on a number of occasions  that he had no intention  of making any 
payments towards  the account balances.  In those circumstances I find Tesco  has dealt fairly 
with this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6885580