K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains that Nationwide Building Society failed to recover  a Single Euro  Payments  
Area (SEPA) credit  transfer she made in error. 
background
On 16 May 2018 Miss R made a Single  Euro Payments Area (SEPA)  credit transfer of 
£2,929.02 to a retailer  (R2). Sometime later that day Miss R said she tried to stop the 
payment because she had made it in error. She said she emailed the bank to instruct it to 
recall the payment. At the time Miss R said she had lost her voice so she couldnt call.  
Sometime later Miss R said she called to chase up the payment return. She said she spoke 
to customer services and was told the payment  could be recalled. She was later told the 
payment could not be recalled and Nationwide offered  £75 compensation. It said it hadnt 
received the email Miss R sent and the email  address Miss R had used to recall the payment 
was for internal  purposes  only.  It also said there would also be no guarantee the funds would 
be returned.
Miss R brought  her complaint to this service.  She said Nationwide  would not assist her in 
obtaining the funds back. Our investigator  didnt think Nationwide  had done  anything wrong 
in relation to the refund  of the payment.  He also considered £75 fair compensation for 
incorrect information. Miss R didnt agree and asked for a final decision from an 
ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Miss R but having  done  so I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything  
further. 
Miss R has told us she made a duplicate  payment  on 16 May which was made in error.  Ive 
looked at Miss Rs bank  statements for May and June.  I can see a SEPA payment to R2 on 
16 May for £2929.02. There are no other payments to this beneficiary during May. There  is a 
second payment  to R2 on 12 June for £2,641.78.  So its not clear to me what Miss Rs 
duplicate payment is in May. 
Having made the payment Miss R realised she had done so in error and emailed  Nationwide 
because she couldnt call. The email address she used included the words 
complaints.customerservicesandoperations. She said she found it on the Nationwide 
website. Miss R emailed within six hours  of requesting the payment.  Nationwide said the 
email address was only intended for internal use. 
Im not disputing the email address could be found on the website as I was able to locate it. 
But I dont agree with Miss R that it was a valid email address for the purposes of asking the 
bank to action  a payment recall. 
Miss R has indicated where she found the email address.  On the contact us page on the 
Nationwide website there are a number of tabs indicating options available.  They  include 
call us, branch finder, send us a message, give us feedback, make a complaint and 
download a leaflet. 
Ref: DRN61485992In the make a complaint  tab there are a number  of phone numbers noted  depending on 
what product the complaint is about.  Further down the page there are a number of other  
ways to complain to Nationwide such as online,  visit the branch or write. This is followed by 
a section called what happens next. This section details the complaints process and what  to 
expect. At the bottom of the page there is a section called independent  review.  This section 
details what customers should do if they wish to take their complaint further for independent 
consideration with the Financial Ombudsman Service. The last paragraph  explains  how to 
access the alternative online method of accessing this service. The very last sentence on 
this page about how to make a complaint says that if a customer  wishes  to access  the 
alternative service for accessing the ombudsman  service  customers would need to quote 
Nationwides email  address. The address listed is the email address Miss R used to request 
the payment be cancelled. 
There is no indication that this email address should be used for anything other than making 
a complaint. And the email  address  itself includes the word  complaint. Miss R was not 
making a complaint. She wanted to reverse a payment  she said shed made in error.  So Im 
satisfied this wasnt a valid email address for the action Miss R wanted Nationwide to take. 
In her message to Nationwide  Miss R wrote:
If I do not receive a response  from yourselves I shall assume the payment has been 
stopped/cancelled
If I accept for a moment that the email  address  was valid,  I consider that Miss Rs statement 
makes a number of assumptions. It would indicate  Miss R has not only assumed the email 
had been received, but it had been passed  by security, had been actioned  and that the 
action was successful.  Its reasonable to expect Nationwide to have asked Miss R to go 
through a security process to reverse a payment to protect both parties from fraudulent  
transactions. So I dont  consider Miss Rs statement to be a reasonable assumption to make.  
Miss R has said she couldnt call because  she was unwell and had lost her voice. Im sorry 
to hear that Miss R was unwell at this time.  The location where  Miss R found the email 
address also indicates  a number of other ways to contact Nationwide. These include visiting 
the branch, logging  into internet banking  and creating a secure  message and live chat. 
So Im satisfied there were other ways to contact the bank. 
Miss R has said that had Nationwide acted promptly and as per her requests then she would 
have successfully had her money  returned. Ive looked at the terms and conditions of Miss 
Rs account and Nationwide  cannot provide a guarantee the payment would be returned  
even if the process  had gone as Miss R had requested. Miss R has said the supplier wont  
refund the money and has kept the money despite  receiving the payment twice. It appears  to 
me that Miss R made a second payment to the same  supplier  on 12 June, 27 days  following 
the first payment on 16 May but she hasnt said why she made this second  payment when 
she had not received the first payment back.  
Miss R would like Nationwide  to take ownership  of their mistake  and says had it called the 
payment back when she requested she would not have  lost out financially. I do understand 
that Miss R is frustrated by this situation  but Im afraid I dont agree Nationwide  has made  a 
mistake by not taking  action on the email so I wont be asking it to do anything further. 
Ref: DRN61485993Nationwide has offered £75 for giving incorrect information regarding being able to retrieve  
the payment.  I think this is a fair offer and in line with what I would expect in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 March 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6148599