K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains about information which Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) 
recorded on his credit file.
background
Mr G took out two loans  with Lending  Stream in 2013.
Loan Date Amount No. of 
instalments
1 04.08.13 £500 6
2 20.09.13 £250 6
Mr G made  the repayments  due in August and September 2013. But he missed  the October 
payments and didnt  make any further  payments to Lending Stream  after that.
In early November 2013, following receipt  of arrears notices on the loans, Mr G asked 
Lending Stream to suspend action and freeze interest and charges on the loans, as he was 
setting up a Debt Relief Order. In early December 2013 Lending Stream  sent Mr G default 
notices on both accounts.
Then in mid-December  2013, Mr G told Lending Stream  that he was experiencing financial 
difficulties, and planned to file for bankruptcy. Two days  later,  Lending Stream sent him a 
termination notice  and a formal demand for each loan. And in late April 2014 it recorded 
defaults against both loans on Mr Gs credit file.
By June  2014,  Lending Stream had transferred both loans  to a debt collection agent. But the 
following month, it took the loans back, waived the outstanding debt and arranged  for the 
late payments and defaults  to be removed from Mr Gs credit file to show the loans as 
settled. It explained  that this was done  as a goodwill gesture, to lessen Mr Gs financial 
hardship and distress.
Mr G believes  it was unfair of Lending Stream to record the defaults on his credit  file in the 
first place. These have  now been removed. But he believes that the end dates of the 
agreements should  be amended on his credit file. Hes pointed out that the termination 
notices specified  that both agreements  would be terminated in December 2013. And he 
believes that the entries on his credit file shouldnt  show  for more than six years  beyond that 
date. But the end dates showing on his credit  file are now in July 2014 for both loans.
Mr G says that if he hadnt complained to Lending Stream  at all, the loans would only have  
remained on his credit file for six years  from the date of default and termination  of the 
agreements. So he believes that hed have been  in a better position if the defaults hadnt 
been removed.  And he thinks its unfair that hes effectively in a worse  position because he 
complained. He believes the end dates of the loans should be amended to December 2013, 
when Lending  Stream sent him the default notices.
Lending Stream says the loan agreements provide that the loan data remains on the 
borrowers credit file for six years after its files with the borrowers information are closed, 
whether by being settled, or being in default.  And it says this means that the data will remain  
on Mr Gs credit file until July 2020. 
Ref: DRN65639492Our adjudicator asked  Lending Stream whether it would be willing  to amend  Mr Gs credit file 
to show the loans as having ended on 21 December 2013  - in other words, on the date on 
which Lending Stream  sent Mr G the termination notices. But Lending  Stream wasnt willing  
to do this. It explained that in accordance with standard  industry  practice for non-default 
accounts, the record would remain on Mr Gs credit file for six years from the date of closure. 
That was 11 July 2014. The adjudicator thought  what Lending Stream had done was fair in 
the circumstances.
Mr G didnt agree with the adjudicators  view.  In summary, he says that any trace of a 
payday loan, whether  settled or not, can severely  reduce a consumers ability  to get a 
mortgage. And this is impacting on his ability to buy his first home. And he says that waiting 
an additional  8 months for the data to be removed from his credit file will delay his ability  to 
get onto the property ladder. He still firmly  believes that the six years should run from the 
date on which Lending Stream  sent him the notices of default and termination.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should say at the outset that I note that there have been court  proceedings connected with 
the loans Mr G took from Lending Stream. This Service often doesnt look into the merits of a 
complaint in those  circumstances. But in this case I have done so. And having  done  so, Ive 
reached the same conclusion as the adjudicator.
If the defaults hadnt been removed from Mr Gs credit file, the loans would have remained 
there until six years after the defaults were recorded   in other words late April 2020. As it is, 
Lending Stream arranged  to have the defaults removed in July 2014. And it marked  the 
accounts as settled  at that stage. Its true that this will mean  that the loans will show on 
Mr Gs credit file for a few months longer than they would  have  done  if the defaults  hadnt 
been removed.  And I can understand  why Mr G finds this frustrating. But against that, his 
credit file hasnt shown any defaults  or late payments against the loans since the credit  file 
was updated in July 2014. And that is even though Mr G only repaid a small proportion of the 
money he borrowed.
Mr Gs commented that hes confident  that if hed brought a complaint about  irresponsible 
lending, it would have  succeeded and all negative information about the loans would have 
been removed  from his credit file in any event. I cant comment  on whether a complaint 
about irresponsible lending would have succeeded.  I have to look at what actually 
happened. And having done so, I dont find that I can fairly and reasonably  require Lending 
Stream to arrange  for Mr Gs credit file to be amended to show  earlier end dates for the 
loans. 
I should add, however,  that even where  we do find that a lender has made  a loan 
irresponsibly, our usual  approach is to direct the lender  to remove  all negative  information 
about the loan. But we wouldnt require the lender to remove the record  of the loan in its 
entirety.
Ref: DRN65639493Its clear that Mr G feels strongly about his position, and I can understand why hes frustrated 
about the situation he finds  himself  in. But having taken everything into account,  I dont find 
that I can reasonably  require Lending  Stream to remove the loans from Mr Gs credit  file 
before the sixth anniversary of the date on which it recorded  the loans as having been 
settled.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 February  2020.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6563949