K821x#15Complaint
Miss H says J D Williams  & Company Limited (J D Williams) irresponsibly lent to her.
Background
This complaint is about three catalogue shopping accounts J D Williams provided. Account A 
was opened in October 2014 and Miss H was given an initial credit limit of £125. This limit 
was increased 7 times until it eventually reached  £3,000.00  in September 2018.  Account B 
was opened in June 2015 and Miss H was initially given a credit limit of £125. This limit was 
increased 8 times until it eventually reached £3,000.00 in November 2019.  Account C was 
opened in June 2015. Miss H was initially given a credit limit of £125. This limit on this 
account was increased  10 times until it eventually reached £3,000.00 in January 2019.  
Our adjudicator partially upheld Miss Hs complaint  and thought  that J D Williams ought to 
have realised Miss H simply wasnt in a position to sustainably repay any further credit by 
the time it offered the first credit limit on account  A in December 2014. J D Williams didnt 
respond and the complaint was passed  to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  unaffordable and irresponsible lending - including  the key relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
J D Williams needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss H 
could afford  to repay what she was being  lent in a sustainable manner. These checks  could 
take into account a number  of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that J D Williams should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the frequency of borrowing, and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer has been indebted (reflecting the risk that prolonged 
indebtedness may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming,  
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN67634372Our adjudicator set out in some detail why he thought J D Williams shouldnt have provided 
Miss H with any further credit from September  2016  onwards. As J D Williams  didnt 
respond, I dont know what  it thinks our adjudicator  got wrong.
Nonetheless Ive also looked at the overall pattern of J D Williams lending history  with     
Miss H, with a view to seeing  if there was a point  at which J D Williams  should reasonably 
have seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful.  And so J D Williams 
should have realised that it shouldnt have increased  Miss Hs credit limits. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Miss Hs case, I also think  this point was reached in 
December 2014.  I say this because proportionate  checks would have shown J D Williams  
that Miss H was having difficulty  managing  her money. Miss H had defaulted on 5 separate  
accounts in the months leading up to the first limit increase on account  A. She also had 
arrangements to pay on two other accounts  and taken a significant  amount of short-term  
lending (averaging more  than a loan a month  suggesting she was reliant on this 
unsustainable form of finance) too. 
So I think that proportionate checks will have shown J D Williams that Miss H was already 
struggling to manage  the credit she already had and that there was a significant  risk 
increasing her credit  limit (and providing  two further accounts (accounts B and C)) in these 
circumstances would  lead to her indebtedness  increasing unsustainably.
I think that Miss H lost out because J D Williams provided her with further credit from 
December 2014  onwards.  In my view, J D Williams actions unfairly prolonged Miss Hs 
indebtedness by allowing  her to use credit she couldnt afford over an extended  period of 
time and the interest being added  got her into further debt. So J D Williams should put things  
right.
Putting things  right  what  J D Williams needs to do
rework account A to ensure that from December 2014 onwards interest is only 
charged on the first £125.00 outstanding to reflect the fact that no further credit  limit 
increases should have  been  provided.  All late payment and over limit fees should  
also be removed; and
rework accounts B and C to ensure that all interest,  fees and charges are removed.  
This is to reflect the fact that these accounts should  never have been provided in the 
first place;  and
If an outstanding  balance remains on any of the accounts once these adjustments  
have been made J D Williams should  contact Miss H to arrange suitable repayment  
plans. If J D Williams considers it appropriate  to record negative  information on             
Miss Hs credit file, it should backdate this to December 2014 for account  A and the 
respective opening  of the accounts for accounts  B and C.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer being  
an outstanding  balance, then any extra should  be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss H, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were)  until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance, 
Ref: DRN67634373or balances,  remain  after all adjustments have  been  made, then J D Williams should 
remove any adverse information  from Miss Hs credit  file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires J D Williams to take off tax from this interest.  J D 
Williams must give Miss H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
 
If J D Williams sold the outstanding balances on any of these accounts to a third party debt 
purchaser, it either needs to buy the accounts back from the third party  and make the 
necessary adjustments; pay an amount to the third party so it can make  the necessary 
adjustments; or pay Miss H an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out, Im partially  upholding Miss Hs complaint. J D Williams & Company 
Limited should put things right in the way set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 April 2021.
 
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6763437