K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
1995. Mr M and Miss S says Yorkshire  Building Society (trading  as Chelsea Building 
Society) mis-sold  them the MPPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr M and Miss S case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr M and Miss S say that they understood that the MPPI was an essential part of their 
mortgage  and that they had to take it in order to secure the lending. I cant  know what  
was discussed  at the time, and Mr M and Miss S havent said much about why they 
thought this was the case  so I have  to rely on the information I do have.
YBS has provided copies  of Mr M and Miss Ss mortgage application, along with a 
separate application for the MPPI  and their mortgage offer.  Looking  at the mortgage 
application, I can see that the policy has been  selected  and is presented as optional. It 
does include  some wording that indicates that in certain situations, MPPI becomes 
compulsory  but looking at Mr M and Miss Ms mortgage offer,  this doesnt apply to 
them as its not included under the special conditions of the loan, unlike other clauses. If 
Mr M and Miss S were  told that they had to take the policy, I think they wouldve 
questioned this when reviewing their offer.
So taking everything in to account,  I think its likely  YBS made it clear that Mr M and 
Miss S didnt have  to take out the MPPI and that they chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago.
Its likely  YBS recommended  the MPPI to Mr M and Miss S so it had to check that the 
MPPI was right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the 
time, I think that it was. For example they werent  affected  by any of the exclusions to or 
limits on the MPPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr M and Miss S about the MPPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But as I think they chose to take it out - it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
MPPI would  have put them off taking out the cover. 
This means YBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr M and 
Miss S.
But YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the MPPI to Mr M and Miss S because:  
Ref: DRN64642892YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M and Miss S about that. Because YBS didnt tell 
Mr M and Miss S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the MPPI premium - and I think  that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M and Miss S has said - but these points dont change my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
what the business needs  to do
YBS has to pay back to Mr M and Miss S any commission and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the MPPI premium. YBS should  also pay back  to Mr M and Miss S any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr M and Miss S the extra  they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of MPPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr M and Miss S 8%* simple  interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr M and Miss S can claim back the tax if they dont  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society  does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr M and Miss S.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr M and Miss S any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 14 February 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6464289