K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Frank G Gates Ltd (who Ill call Gates for simplicity) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (or PPI) policy.
background
In 2009, Mr S took out a PPI policy to cover his hire purchase agreement for a car. Mr S paid 
for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr S, I dont think that this particular PPI policy was mis-sold 
 Ill explain why.
Mr S signed  a record of the conversation he had with the adviser. It records  that they went 
through his circumstances,  explained  what PPI was and how it could help him, explained 
that it wouldnt affect his application for credit  in any way, and gave him a choice about 
whether hed like it or not. I can see that Mr S applied for PPI separately to applying  for the 
hire purchase agreement itself. The PPIs  cost was set out separately too, rather  than being  
set out as something that was necessarily  included. And Mr S set up a separate  direct  debit  
specifically to pay for the policy.
Mr S explained that he felt pressured  to buy the PPI. He said the adviser told him that if he 
lost his job he could  fall behind on his payments and lose the car, and that the adviser 
repeatedly recommended  PPI. But that was true  Mr S really was at risk of losing the car if 
he lost his job. Gates were entitled to recommend PPI to him, so long as it was suitable  for 
him  and as Ill go on to explain, I think it was. So looking at all the evidence,  it doesnt look 
like Mr S was put under  any unfair  pressure here. I think  that Gates made Mr S aware he 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that he chose to take it at the time.
Gates recommended the PPI to Mr S, so it had to check  it was right for him. And based  on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, he wasnt  
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. Mr S only had very limited  sick 
pay and some savings, whereas the PPI covered him more comprehensively and paid out 
on top  and it meant he could protect  his savings and use them for other  things. And Mr S 
doesnt seem to have  had any other  protection in case  he lost his job. I understand Mr Ss 
family mightve been happy to help,  but there was always the chance theyd be unable  to 
help when needed. And this agreement was Mr Ss sole responsibility, so I dont think it 
wouldve been suitable for the adviser to have recommended that he rely on someone else 
to pay it. Its worth bearing in mind  that if Mr S didnt keep up his payments, he risked losing 
the car. So I think the PPI couldve really been  useful  for Mr S in protecting his car.
Ref: DRN66391502The cost of the policy was set out clearly when Mr S applied for the PPI, along with how long 
it covered him for and what it would  pay out in a claim. So I think  Mr S wouldve understood 
how much  he would need to pay for it. 
Lastly, its possible that Gates didnt point out all the main things the policy  wouldnt cover. 
But as I said above,  Mr S doesnt  appear to have  been affected  by any of those things. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6639150