K822xcomplaint
Mr L complains  about the service he received  from MBNA Limited when he told them  about 
his financial difficulties.  He also says that it has unfairly recorded a default on his credit  file.
background 
In November 2017, Mr L called MBNA to advise them  that he was experiencing financial 
difficulties due to a drop in his income.   A repayment plan was agreed   with the minimum 
payment each month being adjusted to an affordable figure  and interest  and charges were  
frozen.
During this call, MBNA told Mr L that the arrears would be recorded  on his credit file - but the 
account would not be defaulted until it was seven months in arrears  so, June 2018.
In a subsequent call in April 2018, when  Mr L says he had received  a default letter, he was 
told that the letter had been  sent in advance, that he was only five months in arrears to date 
and that and that the account would be defaulted  in July 2018 (not the original date of June 
2018).
So, when Mr L called  MBNA towards the end of July to discuss  future repayments as his 
arrangement was due to expire, he was told that the account had already been defaulted.  
MBNA also advised that the debt could  now be sold on.
When Mr L complained, the initial response  from MBNA was to say that it would look into the 
default and would see if it could be reversed.  But when a decision was made not to reverse  
the default, Mr L complained.
In the final response  dated 13th September 2018,  MBNA did not uphold  any part of Mr Ls 
complaint but offered him £50 for a customer service issue.  So, he came to this service.
Our investigator thought MBNA could have done  more for Mr L in relation to the information  
he had been given about the default being reversed.  He thought it should pay another £100 
for that.
MBNA agreed but Mr L did not and asked  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Generally speaking, I have arrived at the same conclusions as the investigator  and for very 
much the same reasons.
I accept that there was an error  during Mr Ls second call to MBNA when he was told that 
the account would default a month later than it was meant  to.  But Mr L was aware  from his 
first call in November 2017 that he had a period of seven months before this was done.  And 
Ive looked at what the position would have been  if the account  had not been defaulted until 
July 2018  but I dont think it would have been any different.
Ref: DRN60139622I say that because up until the summer  of 2018, Mr L was only ever paying  the minimum 
amount of his debt.   It is unlikely that he was in a position in June  (or July for that matter) to 
clear the outstanding balance.  So, the account was always going to go into default.
With regards the entries on his credit file, he was advised of the same  and in fact, MBNA is 
under a duty to record accurate information  about  how the account was being handled.
The option  to sell on an outstanding debt is something which  is covered in the terms and 
conditions of the account  so I cant see anything unfair or unreasonable in MBNA taking 
this stance.
However, I agree with the investigator  Mr L should not have been  provided with advice that 
the default could be overturned.  The facts of the case  and the evidence  suggested  that this 
was unlikely to be a possibility.  And for that, I think the offer of £100 in addition to the £50 
already offered by MBNA,  is a fair and reasonable one.
So, in the circumstances, this complaint is upheld in part.
my final decision
My final decision is that MBNA  Limited should  pay Mr L £100 in addition  to the £50 it has 
already offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6013962