K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mr and Mrs R say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the MPPI.
background
I sent Mr and Mrs R and Nationwide my provisional decision on 21 February 2019. I said that 
before I made my final decision Id look at anything else anyone  gave me so long as I got it 
before 21 March 2019. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr and Mrs R have said,  in summary, that:
Nationwide  has said they werent  under an obligation to take out the MPPI. 
It wasnt made clear to them that the MPPI was optional. 
They thought the MPPI was prudent to secure  the mortgage, and they felt pressurised by 
Nationwide. 
Nationwide  received a high commission for selling the MPPI to them, but they naively 
thought they were  receiving good  advice.  
They didnt  realise they werent fully covered for unemployment. Surely  this suggests  the 
policy was appropriate.  This wouldve affected  their decision. But they arent sure what 
alternatives they wouldve had as they needed  a mortgage.  
Mr and Mrs R have also asked for clarification on which circumstances they couldve 
claimed in. 
Nationwide did not send me any new points  or evidence in response to my provisional 
decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Rs case.
Ive carefully considered  everything Mr and Mrs R have sent me in response to my 
provisional decision  not just the points as Ive summarised them  above.  I understand 
Mr and Mrs R will be disappointed. However,  Ive reached the same conclusions  and for the 
same reasons as in my provisional decision.  Ive explained my reasons  again below, with 
some further  comments where  appropriate to address Mr and Mrs Rs recent  points.
Ref: DRN61863002Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Nationwide  has told us that the MPPI  was compulsory to get the fixed  rate mortgage with 
Nationwide that Mr and Mr R got. I appreciate Mr and Mrs R have referred  to earlier  
letters Nationwide sent them  which didnt  say this. However,  from the information Ive 
seen Im satisfied that what  Nationwide has told us  that the MPPI  was compulsory to 
get the fixed rate mortgage  with Nationwide  is reliable. 
Mr and Mrs R have said that they felt pressurised to take out the MPPI.  And I accept this 
is possible.  I think they wanted  this mortgage with Nationwide, and like Ive said Im 
satisfied they needed  to take this MPPI to get the particular rate that they did. But I 
havent seen sufficient evidence that Nationwide otherwise pressurised Mr and Mrs R into 
taking out the policy.
The MPPI  provided Mr R with some  protection against accident,  sickness and 
unemployment. It seems most  likely Nationwide didnt give Mr R a personalised 
recommendation to take out the cover, but instead  provided some  information about the 
policy  including that it was compulsory for the mortgage  so Mr and Mrs R could make  
up their own minds  about it. Nationwide didnt therefore need to make sure the MPPI was 
right for Mr and Mrs R, but it did need  to make sure Mr and Mrs R got the information they 
needed to decide  if it was right for them.
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs R about the MPPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been. For example, Mr R appears  to have been working on a fixed  
term contract  at the time. And I can see from the policy  wording that Mr R wouldnt have 
been covered for unemployment that occurred on or after expiry  of the fixed term 
contract, if Mr R continued to work  on the contract beyond its expiry  date.  Ive thought  
carefully about whether this wouldve most likely  affected  Mr and Mrs Rs decision  if 
theyd been given this information in a clear way. But overall,  Im not convinced it would 
have. Based  on what Ive seen of Mr Rs circumstances,  it doesnt look like he was 
affected by any of the other exclusions to or limits on the MPPI cover.  It looks  like he 
could still have  benefited from the accident and sickness  cover, and also the 
unemployment cover  in the right circumstances (theres nothing Ive seen that indicates  
Mr Rs circumstances were such that he wouldnt have been able to claim under the 
accident and sickness section of the policy like anyone else;  and like Ive said,  the 
limitations on the unemployment  cover  were simply regarding his fixed term work). And 
although Mr and Mrs R have said they had some savings,  the mortgage was a long term 
financial commitment  secured on their home; circumstances  could change (including 
Mr Rs employment  situation,  which mightve widened his access  to full cover  for 
unemployment). The MPPI couldve been useful for them  at what couldve been a difficult 
time if Mr R needed to claim under it. It also looks like the MPPI was affordable. Im also 
aware that it appears  Mr and Mrs R had some concerns  about the mortgage being  
approved, and I think they wanted  the mortgage.  So Im not persuaded that better  
information  bearing in mind the MPPI was compulsory for the mortgage rate they got  
wouldve changed  their decision to take it out.
Which means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the MPPI to 
Mr and Mrs R.
Ref: DRN61863003But Nationwide has paid back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs R because:
Nationwide  got a high level of commission  and profit share  (more  than 50% of the MPPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs R about  that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs R, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above  50% of the MPPI  premium  - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs R have said. But for the reasons  explained  above,  
these points dont  change my conclusion. 
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr and Mrs R.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs R any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  I understand  it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6186300