K822xcomplaint
Mr G is unhappy with the service he received from Nationwide Building Society when it 
processed a rate change application  on his mortgage  account.
background
Mr G took out his mortgage  with Nationwide in 2016 and his preferential  rate was due to end 
on 31 May 2019. With the preferential rate coming to an end Nationwide  said Mr G could 
switch to a new rate three months  early without incurring an early  repayment charge.
Mr G applied for a new three  year fixed rate through his mortgage broker. The first set of 
paperwork issued by Nationwide had a typographical error in the amount of cashback Mr G 
would receive; it said it would be £10 rather than £100. Mr Gs broker contacted Nationwide  
to correct the mistake  and a new set of paperwork was issued.
The offer was accepted and Mr Gs mortgage was transferred to the new rate with effect 
from 1 March 2019.
A few weeks  later Nationwide contacted Mr Gs broker  to say there had been another 
mistake with the paperwork.  It said the mortgage term had reverted back to the original  term 
(of 35 years)  rather than continuing  on as it should  (so with a term of just over 32 years 
remaining). This led to the mortgage payment being  quoted as about  £2,030  rather than the 
correct figure of about £2,160. Nationwide said the mortgage account  would  be changed 
back to the correct term and so Mr Gs payments would be the higher amount.
Unhappy with this Mr G complained to Nationwide. He said it was disgraceful  that 
Nationwide had contacted his broker rather than him directly,  and that hed accepted the 
mortgage on the understanding the monthly  payment would  be about £2,030 and the term 
just over 32 years. He said Nationwide should  honour that.
Nationwide apologised for its mistake and offered £150 compensation. It also said it could 
reverse the rate change  so Mr G would be free to remortgage elsewhere when the early 
repayment charge  hed agreed to in 2016  came to an end, but that his account  would then 
revert to the Standard Mortgage  Rate (currently  4.24%) at that time. Alternatively  it said it 
could offer to extend his term, to lower  the payments, if thats what  Mr G wanted.
Our adjudicator felt that was fair and didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr G didnt agree, saying 
he wanted it escalated, and so its been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I dont doubt that this is very important for 
Mr G, but although  Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments  to what  I 
think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive not considered  
it but because  I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Whilst I acknowledge how frustrating it is when  a business makes a mistake, mistakes do 
happen. The paperwork  that Mr G accepted  was factually  correct in that the correct monthly 
payment for a term of 35 years was about  £2,030. The problem is that the term shouldnt 
Ref: DRN60396232have been 35 years, and unfortunately neither Nationwide nor Mr Gs broker noticed that 
error. 
When were looking at complaints of this type we consider the appropriate remedy is to place 
the consumer  in the position they would  be in if the mistake hadnt happened. If the mistake 
hadnt happened, the paperwork would have shown the correct term of just over 32 years 
and the correct monthly payment of about  £2,160. Mr G could never  have been in the 
position where he only needed to pay the (wrong) lower monthly payment and still achieve a 
mortgage term of just over 32 years.
Nationwide made  a fair offer to resolve  this complaint saying the whole rate change can be 
reversed leaving Mr G free to remortgage  elsewhere when his 2016 tie-in  period comes to 
an end, alternatively  it said Mr G can ask to extend the term to reduce his payments.
Its not our role to fine or punish  a business  and our awards arent punitive. Clearly  no 
amount of compensation can change what happened;  all I can do is consider the impact  of a 
businesss actions on the consumer. I also look at the awards of compensation weve made  
in other  similar  cases. Having done so Im satisfied that the £150  compensation already 
offered by Nationwide  is fair.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  in the sense I consider Nationwide  made a 
fair offer. I leave it to Mr G to decide if  on reflection  he now wishes to accept that. 
My final decision concludes this services consideration of the complaint, which  means well 
not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules 
of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr G to accept or reject  my 
decision before  30 June 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6039623