K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out in 
1997. Mr M says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold  him the PPI when he took out his Visa and 
MasterCard cards.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policies werent mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
Barclays had to make it clear that Mr M didnt  have to take out the PPI and he had to choose 
to take it out. Mr M has said the form was sent to him through  the post, not completed in 
branch as Barclays has told us. And so he says Barclays couldnt have explained anything 
about the cover to him and he thinks it added  the PPI to his accounts without him knowing.  
Where there is such a dispute, I need  to consider what  I think is more likely to have 
happened.
Barclays has given me a copy of Mr Ms credit  card application form that he completed for 
both the Visa and MasterCard. This form includes  a section on PPI, with yes and no 
boxes to tick to show whether or not PPI was required.  And the yes box has been ticked. 
Ive noted Mr Ms comments about where  the sale took place  but, from looking at the form, it 
does appear to be one that was obtained from a branch, rather than a form that was posted 
to him. But in any event  I dont think this makes a difference to the outcome. I say this 
because it included options to tick to accept  or decline to take out the PPI. If Mr M didnt 
want to take out the PPI he could have ticked the no box. He has also signed  the overall 
application which suggests he agreed  with everything that had been entered.
So on balance, taking  into account everything  Ive been told and seen, I think  Barclays  
made it clear  the policies  were optional and Mr M agreed to take them  out, knowing he 
could refuse  them if he didnt want it.
Barclays says it recommended the PPI to Mr M and as this puts a greater responsibility on it, 
rather than Mr M, I will also assess the complaint on this basis.  This means Barclays had to 
check that the PPI was right for him  and based  on what  Ive seen of his circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. For example, it appears he was eligible for the cover and he 
wasnt affected by any of the main  exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover, such  as unusual 
working arrangements or a medical  condition of which he was already aware.
And it looks like it could  have been  a useful  benefit to him. From what we have been told 
Mr M would only have  received statutory sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to work.  
These policies would have paid out for up to 12 months if he was unable  to work due to 
accident or sickness and this would have been  in addition to, and potentially  for longer than, 
his sick pay. And it would have paid out for the same length  of time if he was to lose his job. 
As Mr M has said he didnt have any savings or other means with which to make his 
Ref: DRN66481212repayments if he wasnt earning I think it could have  given him the reassurance that his 
monthly payments  would be protected if anything was to go wrong. 
Its possible  the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it seems like it would have been  useful for him if something  went wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about  the PPI would have 
stopped him taking out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the costs of the PPI on his MasterCard account to Mr M 
because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  on the MasterCard account - and I think that is fair 
in this case.
But in relation to the Visa account  taken out at the same time, Barclays doesnt  need to 
refund any of the commission Mr M paid for the PPI they had with this credit  card.  The FCA 
said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI policy   
more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could  create 
an unfair relationship  between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that businesses 
should pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 50% of the 
PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
Barclays has given me information  that shows Mr Ms Visa credit  card was taken out in 1997  
and ended in 2007. So based on what Ive said above, I dont think the unfair relationship  
provisions in the Consumer Credit  Act, the Supreme Court  judgment,  or the rules and 
guidance made by the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission  apply here.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium on his MasterCard account. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Ref: DRN66481213Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6648121