K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that Metro Bank PLC has unfairly closed her accounts  and tarnished  her 
reputation. She wants Metro to re-open her accounts and pay her compensation for stress.
background
Metro reviewed Ms Cs account  following notification that she had received funds originating  
from a very large, fraudulent payment. Metro said this was the first entry on her account,  and 
it wrote  to tell her it intended to close her accounts  in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the account with seven days notice.
Metro advised  Ms C to speak to the sender of the funds and provide Metro with an 
explanation and any evidence of entitlement to the funds. Ms C sent some  information, but 
Metro wasnt satisfied  with this and said it no longer wanted to bank with Ms C and said it 
had returned the funds  to the sending bank  that had initially reported  the fraud.
Ms C said it isnt fair that Metro closed her accounts  and is associating  her with a fraudulent  
payment. She described how her business works.  Metro said it hadnt accused  her of fraud 
and took a commercial  decision  to end their banking relationship as its entitled  to do.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  He said Metro  reviewed and 
closed Ms Cs accounts in line with its legal and regulatory obligations and doesnt have to 
give a further  explanation.  He said although  Ms C explained the business she works in Metro  
is entitled to more than informal WhatsApp messages as proof of her entitlement to the 
payment. He said the fraudster, rather than Metro had caused the stress suffered by Ms C.
Ms C disagreed with the investigator, saying his findings  are biased, unfair and badly 
documented. She said given the lack of fraud on her part termination of her accounts without 
any grounds was arbitrary. Ms C requested  an ombudsman review her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms C was unhappy that Metro closed her accounts  saying it acted arbitrarily  as she hasnt  
been accused of fraud.  Ive looked carefully at Metros decisions and handling  of Ms Cs 
account to see if it followed its procedures and treated her fairly. 
We would  expect to see some audit trail for a very large business  payment such  as the one 
Ms C received, or some  confirmation  from the owner of the funds as to the legitimacy  of the 
payment. Ms C has only provided informal WhatsApp messages and these dont  constitute  
strong enough evidence for Metro. 
From Metros terms and conditions its clear it has the authority to review,  block and close 
customer accounts. Metro, in common with all banks, can take this action without giving their 
customer detailed explanations. 
Banks are required to follow legal and regulatory obligations. These are that they review  
customers accounts, and where they feel it appropriate, close accounts. From what  I have 
Ref: DRN68200452seen Metro has correctly  followed its legal obligations and acted within  the terms and 
conditions of Ms Cs accounts in deciding to close her account. 
Banks generally give consumers 60 days notice of closure but Metro said that when there  is 
confirmed fraud, its terms and conditions allow it to reduce this notice period. The payment 
that was received by Ms C has been confirmed as fraudulent and I think  Metro  was entitled 
to act as it has.
Although it is frustrating to Ms C, she hasnt provided justification  for her entitlement  to the 
funds and so I think  Metro has treated her fairly and I cannot uphold  her complaint. Metro 
has confirmed that it hasnt recorded  a fraud  marker  against Ms C.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6820045