K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complaint is about two insurance  policies he took out through Lloyds Bank PLC 
(Lloyds) alongside his mortgage and a personal  loan.
background
Mr J took out some  additional borrowings  on his mortgage in 2007 and at the same time took 
out a Critical Illness and Life Insurance policy to cover all his mortgage borrowings.  
In 2011 he took out a similar insurance policy alongside a personal loan. Mr J later 
complained that both polices had been  mis-sold and he wanted his premiums  refunding.
Lloyds didnt agree  any compensation was due and the complaint was brought  to service.
The full background to this complaint can be found in my provisional decision issued in 
March 2019. A copy of that provisional  decision is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  in detail why I thought the policies hadnt  been is-sold 
and Lloyds didnt  need to pay any compensation to Mr J.
Neither Lloyds nor Mr J has submitted any comments or further evidence  in response to my 
provisional decision for me to consider. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I explained in full in my provisional decision why I thought Lloyds had done nothing wrong 
when it sold the insurance policies to Mr J and no compensation was due. 
As neither party has disputed any of the issues or information I set out in my provisional 
decision, nor provided any further information,  I can see no reason to change  my findings.
I said based on what I had seen that I thought Mr J had been  sold Critical Illness and Life 
Insurance policies  related to his mortgage  and his loan,  and that neither policy had been 
mis-sold to him. 
I also said as the rules the FCA introduced  in response to a Supreme Court  ruling  only apply 
to an unfair  relationship related to PPI policies, and this wasnt  the type of policy Mr J had 
taken out with either his mortgage  or his loan, then his case  was not affected by the new 
rules.
my final decision
My final decision is that for the reasons indicated above and set out in full in my provisional 
decision, I think Lloyds  Bank PLC did nothing wrong  and Im not upholding Mr Js complaint. 
Ref: DRN69242662Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN69242663Copy of Provisional Decision
background
In 2007 Mr J applied to Lloyds to extend  the amount he had borrowed on his mortgage. At the same  
time he discussed and was advised about  protecting  his mortgage  and took out a Critical  Illness and 
Life Insurance policy, one policy to protect his original  mortgage and another  to cover the new 
borrowings. Mr J now says this insurance was mis-sold  as he wanted cover for unemployment, as he 
had in the past been  made unemployed,  and he thought the policies hed bought  covered this.
Then in January 2011 Mr J applied  for a loan to buy a car. Again he was sold insurance cover for 
critical illness and life. Mr J says it wasnt clear this policy  was optional. He says he was told he had to 
buy this insurance  if he wanted to get his loan so believes this policy was also mis-sold.
In December 2011 he complained to Lloyds  about both policies wanting  a refund of his premiums.  
Lloyds said both policies  had been  recommended to Mr J based on his needs, as discussed with him 
at the time,  and the policies were suitable for him. It said it had done nothing  wrong  in selling this 
insurance to Mr J and no compensation  was due.
Mr J didnt accept that to be the case and brought his complaint to this service. Our adjudicator said 
Lloyds had done nothing wrong. But Mr J was still unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to consider  
this complaint.
This review by an ombudsman has been delayed  as it was thought Mr Js complaint may be affected 
by a case that was going to the Supreme  Court. And following that a delay continued  whilst the 
Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) introduced  new rules based on the Court judgment.
The matter has now been referred to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
policies purchased  in 2007 alongside Mr Js mortgage
When Mr J applied for the additional funds to be added to his mortgage he had a meeting with Lloyds. 
During the course of this meeting a number  of forms were completed,  one being  an Insurance Fact 
Find. I can see that in the section  headed Protect  You and Your Mortgage a box has been ticked  
against the statement Customer chose not to receive a recommendation and Illustration for Payment  
Protection Plus.
Payment Protection Plus was an insurance package providing Unemployment, Accident and Sickness 
Cover. But the completion of the form at the time indicates Mr J had selected not to receive  advice or 
information about this.
The other  paperwork shows that Mr J had at the time indicated he was concerned about  the lack of 
protection he had in place if he should become critically ill or die as his mother  shared  the house with 
him. Having completed  all the forms Lloyds recommended Critical Illness and Life cover as suitable  
for Mr J. The Quote Summary given to Mr J sets out the benefits  payable that could  be received in 
the event of a claim and the documents  do show details of what the policy covered, with no reference 
to unemployment cover.
Ref: DRN69242664Although Mr J says he never wanted critical  illness cover, the policy recommended was for this but 
with the amount of life cover he wanted also included.  So he got the critical illness cover  and life cover 
for the same price  he wouldve paid for a life only policy.
In addition on 26 January  2007 Mr J was sent a letter from the insurer which starts with the words  
Thank you for taking out this Protection for Life policy  with us .  The Policy Schedule also sent 
states at the top Critical Illness with Life Cover.  Again no reference is made to unemployment cover.
Taking account of all the documentation completed at the time of the sale and provided  to Mr J, plus 
the insurance  information sent a few days later,  I think Mr J should have been aware of the type of 
policies he was buying. And I have seen  nothing to show he said at the time he wanted,  or was led to 
believe his policies covered,  unemployment.
The policies Mr J bought  were suitable for his circumstances and I cannot  see he was caught by any 
of the restrictions in the terms and conditions. Overall I can find nothing  wrong in the information and 
recommendations made by Lloyds to Mr J. So I dont think these  policies were mis-sold.
policy purchased in 2011  alongside a personal loan
In January 2011 Mr J visited his local Lloyds  branch and applied for a loan to buy a car. At the same 
time his insurance needs were again discussed and it was recommended Mr J buy a critical illness  
and life policy  to provide an amount to repay this loan.  
Mr J says this policy was mis-sold as he was told by Lloyds representative that he probably couldnt  
get the loan if he didnt take out his insurance. He also says he had taken  loans out in the past and 
never been forced into taking PPI out.
The policy Mr J bought was not a payment protection insurance policy  (PPI), although he has said he 
wanted unemployment  cover  not critical illness and life, which is what  he bought.
It is impossible  to know exactly what was said at any meeting or over the telephone and the only 
records from the time are the documents completed. These indicate  the insurance policy was applied 
for by separate documentation  signed by Mr J on 21 March 2011 following a meeting to discuss his 
needs. 
Again Mr J was sent a welcome letter and insurance  schedule,  dated  13 April 2011 afterwards 
confirming the cover  was Protection for Life that covered critical illness and life protection. 
The information provided to Mr J indicated he did have a choice in taking out this policy. The welcome 
letter of the 13 April 2011 had a section headed I wish to cancel my policy  and a cancellation notice 
included which indicated this could  be cancelled  within 30 days  and any premiums would  be returned. 
The application form for the insurance was separate to the loan agreement and it would seem to have 
been completed after the loan application when Mr J had had his meeting  to review his financial 
needs. 
So I dont think this policy was presented to Mr J as being essential for him to obtain the loan, and it 
was made very clear  he could cancel at no cost.
Again the policy seems to be suitable for Mr Js circumstances and he wasnt caught  by any of the 
restrictions. So I dont think Lloyds  did anything  wrong  when it sold this policy to Mr J.
effect of the Supreme Court decision  and the FCA rules
It is regrettable that Mr J has had to wait so long for an ombudsman to review his case. However this 
is because it wasnt clear if his complaint  may be affected  by a Supreme Court case  and subsequent 
rules introduced by the FCA.
Ref: DRN69242665The rules the FCA have introduced  in response to the Supreme  Court ruling only apply to any unfair  
relationship related to PPI policies,  which are for unemployment, accident and sickness,  sometimes 
including life cover. As Mr J only had insurance to cover critical illness and life, and was not a PPI 
policy, his case is not affected by the new rules.
I have issued a provisional decision on this matter as it has been a long time since our adjudicator  
sent out the initial assessment and recommendation. I therefore felt I would give both parties  a final 
opportunity to submit  any further information or comments before  making my final decision. Any 
responses should be received  by the date stated at the start of this decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  I have  set out, I am not intending  to uphold Mr Js complaint that Lloyds Bank PLC 
did anything wrong or mis-sold him the critical  insurance policies taken  out with this mortgage and 
loan.
This is subject to any further evidence or information provided by either  party by the 10 April 2019 
stated at the start of this decision.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6924266