K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC ignored her instructions to transfer  funds from 
her late husbands  investment  accounts.
Mrs M is both beneficiary and one of three  executors  of Mr Ms estate. Whilst all executors 
have given consent for our service to look into this complaint, Mrs M is bringing this 
complaint in her capacity  as beneficiary.
background
In summary  the background  to this complaint is as follows:
 
In 2018 Mrs M instructed  Barclays  to transfer stocks and shares as well as cash from two of 
her late husbands  investment  accounts. One was a stocks and shares  ISA, the other was a 
General Investment Account  (GIA). Both of these accounts held shares and cash.  
The transfer of Mr Ms shares from his GIA happened in July 2018  to Mrs Ms GIA. But a 
cash balance of just over £85,000 wasnt transferred.  Barclays explained that in relation to 
the ISA, as further funds had been paid into Mr Ms account following his death, there was 
just over £15,000 cash that couldnt be transferred to Mrs M as this wouldve taken her over 
her Additional Permitted Subscription (APS) allowance. So Barclays said itd held back on 
transferring any further cash from both Mr Ms GIA and ISA until it received further 
instructions from Mrs M. Barclays said it did this as it thought  Mrs M would want to transfer  
the cash balances  from Mr Ms GIA and ISA at the same time.
Our investigator issued  a view where  she said that whilst  Barclays had made mistakes, she 
was satisfied it had provided sufficient compensation for these. In December 2020, I issued 
a provisional decision  that was sent to both parties.  I upheld  the complaint and said that 
most of the compensation that had already been paid or offered to Mrs M, was in respect of 
other complaints so shouldnt be taken into account  in this case. I said I was intending to 
award Mrs M a total of £350 for the mistakes  Barclays  had made  in respect  of this complaint.
Mrs M disagreed with my findings. In summary, Mrs M said:
Barclays mistakes  have caused her anger and disbelief;
Barclays ignored her clear instructions and didnt act in good faith;
She doesnt agree it was reasonable for Barclays to not transfer the amount in 
Mr Ms account that would  have  taken her over her APS allowance;
The ombudsman didnt need to cover the redress paid in respect of other complaints;
The ombudsman hadnt dealt with the crux of her complaint;
Barclays bereavement department are at fault and should  be held accountable; 
By disregarding her written instructions Barclays have acted illegally and started  a 
catastrophic domino  effect;
She disputes that she kept in regular  contact with the bank;
Barclays have only recently  provided full information  about Mr Ms accounts.
Barclays agreed with my findings and had nothing further to add.
Ref: DRN61454392my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs M has raised  a number of points during her contact  with this service and 
Barclays. Shes given a detailed response to my provisional decision. Ive considered 
everything Mrs M has said but limited my findings to those areas which  impact  on the 
outcome of the case. We are an informal  service  and our rules allow me to focus on what I 
consider relevant. So if theres something  Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored  
anything  I havent.
 
I appreciate Mrs M has said this matter has caused  her anger and disbelief rather than 
confusion and upset.  I take on board how strongly  she feels  about this complaint. But 
overall, I dont think anything that Mrs M has said in response to my provisional  decision has 
changed my mind about the outcome I said I was intending to reach. Most of the issues 
shes raised were covered  in my provisional decision. This extract  from my provisional 
decision now forms part of my final decision:
 
The first thing to note is its not disputed that the cash  and shares held in Mr Ms accounts, 
were due to be transferred to Mrs Ms accounts in early July 2018.  I can see that £229,425 
was transferred from Mr Ms ISA to Mrs Ms ISA on 4 July 2018. This was the sum that was 
allowed under  APS rules because at the date of Mr Ms death, it was the balance in his ISA. 
Therefore this was the sum that could be transferred to Mrs M without going over her APS 
allowance. As certain investments paid dividends  and interest  following Mr Ms death, there 
was £15,500 more in his ISA by the time it was due to be transferred to Mrs M. So given this, 
in terms of the ISA, Im satisfied when Barclays decided not to transfer the sum that was 
over the APS allowance to Mrs Ms ISA, this was a reasonable step to take.
In respect of Mr Ms GIA, the cash  element of £85,434 was due to be transferred at the 
same time as the shares held in that account.  The shares were transferred in specie on 2 
July 2018. But the cash element was only transferred  in October 2018 once Mrs M 
complained to Barclays. I can hear during  a call in late August 2018  with a Barclays  call 
handler who had been assigned to Mrs Ms case, Mrs M was told £100,000 in total remained 
in Mr Ms accounts.
Given Mrs M was expecting the transfer to fully complete in July 2018, I can understand  why 
Mrs M then questioned where this money  had come from. But the call handler was unable  to 
say why that amount still remained in Mr Ms ISA and GIA. Barclays has since explained that 
because Mrs M had gone over her APS in respect  of the ISA, it didnt transfer  the £15,500 
that was over her allowance. But at the same  time,  it decided  it would not transfer the 
£85,434 remaining  in Mr Ms GIA until it heard further from Mrs M. It said this was because 
Mrs M may have wanted to transfer both cash  balances at the same time, rather than 
splitting up these transactions.  So this is why when Mrs M called in August 2018, there was 
still £100,000  remaining  in Mr Ms accounts.
Looking at everything, I do consider  Barclays took the decision to delay the transfer from 
Mr Ms GIA in good faith. But I think because it wasnt communicated to Mrs M sooner and 
made clear to her why this had happened, this caused her confusion and upset. From what  I 
can hear it was only when she contacted Barclays in late August 2018 that she became 
aware that there was a total of £100,000 remaining in cash in Mr Ms GIA and ISA. And even 
Ref: DRN61454393at that point Barclays was unable to tell Mrs M where this money  had come from. I think  this 
caused Mrs M avoidable trouble and upset.
Nonetheless, I can see that even once Mrs M was told about the remaining cash  in her ISA 
and given options on how she could transfer this cash, she didnt do so. I appreciate  this is 
because she was upset  with Barclays conduct,  but I cant  fairly hold Barclays  responsible for 
the further delays this caused. For the delay to the transfer from Mr Ms GIA to Mrs Ms GIA 
and the overall  communication issues experienced by Mrs M, Im intending to award her 
£250 for the trouble and upset that was caused.  As Ive said I do think the action it took in 
respect of Mr Ms ISA was fair and reasonable in the circumstances. At the same  time, I 
think this and the issues with the GIA couldve been  better communicated  to Mrs M.
In terms of financial loss, I can see Barclays sold sixteen shares from Mrs Ms GIA to 
recover just over £11 in administrative fees  the shares sold for a total of nearly £20. 
Because there wasnt sufficient cash in Mrs Ms GIA to pay the fees in September 2018, 
Barclays could under the terms the account, sell investments  to settle any unpaid fees. But I 
consider if the transfer from Mr Ms GIA had been  made when it shouldve been,  there  would 
have been sufficient funds in Mrs Ms GIA to cover the fees. Further the required notice 
wasnt sent to her. Overall, I agree with Barclays offer of £50 for the financial loss. I think this 
will allow Mrs M to buy back the shares  taking into account any price movements. I also 
think for the inconvenience  of having  to do this, Ill also award a further £50. I know  Mrs M 
wants Barclays to buy back the shares for her, but this isnt something it can usually do. And 
on balance, I think the offer of compensation is fair in these  particular circumstances. 
Ive not seen any evidence of other financial loss Mrs M may have suffered as a result of the 
delays to the transfer of Mr Ms GIA funds. I say this because the GIA transfer  was sent in 
cash to Mrs Ms GIA which is a non-interest bearing account in terms of cash  balances. 
Mrs M didnt  invest  this sum when it was transferred and I can see from statements up until 
April 2019, that this sum remained  a cash balance in her GIA. So I dont think  theres been 
any other financial loss other than that Ive already considered for the sale of the shares.  
I know theres been some confusion  about  compensation offered  or paid to Mrs M in 2018 by
Barclays. In summary, I can see the following payments and offers:
March 2018  - £300. This sum was paid to Mrs M in respect  of a separate  complaint 
made in November 2018;
May 2018  Mrs M was given a goodwill gesture (hamper)  for some customer  service 
issues not related  to this particular complaint;
July 2018   Mrs M was offered £100 for any inconvenience caused in relation to the 
initial transfer and other customer service  issues. Mrs M told Barclays  she accepted 
this offer but its unclear whether this was paid to her. Barclays  said this offer was still 
open to Mrs M if shes not received it; 
September 2018  Barclays offered £50 so that Mrs M could buy back  shares. 
So I think the only compensation  that relates  to this current complaint is the £50 to buy back  
the shares. Everything  else is part of separate complaints.
Finally, I know  Mrs M has lots of questions about the £100,000 Barclays  have  talked about.  
But from what Ive seen  the explanation is as Ive set out above. There  was a total of 
£100,000 remaining in the GIA and ISA after the initial transfer  in July 2018 - £85,434 of 
which shouldve been transferred in July 2018.  Barclays have confirmed Mr Ms GIA account 
Ref: DRN61454394is now empty and it was waiting for Mrs Ms instructions in terms of the ISA. If Mrs M has not 
already done so, she will need  to contact Barclays about the ISA transfer.
As I noted  above,  Mrs M provided  further submissions to my provisional decision.  Ill respond 
to her main points now. 
In my provisional decision I agreed  that Barclays had made a mistake when it failed to carry 
out part of Mrs Ms instructions. When I said I think this was done  in good faith, I should 
clarify this by saying  that I think it was done  with the best intentions.  Nonetheless, I think 
Barclays made a mistake when it did this and could have contacted Mrs M before  making 
the decision about the remaining cash balances in Mr Ms accounts. This remains  my view.  
And I still consider  Barclays  acted  reasonably  when  it didnt transfer  the cash  balance from 
Mr Ms ISA that was over Mrs Ms APS allowance.
In terms of the communication issues, I know Mrs M doesnt  agree she was in regular 
contact with Barclays. From what I can see, she was in contact  with a dedicated point of 
contact at Barclays who did provide Mrs M with updates. I do, however, accept the 
communication about the remaining cash balances, was poor.  I also note what Mrs M says 
about only recently receiving statements from Mr Ms account. Overall, Im satisfied Mrs M 
has received sufficient information about what has been transferred and what is remaining in 
Mr Ms accounts. Shes been  made  aware of the remaining £15,500 in Mr Ms ISA by 
Barclays and this service on several  occasions.  And shes access to her own GIA and ISA 
accounts where Mr Ms shares and cash were transferred to.
I note what Mrs M says about what I said in respect  of other compensation paid or offered to 
her by Barclays  she thinks I shouldnt have spent time looking at this issue. Whilst I 
appreciate what Mrs M says, its for me to decide whether something is relevant to my 
decision. In this case, there was quite  a bit of confusion about other compensation paid or 
offered to Mrs M. Barclays  initially told this service  Mrs M had already  received 
compensation for its mistake and our investigator agreed with this. Mrs M then raised the 
issue in response  to the investigators view. So Im satisfied references to these matters are 
relevant to this complaint.
Mrs M says she thinks I dont fully understand her complaint.  But Im satisfied that Ive 
sufficient information  to understand her complaint and to decide on it. Notably, in her email 
dated 1 April 2019 Mrs M said (bold  and capital letters are Mrs Ms emphasis):
Now we come to the main crux of complaint. Who were the people or person who 
decided not to carry out my instructions as they are the ones totally responsible for 
the unearthly mess that triggered OFF a DOMINO EFFECT. THIS I NEED TO KNOW 
AND SO DO BARCLAYS AS THEIR EMPLOYEES ARE TAKING THEIR CLIENTS 
MATTERS AND INSTRUCTIONS INTO  THEIR OWN HANDS. THIS QUESTION I PUT ON 
MY APPLICATION FORM BUT YOU HAVE CHOSEN TO IGNORE IT." 
Mrs M has reiterated these points more recently in response to my provisional decision. 
Looking at what Mrs M has told this service and to Barclays, Im satisfied Ive dealt with the 
crux of her complaint in my provisional  decision and now in my final decision. I know she 
doesnt think Ive taken account  of what she calls the catastrophic domino effect of Barclays 
mistake. But Ive fully considered the impact on Mrs M and awarded  compensation 
according to what I think is fair, reasonable and proportionate to Barclays mistake.  
Ref: DRN61454395Finally, Mrs M wants to know exactly who in Barclays is responsible for what happened  and 
is particularly unhappy with its bereavement department  who she considers have  acted 
illegally. But as Ive said, my role is to decide  whether  Barclays, as a business, has made 
an error. I dont need to specifically apportion blame  on any particular department to do this. 
Further, this service isnt intended  to regulate or punish businesses  for their conduct   that is 
the role of the Financial Conduct  Authority.  Instead  this service looks to resolve individual 
complaints between a consumer  and a business.  Should we decide that something has gone 
wrong we would ask the business  to put things right by placing the consumer, as far as is 
possible, in the position they would have  been  if the problem hadnt occurred. And this is 
what Ive done  in Mrs Ms case.
For all these reasons, Im upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
my final decision
Im upholding the complaint and I order Barclays Bank UK PLC to pay Mrs M the following 
redress:
£300 for the distress  and inconvenience caused by its mistakes; 
£50 to cover the cost of purchasing shares  sold by Barclays.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 March 2021.
Yolande McLeod
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6145439