K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that she was given wrong information about  a pearl necklace being 
covered as part of a claim under  her travel insurance policy  with AXA Insurance UK Plc.
background
In October  2018 Miss P made a claim under her travel insurance policy for her suitcase, and 
contents, which were lost a few months earlier when she was traveling home from an airport 
by train.  Part of the claim  was for a pearl necklace  which was in the suitcase at the time. 
Miss P spoke to AXA but wasnt told that the necklace wouldnt be covered. 
AXA investigated the claim and asked Miss P for proof of ownership of the necklace.  AXA 
then sent Miss P a letter saying that the full amount of the claim would be paid. A few days  
later AXA sent another letter saying the necklace  wasnt going to be paid as part of the 
claim. AXA said this was because the suitcase was left unattended/out of sight.
Miss P complained to AXA who partially upheld  the complaint. AXA said that whilst they 
maintain the necklace isnt covered under the policy as the suitcase was unattended,  they 
had given incorrect information and paid Miss P £100 for the inconvenience. Miss P, whilst 
acknowledging that the necklace wasnt covered, remained unhappy  with the service shed 
received from AXA and brought her complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened and was satisfied that AXA acted  in 
line with the policy terms and conditions when declining to pay for the necklace. Our 
investigator also thought the £100  compensation AXA had paid for giving wrong  information  
reflected the error that had been made. Miss P remained  unhappy,  so the complaint  has 
come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same  conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
Ive reviewed the terms and conditions of Miss Ps policy which say that valuables, including 
jewellery such as necklaces, arent covered when left unattended.  So, Im satisfied AXA has 
acted fairly  when not covering the necklace as part of the claim. Miss P also accepts  that the 
necklace isnt covered.  
The remaining  problem is one of loss of expectation,  and the trouble this has caused. All 
parties agree that the necklace isnt covered under the policy, and that AXA shouldve  told 
Miss P this sooner than they did. For this mistake AXA has paid Miss P £100. 
Miss P says that had she been told earlier that the necklace wasnt covered she wouldve 
contacted her home insurer. AXA wasnt clear early in the claims process about the necklace 
not be covered  as part of the claim. They also caused confusion by writing to Miss P saying 
the necklace would be paid as part of the claim, but then writing to say that it wouldnt be 
paid. 
However, I havent seen  any evidence that this delay providing the correct information, 
although annoying and un-necessary, has had any effect on Miss P making a claim with her 
Ref: DRN62009882home insurer. Miss P says she now has a policy with a different insurer,  but this doesnt  
mean that a back dated claim couldnt be attempted with her insurer  at the time.
Im satisfied that AXA acted fairly and reasonably when applying  the policy  terms and 
conditions and not covering the necklace as part of the claim. Im also satisfied the £100  
AXA has paid is fair compensation for the incorrect information they gave  and the upset this 
caused. I therefore wont be asking AXA to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 December 2019. 
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6200988