K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Skipton Building  Society  (Skipton) mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with their mortgage.  
background
Mr and Mrs M took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1995. Mr and Mrs M paid a monthly  amount 
for the policy. The mortgage  and the cover  were in joint names.
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion,  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Ive read and considered the whole file, but Ill confine my 
comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific  point its not because  Ive 
failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to comment  on it in order  to reach  what I think 
is the right outcome in the wider context. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. I explain why below.
I think Skipton made Mr and Mrs M aware that they had a choice about buying the PPI, and they 
chose to take it. 
I say that because Skipton has been  able to provide a copy of the mortgage application 
form. To get the PPI, Mr and Mrs M had to tick for it on the mortgage application form. I have 
noted that when the form asked if Mr and Mrs M wanted PPI, they ticked  a Yes box. Had Mr 
and Mrs M not wanted to take the PPI for Mr and Mrs M they could have ticked the No box. 
And because there was a No box, Mr and Mrs M ought to have understood this was 
something they could  say No to. There  is no language in the documentation that implies or 
states that they had to take the cover  to get the mortgage. 
Skipton has also provided a copy of the mortgage  offer.  Its an important document  that Mr and 
Mrs M are most likely to have read. It described  the PPI as an Optional Insurance and in section 9 
it says,
Insurance you must  take out through  Skipton
You are not required to buy any insurance  through Skipton Building Society.
So, on balance I think that Mr and Mrs M took the cover and knew that they had a choice  
about doing so. 
Both parties  recall this was an advised  sale. As advice was given, Skipton needed to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs M and I think it was suitable 
for Mr and Mrs M based  on their circumstances at the time. 
Ref: DRN62184692I say this because  Mr and Mrs M were eligible for the policy and werent affected by any of 
the exclusions from or limits to the PPI cover to the extent  that they would have avoided the 
policy if better information had been  provided. In saying that I have noted that Mr M had a 
pre-existing medical condition at the time of the sale. Its arguable whether, at the time of the 
sale, it was serious enough  to have been a reason for avoiding a policy that excluded it. But 
in this case the policy terms meant that Mr M could have had a claim for this condition 
considered after the policy had been  in place for a year. So, I think that Mr and Mrs M would 
have thought that this would be valuable cover. Ive also considered that Mr M could have  
made a sickness claim for any condition that was not pre-existing had he needed to, or an 
unemployment claim if he lost his job. So, having  considered all of the above, I do not think  
that this was sufficient  to make an otherwise suitable policy  unsuitable. And I do not think  Mr 
and Mrs M would have decided not to buy the policy if they had received better information 
about the limitation around pre-existing conditions.
Mr and Mrs M seem to have had a need for the cover. Mr and Mrs M told us that they had 
some sick pay they could rely on, but this would have dropped significantly after a time such  
that Mr and Mrs M might have had to sell their car or relied on their parents for support in 
making their mortgage repayments. The PPI policy wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay 
Mr and Mrs M would  have  received  and would have covered them  for up to 12 months  if they 
were unable to work because of accident  or sickness, or if they lost a job. So, considering  all 
of the above and the potentially serious implications of defaulting on a loan secured on your 
home, I think  they wouldve found the PPI useful.
The policy cost appears to have been comparable to other similar  policies at the time and it 
appears to have been affordable. 
So, having  thought about everything carefully,  I think the policy  was suitable for Mr and Mrs 
M.
As well as checking the policy  was right for Mr and Mrs M, Skipton also had to give them 
clear enough  information  about  the policy so they could decide if they wanted to buy it. Its 
possible the information Skipton gave Mr and Mrs M about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But for the same reasons Ive mentioned above that I think  the policy  was 
suitable for them, I dont  think  better information  wouldve  stopped them from buying it. 
I know Mr and Mrs M feel strongly  and have put time and effort into their complaint. I realise  theyll 
be disappointed  by the outcome. But on balance, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont  think Mr 
and Mrs M lost out because of anything Skipton may have done wrong. 
Ref: DRN62184693my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint brought by Mr and Mrs M against  Skipton  Building Society. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 May 2020.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6218469