K821x#15complaint
Mr D is unhappy with the way Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV) has handled a claim
made on his travel insurance policy.
Any references to URV include  its costs containment  agents.
background
Mr D took out an annual travel insurance  policy underwritten  by URV to cover  himself and
his family  for the period 16 July 2017  to 15 July 2018 (the policy). Shortly  after taking out
the policy, they travelled to the USA. Whilst away, Mr D suffered pain in his ear and, in early 
August 2017,  attended a medical centre  for treatment.
After returning  from the USA, Mr D received an itemised invoice from the healthcare
provider, dated  9 October 2017, for $374 (the invoice). He was told the balance was due
within 30 days. Mr D promptly made a claim on the policy,  and at the end of November 2017,
URV responded saying in order to proceed  with the claim Mr D needed to pay the policy
excess of £100.  He duly did this.
In June 2018 Mr D received  a final collection notice from the healthcare  provider notifying
him the invoice hadnt been  paid and that unless payment was received within 15 days, it
would forward the matter to the USA credit bureau  for legal action. Mr D contacted URV. He 
was told that after receiving the excess payment from him, it hadnt taken any further action 
on his claim - due to an administrative error. It apologised and reimbursed him £100 as a 
gesture of goodwill.
URV subsequently  decided  not to pay the full amount of the invoice. It said the amounts
charged had been  unreasonably  inflated by the medical centre.  It only paid $251.26,  leaving
around $122 outstanding  (the outstanding amount).
In September  2018, the healthcare provider commenced legal  proceedings against  Mr D in
the USA. URV has agreed to cover  the costs of Mr D being represented in the defence and 
application to strike  out the claim brought  against  him and has appointed legal firms in both 
the UK and the USA to act for him.
Throughout, Mr D has said he wants URV to settle  the outstanding  amount. Hes very 
unhappy that URV has chosen not to do this and that hes been embroiled in legal
proceedings, through no fault of his own.
URV has declined  to pay the outstanding  amount. It says this dispute forms part of a wider,
mass legal action involving this particular healthcare provider - who it says has been
overcharging its policyholders.  It says the USA government annually  issues  Congressional
guidelines (the guidelines) which set out the suggested rates  of payment for medical
procedures and treatment. URV  says it uses the guidelines as a benchmark when deciding
whether the amounts charged are reasonable. It says it agrees a certain percentage above 
this, which  its disclosed to our Service.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ds complaint. Although she said URV is entitled  to dispute an
invoice, in this particular case,  she didnt  think it was fair or reasonable for URV to continue 
to do so - especially given Mr D is being personally pursued for the outstanding balance  and 
the relatively small amount in dispute. She recommended  URV  pay the outstanding amount 
Ref: DRN66331722to the healthcare provider and a further  £150 to Mr D for the trouble and upset it had caused  
him.
URV agreed  to pay Mr D £150. But it didnt think it should pay the outstanding amount. It
asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman to decide. 
I issued my provisional decision in July 2019. I explained that I was intending to uphold the 
complaint because URV had a duty to fairly manage  any conflicts  between  their own 
interests and those of Mr D; I didnt think it had struck a fair balance  in this case.  Thats 
because I explained  that I intended  to find it unreasonably put its own commercial interests 
above Mr Ds. The amount in dispute was comparatively small and when balancing that 
against the continuing worry, trouble and upset  the protracted litigation was causing Mr D, I 
didnt think it was fair and reasonable to embroil him in legal proceedings. 
Whilst an amount hasnt yet been ascertained which Mr D is due to pay to the healthcare  
provider - and so theres no present  liability to indemnify Mr D against that loss - I 
provisionally decided  that it should  because there  was insufficient evidence  that the invoice 
was inflated and / or I didnt think URV  had acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which  it 
had taken over the handling of Mr Ds claim in this particular case.
I provisionally directed  URV to pay the outstanding  amount  to the healthcare provider - 
together with any interest due on the outstanding  amount,  court fees and / or legal fees that 
Mr D could be liable for  and a further  payment of £400 compensation to reflect  the trouble 
and upset hed experienced.  
I invited both parties to provide me with any further  comments or evidence  to consider. Mr D 
agreed with my provisional  decision. URV responded with a number of points including:
its cost containment agents had sent a letter  of reassurance  to Mr D together with a 
cost containment guide in June 2018 which sought  to provide assurances that the 
outstanding amount  wouldnt  affect his ability to travel to the USA; 
further assurances were given  in July and October 2018 and Mr D was told that he 
wouldnt have to pay anything, and wouldnt suffer any adverse  consequences as a 
result of the ongoing legal action;
it cant be held responsible for excessive charges by a hospital  because of the 
pressure that is subsequently applied  by healthcare providers to its policyholders;  
its important for insurers to contest overcharging  whenever its encountered; 
its paid reasonable fees for the treatment Mr D had to have and it wont be making 
any further payment  in this regard;
the disputed  amount  is purely between URV and the healthcare provider; and
it wont pay costs that are grossly excessive  or generated through  suspected 
fraudulent activity, simply as a means  to stop the actions of debt collectors 
deliberately targeting its policyholders  in lieu of negotiating a reasonable settlement  
with us.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  Mr Ds 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
The policy terms say URV:
Ref: DRN66331723may take over and deal with in your name the defence / settlement of any claim
made under the policy.
In effect, this means URV  is allowed to take over the conduct of a claim - defending or
settling it for URVs benefit  - in the name  of Mr D. But thats not an unqualified right. 
Legally, in situations where  URVs interests  conflict with Mr Ds, URV has a responsibility to 
act in good faith when  it takes  over the defence or settlement of a claim - having regard to 
Mr Ds interests  as well as its own. URV  isnt entitled  to act arbitrarily  about how to defend  a 
claim. In deciding whether and how to defend a claim against Mr D, URV has to focus  on the 
questions arising  in that specific claim  and base their decisions on the circumstances of 
Mr Ds individual case.
The applicable  regulations lead to a similar conclusion. 
The Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) Handbook sets out a number of Principles for 
Businesses (Principles), which URV must  follow, including:
Principle 6 - A firm must  pay due regard to the interests of its customers  and treat
them fairly
Principle 8 - A firm must  manage  conflicts of interest fairly, both between itself and
its customers and between a customer and another client .
The relevant  regulations  also include ICOBS  8.1.1R which says an insurer must:
(1) handle claims promptly and fairly;
(2) provide reasonable guidance to help a policyholder make a claim and appropriate
information on its progress;
(3) not unreasonably  reject a claim (including by terminating or avoiding a policy);  and
(4) settle claims promptly once settlement terms are agreed.
The Regulatory Guide,  published by the FCA, entitled: The Responsibilities  of Providers and
Distributors for the Fair Treatment of Customers (RPPD) includes the Regulators guidance
on what the combination of Principles and the detailed rules require respectively of providers 
and distributors of financial services in certain  circumstances  to treat customers  fairly. The 
RPPD explains that firms  should consider the impact of their actions, or inactions, on the 
customer throughout the life-cycle of the service being provided.
Ive also taken into account what I consider having  been good industry practice  at the time
of the claim. This was for underwriters of travel insurance and their agents to engage
diligently with healthcare providers to try to resolve disputes over medical  bills by actively
seeking a compromise  or adjudication of their bills.
Ill now explain what this all means  for Mr Ds complaint.
the outstanding amount
URV has sought to rely on the guidelines  to support the amounts it has paid to the
healthcare provider for the appointment Mr D attended and the type of treatment he
received.
Ref: DRN66331724On 7 June 2019, I asked  URV to provide me with the guidelines  showing  the costs  rates  in
place as at August 2017, when Mr D underwent treatment in the USA. It replied on 
14 June2019 saying its cost containment  department have advised that the treatment  
charges are available  if you search in the public domain, they are published by the 
congressional committees.
Although Ive been able to locate the guidelines, theyre very extensive and arent easy  to 
navigate; Ive not been able to compare  them to the costs charged by the healthcare 
provider in this particular case.  URVs correspondence with the healthcare  provider has also 
not advanced any detailed breakdown or explanation of how its payments were  made  up or 
justified  URV just says its payment  is made up of a certain percentage on top of the rates 
set out in the guidelines.
So I dont  know if the relevant rates for the urgent  appointment  Mr D attended, and the
specific treatment he received, are much  lower than was charged by the healthcare  provider. 
I explained this is my provisional decision  and URV  hasnt provided me with anything further 
regarding this particular  issue in response to my provisional decision.  In the absence of any 
satisfactory corroboration for URVs position  that it has paid all that is reasonably  due to the 
healthcare provider, Im not persuaded that the amount Mr D was originally  charged  for 
wasnt justified - or out of line with the amounts that might reasonably have been charged in 
the particular State  of the USA where  Mr D was treated.
In any event even  if the guidelines support  URVs decision to not pay the outstanding
amount, Im not satisfied its acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which  its taken over 
the handling of Mr Ds claim.
From the outset Im satisfied Mr D wanted URV to pay the invoice in full. Shortly after 
discovering URV hadnt paid the invoice,  in June 2018, Mr D told URV that if the
invoice wasnt settled  he was worried that he could end up with a court judgement   or
equivalent  against him in the USA, and his credit  score could be impacted. This would
particularly affect  him, he said, as he likes to travel to the USA for holidays. Further,  hes 
made it clear  to URV  he doesnt  want to be embroiled in a legal  dispute.  For example, on 
3 October 2018 he told URV that he was exceptionally frustrated  and that he should  not 
be put in such  a precarious position.  Further, when he was asked to make  time to liaise with 
the lawyer whod been appointed to act on his behalf, he said on 10 October 2018 that it was 
an exceptionally  busy time  for him and he was desperate not to be put in this position .
Although the policy does  permit URV  to take over, and deal with, the defence/  settlement  of
any claim made under the policy in Mr Ds name, as Ive set out above, it has to do so 
having due regard to the law, and applicable  regulations, including  the Principles and rules 
Ive set out above. URV has a duty to deal with claims promptly  and fairly, and to act with 
due skill, care and diligence, paying due regard to Mr Ds interests  and treating him fairly.  
And it must also manage  fairly  any conflicts of interest between itself and its customers,  and 
as between its customers. 
Mr D paid the excess under the policy in December 2017. Having heard nothing further from
URV he reasonably  assumed that the invoice had been paid. Over six months later he
received a final collection notice from the medical  centre and it was only then that URV  took
action to pay part of the invoice. URV has admitted that the delay  was its fault and due to an
administrative error.
Ref: DRN66331725URV also took the unilateral decision to only pay part of the invoice.  It didnt discuss its
approach with Mr D before doing so  and nor did it seek to negotiate an amount that URV  
and the healthcare provider wouldve been  happy  with. 
In an email dated 8 October 2019, I asked  URV  to send me all communications  between its 
costs containment agents and the healthcare provider before legal proceedings were  issued 
against Mr D in September  2018, and to confirm whether its agents attempted  to negotiate  
the amount on the invoice Mr D received before  then.  Having considered  the 
correspondence, Im satisfied URV didnt engage in any form of negotiation with the 
healthcare provider about the amount it charged Mr D in an attempt to reach  an amicable 
settlement of the outstanding amount. Nor did URV  suggest arbitration or any other  form of 
dispute resolution to try and settle  the dispute  to prevent legal proceedings being issued 
against Mr D, and to expedite a resolution of this issue  for Mr D.
Thats also consistent  with its general approach when there is a dispute  over the fees 
charged for treatment whilst abroad  as reflected in a document entitled:  what you need  to 
know about cost containment - sent to Mr D in mid-June 2018.  This document  sets out that 
once URV  decides  the amount it will pay to the healthcare provider, and it has remitted  a 
payment to them, it is customary  for medical providers to send their bills to the patient 
stating that they are responsible for the remaining  amount . Theres no mention of URV 
trying to negotiate with the healthcare provider before or after part-payment of the invoice is 
made.
URVs actions  have  now resulted in legal proceedings being brought against  Mr D, and him 
being involved in protracted legal proceedings.
Ordinarily, when charges are disputed, an appropriate course  of action can be for one party  
to commence legal action against  the other  for a Court to determine whether the amount 
charged is correct and should be paid.  
So Ive also asked  URV to provide me with documents relating to the ongoing litigation 
Mr Ds been involved in to see how thats  been  handled.  URV  hasnt given  us copies of 
many of the documents requested. However, from what it has provided, Im satisfied the 
application to strike  out the claim against Mr D was made for misjoiner - on the basis that 
Mr Ds claim shouldnt be joined together with a number of other claims the healthcare 
provider has against  other defendants who also were / are policyholders of URV and which 
also relate to underpaid medical  bills. Im also satisfied that this application was rejected by 
the court in the summer  of 2019, and that an appeal against the Courts decision not to strike 
out Mr Ds claim  on that basis has now been  prepared and served  in early 2020.
Im therefore  persuaded that URV hasnt handled  the litigation fairly  and reasonably,  so far 
as the interests  of Mr D are concerned. It hasnt sought to promptly and efficiently  get the 
amount of the invoice quantified by a Court . Since legal  proceedings were  issued against 
Mr D its primary focus has been on the procedural issues  relating to whether its appropriate 
for the claim against  Mr D to be joined together with other claims. That has delayed,  and 
continues to delay,  a possible determination on whether  the healthcare provider charged 
Mr D correctly for the treatment he received. And even if the appeal should succeed,  the 
lawsuit against Mr D wouldnt be defeated entirely  and could progress to be determined as a 
standalone claim  by the Court.
URV suggests its taking  a principled stand against rising charges  by seeking to have  its 
position that it is being routinely overcharged by this particular healthcare  provider legally 
Ref: DRN66331726vindicated. But the history of these proceedings,  including  URVs unsuccessful misjoinder 
application, and the current appeal, dont  seem particularly consistent  with it using the 
litigation to test the allegation  of systematic over-charging. On the contrary, it seems to be 
the healthcare  provider  which initiated the proceedings and is now trying  to have the over-
charging issues tried together, and that URV  is resisting and delaying this by strenuously 
trying to fragment the group litigation.
URV doesnt have  the right to disregard the interest  of its customer  when it decides whether 
to partially settle  or defend a given case;  for the reasons Ive explained it still must act fairly  
and reasonably when doing  so. And Im satisfied it should be thinking about  the individual 
issues of each specific case according to their own facts  and also having regard to the 
interests of the policyholder as well as its own. 
I dont think URV has had due regard to Mr Ds interests  here; its unreasonably put its own 
and / or others wider commercial interests in the efficient operation of the market as a whole 
for the supposed  benefit of other consumers above his interests  as someone who has paid 
for travel cover and made a proper  claim under it. The amount in dispute is just over $120; 
its not a particularly significant  sum. Im not satisfied that its fair to continue  to embroil Mr D 
in a protracted dispute over such a small amount when considering the continuing worry, 
trouble and upset  this is causing him. URV  has simply stated  and paid - a sum it says is 
reasonable, and then declined to engage  further with the healthcare provider over the 
outstanding balance in order to bring  about a prompt conclusion of the dispute. URVs 
decision not to negotiate in this case isnt based on any detailed representations to the 
healthcare provider or consideration  of the specific features  of Mr Ds claim,  but is a 
reflection of a general policy. It has resulted in Mr D being embroiled in litigation, which has 
already lasted over a year,  with no imminent resolution likely. 
In the circumstances of this particular complaint, and for the reasons Ive set out above, I 
dont think thats  a fair or reasonable position to put him in. 
putting things right
DISP 3.7.1R says that where a complaint is determined in favour of a complainant  the
ombudsmans determination may include a direction to the respondent, which  in this case  is
URV. 
DISP 3.7.11R provides  that a direction may require the respondent, here URV,  to take such 
steps in relation to the complainant as the ombudsman considers  just and appropriate 
whether or not a court  could order those  steps to be taken.
Whilst I accept  there isnt yet an ascertained debt due from Mr D to the healthcare  provider  
nor, as a result, from URV to Mr D, Im persuaded its fair and reasonable for URV to pay the 
outstanding amount to the healthcare provider in order to bring Mr Ds inconvenience  and 
worry to an end. Thats because I think theres insufficient evidence  that the invoice was 
inflated. 
And in any event, irrespective of whether  or not a reduction in the outstanding  amount could 
be justified, I dont  think URV has acted fairly and reasonably in the way in which  its taken 
over the handling  of the defence or settlement of the healthcares providers  claim against  
Mr D.
trouble and upset:
Ref: DRN66331727URV has recently acknowledged  that it may not have properly reassured Mr D or recognised 
the impact this has all had on him. It also accepts that it hasnt properly reassured him 
throughout the process. 
Given my findings that URV hasnt acted fairly or reasonably by the approach its taken to 
the invoice, Im satisfied  its put Mr D to a moderate  amount of worry, trouble and upset by:
failing  to take any action regarding the invoice for over six months after Mr D had
            paid the excess, resulting in him receiving a final notice;
receiving a court summons  for the outstanding  payment;  and
unreasonably disputing the outstanding amount without seeking  to negotiate the 
amount in dispute, and embroiling him in unnecessary, and protracted, litigation.
As a result, I accept Mr D has been  worried about:
how the dispute might affect  his ability to travel  to the USA  a country he says he 
likes to travel to with his family;
the affect the dispute will have on his credit rating; and
how the dispute mightve affected  a new job hed been offered in financial  services.
I also accept that hes:
 spent time communicating with URV and the law firms  appointed  to act on his behalf 
in court  proceedings and providing them with various identification  documents  and 
other documents relevant  to the case  at times  in his life which  have been  very 
busy;
 been frustrated  by how long the process  has taken and that theres no end date in  
       sight.
Im satisfied that compensation in the sum £500 fairly reflects what hes been through  as a
result of what URV did wrong.  URV  can deduct  from this amount £100 that its already paid
Mr D.
When making this finding, Ive taken into account what  URV  says about there being no
requirement to declare  anything about  civil disputes  before entering the USA so Mr D 
shouldnt have any trouble traveling there. URV  also says Mr D wouldnt be personally 
responsible for the outstanding amount,  even if the healthcare provider succeeded in the 
legal action. Thats because  hed be protected under his contract of insurance with URV. I 
accept that URV has sought to reassure Mr D about  these  things  on a number of occasions, 
particularly during the second part of 2018. But I can still understand why Mr D would  quite 
reasonably  be upset,  frustrated and worried, despite those reassurances.
summary:
Within 28 days from the date on which we tell it that Mr D accepts our final decision I direct 
URV to:
A. pay the outstanding amount to the healthcare  provider, together with any interest
    due  on the outstanding amount, court fees and / or legal fees that Mr D could be
    liable for; and
Ref: DRN66331728B.  pay  Mr D a further £400  as compensation for trouble and upset.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ds complaint, and direct Union  Reiseversicherung AG to put things right
by doing what  Ive set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6633172