K821x#15Complaint
Mr E says HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him payment  protection insurance (PPI).
Background
Mr E, who was a sole trader, took out a commercial overdraft with HSBC in 2006.  At the 
same time, HSBC sold him a PPI policy.
The PPI would have  paid 2.5% of Mr Es agreed overdraft limit for up to 24 months if he 
couldnt work because he was sick or had an accident. It also provided  life cover.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint upheld it. HSBC  disagreed  and so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  here.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
HSBC needed  to make  it clear to Mr E he had a choice about taking PPI. HSBC cant tell 
us much about how it sold the PPI to Mr E. And it hasnt been  able to send us any of 
Mr Es sales  documents  or even sample  documents from the time (we do have a policy  
document).
Mr E says he was unaware  hed been sold PPI. HSBC says its adviser would have told 
Mr E he had a choice  about PPI and got his agreement to it. But this, on its own,  isnt 
enough for me to think its likely HSBC made  it clear to Mr E he had a choice.
This is a significant failing;  enough  for me to uphold Mr Es complaint  and require HSBC  to 
put things right. 
That being  the case, I see no need  to go any further  and consider the additional reasons 
the adjudicator  gave  for recommending the complaint be upheld.
Putting things  right
HSBC should  put Mr E in the position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI. I 
understand the policys already cancelled, so HSBC should:
 pay Mr E the amount he paid each month for the PPI.
 add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
 If Mr E made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  HSBC can take off what  he 
got for the claim  from the amount it owes him.
Ref: DRN64184692 HM Revenue  & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mr E a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  I uphold this complaint. I require HSBC  UK Bank Plc to put things 
right for Mr E as explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Nimish Patel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6418469