K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that TSB Bank  plc has stopped  paying her interest on her account.
background
Miss H says she noticed that TSB had stopped  paying her interest on her account which  
ought to have been 5%. She says she relied  on that interest payment and is upset  that it 
stopped. Miss H says she has been caused  anxiety as a result of TSBs actions and would 
like the interest refunded  and compensation.
TSB says Miss H no longer met the terms and conditions for receiving the interest on the 
account and says the account had reverted from paperless communication.  It says the 
account reverted  from paperless communication in early  2018 which  was likely caused by 
unread messages  and that Miss H had been sent a letter about that same issue in 2016. 
TSB says interest was paid until November 2017 and e-mails were  sent to Miss H in 
December 2017  which she replied to. It says the account reverted from paperless 
correspondence in January 2018 as there were unread emails in her inbox.
Miss H brought  her complaint to us and our investigator upheld it. The investigator thought 
that in December 2017 Miss H appeared to be meeting the requirements to earn interest and 
thought TSBs notes  suggested a mistake  had taken place. The investigator  thought  it likely 
Miss H had asked for the account to revert back to paperless correspondence and 
recommended interest be paid from December 2017 to February 2019 with 8% simple 
interest added  to that amount. The investigator also recommended TSB pay £200 
compensation for what took place.
TSB doesnt accept that view and suggested Miss H could provide information from her 
inbox about unread messages. It says if Miss H was reliant on the interest then she should 
have noticed it earlier.
The investigator looked at screenshots from Miss Hs account and didnt think  there were 
any e-mails about the position or any unread e-mails.
I asked TSB for further information. In summary I asked if it could tell me what had taken 
place rather than what it thought may have and if it could tell me if anything was actually  sent 
to Miss H that remained unread. I also asked it to review the screen shots of Miss Hs 
account and inbox.
TSB has said its provided all the information  it can.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I have come  to a similar 
overall view as the investigator.
I have looked  at TSBs records and screenshots of Miss Hs account and inbox. Having done 
so I cant be sure why TSB stopped  paying Miss H the 5% interest or can see any evidence  
for that decision.  I appreciate what the conditions are that need  to be kept to in order to be 
eligible for the interest. And I also appreciate what TSB says may have happened here, that 
Miss H had unread messages in her inbox.
Ref: DRN65344972I have looked  at that screenshot  of Miss Hs account and I cant  see any unread messages. 
And I have  considered that Miss H did reply to at least two of TSBs messages to her and 
that the account conditions were met since 2014.  So I think on balance that Miss H was 
aware of the account condition requirements  and did read and reply to messages from TSB.  
I also would  have expected TSB to have provided  some evidence of the unread  messages 
or at least  to have commented on the screenshots Miss H provided. 
I can see from TSBs notes that the issue was raised in January 2018 and April 2018. I dont 
think its clear  which  party raised  the issue but I think TSB ought  to have been able to sort 
matters out then.
Overall as I have not seen  any evidence from TSB that it correctly stopped the interest  and 
think on balance Miss H has provided evidence that she met the interest  requirements. I 
think TSB should repay the interest. I also think it should pay 8% simple  interest  on that 
amount. I dont think it matters that the monthly interest amount was relatively small or that 
Miss H ought to have  noticed it wasnt being  paid if she was reliant on it.
I also think that TSB should pay compensation as I accept Miss H has been  caused  
inconvenience and distress. The investigator  has recommended £200 compensation and I 
think that is a fair and reasonable  amount.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I order TSB Bank  plc to pay Miss H £200  
compensation and pay her interest  on her account  from December 2017  when the interest 
stopped to February 2019 when it restarted.  It should also pay 8% simple  interest  on that 
amount and provide Miss H with a certificate  of tax deducted if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2020.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6534497