K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained that Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold him a credit card payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr C took out the card and PPI by filling out an application form and returning  it by post in 
2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagrees with the adjudicators opinion  
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in deciding  
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint  and Ill explain  why.
Mr C says he didnt know that PPI had been added to his credit  card account, so it was 
added without his knowledge or consent.
The sale happened a long time ago and so it wouldnt be surprising  if Mr Cs recollection of 
the sale has faded. Ive seen a copy of Mr Cs application form.  There  is a separate section 
for PPI and Yes and No options to either accept or decline the policy. Both options are 
given equal prominence. Mr C has ticked in the Yes box to request PPI. He could have 
ticked the No box if he didnt want it. Looking  at the wording and layout of the form I think  
that Mr C would have  known that he had a choice about buying the PPI. It seems to me that 
he decided to buy it, knowing that he didnt have to, even if he no longer remembers  doing 
so.
Capital One didnt advise Mr C to buy the policy, so it didnt  need  to ensure that it met his 
needs. But it did need to provide him with enough  information for him to make  an informed 
decision about whether or not the policy was right for him. 
Mr C wouldnt  have received any sick pay from his employer. And he didnt have any other 
means, such as savings, to fall back on. So I think he could have found the policy  useful at 
what would  have been a difficult time.
 Its possible that Capital  One didnt provide as much information about  the policy as it 
should have, particularly about  the things that it didnt  cover.  But Mr C wasnt affected by any 
of those things.  As I think that he had an interest in the policy and decided to buy it, I dont 
think that further information  would have caused  him to change his mind. So he isnt any 
worse off as a result of anything Capital One may have done  wrong, so theres  nothing  it 
needs to do to put things  right.
Ref: DRN61798672my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.  
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6179867