K820x#14complaint
Mrs G says AXA France IARD (AXA) mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
I cant consider this complaint against  the policy seller directly because  the sale took place 
before it, or its predecessor-in-title, was regulated by the then Financial Services Authority 
(FSA) for insurance intermediation activities, or otherwise covered by our jurisdiction.
The party that at the time of the sale was the policy insurer, has accepted that the seller  was 
acting as its agent at the time  so it accepted responsibility for the sale. Following a transfer 
of business, AXA has taken on that responsibility. To keep things simple, Ill only refer to 
AXA in this decision, rather than any other business.
background and summary to complaint
Mrs G bought the policy in November 2001 at the same time as taking out a hire-purchase  
agreement. She applied  for the hire-purchase  agreement and PPI policy  in-store.
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness unemployment and life  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  the monthly repayment of Mrs Gs hire-
purchase agreement  in the event of Mrs G being unable to work due to accident, sickness  
and unemployment.  It would repay  the outstanding balance  in full upon  a successful life 
claim.
The policy cost 65 pence a month  and the premium would continue  to have to be paid in the 
event of a successful claim.
According to AXAs records  Mrs G paid a total of just £4.71 for PPI during the policys 
lifetime.
At the time,  Mrs G was employed  as a supervisor in a retail store. She hasnt indicated  
whether she was entitled to any sick pay  but I think she wouldve likely been entitled to 
statutory sick pay at the very least.  Mrs G has said she wouldve been paid at least  three  
months redundancy pay and she had several thousand pounds in savings she could use to 
repay her hire-purchase  agreement should  she be unable to work. Mrs G has said she had a 
medical condition  some time before the date of sale. 
Mrs Gs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mrs Gs representative says:
AXA failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs G wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Gs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
Ref: DRN62485592The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means AXA should have told 
Mrs G about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means AXA should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs G and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mrs G received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint   both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs G disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant 
law and regulations;  relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance and standards; relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Gs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Gs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated in January 2005.  So, the FSAs  (and FCAs) overarching  Principles for Businesses 
and insurance  conduct  rules  (ICOB and ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint, nor is the 
FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not AXA. That means the unfair  
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint: 
Ref: DRN62485593The General  Insurance  Standards Councils  General Insurance Code for private customers  
the GISC  Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies) other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Among other  things, the Code said that As a condition of membership of the Association  of 
British Insurers (ABI),  members undertake  to enforce this Code  and to use their best 
endeavors to ensure that all those involved in selling their policies observe its provisions. 
AXA was a member  of the ABI and the seller  its agent  was acting as an intermediary. 
The Finance  & Leasing  Association (FLA) Code of Practice
This code  was introduced in 1992,  and set out standards of good  practice  for the
finance and leasing  industry. Section 4 of the code covered  Credit  Protection
Insurance. 
As Ive explained, AXA was a member of the ABI, so it was subject to the ABI Code and its 
associated requirements.  The seller  but not AXA  was a member of the FLA and 
subscribed to the FLA Code, so I consider it reasonable to assume that the seller (as a 
member of the FLA)  should have complied  with its code when selling PPI, and this extends  
to when it was acting as an agent  of AXA. 
So I am satisfied it is right that I should take these codes into account when deciding  what  is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of Mrs Gs case.  
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN62485594Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  I am also required to take into account what  
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
I am also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first 
issued by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating to the 
sale of PPI. This sale took place before insurance mediation became a regulated  activity,  so 
AXA was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were  guidance  
when considering Mrs Gs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If AXA gave advice,  whether it advised  Mrs G with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether AXA gave  Mrs G sufficient, appropriate  and timely information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs G, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs G suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs G and AXA, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Gs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs G know she had a choice?
AXA had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
AXA has provided a copy of Mrs Gs hire purchase  agreement form. And looking at this I can 
see there is a separate section for PPI, which set out the cost of the cover  and which Mrs G 
signed  a separate signature  from the credit  agreement itself.  It also said: only sign if you 
want cover. If Mrs S didnt want cover, she couldve therefore left this section blank.
So taking everything into account, I think its more likely  that Mrs G knew the policy was 
optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure. 
Ref: DRN62485595did AXA provide advice?
Mrs G hasnt said whether she received advice from AXA.  AXA says it didnt provide advice 
during this sale. Looking at what  happened  when AXA sold Mrs G the PPI, Im not 
persuaded that it provided advice  theres not enough evidence  for me to reasonably  
conclude that AXA considered Mrs Gs individual circumstances and recommended  she take 
out the cover.
This means  AXA didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mrs G. Instead, it had to 
give her sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  Mrs G to make an informed 
choice about whether  to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs G was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Mrs G was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness and unemployment.)  Ive reached this conclusion 
because I think its unlikely Mrs G would have  taken out the policy  without any sense of what  
the policy was for. I am satisfied Mrs G was informed how much  the premium  was  as I said 
above this was clearly  set out in the agreement form.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  AXA gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit or about the exclusions or limitations  before Mrs 
G agreed to take out the policy.  
So I dont  think AXA gave Mrs G sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Gs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Gs. I have 
considered these carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Gs representative considers to be poor 
value. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs G about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Gs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cannot be certain what  a court would say 
Ref: DRN62485596I think it is unlikely that a court would find that this extended to the insurer having to disclose 
the claims ratio information  or explaining the significance of the limitations  and exclusions in 
the way Mrs G has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and 
standards of good industry practice  applicable to this complaint, I dont think  it would be fair 
or reasonable to impose such requirements on AXA. 
what effect did AXAs shortcomings have on Mrs G? To what extent did Mrs G suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
I have found that AXA did not do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs G. So 
I have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mrs G 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mrs G 
would have still taken  out the policy, had AXA done  things properly. 
Mrs G says she would not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume  this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs G had to weigh up in her own mind  the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
As Ive found above, Mrs G chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs G thought she was getting 
is not exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs G has suffered any loss or detriment.  
As I found  above,  Im satisfied the information  Mrs G was given about  the cost was clear. 
But the information about other aspects of the policy, such as the benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
In terms of the benefit - Im not persuaded AXA made clear  exactly  what Mrs G would get 
back in return in the event she made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mrs Gs 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet her repayments  under  the hire-purchase agreement) were significantly different to what 
the policy actually  did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs G thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mrs G knew  about or 
ought to have known about,  or which she saw a doctor about  during the 12 months 
before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs G 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs G be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
Ref: DRN62485597I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mrs G pause for thought   and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as she thought  and she might  have  decided  not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs G from taking out 
the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mrs Gs circumstances at the time of sale shows  that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  useful  to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I can see Mrs G has said she had several  
thousand pounds  in savings at the time. But Im mindful that Mrs G likely had enough 
information to broadly  weigh up the cost and benefit  proposition offered by the policy and to 
decide if it worked for her. 
Notwithstanding this, Mrs G was borrowing what I consider to be a relatively small sum over 
a lengthy period of time. And because it attracted a not insignificant interest rate, this was a 
relatively expensive  way to purchase the item. In my view this action is not consistent  with 
someone who had several thousand pounds in readily accessible savings. So Im not 
persuaded Mrs G did have the amount  of savings she recalls at the time of sale.
Although Mrs G says she had a medical condition before the policy was taken out, the 
condition she refers  to appears to be a minor  injury  she sustained  in childhood  so some  20 
years or so before she took out the policy. Because of this, Im not persuaded looking at the 
terms of the policy  that this can reasonably  be considered an existing medical condition. In 
addition I havent  seen any evidence to suggest she wouldve been caught by any of the 
other significant exclusions. So I still think she had some good reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs G might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs G 
from taking out the policy,  Mrs G, in her circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take 
it out.
If Mrs G had known she could only claim for disability if she was not only unable  to do her 
job or any similar job, but also unable  to do any work which  in the insurers view she might 
reasonably be qualified for, it might have played into her thinking about  what she would  do. 
And I accept  it may have  given her pause for thought  although given Mrs Gs 
circumstances and what I think were  likely  limited  other means she had to make her 
repayments if she wasnt working, on balance, I still think she would have been interested in 
taking out the cover.  
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs G would  still have taken  out the policy.
The policy was sufficiently  close to what it is likely  she thought she was getting and provided 
benefits that would help her manage  the consequences were  Mrs G made redundant, or 
unable to work through the accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider  it more 
likely than not that Mrs G would have taken out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Ref: DRN62485598Mrs Gs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs G would not have  bought  the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Gs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs G 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs G believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs G in the position  she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, it is more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude AXA should  pay Mrs G compensation,  as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
 
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Gs representative  says a court might take if it 
were to find that AXA had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt 
persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  
For the reasons  Ive already set out I dont  think  it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mrs G 
in a better position  than if everything had happened as it should  have done. 
Ref: DRN62485599my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6248559