K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that a car hes been  financing through an agreement  with Blue Motor 
Finance Ltd (BMF) has been mis-sold to him and is not of satisfactory  quality.
background
Mr A took receipt of a used hybrid  car in November 2018. He financed the deal though  a hire 
purchase agreement  with BMF that was brokered by a company Ill call C. At the point of 
supply the car had already completed about  60,000 miles and was about two years old.
Mr A says he complained  to C within the first 14 days  as he was disappointed with the 
electric range his car was able to complete. He says that on full charge he was only able to 
travel about  four miles  instead  of the 16 to17 hed been led to believe was possible.  
The car was taken to a dealership who appear to have kept it for about a month. Having  
completed their investigations  they returned  the car to Mr A telling him that the battery was 
running at 75% of its capacity and they could not take any action under the warranty until the 
capacity had fallen  to 70%.
Mr A was disappointed with their response  so he referred his complaint to BMF. He said the 
performance of the car was poor and that he was getting very limited mileage from the 
battery and only achieving 20mpg at best when in hybrid mode.
BMF arranged an independent inspection of the car. The inspector noted that the engine  
started well and that there were no unusual noises. A diagnostic  was performed and this 
identified an intermittent fault with the thermostat and also a fault with the one touch window 
operation. He explained that Mr A had told him the car had been taken to the dealership with 
an intermittent hybrid fault but didnt comment any further.
BMF rejected Mr As complaint. They said the inspector hadnt identified any problem and 
that the car could run in petrol mode alone if necessary. 
Our investigator thought there was evidence that Mr A was not getting close to the fuel 
consumption the manufacturer had suggested.  He didnt think  it was fair to expect him to 
wait until the vehicles battery capacity had reached 70% of capacity before any action was 
taken as he was persuaded Mr A had been looking for an economical car and hadnt 
received one. He understood  that Mr A had only been  able to complete 2,500 miles in the 
car since he took receipt of it.
So he suggested BMF  should take the car back and terminate Mr As credit agreement. He 
said they should retain three monthly  finance instalments but should return any others that 
had been paid in respect of the limited use Mr A had had from the car. He said that any 
deposit should be refunded with interest  and that BMF should pay Mr A £250 to compensate 
him for the distress and inconvenience hed experienced.
BMF didnt agree with the investigators view. They provided some  emails that had been 
exchanged between Mr A and C and said these demonstrated Mr A had been looking at 
several other  cars  and had made an informed choice about  which  one to choose.  So they 
asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN69802152my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint BMF  so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr A acquired his car under a hire purchase  agreement. The hire purchase agreement  is a 
regulated consumer credit agreement  and as a result our service is able to look into 
complaints about  it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then BMF, who are also the supplier of the car, are 
responsible. The relevant  law also says the quality of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking into account any 
description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr A. The car here 
was around two years old and had travelled about 60,000 miles.
Im persuaded that on balance there is sufficient evidence to suggest this car has not been 
as efficient as a reasonable person would have expected  and that its therefore not been of 
satisfactory quality. I say that because:
the dealership  have  explained that battery  capacity is only 75% and that a new 
battery would  be covered under  warranty at 70%. That analysis was completed after 
Mr A had had the car for a very limited period. So I dont think  theres  much  dispute 
that the car was supplied in a condition where  the fuel consumption  was significantly 
worse than Mr A would have expected given the on line research he had clearly  
completed.
the mobile technician report  completed  in March 2019 suggests there was a problem 
with the High Voltage  system  and this supports Mr As comments that the battery 
problems have  continued;
Mr A has completed a very low mileage in the car and thats consistent with his 
testimony that hes lost faith in it because of the poor fuel consumption;
Im not persuaded that the independent  inspector has completed an investigation into 
the problem. Hes looked at whether the car was mis-firing; whether there were any 
audible noises and whether it was overheating but hes provided limited commentary 
on the hybrid functionality. Indeed I cant see he was asked to comment on it as the 
instruction received  section doesnt mention fuel economy  or hybrid issues.
Ref: DRN69802153So, on the evidence  I have, I think there  is sufficient  to suggest the car hasnt been of 
satisfactory quality because the fuel consumption  Mr A would have  reasonably expected of it 
has not been delivered.
So I think this car was most probably  of unsatisfactory quality when supplied to Mr A. In 
those circumstances  the relevant legislation allows BMF one opportunity to repair the car. 
But I think its clear that opportunity was presented to them in December 2018/January 2019 
and that they failed  to resolve  the problem. BMF should therefore now allow  Mr A to reject  
the car and they should return  his deposit. They should also refund all finance instalments 
that Mr A has paid but I think its fair for them to withhold three instalments in respect  of the 
limited use Mr A has had of the car. Im asking the business to add 8% interest  to the 
refunds they are making  as Mr A has been deprived of that money.
Its clear that Mr A has been inconvenienced  by these  issues.  Hes had to return the car to 
the dealership  and has broken down  on at least one occasion. Hes also had to spend time 
collating evidence and pursuing a claim through this service so, in the circumstances,  I think 
BMF should  pay him £250 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Blue Motor  Finance Ltd to:
end the finance agreement with nothing more to pay;
collect the car at no cost to Mr A;
refund  the deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum from the date of payment 
to the date of settlement;
pay Mr A £250 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced;
refund  all monthly finance instalments  except  three that can be retained in respect of 
loss of use. Add 8% simple interest  to the refund from the date of payment to the 
date of settlement;
remove any adverse reports they may have made to Mr As credit  file in relation to 
this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6980215