K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mrs M says Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  her the PPI.
background
I sent Mrs M and Bank of Scotland my provisional  decision  on 18 December 2018. I said Id 
consider anything else anyone wanted  to give me  so long as I received it before 
18 January 2019.  Neither Mrs M nor Bank of Scotland responded to my provisional decision 
with any new points  for me to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision, and for the same reasons. 
Ive explained  my reasoning again below.
Ive decided that the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Bank of Scotland has sent us a copy of the credit agreement completed at the time, which  
Mrs M signed.  On this I can see there was a box for the PPI, which  has a pre-printed 
cross in it to take out the PPI. The form also has other pre-printed information on it, such 
as Mrs Ms employment and financial details. Ive thought  carefully about what Mrs M has 
said about  this, but I just dont think theres enough  evidence  to say she wasnt  given a 
choice. Instead  I think, as the policy was sold to Mrs M during a meeting, that the cross in 
the box for PPI reflected  a discussion  Mrs M and the adviser had before the form was 
finalised  and that the form was printed to reflect what they had discussed.  So overall I 
think its most  likely  that Bank  of Scotland made  it clear that Mrs M didnt have to take out 
the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant remember  
this.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for her  and based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. Im aware  that Mrs M became self-employed shortly after taking out the policy   but 
even if this had been anticipated  at the time the PPI was sold, the policy terms and 
conditions didnt  make  it materially harder to claim in these circumstances. And although 
Mrs M needed  to be in work for six months before she could claim unemployment benefit 
under the policy, this wasnt  payable for the first 90 days of the policy in any event. So 
even if Mrs M had a gap in her employment prior to the job she had been in for two 
months at the time of sale (and I have seen no evidence  to say she did have a gap), I 
dont this made  the recommendation wrong.
Ref: DRN66363622Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it shouldve  been. But she chose to take it out  so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been  useful for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would have 
put her off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said - including the fact her representative  has 
referred to a previous decision it says this service  has made that it says supports the 
complaint. But I must assess  this complaint  on its own individual merits and make up my 
own mind.  And for these reasons, and the reasons explained above, these points dont 
change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mrs M paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs M back 
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6636362