K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Mrs B says FICL mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out alongside a store  card in 1995 it was sold 
during a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint and Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs B aware  that the PPI was optional and gain her consent before 
adding it to her card.  I dont know for certain what was said at the time the policy was sold,  
but from what we know  about how FICL sold this type of policy at the time I think its likely
FICL made it clear  that Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs B so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for her. But it 
did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed to decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. Mrs B has told us she was entitled  to generous sick pay from her employer and had a 
secure job so she didnt need  the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
Mrs Bs sick pay and for longer than she would have  received full pay. And while  Mrs B may 
have been in a secure  job at the time I still think she could have benefitted from the policy.
 
As Ive said above  I think Mrs B chose to take out the PPI  knowing the other  means she 
had available  at the time so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover.  Based  on what  Ive 
seen of Mrs Bs circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have been  useful  for her if something 
went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think  better information 
about the PPI would have  put her off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN69756512Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 June 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6975651