K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Admiral Insurance Company  Limited (Admiral) failed to provide her 
with essential  information about her insurance  policy  when it was sold.
Background
Ms D took out a motor insurance  policy  with Admiral in August 2017. This insurance  policy  
included the fitting of a telematics  box, allowing Admiral to monitor  Ms Ds driving habits.
In February 2018,  Admiral  analysed the telematics  data which suggested Ms D had been  
involved in a road traffic accident. So, Admiral logged an incident against Ms Ds policy and 
explained it would be held for the next six months  in case  a third party reported an accident.  
Ms D was provided a renewal quote in June  which was higher than the previous years 
premium. Ms D was unhappy  that her premium  had increased due to the incident still being 
logged against  her policy, so she raised a complaint.
Ms D disputed the telematics  data and said she hadnt been involved in an accident but had 
instead dropped  a box on the bonnet of the car. She said she wasnt  made aware when  she 
bought the policy that Admiral could log incidents  against her policy based on the telematics 
data without her consent. Ms D said if shed known this, she wouldnt have taken the policy.  
So, she wanted Admiral  to remove the incident  and refund her the additional  premium  shed 
had to pay as well as compensate her for the trouble and upset shed experienced.
Admiral didnt agree. They thought theyd made it clear in the terms and conditions  of Ms Ds 
policy they would use the telematics data to identify if an accident had occurred. They  also 
thought theyd made it clear the telematics data would be used to generate  renewal prices. 
As they thought the telematics data showed an accident had taken place, they felt theyd 
acted in line with the insurance policy so didnt think any further action was needed. Ms D 
was unhappy  with this response, so she referred her complaint to us.
An investigator looked in the complaint  and didnt uphold it. She thought it was likely that the 
data the telematics  provided was caused by an impact of some kind.  She also thought  
Admiral had made it reasonably clear within the policy terms and conditions what would 
happen if the telematics detected an impact. So, she thought Admiral had acted in line with 
the policy and didnt need to do anything further.
Ms D didnt accept this view. She maintained that she didnt think Admiral  made  it clear  
when she bought the insurance that the telematics data could be used to log incidents  even  
if she disputed them. As Ms D disagreed, the complaint has been  passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  the 
complaint for broadly  the same reasons as the investigator.
First, its important for me to explain  its not my role to replace the insurer  and decide on 
whether an incident  shouldve  been  logged. Instead, Ive looked at whether I think  the 
decision Admiral made  was fair and that their actions fell in line with the terms of policy. 
Ref: DRN69557592Alongside this, Ive considered whether Admiral made it reasonably clear to Mrs D how the 
policy would work  when she bought it.
Ive seen the telematics data which Admiral says show  an impact occurred. This data shows  
a frontal impact of reasonable force was recorded. Admiral have said they think  Ms D 
drove into a stationary object while parking her car. Ive also considered  Ms Ds testimony 
about how that data may have been  generated. Mrs D has said she dropped  a box on the 
bonnet of her car after the car was parked and this may explain the impact result. 
From the telematics data Ive seen, it shows that the impact  happened as Ms Ds car slowed 
down. After the impact, the car remained stationary and didnt move  until the following 
afternoon. The impact  also happened  on the road Ms D lives on. So, I think its likely that the 
impact occurred as Ms D returned  home,  which falls in line with both testimonies.  
But Im satisfied that the impact occurred whilst the car was moving, albeit at low speed.  So I 
dont think the occasion Ms D describes  is what caused the telematics to register  an 
incident. Overall, I think Admiral have analysed  the telematics fairly and came  to a decision 
that seems the most likely cause of the data.  
Ive then considered  whether Admiral made Ms D reasonably  aware of what  the telematics  
would record and the actions theyd take if an impact was registered. Im aware Ms D bought 
the insurance policy online, meaning she didnt speak directly  to Admiral. So, Ive focused  on 
the documents that were  made available to Ms D at the time of purchase.
Ive seen the terms and conditions  of the telematics part of the policy  which says, If the 
LittleBox detects an impact which is severe enough to indicate a crash,  it will attempt to 
notify our assistance  team  who may try to contact you. So, I think this made Ms D 
reasonably aware  that the telematics  installed on the box could be used to detect when any 
accidents occurred.
But, I do think the terms could have been  more  explicit in explaining  that, as well as 
contacting Ms D for assistance, they would also log an incident against  the policy.  Admiral 
has said they do this as a precaution in case a third party made a claim. I think this is a 
reasonable course of action for Admiral to take but doesnt alter the fact the policy  couldve 
made this clearer. 
That being  said,  Ive considered whether I think Ms D wouldve continued to take out the 
policy if Admiral  had made this clearer. And I think its likely she would. Ms D was prepared  
to have her driving  monitored so I think its likely she wouldve continued to buy the policy  to 
benefit from the cheaper premium. So ultimately, shed still now be in the same position. 
Consequently, I dont think the clarity of the policy has impacted Ms D to an extent that 
means Admiral should take any action to resolve  this.
I note Ms D has also complained about  her renewal price rising above  the premium  she paid 
the previous year. So, she felt she was forced  to cancel  the policy and take out more  
expensive insurance  than she expected to with another provider.
Its common industry practice to log an incident,  reported either through  notification from the 
customer or a telematics box, for a period of time in case  a third party contacts them.  I think  
its likely  any insurance policy shed have  taken wouldve operated along similar lines. 
Unfortunately for Ms D, her renewal fell within the six month time frame  that Admiral  held the 
incident logged  on her policy so was factored into her renewal premium. 
Ref: DRN69557593Ive seen a document which gave Ms D an overview  of the telematics  and what  it would be 
used for which  says, This unit measures a range  of driving behaviours including how the car 
is driven, how far it travels, at what speed and the time of day it is used.  It then goes on to 
say You may see your premium rise at renewal  if you drive  harshly,  frequently speed or 
regularly drive late at night. However,  your driving wont affect your premium  until your 
renewal, and you can check your progress  on your online dashboard.   
As Ive already  explained, I think that Admiral assessed the data fairly and that an incident 
took place. So, I think Admiral are entitled  to log the incident as if it had been directly 
reported by Ms D. The policy explains that driving behaviours will be monitored and 
considered when generating a renewal  price. Although incidents arent mentioned  
specifically as an example, I think its fair for Admiral to include these as part of a 
consumers driving  behaviours as they contribute to the overall picture  of a consumers 
potential risk to an insurer.
Im aware that Ms D cancelled her policy before any renewal premium was taken.  So, it was 
Ms Ds own decision to purchase a new policy with a different insurer.  Im also aware 
Admiral has confirmed the incident was removed from the policy  after the six month  period.
So, I think Admiral made  it reasonably clear to Ms D about the risks the telematics  policy 
held regarding a potential rise in the next years premiums, depending on how the car was 
driven. Ms D continued to purchase this policy  and accept  this risk. Its unfortunate that in Ms 
Ds case, it led to a rise in her insurance premium. But I dont this rise is down to anything 
Admiral has done  wrong, so I dont think they need  to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont uphold Ms Ds complaint about Admiral Insurance 
Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Josh Haskey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6955759