K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that The Mortgage Works (UK) Plc (TMW) failed  to make it clear how to 
complete a product switch on his mortgage. He says this meant he ended  up paying  a higher 
rate of interest, and that he had to pay the standard variable  rate for a period of time.
background
Mr J took out a fixed rate mortgage product with TMW in 2015, which was due to expire on 
1 May 2018.  
Mr J called TMW in March  2018 to discuss switching to a new product, and was told it was 
too early  he wouldnt be able to arrange the switch  until 6 weeks before the expiry  date. He 
called TMW again  in April 2018 and says he was told he would have  to complete the product 
switch online.
Mr J says he logged on to his TMW account and thought  he had completed all the steps 
required to switch his mortgage to a new product   a 5 year fixed rate deal at 2.64%  interest.  
He believed TMW would contact him separately  to collect the fees for the switch. When he 
hadnt heard  from TMW by May 2018  he contacted  them  again  and discovered  there  was no 
record of him completing an application  for the product switch. By this point  his existing fixed 
rate deal had expired and he was now being charged the standard  variable rate.
Mr J logged on to his account again and says he completed two more  applications  for the 
product switch. He says only the second  of these applications  on 18 May 2018   went  
through properly,  and by that time the available interest rate had increased to 2.74%.
Mr J says that he asked for help from TMW with completing his application  for the product 
switch, as he felt the website he had to use was not clearly set out. He feels that if TMW had 
helped him as he requested then he would not have had to pay the standard variable rate in 
May 2018, and would have been  able to select the better interest  rate of 2.64%. Mr J wants 
TMW to reimburse him for these losses.
I issued a provisional decision on this case on 19 March 2019,  explaining  that I didnt think  
Mr Js complaint should be upheld as I felt the online mortgage  switch process was clear, 
and I couldnt  see that Mr J had asked TMW for any specific help with completing the 
application.
Mr J has responded to my provisional  decision to say that he did ask for help,  and that TMW 
has admitted he had poor service when calling them.  So he still thinks TMW  should  cover his 
financial losses and pay him additional compensation.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  Mr Js 
complaint.
In my provisional decision I explained  the following:
TMWs records show that Mr J created three  mortgage offers  online  on the 20 March,  4 
May and 18 May. Each time an offer was created, the system would have presented  the 
following options:
Ref: DRN67342372-If you would like to proceed with this offer  Accept  Now
-If you wish to consider this offer, it will be saved  until the expiry  date unless you 
choose another product  Accept Later
-If you wish to select a new product this offer will be lost  New Product
TMW has confirmed that for the offers of 20 March and 4 May, Mr J did not tick to confirm he 
had read the offer or select any of the available options. Mr J did select Accept  now  for the 
offer of 18 May.
I think the options presented here were  clear, and I dont think  TMWs application process  
seems particularly confusing or unduly complicated.  However, I appreciate that some  people 
are more familiar  with technology than others.  And Mr J has said he is not a particularly  
technologically minded person, hes said this is why he asked TMW for help with completing 
his application  online.
But Ive seen TMWs notes from their conversations  with Mr J, and I cant see that he did ask 
for this kind of assistance. Mr J spoke  to TMW six times over the period in question,  but the 
notes of those  conversations dont suggest that Mr J said anything about needing help with 
completing the switch  online. On the 18 May Mr J completed his product switch application, 
and it appears this was without any assistance  from TMW.
I appreciate the experience wouldve been  frustrating for Mr J, but I dont think  TMW  has 
done anything  wrong here. Ive not seen anything to show that Mr J asked for help with using 
the online switching  system, and think  it would have been clear  what he needed  to do next 
each time he created  a mortgage  offer.
I know that TMW has offered some  compensation to Mr J for poor service  during one of their 
conversations, but from the notes Ive seen,  that appears to be separate to any issues with 
arranging the product  switch.
Ive looked again at the notes from Mr Js conversations with TMW  as well as the final 
response letter that TMW sent to him when  it offered compensation for the poor service he 
received on the phone. And it appears that TMWs offer of compensation was in relation  to 
staff he spoke to not being able to give him information about  timescales  for his complaint 
about TMW, being placed on hold for an extended period, and being given incorrect  
information about his overpayment limit. So I dont think it was to acknowledge the service  
given about the switch.  And while Ive carefully  considered what Mr Js said  that he asked 
for help and didnt  get it  I dont think its enough, by itself,  to be satisfied that TMW should 
have done more, because the notes of the calls dont support that happened.  
So with everything  Ive seen, I still dont think that TMW did anything wrong regarding Mr Js 
attempts to switch  to a new product. I do agree that some of the service he received when 
he called  TMW could  have been better, but I think that the £100 compensation TMW  has 
already offered Mr J is appropriate to recognise any issues with those  calls.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. TMW has offered to pay Mr J £100, and I conclude that such  an offer is fair. It 
should pay the outstanding amounts  within  28 days of receiving notice  of Mr Js acceptance 
of this decision.
Ref: DRN67342373Mr J should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt  be able to take legal action over this matter  for additional  
compensation. If, however, he rejects the decision, although his legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between him and TMW as to whether the above offer still 
remains open for acceptance.  Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror  after 
rejection of it has been communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 July 2019.  
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6734237