K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  the service they received from AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) 
after Mrs D was injured whilst on a trip abroad.
background
Mr and Mrs D and their three children travelled on a trip abroad on 4 August 2018. 
Unfortunately, the following day, Mrs D had an accident and sustained  a broken vertebrae. 
She was taken to hospital and underwent scans and x-rays. She was released from hospital 
on 6 August with a back brace.
Mr D says he tried to contact AXA on 5 August but the telephone number on its website  was 
wrong so he couldnt  get any assistance  from AXA that day.
When he was able to contact AXA the following day, Mr D discussed  the payment of the 
hospital bills, as Mrs D was likely to be discharged that day. He says that despite  a number 
of calls to AXA, by the time Mrs D was ready  for discharge, the hospital still hadnt received 
any communication from AXA about  payment,  so Mr S had to pay the hospital  bills himself. 
He forwarded  these to AXA for reimbursement the same day.
The following  day, Mr D also had to pay the ambulance bill himself. He says that as at that 
date, none of the five emails hed sent to AXA had been acknowledged or responded to. He 
says that Mrs D at this point was increasingly anxious about the lack of care or action from 
AXA as it hadnt  contacted her about  possible repatriation.
Four days later, on 11 August, Mr D received a text message from AXA requesting  that he 
contact it. He says that AXA apologised for the lack of contact and accepted it shouldnt 
have happened. He was told that Mrs D should  go to a private  hospital  in a nearby 
neighbouring country for a second medical  opinion as to whether she should  be repatriated.  
AXA provided the details of the hospital the following day. 
As Mr and Mrs D had other travel  plans for that day, and Mrs D was not well enough  for 
further travel  on 13 August, it wasnt until 14 August  that Mrs D went  to the recommended  
hospital  a round trip of 60km from where  the family then was  only to find out that it was 
closed for refurbishment  until 24 August. Mr D says that the lack of help and medical 
treatment was causing Mrs D to experience panic attacks.
On 16 August, Mrs D spoke to an AXA doctor and a flight  home was discussed.  He advised 
that Mrs D be accompanied by a nurse  on the flight.  Mr D says there was no mention by 
AXA in that conversation of the need  for Mrs D to have a fit to fly certificate.
By 18 August, AXA still hadnt made  any travel  arrangements as it said that before it made 
any repatriation arrangements, Mrs D needed to have a fit to fly certificate.  It told her shed 
need to go to a local public hospital  to get one. Mrs D went  to the public hospital the next 
day, in considerable pain, and waited six/seven  hours there before being issued with a 
certificate. This was issued to her with a recommendation that she had room to lie down  on 
the plane. The length of the flight was discussed, and Mrs D was given an anti-coagulant 
injection. A further dose was given to Mr D to administer  to Mrs D just before the flight.  
AXAs doctor also advised that day that additional space on the flight be arranged for Mrs D.
Ref: DRN61991582On 20 August, Mr and Mrs D and their family flew home on their originally booked  flight.  No 
additional space  had been arranged for Mrs D on the flight. AXA had offered  an alternative 
flight that wouldve  enabled another seat to be booked  to give Mrs D the extra  room  she 
needed, but this flight wasnt a direct  flight and wouldve involved a five hour stop over at 
another airport. Mrs D hadnt been given enough anti coagulant for a trip of that length.
Mr D says that AXA failed  to arrange any transport  to the departure  airport  or any assistance 
when they got there. They had to arrange for their own taxi to the airport,  and when they 
arrived there, they had to organise their own disability assistance. AXA did arrange for a taxi 
to meet  the family on their arrival  at their UK airport, but this taxi arrived  one hour 10 minutes 
late. 
Mrs D asked AXA for a claim form on 30 August. She had to send  a reminder on 5 
September. On 12 September, Mrs D emailed  their claims  handler at AXA, but received no 
reply. As at 20 September, their expenses had not been reimbursed,  despite the invoices  
having been emailed to AXA on 6 August  and AXA having said they would be paid within  10 
days. AXA asked  for evidence  of payment again  on 20 September.
Once back home, Mrs D had difficulty accessing medical help because of her initial  
treatment abroad and wasnt able to get a neurosurgery appointment until 27 September. 
Mr D maintains that this delay, during  which time Mrs Ds stress and anxiety continued, 
wouldve been avoided  if shed been repatriated sooner.
Mr and Mrs Ds complaint  is therefore  that Mrs D shouldve been  repatriated back  to the UK 
much earlier where she wouldve been  able to receive treatment and advice. They say Mrs D 
was completely abandoned by AXA and this generated unnecessary anxiety and delayed 
the receipt of care. They  say she suffered at least six panic attacks  caused  by the 
uncertainty, and the absence of medical  care and supervision. They had to manage for two 
weeks abroad whilst feeling abandoned by AXA.
AXA responded to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and acknowledged that communication  with 
you drastically broke down and it was not until you placed calls in yourself  that you were 
updated on the claims status  and what we required. It accepted  that its medical team  had 
asked for a second  opinion on Mrs Ds injury  and that she was asked to go to the private 
hospital that turned out to be closed, and that this caused unnecessary  delay. It says that its 
offer of an indirect  flight with a stopover was rejected, but explained  that due to the short 
timeframe left to make  alternative  travel arrangements to Mr and Mrs Ds original booked 
return flight, it hadnt been possible to make a booking that met the medical requirements of 
an extra  seat on a direct flight.
AXA acknowledges that its service has fallen well below the high standards for which AXA 
strive to provide . It upheld the complaint and offered £400 compensation.
Mr and Mrs D werent  satisfied with AXAs offer of compensation and so brought their 
complaint to this service.  Our investigator  considered that AXAs  action had caused a lot of 
trouble and upset  and that compensation of £1,000 would be more appropriate.
AXA considers that £1,000 compensation is excessive, but it increased its offer to £600. 
Mr and Mrs D have rejected this amount. AXA has therefore requested  that the matter be 
considered by an ombudsman, so the matters been  passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ref: DRN61991583Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im going to uphold  Mrs and Mrs Ds 
complaint and Ill explain why.
AXA has accepted  that its communications with Mr and Mrs D were  unsatisfactory.  I think 
this had far reaching  consequences for them.
According to Mr D, on 6 August,  the day following Mrs Ds accident, the matter of Mrs Ds 
repatriation was discussed. Yet it wasnt until 11 August that AXA said it required Mrs D to 
go for a second opinion,  and sent her to a hospital  that was closed for refurbishment. And it 
wasnt until 18 August that AXA raised  the requirement for a fit to fly certificate before it 
made any repatriation  arrangements. Getting this certificate necessitated Mrs D attending  a 
public hospital  and waiting six/seven hours whilst in considerable pain. I think  that if 
arrangements had been made considerably earlier for Mrs D to receive  a second opinion,  
and to get a fit to fly certificate,  much time couldve been saved in arranging  repatriation.
Mrs D obtained her fit to fly certificate,  but it was recommended that she have extra space 
on the flight home. But she was only given enough anti-coagulant medication to cover a 
direct flight.   Given the short timeframe  before  their originally booked  return  flight, AXA says 
it was told by its travel agents that there  were no direct flights  available  with the additional 
seat needed until 1 September. The alternative  was for Mrs D to travel back  by road by 
ambulance, which would  have meant being separated  from her family. Mrs D needed  to stay 
with her family for their support. So Mr and Mrs D chose the least bad option, and the 
family returned on their original flight, but with no extra space.
In addition to the travel  issues  and the physical discomfort  that Mrs D suffered in the travel  to 
hospitals and the waiting  around,  and the lack of any other travel assistance, Mr and Mrs D 
also faced a lack of communication from AXA which they say caused considerable stress  
and upset. Mrs D suffered a number  of panic attacks  which  wouldve been  very distressing 
for her and the family,  and AXA was aware of these. Mr and Mrs D didnt know  from day to 
day what plan there  was, if any, for them to return home, and when this might be.
I accept some of what AXA has said about what its responsible for and what  its not, and I 
dont think that AXA is responsible for all of the issues mentioned by Mr and Mrs D.  In  
particular, I accept that it was told by its travel agents that there were no direct flights back  to 
the UK with the necessary number of seats available  until 1 September. That isnt AXAs  
fault. Nor is it AXAs fault that its agents told it that there were no extra seats  available on the 
booked return flight when  Mr and Mrs D say that there were  spare  seats on the plane..
It appears that AXA simply offered three unacceptable  options   a return home by land 
ambulance, which wouldve  separated  Mrs D from her family, an indirect flight for which  
Mrs D had insufficient anti-coagulant medication, or a direct flight with an extra seat some 10 
days later.  I dont see any attempt by AXA to enquire as to whether an indirect  flight  mightve 
been an acceptable option if additional  medication couldve been obtained. And the 
availability of a return journey on a direct  flight with sufficient seats mightve been possible if 
this had been planned shortly after Mrs Ds accident. Instead it seems  there  was no plan to 
repatriate Mrs D until after shed obtained  her fit to fly certificate on 19 August, some two 
weeks after her accident. And shed  only been told she needed to obtain such  a certificate 
on 18 August. 
Ref: DRN61991584I also take account of the other  service  issues that Mr and Mrs D suffered, such as the 
failure by AXA to correspond with the hospital and arrange for direct payment  of the 
hospitals bills, and the subsequent failure  by AXA to reimburse Mr D promptly  when he 
submitted copies of the bills hed had to pay.
My conclusion is that AXA shouldve acted in a way that wouldve reduced for Mr and Mrs D 
the natural stress and anxiety they wouldve suffered in such a situation, but instead it 
compounded it. Much  of the pain and discomfort and the panic attacks suffered by Mrs D 
couldve been avoided  with better  communication,  support and assistance. AXAs accepted 
that its service fell well short of expectations.  In the circumstances,  I think that compensation 
of £1,000 is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im upholding Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, and I require 
AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay them  compensation of £1,000.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 October  2019.
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6199158