K821x#15complaint
Mr W complained  about how St Martin's Partners LLP (SMP) dealt  with the transfer  and 
investment of funds  from his two pension plans into a self-invested pension  plan (SIPP).
background
The chronology of contact between Mr W and SMP is agreed in general terms. But there is 
disagreement about whether particular contact should have caused SMP  or Mr W to act in a 
particular way.
There was initial contact  between Mr W and SMP in November 2015  and a meeting followed 
in early 2016. By this time details of Mr Ws pension plans  had been  obtained  by SMP.
A recommendation report was completed  and provided to Mr W; the report is dated 10 May
2016. This set out that Mr Ws brother [Mr W2] would be suggesting the investments to be 
made within the plan and that once these had been  decided, Mr W would let the business 
know and the requests  would be actioned.  The wording was as follows:
"We discussed in our meeting that your brother, will be responsible for suggesting the 
investment choices for your pension funds. Once  these have been  decided you will let us 
know and we can action  the requests".
An email  from Mr Ws brother was sent to and received  by SMP and Mr W on16 May 2016. It 
set out:
"I'm suggesting a pretty  simple core satellite  approach.. with a heavy  skew  towards equities.
60% L&G International Index Accumulation Fund
10% L&G UK 100 Index  Acc Fund
10% FundSmith Equity I Acc Fund
10% Fidelity Emerging  Markets WAcc
10% Into investment Fund A.
Whilst I have set out the other funds, as I dont think these are particularly identifying,  I have  
anonymized one fund (Fund A) as it is particularly linked to Mr W2.
The email  from Mr W2 added some  commentary on his thinking behind  his selection. This 
included a reference to his interest  in Fund A. Mr W2 brother signed  off the email as follows 
"Any questions.
.
The applications to transfer Mr Ws two pension funds were  completed.  The provider has 
confirmed a date of 18 May 2016  for the applications. Documents from this provider sent by 
SMP go on to say:
In a letter dated 2 June 2016, they confirmed  the smaller  transfer  amount of just over 
£4,600 was paid into the SIPP once the initial adviser charge of around £144 had 
been deducted, and;
In a letter dated 20 June 2016, they confirmed the higher amount of £30,161 had 
been paid into the SIPP following the initial  adviser charge of around  £932 having 
been deducted.
Ref: DRN65459782Both letters confirmed  the sums were held in a cash facility. And the provider's letter 
confirmed that a cash facility included "money waiting to be invested". Both letters  are 
correctly addressed to Mr W; Mr W says he didn't  receive  them.
Mr W says he wasn't made aware  his funds had been received following the transfer.  
On 22 August 2016 he contacted SMP for information. On this day 100% of the funds were  
invested into Fund A, which  is the business associated  with Mr Ws brother.
On 24 August 2016 SMP instructed the provider to invest the funds in the proportions as 
originally detailed in Mr Ws brother's email. This took place and so the funds were 
disinvested from Fund  A, and the investments as detailed in May 2016  were made.
Mr W queried the sequence of events  in September 2016. He then complained  as he said he 
hadn't received all the information  he'd requested; nor was he satisfied  with those details he 
had received.
SMP didn't uphold  Mr Ws complaint. They said they hadn't received a "specific  instruction" 
from Mr W requesting  his brother's suggestion was followed, after the email with his 
brother's investment suggestions, until Mr Ws email of 22 August 2016. SMP pointed  to the 
trades that took place between 22 and 24 August 2016. SMP offered Mr W £250 as a 
gesture of goodwill without accepting any fault; this was to be a full settlement against  any 
claim. They also offered  to remove the ongoing  service charge with immediate  effect as they 
considered this would be "mutually beneficial.
Mr W refused  SMP's  offer and came to this service. One of our adjudicators looked at his 
complaint and thought it should be upheld. He concluded SMP should have been  in contact 
with Mr W on receipt  of the second transfer value, using their logic. The adjudicator went on 
to set out how he thought the situation needed to be addressed.  
SMP didn't agree. It was at this stage they provided  copies of the letters from the provider  
(dated 2 and 20 June  2016) addressed to Mr W at his home  address.  They  thought this 
demonstrated Mr W knew the position  and that he should have been in contact with them.  
SMP continue to think they required a specific instruction from Mr W to enable them to make 
the investments  here.
Mr W doesn't accept he received these letters. He also thinks SMP have failed to provide the 
service they were paid to fulfil. They were aware  his funds had been transferred and had the 
details of the funds meant to be used for investment Mr W queried why, if SMP  were unsure 
of his requirements, they didn't contact  him for confirmation.
The adjudicator wasn't persuaded to alter his initial view and the case was referred to an 
ombudsman.
Provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 14 March 2019. In this I set out my thinking based on what 
Id seen thus far. This included  my intention to uphold the complaint,  my initial thinking and 
what I intended to say SMP should  be required to do, subject to further submissions. I also 
requested some further information. This included information from the provider.
Ref: DRN65459783SMP didnt  respond  with any further submissions to my provisional decision. But based on 
what Ive seen Im confident they have been sent copies of it. We also shared some further 
information and it was confirmed this had been received.
Mr W accepted my provisional decision in general  terms;  he did provide some further 
comments and information.  These  included in summary that since  starting  the SIPP which  is 
at the centre of this complaint, he chosen  to move to a different SIPP  provider:
which I manage  myself direct. This arrangement  is far preferable to that entered into with 
SMP which was only intended to make my life easier.  The transfer of funds being trivially 
easy for me to deal with myself I would have been far better off had I just opened  the..  
SIPP, arranged the transfers and the fund distributions myself, and I would have  wasted 
vastly less time than I have had to.
Mr W told us that it was the notification from the original SIPP provider that 100% of my 
investment had been made into Fund A that alerted him caused  him to make the complaint.
He went on to tell us he set up his new SIPP on or around 24 September  2016 as a 
consequence of my concerns... Initially with a £50,000 contribution  from my employer. The 
investment choices were  provided by my brother and were  broadly similar to those for the 
[previous] platform but tailored slightly. 
He subsequently arranged a transfer from another pension plan in February 2017 and then 
from the initial SIPP setup  by SMP in April 2017. He says:
Prior to setting up the [newer] SIPP I had no direct experience in this area and so sought 
advice to consolidate existing pensions with a view to improving my pension  outlook by 
making further significant pension contributions. When seeking  advice  from SMP,  it was 
always my expectation that my brother would determine the investments.  At the time of 
seeking advice  from SMP  I was unaware of the ease with which I could setup a SIPP  on my 
own and arrange  the transfer of existing pensions into that SIPP. It is only through  necessity  
that I came to a better understanding in this area..I have  no history of making  investments 
prior to 2016. In recent  years I have made some investment decision relating to money  held 
in an ISA by buying and selling shares.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Based on what Ive seen I havent been  
persuaded to change  my thinking from that set out in my provisional decision.
I don't think SMP did all they should  have done  here. SMP knew Mr Ws intention  was to 
invest following the transfer of his pension  funds, and that his investment choices were to 
follow his brother's recommendations. I accept that in the circumstances here,  to be prudent, 
SMP may have wanted Mr W to confirm his agreement to the investments proposals  
provided by his brother  in the email dated  16 May 2016. But theres nothing to suggest SMP 
tried to contact Mr W by which  means  they could have achieved this. And I think  this is 
something they ought reasonably to have done.
Mr W signed SMP's client agreement on 9 March 2016. This set out the 3% initial  charge 
and ongoing  charge of 1%; it also contained the following:
Ref: DRN65459784"We prefer our clients to give us instructions in writing, to aid clarification and avoid future 
misunderstandings. We will, however accept oral instructions provided they are confirmed in 
writing. We may, at our discretion, refuse to accept  instructions although such  discretion 
shall not be exercised  unreasonably. We will record all transactions  on our files which, along 
with copies of relevant  documentation, will be retained by us for a period of not less than six 
years. You have  a right to inspect copies of contract notes, vouchers and entries in our 
books or computerised records relating to your transactions."
I haven't seen  anything  that makes me think SMP replied  to the 16 May 2016  email, or that 
they sent any message to Mr W following their receipt of the email. I think  its reasonable to 
expect SMP  to have  acted in such a way. Given their recommendation letter  had been dated  
less than a week  before,  and the instructions for transfer to the SIPP  dated  within  48 hours  
of the email, I think matters were  very fresh to SMP  at the time. SMP knew the intention was 
to invest on receipt of the funds; so its reasonable to have expected  SMP to ensure they 
had what was necessary  so that the investments  were ready to be made  once the transfers 
were completed. This was the main thrust of what they were being required to do here. So I 
accept that by the time SMP were aware all the funds had been transferred (20 June 2016) 
they should have been in a position to act on the next trading day.
I'm not clear on how or why SMP  caused all of Mr Ws funds to be invested in Fund A on 22 
August 2016;  the day Mr W contacted SMP. I don't accept  the contact from Mr W on this 
date appears to fulfil any instruction to invest.  So this investment  activity appears to have 
taken place before SMP had the confirmation they say they required; and yet effects part of 
the investment  arising from the 16 May 2016 email. However it was made  in the wrong 
proportion (100% instead of 10%). I haven't seen any explanation for this; nor whether this 
incurred any additional  costs.
I do accept Mr W could have contacted SMP prior to 22 August 2016;  and based  on what
I've seen, I think Mr W received the letters dated 2 and 20 June  2016.  But I've looked at the 
letters and I don't accept the contents  are such that I would expect Mr W ought reasonably 
to have acted  to the extent as to make  any liability upon SMP  to shift. I think  it would be a 
reasonable response on seeing these letters for Mr W to have considered the letters 
confirmed the process  he'd agreed  was in hand;  albeit  I understand Mr W denied having 
seen these letters.
So I dont  accept that any inaction on the part of Mr W, removes  SMP's responsibility. I 
should add that I have  seen that on 22 August 2016  Mr W was asking SMP to ensure he had 
access to the SIPP  provider's online  platform; so I don't  think Mr W would have been able to 
access further information via that route  at the time.
Overall SMP were  paid to provide a service, by Mr W, their client; and I think  its reasonable 
to expect SMP to have  acted. Their recommendation was for Mr Ws finds  to be transferred 
and invested and that this would allow the potential  for growth. So the process of identifying 
the relevant investments should have been  paramount. And certainly  on receipt of Mr Ws 
brother's email on the subject and the completion  of the transfer  requests, I would have 
expected SMP to have been  actively working  on this to ensure once the funds  had been  
transferred, SMP were ready  to instruct on investment.
In my provisional decision I asked for some further  information. These included details on 
the ongoing charges SMP had been receiving and which they offered to cease. Ive seen the 
information from the provider confirms the payments did cease after a short delay.
Ref: DRN65459785I previously indicated that I agreed with the adjudicator that SMP are entitled to have 
received an initial fee as they did complete the transfers and investments as agreed  (if not in 
a reasonable time period). I continue to be of this thinking.
I did ask for more information  following  Mr Ws confirmation of the changes  to his position. I 
understand that Mr W now thinks the process  was straightforward and one he could have 
managed without instructing SMP. I accept that he didnt realise  this at the time; albeit I 
would have expected his brother would have been in a position  to assist him. I see that his 
brother continues to play a role in leading  on his investment approach.  
So for the reasons I previously set out I am upholding  the complaint.
what SMP  need to do
Based on what I've seen, I don't think SMP  acted  as they should  have  done  and so there 
was an unnecessary delay to Mr Ws investments being made. In looking at what I say SMP 
will need  to do, I have tried to put Mr W in as close a position  to the one he should be in had 
the errors  not occurred. SMP are required to do the following:
Confirm the number  of units that could have  been purchased with Mr Ws funds (the 
amount originally transferred and available for investment in June 2016, and not 
August 2016) - in his selected investments (in the instructed proportions) on the next 
trading day after 20 June 2016.
I think SMP  had sufficient time from 16 May 2016  to confirm Mr Ws investment intentions.
Compare this with the actual number  of units purchased with Mr Ws funds in August 
2016.
If Mr W could (and so would) have purchased more units had the investments gone ahead  
(as they should  have) in June 2016;  then Mr W has suffered a loss as a consequence of the 
unreasonable delay. But if the number of units would have been fewer, then Mr W suffered 
no loss; and so SMP  would not need to make a payment  to represent loss.
If Mr W has suffered  a loss then SMP will be required to pay a sum of money  to represent 
the additional units he would (and should)  have  purchased in June 2016.
SMP need to calculate the cost of all units that could and should have been purchased for 
Mr W in June 2016, as at the date of the completed  investment in August 2016. This was the 
loss figure  (if there  is one) suffered by Mr W and his portfolio in August 2016. SMP must 
then pay this figure and interest on this figure at 8% simple a year up until the date of 
settlement.
I think this is a reasonable approach  in these particular circumstances. I am not persuaded 
that it is necessary  to enter into enquiries  in relation to any loss figure involving taking 
account of whether, how or when Mr W might have changed  his investments at any time.
I think the method  of payment  originally proposed by the adjudicator to be right.  In other  
words any sum representing loss to be paid into Mr Ws plan. But if for some  reason any 
redress amount couldn't be paid into the plan then it should be paid directly  to Mr W less 
20% to reflect  the basic  rate of tax relief which is available on pension contributions.
Ref: DRN65459786I also think SMP should pay Mr W £250  to reflect the trouble and inconvenience he has been  
caused.
I invited further information and submissions  in relation to fees and charges in my provisional  
decision. I explained what I was intending  to do, subject to what else I was told. I have seen 
a schedule of payments  from the provider. It appears all payments to SMP ceased in May 
2017. This is shortly  after SMP made their offer and is broadly consistent with what wed 
previously been  told. It doesnt suggest  SMP have provided any ongoing service.
So as I previously indicated, all ongoing service charges or fees that were  paid to SMP 
should be refunded to Mr W by SMP, with interest  to be applied  at 8% simple a year.
my final decision
So for the reasons given, I uphold Mr Ws complaint against St Martin's  Partners LLP. SMP 
are required  to:
 Complete the loss calculation and redress exercise and pay any sums due to Mr W.
 Pay Mr W £250 to represent the distress  and inconvenience suffered.
Under our rules,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
24 June 2019.
Louise Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6545978