K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains AXA Insurance  UK Plc caused  damage to his property when carrying out 
repairs under his home insurance policy.
background
Mr P had a claim with AXA under his home insurance policy.  As part of the repair  AXA 
needed to do some works to Mr Ps bedroom.  He asked that his bed was put into storage  
whilst the repairs were  being carried out. AXA initially  didnt think  the bed needed to be taken 
into storage as it was satisfied repairs could be done  around  it. But it eventually  agreed to do 
this.
When Mr Ps bed was returned, it was noticed  there was a small scratch  on the inside of the 
bedframe. Mr P complained to AXA and asked for it to provide him a new bed. AXA didnt 
think it had caused  the damage  to the bed, but made an offer of £200  as a gesture  of 
goodwill to resolve  the complaint. It said this represented half of the retail  value.  Unhappy  
with its response,  Mr P brought the complaint to our service.
Our investigator thought £200  was a generous offer from AXA. She noted  the bed was still 
fully functional, and once  the mattress was on the bedframe the scratch wasnt visible. So 
she didnt recommend AXA do anything more.
Mr P didnt agree. He provided a receipt  for the bed showing a purchase price of £250. He 
wanted the full amount to be given  by AXA.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to ask AXA 
to do anything more  to resolve  the complaint.
AXA has accepted  its possible  the damage  could have been  caused by its contractors when 
removing the bed. So its not necessary for me in this case  to decide if AXA was at fault or 
not. The only thing  for me to consider is whether the £200  is a fair amount in the 
circumstances. 
Ive seen photographs of the scratch. It is relatively small and cannot be seen  when the bed 
is fully assembled. The function of the bed is not impaired and it can still be used by Mr P, so 
its not reasonable for me to ask AXA to provide  him the cost of a new bed.
Mr P initially  said the bed had cost £400, so AXA offered half of the retail value as 
compensation. Mr P later said he was mistaken and the receipt he provided was for £250. 
So I consider AXAs  offer of £200  to be generous  and Im not recommending it do anything  
more to put things  right.
Ref: DRN67339282my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6733928