K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains about the level of service  received,  and the cash  settlement offered by 
Covea Insurance  plc, following a claim she made  for water  damage under her home 
insurance policy. 
background
In September  2018, Mrs H claimed  for water damage inside her home caused by a leaking 
boiler. She had home emergency  insurance  with a different provider and arranged  for 
someone to attend  and stop the leak. 
Mrs H made  a claim for the internal damage caused to her ceiling, kitchen walls and units,  
and electrics. Once Mrs H submitted the claim, Covea asked for some further information, 
but later decided to send  out a contractor  to assess the damage. 
Coveas assessor visited  and quoted for the repairs. It was less than the amount  Mrs H had 
been quoted from independent  contractors. Covea also noted that Mrs H had removed the 
entire ceiling and said it wasnt able to consider carrying out a patch  repair due to this.  
Covea said it was able to pay Mrs H what it would incur to have the works completed. It also 
said the difference in quotes  was due to Mrs Hs own contractor quoting for a more 
substantive repair to the electrics. 
Covea said it would  only replace the double socket, whereas Mrs Hs engineer  said further  
work was required to carry out an effective and long-lasting repair. The contractor did report  
that the work  to the electrics should  be considered as an upgrade. 
Mrs H complained to Covea and said she felt it had acted  unfairly  by not agreeing to cover  
the electrical repairs. But Covea maintained its position that carrying out the works would be 
betterment  meaning it thought the work  would put Mrs H in a better position than before 
the damage occurred.  But Mrs H said her electrics  were  working  prior to the water damage 
and should be put back in that position.  
Mrs H also complained about the level of service she received.  She said she had to chase  
for updates  and spent periods of time on the phone. So she brought  a complaint to this 
service for consideration.  
Our investigator looked into everything  and recommended the complaint should be upheld in 
part. She didnt  think Covea had provided  an unreasonable  level of customer  service, or that 
it should cover the costs  to replace the entire ceiling. But she thought  it should pay to repair 
the electrical works that Mrs H was quoted for. She said that the electrics were  working  prior 
to the leak, but given  Mrs Hs lights needed an upgrade in order to complete an effective and 
long-lasting repair,  Covea should  cover  these costs in order to put her back in the position 
she would  have been in had the leak not happened. 
Mrs H agreed, but Covea  didnt. It offered to replace a consumer unit but didnt  think  it 
should cover  the costs  to upgrade the electrics  as it thought this would be betterment.  So the 
case was passed  to me for final decision.  
Ref: DRN68687732my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigators view, for broadly similar  reasons. I will explain why. 
Theres no dispute that Mrs Hs policy provides  cover in the event of a water  leak inside her 
home. Covea accepted  the claim and offered to pay Mrs H a cash  settlement which it was 
entitled to do under the policy. It says At our option  we will arrange for the work to be carried 
out or pay the cost of repairing or reinstating  the buildings  as new.  
I think Covea acted  fairly by offering to cash settle  Mrs Hs claim. I note Mrs H hasnt 
complained about this and so I wont be commenting on this further.  What  remains in dispute 
is the amount  Covea  has paid Mrs H in order to settle the claim.  
There are two things to consider here; whether  Covea should cover  the costs to replace the 
entire ceiling, and whether it should reimburse  Mrs H the money she paid to have the work 
carried out to the electrics. I will address each point in turn. 
Covea said it thought a patch repair couldve been carried  out, but Mrs Hs own contractor 
disagreed with this. However, her contractor hasnt  provided reasons why and so I dont 
think shes demonstrated that this was necessary, and therefore  Covea should  cover it. 
The water damage was only to a patch of the ceiling and based on what  Ive seen I dont 
think Mrs H has demonstrated a patch  repair wouldnt have been effective and long-lasting. 
Mrs H said she removed the entire ceiling due to health reasons. I appreciate why she took 
the decision to do this, but that doesnt mean  Covea should  be required to cover this work as 
Im more persuaded  a patch repair could have  been completed based on whats  available  to 
me. 
The main  point in dispute is whether Covea should  reimburse what Mrs H paid to have the 
electrics upgraded,  or if it has acted reasonably by offering to cover  the double  socket,  
ceiling light, spare  switch and the consumer unit. Having looked into everything, I think 
Covea should  cover the costs Mrs H incurred in having her electrics upgraded to carry out 
an effective and long-lasting repair. 
I appreciate Coveas argument that Mrs H is only covered for damage caused as a result of 
an insured peril  and the peril here being  the escape of water.  However, I think in order  to 
put Mrs H back in the position  she was in prior to the leak, it needs  to ensure it carried out  
or paid for  an effective and long-lasting repair to her electrics. And based on the 
information available to me, Im more persuaded that cannot be achieved without the 
upgrade works. 
Covea did offer to pay for a new consumer unit in order to try to resolve  things. But I dont 
think this fairly puts Mrs H back into the position  she would have been in. Her own contractor 
said the work Covea  offered to cover  wouldnt be suitable due to current regulations.  So I 
dont think this is a fair way to resolve things.  
Mrs Hs electrics were  not in a damaged condition prior to the leak happening. The report  
completed by Coveas contractors says the electrician has said that to complete  the peril 
related work he will need to upgrade  the consumer unit. When  queried Insurers advised  this 
would be classed as betterment and not covered which the Insured does not accept.  Upon 
Ref: DRN68687733review of the claim again we would recommend that costs the electrician is charging for this 
upgrade is allowed. 
The report  goes on to confirm that Mrs Hs electrics worked fine prior to the leak and not 
completing the work to the electrics  would not put her back  in the position she was in. I 
agree that Covea  refusing  to cover the electrics hasnt fairly  indemnified  Mrs H. This is 
because it agreed  that but for the leak, she wouldnt have needed to carry out an upgrade to 
her electrics.  I understand  Mrs H has now paid for the work to be completed,  and so I require 
Covea to reimburse the money she paid for the electrical work  (upon proof  of a receipt),  plus 
8% simple  interest from the date Mrs H paid to have the electrical work completed,  to the 
date of settlement.  
I dont think Covea handled the claim unfairly  or caused unreasonable delays, so I dont 
agree with Mrs H that compensation should be paid. Covea is entitled  under the policy to 
send a contractor  to assess the damage if it wasnt able to obtain enough information to 
make a decision based on what a policyholder provided. And I think it dealt with the claim in 
a timely  manner so I wont ask it to do anything else. 
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint in part. I require Covea Insurance  plc pay Mrs H 
the amount she incurred  to have the electrical works completed,  plus 8% simple  interest  
from the date she paid for the electrical  work,  to the date of settlement. 
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Covea Insurance plc to take off tax from this interest.  
Covea Insurance  plc must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much tax its taken of if she 
asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Liam Hickey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6868773