K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Nationwide Building  Society wont refund payments from his
account, which he says he didnt make.
background
Mr B is disputing  three payments made on 1 and 2 February 2017, totalling £1,850.
The disputed transactions are shown below.
Date Time Transaction Amount Card/PIN/Other details needed
01/02/2017 19.34 online banking  
SWIFT payment
£1,350 Card reader, 
debit card and 
PIN
02/02/2017 8.30
8.44PAYM mobile 
app£250 x 2 =
£500Mobile phone
What Mr B says happened
Mr B said he didnt  make the payments on 1 and 2 February 2017.
He told us he logged  into his online account  on 1 February and noticed that £1,400  had 
been transferred  from his savings account into his current account.  This happened again, 
twice, while  he was still online. On each occasion,  he transferred the money back into his 
savings account.
He said he went to bed, intending to raise  his concerns with Nationwide the next day.
He checked his account the next day and saw that £1,400 had been transferred into the
current account again and the money  had been  used to make the disputed payments.
He said he reported  the fraudulent transactions to Nationwide  on 3 February.
Mr B said hed received  a new debit card and PIN two weeks earlier.  He asked
Nationwide if it had deactivated the old card and PIN. He also asked if two people could be
logged into the same account  at the same  time and be carrying out transactions
simultaneously.
Mr B also said he didnt  have a card reader.  And he didnt share his card or PIN with anyone
else.
Nationwides response
Nationwide refused to refund the disputed transactions and subsequently  closed  his
account. It is treating  Mr B as having  authorised  the disputed payments.
It said only Mr B could  have known the security information needed to make the
payments.
It explained that the SWIFT payment was made by someone keying in the debit
card details and PIN into a card reader. A one-time pass code would have been generated
Ref: DRN66836042and this would have been entered online. In addition, as this was done by online banking,
the person would have needed  the log in details for the account. It said the person also 
passed a card reader  challenge.
However, Mr B hadnt reported his debit card as missing and he still had it with him
when he complained to Nationwide.
In relation to the two PAYM payments, Nationwide said these were  made  by a mobile
banking app. The two PAYM payments were made from the same  mobile  number that Mr B 
had registered  with it in October  2016.
Nationwide confirmed there had been an increase  in online activity  from different
IP addresses.  However, it said the IP addresses used for the PAYM payments were  
used previously to make  genuine transactions. 
It pointed out that Mr B didnt raise his concerns until 3 February, even though  he said his 
suspicions were raised  on 1 February.
Adjudicators view
An adjudicator investigated his complaint, but she didnt  uphold it.
She concluded it was unlikely  that Mr B had been  the victim of third-party fraud because of
the amount of secure banking  information  needed  to make the payments. She said whoever
made the transactions needed  Mr Bs mobile phone,  his debit card, his PIN, a card
reader and his log in details. Based on this evidence, she thought  it was more likely that Mr 
B had authorised the transactions.
Mr B disagreed with our adjudicators view. He asked for an ombudsmans  final
decision.
My provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on 27 November 2019. Mr B and Nationwide have seen my 
provisional decision, which sets out the evidence that was available at the time and my 
conclusions.
Based on the evidence,  I didnt consider that Nationwide had demonstrated, with clear 
evidence, that Mr B had authorised the transactions. In particular, it had suggested the same  
IP address was used for genuine transactions and the disputed ones, but the online audit log 
didnt show this. 
I invited comments from both parties.
Mr B accepted my provisional decision.
Nationwide disagreed with my findings.  It has provided clearer evidence of the online activity  
on the account. The online audit log now shows that the IP address which was used to make  
the disputed transactions, was also used for a genuine transaction on 15 January 2017  and 
for the transfers  to his savings account  which he said he made  on 1 and 2 February 2017.
Nationwide has also provided  a statement from a case handler who dealt with an earlier  
fraud complaint from Mr B made  on the 16th December. He disputed betting transactions  
made from an i.p address  41.215.171.14.  Nationwide refunded the transactions.
Ref: DRN66836043However, in a phone  call on the 6th February,  Mr B confirmed that a £500  transfer  from his 
saving to his current account was genuine.  The IP address,  which was used for an iPhone, 
was the same as the earlier betting  transactions and the PAYM  payments.
Nationwide has said this makes a link to the earlier betting transactions, the genuine transfer  
of £500 from his savings account and the PAYM  payments. 
It also repeated its position  that the SWIFT payment was set up using his debit card and the 
card reader. Yet, Mr B still had his card and hadnt  lost it. It said this was enough to prove he 
authorised the disputed  transactions.
Nationwide has now asked for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Now that Ive seen  further evidence from Nationwide, Im afraid  Ive decided not to uphold  
this complaint. From what Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Nationwide to 
conclude that Mr B authorised the transactions.  This is because:
the SWIFT payment was made online. The person  needed Mr Bs log in details to 
access the online account. To make the payment, the person also needed a one-time 
password from a card reader. 
To get the one-time password, the person needed the debit card for the account, the 
PIN and a card reader.  
Mr B hadnt reported his debit card as lost or missing. He had it with him when he 
reported the disputed transaction.
Mr B said he didnt  keep a written note of the PIN or share  it with anyone else.
The mobile number  used for the PAYM payments  is the same as the one which 
Nationwide has held since October 2016.
The IP address,  that was used for the two PAYM payments, is identical  to the one 
used for:
oa genuine  transfer from his savings  account  to his current  account on 15 
January 2017
othe internal  transfers of the £1,400  to his savings account which Mr B said he 
did on 1 February 2017, but which show as having been made on 2 February.
The above  evidence indicates that the person making the disputed  transactions  needed 
considerable knowledge of Mr Bs secure  banking details. The person also needed his 
mobile phone.  Yet, Mr B said he didnt share  his details  with anyone else,  he hadnt  lost his 
debit card and he didnt have a card reader. And theres no explanation for how an unknown  
third party could get this level of information or his mobile phone  without him noticing. Im 
Ref: DRN66836044afraid I dont think its likely  that an unknown third party got hold of his details or phone. I 
consider its more likely than not that he authorised the disputed transactions.  
Ive considered the different IP addresses which were used. I cant explain why this 
happened. I note that the IP address isnt proof of the customers  location, only the network 
used by the device. I cant  rule out the possibility that he allowed someone  else to use his 
debit card and PIN or his mobile phone. 
For these reasons I wont be asking Nationwide to refund the disputed  transactions.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr B. I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6683604