K820x#14complaint
The estate  of Mrs D complains about  the problems  encountered  when  trying  to notify 
Bank of Ireland  (UK) Plc (trading as Post Office Money) of her passing. 
background
Mrs D passed away and on 10 January 2019  and Mr D (her son and executor) called 
Post Office  Money to notify  it. Mr D has explained  that he wanted to know  if his late mother 
owed anything so he could take steps  to settle  her estate. 
Mr D complains that after half an hour he was tired of waiting to speak with someone and 
rang off. Mr D followed his call up with an email to Post Office Money in which he 
complained about the delay. 
Post Office  Money didnt immediately get back to Mr D and issued  its final response via the 
post on 8 March 2019, 57 days  after the complaint was made. Post Office  Money  said it 
needed information from Mr D to start the probate process. Post Office Money offered £75 to 
resolve the complaint. 
On behalf of the estate of Mrs D, Mr D referred the complaint to our service  and an 
investigator looked at what  had happened. She thought Post Office Money had dealt  with the 
complaint fairly and didnt ask it to increase the £75 offered. In response, Mr D said the £75 
offered was solely in relation to Post Office  Moneys  phone system. Mr D also said 
Post Office  Money had failed to respond to the complaint within the time limits  allowed and 
pointed out that we havent penalised  it for breaching the rules. As Mr D didnt agree with the 
investigator, the complaint  has been passed  to me to make  a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has told us that despite waiting to speak  with someone for half an hour he wasnt  able 
to tell Post Office  Money  about his late mothers death when he called on 10 January 2019. I 
understand this was a difficult and upsetting time and that lengthy delays when trying to deal 
with the estate were  frustrating. 
After Mr Ds initial complaint was made, Post Office Money got in touch to ask for information 
so it could identify  the correct account.  But it then failed to quickly  follow  up with Mr D until it 
responded to his complaint. I agree Post Office Money  could have done  more to let Mr D 
know what information he needed to provide in his capacity as executor before it responded 
to his complaint  on 8 March 2019.  
Post Office  Money responded to the complaint  on 8 March 2019, 57 days after it was made. 
I note Mr Ds point that the response time falls outside the 56 days businesses are meant to 
issue a final response  in. I understand he feels we should take some  kind of punitive action 
against Post Office  Money for the additional  time it took to respond. But thats not our role 
and we arent able to fine or punish a business for missing a deadline. We arent  the 
regulator and we dont set the rules that businesses operate  under   thats the Financial 
Conduct Authority.  Were  an informal dispute  resolution service and when we consider 
Ref: DRN69634062awards we look at the impact of an error on the consumer to decide whether a settlement is 
fair.
In this case, the consumer is the estate  of Mrs D and Mr D was acting  in the capacity  of 
executor when he contacted Post Office Money  and subsequently complained.  I note 
everything Mr D says about how frustrating the delay  in getting a response was. I also 
understand that Mr D feels the £75 offered is solely in relation  to the complaint about his call 
to Post Office Money on 10 January 2019.  But we look at complaints as a whole and Im 
satisfied the £75 Post Office Money has offered fairly reflects  the impact  of both the delay in 
speaking with someone on 10 January 2019  as well as responding to the complaint a day 
after the 56 day deadline. 
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr D as I can see how strongly he feels  in this matter. But having 
considered everything  both he and Post Office Money have told us Im satisfied the £75 its 
offered is fair in all the circumstances. I leave it to Mr D to decide whether hes willing to 
accept the £75 offered on behalf  of the estate of Mrs D. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6963406