K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains about Arrow Global Limited  chasing her for a debt which  isnt enforceable. 
She wants them to cease debt collection activity and for the balance  to be written  off. 
The complaint has been brought by a representative, who Ill refer to as F.
background
F complained to Arrow Global about a debt they were chasing  Mrs B for. They  disputed  the 
sum being sought and said that Arrow Globals failure to comply with their request for a copy 
of the credit  agreement, along  with information relating to the outstanding debt and the 
account, meant that it wasnt enforceable. And so they felt Arrow  Global  were  unfairly  
chasing Mrs B for payment.
Arrow Global  apologised for the delay in providing  information to F and that their inability to 
obtain documents  including the credit agreement  meant the debt was unenforceable. But 
they said theyd  purchased the debt in good faith and they werent made aware  of any issues 
surrounding the account at that time. They considered the outstanding balance  to be correct  
and so due for repayment.
The matter  was referred to our service. Our investigator looked  in to it but he didnt think  the 
complaint should  be upheld.  He explained  it isnt the role of our service to decide  whether a 
debt is enforceable  as that would be for the courts to decide. But he said Arrow Global had 
provided evidence  to show the account  likely belonged to Mrs B. And that theyd also shown 
payments had been made towards  the debt between  2012 and 2017. So he thought Arrow 
Global was acting  fairly  and reasonably  when seeking repayment of the debt from Mrs B.
F didnt agree with our investigator. So the matter has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear that Mrs B has experienced financial difficulties as its never an easy  
situation to deal with. And so I appreciate why shes concerned at being  asked to repay a 
debt that she doesnt  think shes responsible for. But I think  it would be helpful for me to 
explain, as our investigator did, that the matter of whether a debt is enforceable is for the 
courts to decide.  All I can determine is if Arrow  Global has reasonable grounds to believe 
they are entitled  to seek repayment from Mrs B for the debt. 
I understand F accepts  it is for the courts to determine if a debt is enforceable. But theyve 
referred to guidance  published by the Office  of Fair Trading that, under section 5.8, says:
The OFT would firstly  expect  the creditor or owner to take steps to check that 
there was in fact an agreement with the debtor or hirer, and in particular whether 
there are in fact monies outstanding under it, and if so for how much.  This should  be 
capable of being demonstrated to the debtor or hirer.
They think  Arrow Globals  inability to provide an adequate statement of account of the debt 
before they took ownership prevents them from establishing what  sum is due, along with 
Ref: DRN68115502how the sum arose. Because  of this, they dont think Arrow  Global can properly show  what is 
owed and so argue that collection activity should  be stopped until this can be established or 
the balance written off. 
Ive carefully taken this point in to account. But while  Arrow Global hasnt been  able to 
provide a copy of the credit agreement, or a statement of account prior to purchasing  the 
debt; I think theyve shown sufficient evidence to support their position that Mrs B is the 
debtor along with the amount owed. Ill explain why.
Arrow Global  has provided the information they received from the creditor which  they 
purchased the debt from. This lists Mrs Bs details  including her full name,  address and 
date of birth  as the debtor along  with the details of the account  purchased.  Theyve also 
shown that payments were made to the debt up until June 2017. I think  these payments are 
acknowledgements of the debt and give Arrow Global reasonable grounds to believe the 
debt is owed by Mrs B. I also think the payment  arrangement  shows Arrow Global made 
allowances for the financial  difficulties Mrs B was facing. So I cant fairly  say it was being  
unfair in how it sought to recover  the debt.
Arrow Globals statements show the opening balance  of the debt upon purchasing  it. But 
while there isnt anything to show what sum was owed prior to this, I havent seen anything 
to suggest the amount is incorrect. I also think its reasonable to assume the debt 
management company  assisting  Mrs B wouldve checked what she owed prior to making the 
repayments. So, on balance, I think its more likely  than not that the amount owed is correct. 
I therefore think the evidence available provides Arrow Global with reasonable grounds to 
believe they are entitled  to seek  repayment  from Mrs B for the debt.
In the absence of a signed agreement it would seemingly be open to Mrs B to insist Arrow  
Global obtain  a court order if they want to enforce  this debt. But this would run the risk of her 
incurring significant  additional costs. Alternatively,  if Mrs B wishes  to seek  a payment 
arrangement Arrow Global would be obliged to treat her positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6811550