K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Mrs R have complained that Lloyds Bank PLC will not refund the money  they lost 
after falling victim to a scam.
background
Mr N and Mrs R had been searching  the internet for competitive deals  regarding  flights. 
Following this, Mrs R contacted a travel  agent  who Ill refer to as G by phone. At this point,  
Mr N and Mrs R didnt go ahead with any purchase.  
A few days  later Mr N and Mrs R were contacted by another company, who Ill refer to as P, 
offering them a better deal. It said it was linked to G and that it was from G itd obtained their 
contact number. Mr N and Mrs R say that when P contacted them  they knew Mrs Rs name 
and the dates of their travel plans. P also said that it was the online  branch for G. 
Mr N says before they engaged in further communication, he researched P online and 
everything checked out. He says in addition to the website, he checked  online reviews and 
checked if P was registered with Companies  House.  Mr N also says he checked the flights  
on Ps website. Mr N and Mrs R said they believed their information had been shared/sold by 
an employee of G and that this seemed plausible as both companies were linked.
Mr N and Mrs R say they were told P had flight tickets that had been cancelled and that it 
could offer these  to them. They were  told to pay for the tickets  by bank transfer. Mr N says 
he questioned  other methods of payments but was pressured to pay into the account  details 
given. Although Mr N and Mrs R have said due to the time thats passed, they cant  recall  the 
exact details of the pressure techniques  they used. Mr N has also said that his questions  
around the payment and payment methods were met with a plausible response. 
Mr N adds P convinced them that the account  name was for P and the details held on the 
website was a generic  account and, that they had specific accounts to easily track payments 
made to them.  They  were also told that the cancelled tickets  are made available  to them  (P) 
directly from the airline and the airline requires a quick turnaround, hence why P didnt  allow 
credit card payments or payments by other methods.
Mr N and Mrs R say P convinced them the payment will only go to the named account  and 
asked them to add a reference  number.  Prior  to making  the payment Mr N credited the 
current account with £3,000. On 12 February  2019  Mr N and Mrs R set up a new payee from 
their current  account and sent a payment of £2,970 to the account  details  given to them  for 
P. 
Mr N and Mrs R realised theyd fallen victim  to a scam after they contacted  P directly and 
were told it was a scam. Unknown to them Mr N and Mrs R had been dealing with a 
fraudster who was pretending to be from P. 
Mr N and Mrs R contacted Lloyds  on 13 February  2019 to report  the scam. Lloyds 
contacted the receiving  bank to try and recover any funds, however, it confirmed within a 
few hours  that no funds  remained.
Mr N and Mrs R complained to Lloyds. Lloyds in its response  commented  that the payment  
itself  was authorised  and performed  genuinely.  And that a refund  of the payment  would  
not be provided  as the payment  itself  could  not be classified  as fraudulent.  Lloyds  also 
Ref: DRN63388122added  that if it receives  a request  from a customer  to send  a payment  to a particular  
account,  it is obliged  to honour  the request.  
As Lloyds  didnt uphold Mr N and Mrs Rs complaint, they brought  it to our service.  One of 
our investigators looked into the complaint and didnt think  the payment would have been 
particularly unusual or suspicious in appearance to Lloyds. While she considered that it 
wasnt a typical payment when considering Mr N and Mrs Rs normal  account activity, she 
didnt think this in isolation was enough  to cause Lloyds  concern. She also commented that 
the payment didnt  take the account  into a negative  balance and that the balance  remained 
in credit after the payment had been made.  When taking into account the credit made into 
the account to facilitate  the transfer,  she said the account balance wasnt  too dissimilar  to 
what it was prior to the payment.  While  she appreciated Mr N and Mrs R felt Lloyds should  
have checked  the payee name matched on the account the money was being  sent to, she 
said this wasnt industry  practice at the time. And she felt Lloyds had attempted  to recover 
the funds once it had been  put on notice. 
Mr N and Mrs R didnt accept the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to 
review the complaint. In summary  Mr N and Mrs R have said:
They stand by their understanding  of them not acting as grossly negligent.
They are unhappy Lloyds didnt check the payee name matched the name on the 
account the funds were being  sent to. 
That they did not authorise a transaction to the recipient account  that Lloyds failed 
to check if this type of account usage behaviour was normal for them  which should 
have flagged concerns.
Because Mr N and Mrs R didnt agree with the investigators assessment, the complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
I think it important to note that Mr N and Mrs R have raised concerns which relate  to the 
receiving bank. Any concerns they have against  the receiving bank are being considered 
under a separate complaint at our service. So, in this decision,  I am only commenting  on the 
payment made from their current account with Lloyds. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Mr N and Mrs R, and I can understand entirely why 
they feel so strongly  that their money should  be returned to them. But having thought  very 
carefully about Lloyds  actions,  I think it did act fairly  and reasonably in allowing the payment 
to leave their account. Ill explain why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
Ref: DRN63388123conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what 
is fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story  and taking  into account the law, regulators rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, I consider Lloyds should fairly  and reasonably:
-Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
-Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.   
-In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before  processing a payment, or in some 
cases declined to make  a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the 
possibility of financial harm from fraud.  
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to 
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
Mr N and Mrs R say they did not authorise  a transaction  to the recipient account. What Ive 
understood Mr N and Mrs R to be saying here is that they believed they were  dealing with a 
legitimate travel company and that they did not suspect the person they were making the 
payment of £2,970 to, was a scammer.  The money  was sent in good faith for flight  tickets. 
While I recognise what  Mr N and Mrs R have said above, at the time the payment was 
made  Mr N and Mrs R wanted to make  it and so authorised the payment of £2,970 to be 
made from their current account. They authorised this payment through  setting up a new 
payee and then making an online payment to the account details they had been  provided 
with. 
Because of this, Lloyds had an obligation  to follow their instruction.  But there are some 
situations in which it should reasonably have had a closer  look at the circumstances 
surrounding the transfer - as Ive explained.  I consider that as a matter  of good practice 
Lloyds shouldve been on the lookout for unusual  and out of character transactions.
Did Lloyds act fairly  and reasonably when it processed the payment instruction?
With this in mind, Ive first thought about whether the payment Mr N and Mrs R made was 
out of character and unusual.  And as recognised by our investigator,  I agree the scam 
payment made wasnt a typical payment  when  considering Mr N and Mrs Rs usual account 
usage. I can also see Mr N made a credit of £3,000  into the account to facilitate the transfer. 
When thinking about this, I need  to keep in mind  that it is not untypical for consumers  to 
save money for a specific purpose or for consumers to move their money  between  their 
accounts in order  to make one-off transactions  as I can see was the case here for flights.  
Mr N and Mrs R have told us theyd been saving for this holiday.
Ref: DRN63388124Having looked  at the current account statements from April 2018  up to the scam payment, I 
can see the scam payment didnt leave the account in a negative balance. Once the credit 
came into the account and the payment had been  made, I can see the account balance  
remained similar to what it had been prior to the credit and payment. I can also see from the 
current account statements the balance after the payment  was made  was enough to meet  
the direct  debit commitments  on the account. 
Ive also thought about the fact the payment was sent to a new payee. While I recognise  this 
was the first new payee set up, I dont  find that a payment  to a new payee was in itself so 
suspicious and unusual  that Lloyds ought to have automatically thought  it was suspicious 
and been concerned Mr N and Mrs R were  at risk of fraud  or financial harm.
Overall, when taking all the above  into consideration, I cant fairly or reasonably  say the 
activity was sufficiently  unusual enough that Lloyds ought to have intervened in the particular 
circumstances of this case before the payment was processed.
Mr N and Mrs R are unhappy  the account name  was not checked when transferring the 
money. Theyve raised  that if the account was not registered to P then why was the payment 
released. While I acknowledge  Mr N and Mrs Rs personal views on this point, at the time 
this payment was made, the relevant  regulations  the Payment Services Regulations 2017  
(PSR 2017) set out that payments are sent according to unique  identifiers (typically the 
account number  and sort code).
In particular, section  90 of the PSR 2017  states:
(1) Where  a payment order is executed in accordance with the unique identifier, the 
payment order is deemed to have been  correctly  executed by each payment service 
provider involved in executing the payment order with respect to the payee  specified  
by the unique identifier
The impact  of this is that the payment was correctly processed if it went  to the account 
number and sort code  instructed by the payer. So I cant fairly say that Lloyds didnt follow  
the instructions  when  it processed the payment that Mr N and Mrs R authorised  to the 
account number  and sort code provided.  At the time the payment was made,  there also 
wouldnt have been any way of checking  the name on the receiving account.  
Reporting and recovery  of funds
Ive gone on to think about  whether Lloyds did what it shouldve  done once Mr N and Mrs R 
reported to it that theyd  been the victim of a scam. In order for me to be able to fairly  ask 
Lloyds to refund the money to Mr N and Mrs R, Id need to be satisfied Lloyds should have 
acted sooner in trying  to recover the money. And if I dont  think  it acted soon enough, I need 
to decide whether it made any difference.
From the information Ive seen, Lloyds did all it could  to recover  the funds once the scam 
was reported to it and I don think it could  have done  any more in this particular case. 
I am sorry  that Mr N and Mrs R have lost out, and I appreciate  this is a lot of money for them  
to have lost. I am not suggesting  Mr N and Mrs R are blameworthy in anyway, all things 
considered I think they were simply the unwitting and blameless victims of the scammers. I 
also understand this whole  experience was very frustrating and upsetting  for them.  But in the 
Ref: DRN63388125circumstances, I dont  think  I can fairly say Lloyds  should  refund  Mr N and Mrs R the funds 
lost. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr N and Mrs Rs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2021.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6338812