K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained that E Wright  & Co (Insurances)  failed to advise him of the steps that
could be taken to ensure  that he didnt incur  tax charges as a result  of his pension  funds
exceeding the lifetime  allowance.  
jurisdiction
I issued a decision finding that we had jurisdiction to consider part of this complaint in 
November 2015.  In that decision  I said that we couldnt look at the complaint about the lack 
of advice about the lifetime allowance in 2006  because I didnt think the firm had carried out 
a regulated activity  at that time. But I was satisfied a regulated  activity  had taken place in 
March 2011 and we could  look at that part of the complaint.
E Wright & Co didnt  agree that I had jurisdiction to consider the events  around  March 2011. 
I issued another  jurisdiction decision  in November 2018 setting out the reasons why I 
considered we were  able to consider that part of the complaint. 
background
Mr D had an executive personal pension (EPP). He had a longstanding relationship with      
E Wright & Co (Insurances) over a number of years.
I think whats particularly relevant here are the circumstances surrounding  a meeting 
between the firm and Mr D in March 2011.  Mr D was in his late 50s at that time and 
considering his plans for retirement.
There arent any contemporaneous notes or a record of the content  of the March 2011 
meeting or what was discussed. However there  was an exchange of e-mails prior to the 
meeting. In Mr Ds e-mail to the firm dated 10 January 2011 he said:
If you do not mind I would  like to initiate  a review of my pension scheme arrangements
at this time to make sure they are on track. Specifically  I want  to see how each fund has
performed over say the last 5 years in terms of the declared fund values at each renewal
or each  year end when  the bonuss are added etc.
As you are aware I have 3 pension polices {sic} with {Provider 1} namely the "With Profits", 
the "Opt out of Serps Policy" and the "Pension Sterling Fund"  policy. Besides this I have 
With Profits Pension polices with {Provider 2} and {Provider 3}. Finally  I have my life 
insurance polices  {sic} with {"Provider  2} " and "Provider 3}" to review.
It has been  quite a long time since I have carried out a comparative review  of this type and
copies of the up to date positions of the funds etc would be appreciated.
In Mr Ds e-mail to the firm dated 24 February  2011  he said:
Further to my recent communication  about my various pension  policies, whilst gathering
the information  we are interested in understanding the performance of all of these
funds over the last 3 years or so.
During the last 3 years my focus has been on the difficulties I have had ..but  now I feel
the time is right for me to understand how things are progressing on the pension  front in
the run up to maturity.
Ref: DRN68551512E Wright & Co sent three  letters to Mr D dated 9 March 2011. The letters  provided valuations  
for each  of the three  investments held with the three different pension providers. One of the 
letters said:
I have previously asked you whether you wish to remain  invested in {his exiting fund}
or consider alternative funds which obviously would carry a higher investment risk.
The meeting  was held on 11 March 2011.
E Wright & Co subsequently sent a letter to Mr D dated 15 April 2011. It said:
Further to my letter of the 9 March. I would enquire whether you wish to transfer out of
{Mr Ds existing fund} into {a different cash fund} as I recommended  to you in 2009  or 
whether you wish to consider alternative  funds, which obviously would carry a higher 
investment risk? I shall be happy  to discuss this with you further  at your convenience.
In his complaint  letter  to the firm dated  24 April 2014  Mr D said:
As you will appreciate from our discussions  over the years, I planned to retire on my 60"'
birthday . and, in preparation for my retirement, I arranged a meeting with
you that took place at your offices  on 11 March  2011. The purpose of this meeting  was to
review the funds and discuss  with you whether, during  the period leading  up to my
retirement, any steps needed  to be taken in relation to my pension.  During  this meeting you
assured me that everything was progressing as it should be and nothing further needed to
be done.
We asked Mr D for his recollections  of the meeting on 11 March  2011. He responded  to say, 
in summary, that his recollections after 7 years  were not so good but he would refer to 
everything said already  and his notes.
He said he called the meeting to completely review his pension  position. The firm
gathered information  from the various  pension  providers  and he contacted another  provider 
for information on that plan as E Wright  hadnt  set that plan up.
He said hed previously  received some information  from the providers about Primary and
Enhanced Protection but it didnt  seem to apply to him and he was interested  in a
complete review being carried out.
He referred to his e-mail dated 10 January  2011 in which hed included his SERPS  plan
in the request for a review. He said he wasnt sure whether  this was subject to the
lifetime allowance  but that he didnt notice at the time that the firm never covered it.
Mr D said:
In the event the meeting went ahead with a presentation  not including the Serps element
and with no mention  of the "Lifetime Allowance" and its implications for me as I recall.
My recollection is one of basically a smooth  meeting lasting over an hour, maybe  lasting up
to 1.5 hours in total discussing each of the 3 main  polices.  Little attention was focussed on
Ref: DRN68551513the {other providers} policy (understandably  - he had not arranged this from the word go) 
and I cannot recall any discussion of the separate Serps Policy.
I think he spent some time explaining  how each policy would kick in at maturity but the
discussion was mainly  centred around the {providers name} policy  which carried  a 
guaranteed annuity and he explained that they {the pension  provider} give you little time to 
take up the option etc at maturity.
Mr D sent a further e-mail to us dated  23 May 2018  saying, amongst  other  things:
I stated  in my letter  of complaint to E Wright and Co that he gave us an assurance that
everything was progressing as it should  be and that nothing further needed to be done at the
time. In his final response of 06.06.14 he did not deny this statement.
In addition, my wife has a clear recollection  of us receiving the assurances and us leaving
the meeting feeling content  that we didn't need to do anything more to maximise my
pension.
I enclose a section of a document  sent to {a firm of lawyers} dated 19.11.13, when I was 
trying to understand how to proceed with this matter.
How we think Fixed  Protection was missed
Now that we have  had a chance  to look into all of the dates relating to events surrounding
Fixed Protection we can give you a better idea of what took place. We had a meeting with E
Wright at his office on 11.03.11 to discuss the pension funds. We had not had a meeting for
a long time (several years) at that point and yet it took about  2 months to get him to finally
set a date for the meeting. We were aware  that under  the old rules the last 3 tax years
before retirement  date were important in terms of level of income and one of the reasons for
the meeting was to make  sure that there was nothing we needed to do in the run up to my
60'th' birthday.  We were  assured that everything  was progressing  as it should and nothing
needed to be done. A couple  of days later we went on holiday and I was taken ill ..whilst  
out of the country, so when the budget happened  on 23 March  we were  not only abroad,  but 
were both more concerned about  my health  than the pension  situation that we thought was 
OK. (I still have  the medical  reports from that incident if necessary).
E Wright & Co has said, amongst other things that:
You refer to a meeting  at my office  in March 2011.This took place  on 11 March  2011 and 
the purpose of that meeting was simply to review  the progress of your Pension  Funds.
.The meeting  subsequently took place with Mr D on the 11 March  and the only
matter discussed  at that meeting was the performance of the policies.
.In short,  Mr D was only concerned to see how the Policies were performing in
relation to each  other and, as we were able to give this information to Mr D in advance
of the meeting date, the meeting itself was only very brief and no other aspects were
discussed at the time. We did not keep  any specific notes  of the meeting as this was not
considered necessary, bearing in mind  the limited  information the Client  was requesting.
.When the Client requested a meeting at our Office in March  2011 to check  the
Ref: DRN68551514progress of his Policies,  we sent to him prior to the meeting,  a Fund  Statement  which
we had obtained from all Companies showing the up-to-date Policy Values. These
Statements were all prepared by the Insurers. We maintain that, giving these Statements
and nothing else to the Client in March  2011  did not constitute 'Investment Advice'. We were
not advising him on Investments. As we have mentioned earlier, there was nothing  we could
do to influence the final outcome of these Policies.
I issued a provisional decision outlining my view on the merits of the complaint on 22 March  
2017. In summary,  I noted that the firm had said that its Terms of Business  agreement made 
it clear it didnt provide  advice on tax matters. However the copy of the agreement  I had 
seen dated 30 September  1992  didnt mention any restrictions about  advice on tax. And it 
said it provided advice  about pensions and investments. I didnt think there  was a distinction
between advice on the underlying investments and the tax implications associated  with them
being in a pension  it was all part of the advice about the investments.
The firm had said it had never provided  tax advice  to Mr D either  in a personal capacity
or for his business. However  I noted the letters  sent to Mr D at his business address dated
29 June 1999,  10 January  and 14 April 2000 and 21 November 2005  were all about the
funding of the scheme; in particular about  what  action to take to avoid  overfunding. This was
essentially about avoiding  a situation  of having to pay additional tax if the value of the
benefits was above certain  Inland Revenue maximum limits. The firm also sent a letter  dated  
5 August 2005  to Mr D at his business address, which was about  protecting  the amount of 
his tax free cash entitlement  due to new pension legislation coming into force in April 2006. 
So I thought  the evidence  suggested the firm did have dealings with the tax matters 
associated with Mr Ds pensions.
The firm had said it provided statements to Mr D with updated fund values prior to the
March 2011 meeting. And the meeting was very short  as Mr D was only concerned with how
the policies were performing in relation to each other,  and no other aspects  were  discussed.
Mr D had asked for a review of his pension plans. And he had said he wanted  to make sure 
they were on track and specifically wanted to see how each fund had performed. Mr D had 
said I feel the time is right for me to understand how things are progressing on the pension  
front in the run up to maturity.
So I thought  it was reasonable to conclude that the intention behind  the meeting in March 
2011 was for Mr D to review the then value  of the funds in his pension  to help plan for his
retirement  which  given his age was likely  to be only a few years  away.
The Treasury had announced in October 2010  that the lifetime allowance  would be reduced 
from £1.8 to £1.5 million from April 2012. This had been widely reported in the mainstream 
media as well as industry press. Applications had to be made to HMRC on or before 5 April 
2012.
Fixed Protection had been  aimed  at anyone  without existing protection  who expected their 
fund to be over £1.5 million at the time they took their benefits.  I explained  that in my view 
the firm ought to have  been aware of the changes at the time of the meeting on March  2011. 
And I thought it would have been  apparent that Mr D was highly likely going to be affected by 
the change. The total value of the three  plans  was about £1,490,000 at that time.  And it was 
known there  was a further plan worth about  £100,000. So I thought Fixed Protection would 
likely be of benefit to him.
Ref: DRN68551515I said that, even if I accepted that the March 2011 meeting focussed largely on the value of 
the investments  and their relative  performance at that time, the fact that Mr D would highly  
likely incur a significant  tax penalty if he took no action was closely  connected to the ultimate 
value of those  investments.  
Many investments had special tax treatment, pensions in particular. I noted that the judge in 
the court case Chancery (UK) LLP v The Financial Ombudsman Service Ltd said There are 
plenty of investments  in which  tax considerations will play a part and perhaps the dominant 
part. The judges view was that taxation  was often  an integral part of investment advice and 
wasnt distinct from it.
If Mr D incurred a significant tax charge because the value of the investments was above the 
lifetime allowance  limit their value could  effectively be significantly reduced.  So I thought in a 
meeting to discuss the value of the underlying  investments  in the pension  in order to plan for 
retirement, the reduction in the lifetime  allowance / tax charge associated with it wasnt  just 
incidental to that meeting  it was significant.
The regulators Principles for Business  required that firms must pay due regard to the
interests of its customers and treat them fairly. I thought the fact the lifetime  allowance
was to be reduced was clearly key to Mr Ds plans for retirement.  And in turn, this was linked 
to the value of the pensions underlying funds which the firm agreed had been discussed  in 
the meeting.
The firm had also acknowledged that it was aware  of the changes in the lifetime  allowance
around 23 March - only a short time after the 11 March 2011 meeting. And it wrote to Mr D at
his home  address on 15 April 2011  enquiring whether he wanted to transfer into a different 
fund. 
In all the circumstances, I was satisfied that E Wright  & Co should have alerted Mr D to the 
change and discussed the implications  of it with him.
I explained we had contacted the providers of Mr Ds pensions  to clarify if they had sent Mr 
D information about the protections  offered  against the lifetime allowance  either about 
Enhanced of Primary Protection or subsequently about Fixed  Protection 2012.
Some general information about  Primary and Enhanced Protection had been  sent to Mr D 
at the time of the introduction of the lifetime allowance in 2006. And Mr D had
confirmed he did receive some information about  it. However, we hadnt been able to 
establish that any updates  had been  sent to Mr D at the time of the reduction  of the lifetime
allowance in 2012.
When the lifetime allowance was first introduced  the limit was £1.5 million. However it was 
announced that the limit would increase each year up to £1.8 million in 2010.  Primary 
protection was only available when  pension funds were valued  in excess  of £1.5 million at 5 
April 2006. 
Mr D hadnt been  eligible  to apply for Primary Protection. And it wasnt  clear that Mr D ought 
to have applied  for Enhanced Protection when it was available;  at the time he received 
information from the provider the pensions value was significantly below the limit and he 
wouldnt have been able to make further  contributions. 
Ref: DRN68551516E Wright & Co had said Mr Ds accountants  should take some responsibility for the matter.  I 
noted Mr D had said that his accountant wasnt involved  in his personal  tax affairs and 
wouldnt have had information about  the cumulative value of his pension. But I thought  what 
was key in any event was that when E Wright  & Co had its meeting with Mr D in March 2011 
the position was that he hadnt got any protection. As the firm was acting in its professional
capacity, I thought Mr D was entitled to rely on its expertise in the matter.
I said that I thought  there was a very close connection between the review of the fund values 
and the potential tax implications if theyd  grown to a certain  value and Mr D hadnt applied 
for Fixed Protection. In all the circumstances, I was satisfied that E Wright & Co ought to 
have alerted Mr D to the change and discussed  the implications of it with him. Had it done  
so, I was satisfied he would more likely than not have applied for Fixed Protection 2012  
when he was able to do so. Therefore I thought the firms failure caused the losses  that Mr D 
was claiming. And I set out how I thought compensation should be calculated and paid to Mr 
D in the event that the complaint was upheld. 
E Wright & Co (Insurances) didnt agree with my findings. In summary, it said:
Its Terms of Business  specifically outlined the services it was providing. It was 
irrational for me to say that, because it hadnt  specifically mentioned it was not giving 
advice on tax, its letter should  be interpreted on the basis it was giving tax advice.
The reduction in the lifetime  allowance was widely reported in the media. Mr D was 
an experienced business man with considerable income and personal wealth. He 
had a long standing relationship with a firm of Chartered Accountants. Mr D had 
acknowledged in his e-mail to us dated 27 April 2018 that hed ignored the 
information about protection hed received from his pension providers. Mr D had 
some responsibility to ensure his lifetime  allowance was protected.  
Mr D had previously said that his accountants had nothing to do with the pension 
scheme. However it said this wasnt true  it provided a copy  of a letter  from Mr D to 
it in September  1999 in which Mr D said that at the end of the financial year he would 
supply our accountants with the necessary information to audit the pension  
scheme along with the audit of our accounts, so that we have a year on year record 
in the future.  His accountants  effectively tax advisers  of long standing were 
aware of the substantial payments  made into the scheme. The lifetime  allowance  
was a form of taxation and should  have fallen under  its remit.
It had advised  Mr D about the changes  to the tax regime  of pensions in August 2005.  
So Mr D had been alerted to the change. He had the information required to know  if 
the lifetime allowance was a problem. It thought  the onus was on him along  with his 
professional tax advisers to protect  his lifetime allowance. 
It didnt agree with the assumption  that Mr D was likely to be a standard rate taxpayer 
for the purposes  of calculating compensation. It said he had an income from a 
personal pension  of about £25,000 per year. And hed gone on several world cruises  
over the last few years costing significant  sums. It didnt  think this was the lifestyle of 
a standard rate taxpayer.
Mr Ds e-mail dated 10 January made  it perfectly clear that the only information  he 
was seeking was up to date fund values for his policies. He wanted  a comparative 
review to see how each  policy  had performed against each other. It had sent 
Ref: DRN68551517valuations prior to the meeting and apart  from the current  valuations nothing else was 
discussed. It said providing these statements didnt constitute Investment Advice as 
defined by the Financial Services Act. 
When Mr D attended the meeting in March 2011  it wasnt aware that the lifetime  
allowance was due to reduce to £1.5 million  - it didnt become  aware  until budget  day 
which was later in that month. The lifetime allowance wasnt discussed in the 
meeting. And Mr Ds policies, including  the SERPS value was below the lifetime 
allowance limit at the time. The allowance didnt reduce  until April 2012 and Mr D 
didnt have or request any further  meetings up to that date  there was over a year 
for Mr D and /or his accountants to arrange  protection. 
 
It referred to a Judgement from the Court of Appeal dated 23 April 2012 in the case  
of Swain Mason  v Mills and Reeve. It was an action against a solicitor giving tax 
advice. The court held that the claim for an additional tax liability  resulting from the 
death of a claimant through heart  surgery was considered too remote. It thought  
there were parallels between the findings  in that case and the claim made  by Mr D.
As Mr Ds plans  were invested  in with-profits, it had no control  on the investment 
outcome of the plans or influence on the final results. 
Its letter dated 15 April 2011  wasnt giving investment advice. It was asking Mr D 
whether he wanted to proceed with advice  it had given him in 2009. 
Mr D also provided further  submissions. He said, in summary:
He was a basic  rate taxpayer in the tax year he became 60. And he was a basic rate 
taxpayer at the time of sending  the email  (June  2017). He set out details of his 
income. And provided copies of tax returns  showing he paid tax at basic rate.
E Wright and Co had failed to take the value of his SERPS plan into account when 
saying he was well within the lifetime allowance in March  2011. 
He had already  reduced the payments to his pension  from 2001 and so stopping 
them altogether  would  have had little effect on the ultimate value of his fund.  He said 
E Wright & Co knew about  the reduced  payments,  and that if it had reviewed the 
matter prior to April 2009 he could  have applied for Enhanced Protection up to 2012.  
He thought this showed  the neglect  of his position  went  back beyond 2011.
He didnt act on the letter from the firm about switching funds from one fund to 
another. He said at the time all funds  werent  performing  well and he didnt wish to 
pay the 1% management charge.
I sent a further  letter  to both parties  dated  3 January 2019 explaining Id reviewed the 
method for calculating  and paying compensation Id said I intended  to award in my 
provisional decision. And I set how I thought the firm should calculate  and pay redress if Mr 
Ds complaint was upheld. 
Both parties  provided  further  evidence and arguments to consider.
The business said, in summary:
Ref: DRN68551518It was inconceivable  to suggest that Mr D would  only be a 20% tax payer  in 
retirement. In September 2013 he commenced  an annual gross  pension of £25,376.  
This represented less than 24% of his total pension pot at the time. Mr D would 
become eligible for his state  pension at age 65. And Mr D was a wealthy individual   
he had received in excess  of £2 million from the sale of his business and an 
inheritance which  would also generate significant investment income. Its insurers had 
dealt with similar matters at Tribunal  with HMRC and in unsuccessful  matters HMRC 
had never entertained the fact that a person with a Fund of such  wealth would be 
a 20% Tax Payer.
Mr D also provided further  submissions. In summary, he said:
The original method of calculation resulted in compensation  of £120,000. However 
the revised calculation basically  replaces the tax free lump  sum I would otherwise 
have enjoyed, had FP2012 been  in place from 2012 onwards. This amounting to the 
sum of £75,000. I cannot see how this calculation is dependent  in anyway based on 
anyones marginal  rate of tax.
He had been asked to give an opinion  on his future tax position. His circumstances 
dictated that he became a basic rate taxpayer when his business  collapsed in 2007  
and the reduction  in income was in place when he had the meeting with the firm in 
March 2011. He wanted to remain a basic rate taxpayer in retirement if possible. And 
wanted to look after his wife and pass on his remaining fund to his children. 
He queried whether  treating the difference between the £1.8 million and £1.5 million 
as income provision was the right way to consider the matter  albeit he 
acknowledged it was one option. He said to date he had crystallised £400,000 of his 
pension and taken  £100,000 as a lump sum. They had now used  up the £100,000 as 
living expenses over the last 5 years.  
His total pensions  value including what he had taken and what was left was around 
£2 million. He said at the time he crystallised  more  pension fund he would face a 
choice between taking  it as income  or lump sums. And that such a decision couldnt  
be set in stone.  He said if the resulting income is poor at that time, then anyone  in 
their right mind would look into taking the capital as an alternative.
He also subsequently said:
 
Hed demonstrated that hed planned  to be a 20% tax payer and then was effectively 
presented with a 55% LTA charge; in these  circumstances he thought the 
compensation proposed was incorrect. He said if you assumed he was a basic rate 
tax payer  not a higher  tax payer,  the difference was 40% not 25%. 
I sent a further  letter  copied  to both parties  dated 13 February 2019. I explained the reasons 
I thought it was reasonable to treat Mr D as a basic  rate taxpayer in retirement.  And that in 
quantum terms, I didnt  think it made a difference whether  I treated Mr D as a basic or higher 
rate taxpayer to the ultimate loss calculated.  In summary, I said:
In my provisional decision dated  22 March 2017, Id assumed that Mr D would take 
the excess as a lump  sum for the purposes  of calculating the LTA charge (55%). But 
that he would have taken this as a mixture of tax free cash  and income (at basic rate) 
if hed had Fixed Protection.  On reflection,  I didnt  think  it was appropriate  to assume  
Ref: DRN68551519a lump sum and higher  rate tax on the one side, and an income and basic rate tax on 
the other.
If I treated Mr D as a higher rate taxpayer in retirement this would  apply, in the loss 
calculation, to both sides of the equation; if he had protection and if he didnt. The 
result was the increase on both sides was neutral overall  the one offset  the other. 
Mr D would pay higher tax without Fixed  Protection. But this was offset by the higher 
tax he would pay anyway if he had protection. 
When calculating appropriate  compensation my aim was, as far as it was possible,  to 
put Mr D back into the position  he would likely have been in but for the firms failure.  
In doing so, I needed to take Mr Ds particular circumstances  into account.
In my experience, even those individuals with large pension funds could choose  to 
take a limited income for a variety of reasons. So I didnt think it automatically  
followed that a large  fund must mean Mr D would pay tax at a higher rate. Mr D had 
previously said he wanted to limit the tax he paid. He wanted to ensure his wife was 
looked after and leave what he could to his children.  Even though he had a large 
fund this wasnt unusual. And in my experience some people managed such  funds  in 
a manner that enabled them to stay within the basic rate limit  for example by taking 
available tax free cash and limiting the income  taken. 
Mr D had provided copies of his tax returns  showing he was only taking income  at a 
level that was subject to basic rate tax. So this was the actual position  to date. I 
accepted that there were various permutations of how Mr D might take his benefits  in 
the future.  And clearly  I could  not know for certain what his tax position would be. 
There might  be some  specific circumstance where his loss was different to the 25% 
Id set out in my letter dated 3 January 2018. However I thought  my assumption  that 
Mr D would take the money  as income at a level that was subject to basic rate tax 
was reasonable  on the balance of the evidence. And the method of compensation I 
outlined represented  the most likely  position.  
E Wright responded  to query its understanding of the calculation. And also asked that I 
reconsider all the points  it had made  before making my final decision. It re-iterated that Mr D 
had acknowledged  hed received information  about  Primary  and Enhanced Protection from 
his pension providers  which  hed ignored.  It thought he ought  to have discussed it with them  
and should take some responsibility for his own actions. It said he made no further  contact 
with it after the 11 March meeting. The value of Mr Ds plans was well below the lifetime 
allowance of £1.8 million at the time of the meeting. And it was only officially announced that 
it would  fall in the April 2011 budget. So Mr D had a year to discuss  the matter with it. 
As a business person it thought Mr D should  have taken some  interest  in the budget and had 
a duty of care to take an interest in important financial matters.  He would have known the 
value of his pensions was in excess of the reduced  lifetime allowance  limit of £1.5 million.  It 
said if Mr D was an ordinary Retail Investor and not the Managing  Director of a company for 
25 years  it would expect to have a higher  duty of care. But Mr D had engaged a firm of 
Chartered Accountants in respect of all financial matters affecting both his company and 
himself.
Mr D responded to say he still didnt think  it was correct to find the loss was 25%, where he 
was a basic rate taxpayer and incurred  a 55% tax charge. 
Ref: DRN685515110my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to 
depart from the finding in my provisional  decision dated 22 March  2017 that the complaint  
should be upheld.  
Im bound to keep jurisdiction under consideration until a final decision on the merits of a 
complaint has been made. E Wright  & Co has said Mr Ds e-mail dated  10 January made it 
perfectly clear that the only information  he was seeking was up to date fund values for his 
policies; it had sent valuations prior to the meeting  and apart from the current valuations  
nothing else was discussed. It said this didnt constitute Investment Advice  as defined by 
the Financial Services  Act. 
This point  has been made by the firm a number of times before. I set out why Im satisfied 
there was a regulated activity and investment advice was given in detail in previous 
decisions. And why I thought E Wright  ought  to have alerted Mr D to the change in the 
lifetime allowance  and its implications. Ive reviewed those findings in light of the further 
submissions provided. However having done  so, Im still satisfied  investment advice was 
provided, and we have jurisdiction to consider this complaint for the reasons set out in my 
decision dated 9 November 2018.
Ive summarised the main  points raised by the firm since my provisional decision above. 
Many of these points have been  raised  before and I addressed them  in my provisional 
decision. However, in brief: 
Clearly, I accept  E Wright & Co cant be expected to have set out all the services it 
wasnt intending to provide to Mr D in its Term of Business.  However it did say it 
would advise on pensions  and investments. The taxation of pensions and 
investments is a key consideration when  giving advice about  their suitability. The 
main features of a pension, in particular, relate to its taxation  reliefs  on monies paid 
in and the tax treatment on withdrawal. Im not persuaded the firm was able to 
appropriately advise  Mr D on the ultimate  value  of the underlying investments in his 
pension without taking  their tax treatment into account. My point was that, if that had 
been its intention, it should have made  this clear in its Terms of Business so that Mr 
D would  be aware of the significant  limitations of any advice he was being given.
Although Mr D may have been  alerted to the protections available prior to April 2009,  
for the reasons explained in my provisional decision,  Im not persuaded it would have 
been appropriate to apply  for them given Mr Ds circumstances  at the time. 
Mr D has also said he could have stopped contributions before this time in order  to 
apply for Enhanced Protection.  However, given the value of the underlying  funds 
(prior to April 2006), I dont think the risks presented by the potential  exposure to the 
LTA limit as it was at that time would have been  seen to outweigh  the benefit of 
making further contributions - it wasnt known the LTA would be reduced in the 
future.  And Ive seen  no evidence  that there was a regulated activity at this time in 
any event; the terms of the service E Wright  provided didnt oblige the firm to actively  
monitor Mr Ds position or give proactive advice. 
Although I dont think E Wright  was obliged to provide proactive advice, once  it was 
in a situation of actually reviewing the investments and advising on their ultimate  
Ref: DRN685515111value I dont think it could  limit its advice in the way it says it could  i.e not advise 
about the associated tax implications. 
Mr D had said his accountants didnt advise him on his personal tax affairs. The letter  
sent to his accountants was about the scheme  contributions in general,  including 
information relating  to other members. But as Ive said,  when  E Wright met with Mr D 
in March 2011 the fact of the matter was that he had no protections.  Whilst Mr D was 
an experienced businessman it was the firm that was the expert  in the matter.  For the 
reasons Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I think  the firm was obliged  to alert 
Mr D to the lifetime allowance change and its implications. 
E Wright has said it wasnt aware  that the lifetime allowance was reducing at the time 
of the March 2011 meeting. However,  as Ive said, the reduction had been 
announced by the Treasury  in October 2010 and had been widely reported in the 
media. So I think it ought to have been  aware of it and flagged  the change to Mr D. 
This would  have enabled him to take action to mitigate the tax payable  and apply for 
Fixed Protection when it became possible. E Wright has also acknowledged  that it 
was aware prior to the letter  it sent to Mr D on 15 April 2011, shortly after the meeting 
enquiring whether  he wanted to transfer  into a different fund.  In my view, given the 
proximity of its previous meeting I think this was also an opportunity to have alerted 
Mr D to the reduction in the lifetime allowance.
E Wright has said that as the investments  were  primarily  in with profits funds it wasnt 
able to do anything  to affect  the ultimate  value payable. However I dont agree. 
Whilst it may not have  been able affect  the value of the with profits  fund itself,  it could  
consider its performance relative to other potential  investments  to consider whether it 
was still an appropriate investment. And, as I have  said above, it was the implications  
on the ultimate value  that would be payable to Mr D that was material  which was 
significantly affected by the tax implications  of failing to apply for Fixed  Protection. 
Alerting Mr D to the lifetime allowance and its implications was all part and parcel of 
the investment  advice  given and a regulated activity.
E Wright & Co referred  to a Judgement from the Court of Appeal  in the case of Swain  
Mason v Mills and Reeve.  The court held that the claim was considered too remote. 
However, as Ive said, in my view alerting Mr D to the tax implications was all part 
and parcel of the review of the underlying  investments. And Im satisfied Mr Ds 
losses flow from the firms failure. Im not persuaded they are too remote.
In respect of compensation
In terms of redress, I think whats key is that if Mr D draws the money as income at a level 
such that he only pays basic  rate tax on it, he wont  be subject to a 55% lifetime allowance 
charge. It will be 25% initially on the full amount.  And then 20% on the income drawn.  As I 
explained, the mathematics behind this results in 40% tax paid in total. Against 15% if Mr D 
had had protection. 
And as Ive said, Im aware there could be scenarios where  more  or less tax is ultimately  
payable. So the associated compensation would be more or less. But clearly I cannot  know 
now, how exactly or what mix of benefits  Mr D will take in the future. I have to make a 
reasonable assumption based on the evidence available  to me now. For the reasons 
outlined above  and in my letters of 3 January 2019  and 13 February  2019,  Im satisfied  the 
Ref: DRN685515112methodology provides fair and reasonable compensation in the particular circumstances of 
the case. 
As I have said above, the regulators Principles for Business requires that firms must pay 
due regard to the interests  of its customers and treat them  fairly.  I think the fact the lifetime 
allowance had reduced was key to Mr Ds plans  for retirement. And I think  there was a very 
close connection between  the review of the funds and the potential  tax implications if they 
grew to a certain  value  and Mr D hadnt  applied for Fixed Protection.
Im satisfied that E Wright & Co ought  reasonably to have alerted  Mr D to the change  and 
discussed the implications of it with him. Had it done  so, Im satisfied he would more likely  
than not have applied for Fixed Protection  2012 when he was able to do so. And therefore I 
think the firms failure  caused the losses that Mr D now claims.
my final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons outlined  in my provisional decision and above, my final decision 
is that I uphold  Mr Ds complaint.
I order E Wright & Co (Insurances) to calculate and pay compensate  to Mr D as follows:
1. Calculate the charge  that would apply at the date of this final decision if all of Mr Ds 
remaining funds were  crystallised and a LTA charge of 25% was applied  to the excess  funds 
over and above the £1.5 million up to £1.8 million.
For example, if the fund value for LTA purposes  is over £1.8 million the maximum would
be £300,000.  And the LTA charge would be £75,000.
2. Calculate the income  tax that would be payable on the remainder (after the 25%
LTA charge was applied) assuming Mr D paid income tax at the basic  rate  20%.
For example, 20% basic rate tax on £225,000  (after  the £75,000 has been  deducted  from
the £300,000 as above).
3. The total tax payable (LTA charge plus basic rate income tax) as a result of Mr D not
having Fixed  Protection 2012 is therefore  1 + 2.
4. If Mr D had applied  for Fixed Protection 2012  he wouldnt have to pay this level of tax. But 
he would  have had to pay income tax on the residual fund after taking 25% tax free cash 
from it. E Wright and Co should calculate the amount of basic rate tax Mr D would pay on the 
excess fund between £1.5 and £1.8, after allowing for 25% tax free cash  to be taken from it.
For example, again using  the maximum excess as above of £300,000,  Mr D would have
been able to take £75,000 tax free. And the remaining  £225,000  taken  as income would  be
taxable at basic  rate.
5. The compensatable loss is 3 minus  4.
E Wright & Co (Insurances) should  pay the compensatable loss calculated in 5 directly  to Mr 
D. 
E Wright & Co (Insurances) should  also pay Mr D £500 for the distress and inconvenience  
Im satisfied the matter  has caused  him.
Ref: DRN685515113I also order that E Wright  & Co (Insurances)  pay interest on the compensation at the 
equivalent rate of 8% simple per annum  if it isnt paid to Mr D within 28 days of us notifying  E 
Wright & Co (Insurances)  of Mr Ds acceptance  of this final decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6855151