K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that MYJAR Limited  (Myjar) acted  irresponsibly when it gave  him 
unaffordable loans.
background
This complaint is about four loans Myjar provided to Mr L between May 2017 - May 2018.  
Heres a table setting out details of those loans:
loan start  date repaid Instalments Amount Repayment
1 18/05/2017 25/08/2017 3 £150.00 £80.75
2 16/10/2017 31/01/2018 3 £125.00 £67.79
3 02/02/2018 20/04/2018 3 £200.00 £102.36
4 01/05/2018 29/08/2018 6 £325.00 £98.72
All the loans  have been paid. 
Our adjudicator partially upheld the complaint. She thought that Myjar shouldnt have 
approved loans 3 and 4. 
Myjar disagreed with the adjudicators opinion. It mainly said (in summary) that our 
adjudicator hadnt mentioned if she reviewed all the information it sent about these loans and 
it isnt clear how shed  come to her view. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Myjar needed to take reasonable  steps  to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr L could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Myjar should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN67627952the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Myjar was required to establish 
whether Mr L could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the  relevant regulations define sustainable as being without 
undue difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet 
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ls complaint.
I dont think Myjar was wrong to give the first three loans to Mr L. I think its fair to say that 
loans 1 and 2 looked comfortably affordable  for Mr L based  on the information Myjar had 
collected about his financial circumstances. And, at that early stage of his borrowing 
relationship with the lender, I dont  think Myjar had any reason to think  that it needed to 
make more detailed  checks into his financial situation.
When Mr L took out loan 3, Myjar had recorded  a 50% increase  in his unsecured debt since 
hed taken out loan 2 (when it went up from approximately £8000 to around £12,000). 
I think this shouldve prompted Myjar to think about  investigating Mr Ls financial  situation in 
more detail. But, Ive taken into account that Mr L told Myjar he was making credit 
repayments of around £500  and looking at what he told Myjar about  his monthly income  
and his other expenses, I dont think Myjar had any reason  to think  that Mr L was likely  to 
face difficulty repaying this loan.  Hed already repaid loans 1 and 2 without any sign that this 
was difficult for him.
Its possible that Myjar could have done more,  or gone further  in its affordability assessment, 
before agreeing to provide loan 3 to Mr L. But based  on the information that Myjar had 
recorded at the time and all the information  Ive seen about Mr Ls circumstances then, 
I cant fairly and reasonably say that further checks would have led Myjar to decline his 
application for loan 3.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Myjars lending history with Mr L, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Myjar should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Myjar  should have realised that it shouldnt  
have provided  any further loans.  
Ref: DRN67627953Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ls case, I think that this point was reached by loan 
4. I say this because:
Myjar ought to have realised Mr L was not managing to repay his loans  sustainably.  
By now, except for short  breaks in lending (less than 2 months between loans 1 and 
2 and a few days only between loans 3 and 4), Mr L had been indebted to Myjar for 
almost a year. So a pattern  of dependency was already  emerging in respect  of his 
lending.
Loan 4 was the biggest loan hed taken  so far  more than twice the amount hed 
borrowed when he took out his first Myjar loan and the same amount as loans 2 and 
3 added together. And it was taken  out within 11 days or so of Mr L settling loan 3. 
By the time he was due to make the final repayment on this loan Mr L wouldve been 
indebted to Myjar  for fifteen months. 
So when  he asked  for loan 4, I think Myjar ought to have known that Mr L was not 
likely borrowing  to meet a temporary shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing  
need. 
And Myjar shouldve  seen that Mr L wasnt  making any real inroads into the amount 
he owed.
Myjar ought to have realised it was more likely  than not Mr L was having  to borrow 
further to cover  the hole repaying  his previous  loan was leaving in his finances and 
that Mr Ls indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
I think that Mr L lost out when Myjar provided  loan 4 because: 
this loan had the effect  of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ls indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit over an extended period of time 
the length of time over which Mr L borrowed was likely to have had negative  
implications on his ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market  
for these high-cost  loans
So Im proposing to uphold  the complaint about loan 4
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
I havent heard anything  more from Mr L.
Myjar has been in touch to say it has worked out what it should  pay Mr L in line with what  
Ive said in my provisional decision and it is ready  to settle the complaint on this basis.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.  
Having done so, and taking carefully into account everything thats been said in response to 
my provisional decision, I uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in my provisional 
decision. 
Ref: DRN67627954putting things right  what Myjar needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr L paid on loan 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken by loan 4 means any information recorded about it is 
adverse. So all entries about  loan 4 should  be removed from Mr Ls credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Myjar to take off tax from this interest. Myjar must give 
Mr L a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct MYJAR  Limited (Myjar) to pay Mr L as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6762795