K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC debited  his bank  account  without first telling him 
which left him without enough money  to pay his bills.
Mr M says that Barclays kept telling  him that he didnt have enough money  in his account 
when this wasnt correct.
Mr M is unhappy  at the amount of time that he has to spend on the phone with Barclays  and 
with the level of customer service that hes received over time.
background
Mr M has made a number of complaints to Barclays and this service  has already considered 
some of these in the past.
Barclays had previously  paid Mr M £50 to try and resolve an earlier  complaint. Mr M wasnt 
willing to accept the offer so he asked Barclays to debit  the money from his account.  Mr M 
says that Barclays didnt debit the money on the date that it agreed so he wasnt left with 
enough money in his account. Barclays refunded some unpaid transaction  fees as a gesture 
of goodwill.
The investigator didnt  recommend that Mr Ms complaint be upheld. She thought  that it was 
reasonable of Barclays to debit the money  on Mr Ms instructions. 
The investigator didnt  think that Barclays made a mistake when it asked Mr M to bring his 
loan account arrears up to date.
After the investigator  gave  Mr M her first recommendation he explained that he had five 
complaints about  Barclays but that three of these were the most  important.  Mr M wanted 
Barclays to pay him £100 to resolve each complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mr M has made a number  of complaints to Barclays over a period of time. And 
that this service has previously considered some of these. So I want to be clear what  issues 
Ive considered as part of Mr Ms current complaint.  
£50 debit
There appears to be some conflicting information  about why Mr M is unhappy  about  the £50 
debit. When Mr M contacted Barclays on 22 February 2019 its notes show  that he was 
unhappy that the bank  hadnt taken the money  on 2 February 2019  as agreed.  But when    
Mr M spoke  to this service earlier in the year, he said that he was unhappy because 
Barclays was meant  to debit the money  no sooner than the beginning of March. As Barclays  
withdrew the money on or around 22 February  2019, Mr M said that he wasnt left with 
enough money in his account for essentials.
Ref: DRN64570282More recently Mr M has said that Barclays took the money from his account  without  his 
permission and on the wrong day. 
I cant reasonably find that Barclays debited the money without Mr Ms permission. Hed 
made it clear  to Barclays that he didnt want to accept the compensation payment of £50 and 
asked it to take the money back. So it seems fair that Barclays debited  the payment from his 
account.
I appreciate that Mr M says Barclays had agreed to withdraw the money  on a certain date  
whether that be 2 February or 2 March 2019  but I cant see that either of these dates was 
recorded by Barclays.  So I dont have enough  evidence  to conclude that Barclays made  a 
mistake.
Even if I was to find that Barclays debited the money on a different date to the one agreed,  I 
understand that it refunded just over £33 to cover some unpaid transaction  fees.  As this will 
have put Mr M back in the position he otherwise would have been,  I wouldnt be asking 
Barclays to do anything  more.
Although Mr M has raised a concern about Barclays paying him £50 without asking him 
beforehand, Im satisfied that the investigator  already dealt with this as part of the earlier 
complaint that Mr M raised with this service.
customer service
Mr M is unhappy  with the way in which Barclays has dealt with him over time.  He found the 
attitude of some members  of staff patronising. Mr M also says that Barclays  kept contacting 
him about an overdue loan account.  And Mr M was concerned  that Barclays  cut his mother 
off during a call.
Mr M says that he had to spend more time than he wanted to on the phone  which  is 
particularly difficult for him as he is deaf in one ear. 
Im sorry  to hear about  the difficulties that Mr M has faced and that hes unhappy with the 
way Barclays has spoken to him. I cant find any mention in Mr Ms customer  notes of the 
fact hes deaf so I cant say that Barclays shouldve taken  this into account  when dealing 
with Mr M at the time.  Barclays has said that it can record  the fact that Mr M is deaf on his 
account for future  reference.  If Mr M wants Barclays to do this, he should let it know.
Barclays has previously offered to pay Mr M £100  in recognition of any upset that its failings 
in customer service may have caused.  Im satisfied that this offer is fair so I wont require 
Barclays to pay more.  I leave it with Mr M to let Barclays know  if he wants  to accept  the 
offer. 
Ref: DRN64570283using an out of date telephone number
Although Mr M says that Barclays contacted  him on an out of date telephone  number I dont 
have enough evidence to say that this was the case. The number that Mr M says Barclays  
used doesnt appear in the up to date contact information that Barclays  holds. And I cant  
see any mention of it in the banks contact notes.  
Im sorry  if my decision  disappoints Mr M. I appreciate  that hes been dealing with Barclays  
over an extended period  of time and is unhappy with the way hes been treated. But overall, 
Im satisfied that Barclays has already done enough  to put things right so I dont uphold  his 
complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  in the sense that Barclays has already 
offered to do enough. I leave it with Mr M to let Barclays know  if he wants  to accept  its offer 
to pay him £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6457028