K820x#14complaint
Mr P is unhappy that IG closed six trading  positions  on its platform  in December 2018; this 
resulted in a loss of £88,000.  He says he usually received a warning when he needed to add 
more funds to his account and given 48 hours  to add enough funds to maintain his open 
positions. He also said the stop loss in place hadnt been reached.
background
Mr P also said that he contacted IG to ask if would reinstate  his closed positions if he added  
sufficient funds to his account, something it had agreed to in the past  but it refused to do 
so. He said this had caused his severe stress.
IG did not uphold  his complaint, saying that while  it had agreed to reinstate previous 
positions as a gesture of goodwill it was not required to do so. It said that in this case  it 
would have cost it £6,000  to reopen  the positions  at the price  they had been  closed.
An investigator at this service did not feel his complaint should be upheld as IG had acted  
within its clearly  explained  terms and conditions. He also noted that, under new regulations, 
IG was required to take action when a clients balance  falls below 50% of the initial  margin of 
his open positions.
He also noted  that IG offered a service  where  it could notify clients  when they need to add 
funds to maintain  open positions. Although Mr P said he didnt receive such  a notification,  he 
didnt feel IG was contractually obliged to do this. He also felt that such notice isnt always 
possible during  periods  of volatility, there  not being time for a margin  call to take place. In 
these situations,  IG could exercise  its discretion  to close  open positions to reduce the initial 
margin needed to be maintained by the account balance.  He noted that there were several 
significant falls in the FTSE  during  this crucial period in question.
Finally, he felt that once  positions had been  closed IG was within its rights to decline to 
reinstate them even though Mr P was offering to add to his funds.
Mr P did not agree,  saying:
IG have replaced positions  on more than one occasion including  allowing money to 
be added  even  since this episode.  So it did not follow  its own custom and practice
He did everything  possible to maintain his account balance  including  phoning after 
11pm
Why did IG close all his positions rather than one at a time?
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. As such, I am not sure 
there is anything significant  to add to his explanation.
I agree  that a business is obliged to act not merely in line with its terms and conditions but 
also fairly and reasonably.  At the same time spread betting is a highly complex and risky 
activity, typically suitable for experienced and knowledgeable investors. For this reason, IG 
Ref: DRN64981402and other  platforms have extensive  and prescriptive terms and conditions setting out how it 
handles the many situations which  can arise,  particularly in fast-moving markets.
Given this, I believe it is entitled to strictly adhere  to these terms and conditions, particularly 
in relation to a clients balance as a rapid  market move can have a dramatic  on their ability to 
cover a potential loss. So I dont believe it ought to have offered  the flexibility  Mr P 
describes, even though it chose to do so on various occasions in the past (and may do so in 
the future).
I have considered Mr Ps related points, including the issue  of all six positions  being closed, 
but Ive seen no evidence to suggest  that it did not close these positions in line with its 
declared terms and conditions concerning margin requirements. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint or make any financial award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6498140