K820x#14complaint
Miss P complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has recorded a marker  with a fraud prevention 
agency (FPA) after she lost her debit  card and one of her accounts  was used by a fraudster. 
The bank has closed  her accounts. Miss P wants the marker removed as shes having 
problems opening  another bank account.
Shes helped  in her complaint by her mother.  But for ease Ill refer to everything as if its 
been said by Miss P.
background
The details of whats said to have happened  here are well known  to Miss P and Barclays.  So 
I wont repeat that at length and hope both parties  will accept the following as a brief 
summary:
Miss P got a letter saying Barclays was closing her accounts with immediate effect;
A month later she told her mother what had happened and that shed lost her debit card a 
while ago  so they got in touch with the bank;
It seems this was around  the time Miss P was (unsuccessfully) trying to open a new 
account with another  bank;
Barclays confirmed itd closed Miss Ps accounts  because fraudulent  money had been 
paid into one of them  and some of it had been withdrawn  using her debit card, PIN and 
other personal information;
The bank also said itd recorded the misuse  of Miss Ps account with a FPA; and
Miss P didnt think this was fair  shed been  the victim of fraud as she hadnt allowed 
anybody else to use her account, debit card, PIN or personal information.
As Barclays wouldnt re-open Miss Ps account  or remove the marker recorded with the FPA 
she got in touch with us. One of our investigators looked into things for her. But he thought 
the bank had got things  right.  There was quite a bit of evidence to suggest  Miss P knew her 
account was being used  by somebody  else.
Based on what Miss P had said, there didnt seem to be any way an unknown third party 
would have been able to know her PIN. The last time Miss P had used her debit  card (with 
the PIN) was more than a week  before  the fraudulent money  was paid in and withdrawn. It 
wasnt clear when Miss P had lost the card.  But this was the last time anybody else would 
have been able to see her PIN. The investigator said it didnt seem very likely a fraudster 
would have waited  for this length  of time to try and use the account.
Having access to Miss Ps card would give a fraudster the details  of her account (to enable 
the fraudulent  money to be paid in). But it didnt explain  how they would have known  the 
personal information needed  to withdraw  some  of that money.
Ref: DRN65907152And Barclays was able to provide details of Miss Ps extensive use of the mobile banking 
app on her phone:
immediately before;
on the day of; and
after the fraudulent activity. 
So the investigator thought it was most likely  that Miss P had been  aware  that somebody 
else was using her account.  In light of this, the investigator was satisfied Barclays  had met 
the high threshold  to record  a marker  about  Miss P with the FPA.
Miss P didnt agree with the investigators  view.  So she asked for an ombudsman  to review 
her complaint and issue a final decision. Miss P didnt give any further information to counter 
that provided by the bank.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Miss P feels very strongly  about  whats happened here. Thats clear from what  
shes said to both us and Barclays. And thats  not surprising. Having your accounts  closed 
immediately and a marker  recorded  with a FPA arent nice things. And the marker will impact 
on her ability  to get all sorts  of financial products  for six years  from when it was recorded. So 
shes bound  to be concerned.
But Im afraid I have to tell Miss P that I agree with the investigator. I think  Barclays has got 
this right.  There is quite  a lot of evidence to support  the view that Miss P knew somebody  
else was using her account.  And that means  the bank was right to close her accounts and 
record the marker with the FPA.
Indeed, theres  very little I can add to what the investigators already said to Miss P. I think 
he set out the position very thoroughly and clearly.
That said,  its important I reassure Miss P that Ive reviewed her complaint afresh. So Ill 
cover the main points  that lead me to reach the same conclusion  as the investigator.
loss of debit card and somebody knowing Miss Ps PIN and personal information
Its unfortunate Miss P doesnt know when she might have lost her debit card.  From my 
review of her account activity I can see she used it on a reasonably regular  basis. And that 
review confirms she last used her card to withdraw money at a cash machine just over a 
week before  the fraudulent activity. So she had her card at the time of that withdrawal.
Miss P says she memorised her PIN and didnt pass it on to anybody  else.  So that would 
mean the last time somebody else would have been able to see it was when she made the 
cash withdrawal Ive referred to. And I agree with the investigator that its strange a fraudster 
would get to know the PIN then (perhaps  by shoulder surfing) on the off-chance of getting 
Miss Ps card at a later date.
Ref: DRN65907153The personal information needed to make the withdrawal of the fraudulent money paid into 
Miss Ps account might not be that difficult to obtain.  But when I combine this with the other  
circumstances Ive described above, I think  its more likely that Miss P gave  it to the person  
using her account.
use of the mobile  banking  app
Barclays records are clear  on this and the evidence is quite compelling. Miss P made  
extensive use of the mobile banking app on her phone as the investigator set out. I dont  
think its credible that Miss P didnt know what had happened.
She would have seen the fraudulent activity on the day it was carried  out. And shed have 
seen the same information several times between the date it happened and when Barclays  
closed her account.
threshold for recording a marker with a FPA
The investigator noted the requirements for a bank to be able to record  something about  
somebody with a FPA are high and set them out at some length in his view. Its right that the 
threshold is high. But Im satisfied there is enough evidence here to show Barclays  has met 
those requirements.
summary
When I combine the unlikely nature  of how somebody unknown  to Miss P might  have  been  
able to get her debit  card, PIN and personal information with the active  use of the mobile  
banking app I think it is most likely Miss P knew what was happening here.
I realise thats a difficult message to give. But its where the available  evidence leads me.
I accept its possible Miss P might  be a victim here  in the sense that she was promised 
some reward  for taking the actions she did and the trust she placed in somebody may have 
been unwise.  She may not have  fully understood the consequences of what  might take 
place. And its quite common for fraudsters to take advantage of young people like Miss P. 
But that doesnt mean Barclays was wrong to take the actions it did. Its important banks and 
other financial businesses  are aware of the risk they may be taking  in offering Miss P any 
products. Thats  why records are kept by FPAs, which financial businesses can access.
I realise Miss P will be disappointed by my decision. But it brings to an end what we, in trying 
to resolve her dispute with Barclays informally, can do for her. Im sorry we cant  help Miss P 
any further on this matter.
Ref: DRN65907154my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  Miss Ps complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P (or her 
mother) to accept or reject my decision before 7 May 2020.
Andrew Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6590715