K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  General Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has declined  his
content insurance claim after a burglary.
background 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in June. A copy is attached and forms part 
of this decision. In summary, I said I didnt think Lloyds had showed  me that Mr G had 
deliberately inflated his insurance claim to get more payment than he was entitled to. So I 
thought Lloyds should consider Mr Gs claim in line with any other terms and conditions in 
his policy  and pay him some compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr G has accepted my provisional findings. Lloyds says it will comply with the findings  but 
suggests the compensation should be reduced to £200. It says thats because,  if Mr G 
decided to move out because  he felt insecure, that was as a result of being burgled, not 
because of anything  it did as an insurer.
Whilst I acknowledge this point, I also said that the compensation was for the way Mr G felt 
about how hes been treated by Lloyds. He said hes been  made  to feel like a criminal. I also 
think that if Lloyds  had agreed this claim when it should have, Mr G may well have  not felt 
the need to move out. Instead  hes been  left for 18 months with this claim still outstanding. 
So Im not going to reduce the compensation.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I order Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance  
Limited to reinstate Mr Gs insurance and deal with his claim in line with any other terms and 
conditions in his policy. Lloyds must  also remove any references  to fraud from the relevant 
databases. Finally it must pay Mr G £500  compensation for the way its handled his claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67670782COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr G complains that Lloyds Bank  General  Insurance Limited (Lloyds) has declined  his
content insurance claim after a burglary.
background
Mr G was burgled in December 2017. He contacted Lloyds and it said it would  consider his
claim.
Lloyds appointed a specialist to deal with the claim, and it said it had found several
discrepancies in Mr Gs claim  that it had asked  him to explain.  It said he hadnt done that
satisfactorily.
In March 2018  Lloyds wrote to Mr G explaining  that it believed hed claimed for items that
were, in essence,  items of stock for his business. It said it didnt  accept  Mr Gs explanation
that he occasionally used his social media  business pages to sell personal items, nor did it
think his claim for a damaged lamp was sufficiently proven.
Lloyds went on to say that it believed Mr G had claimed for items that werent covered by his
policy in order to get a higher payment than he was entitled to. So it said it wouldnt pay any
of his claim, was going to cancel his policy and wouldnt refund any premiums hed paid.
Mr G asked us to look at his complaint.
Our investigator thought Lloyds was being  fair when  it said the items were business  stock  
so Lloyds  need not pay the claim. However,  she didnt  think  Mr G had deliberately misled
Lloyds, so she thought it should remove any fraud markers it might have placed on industry
databases.
Neither Mr G nor Lloyds were  happy  with this conclusion.  Mr G said hes been made  to feel
like a criminal and has suffered a great deal financially.  Lloyds said if our investigator
concluded the items  were  business  items then Mr G had deliberately tried to mislead their
specialist, as he said they were personal possessions. It wants to leave the fraud markers  on
the industry database.
Ive been asked  to decide this complaint.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For an insurer  to be able to decline a claim on the basis of fraud it has to show two things:
1. there was some sort of intentional dishonesty or deception; and
2. the dishonesty  or deception was an attempt by the policyholder to get more  than theyre
entitled to.
Lloyds considers that the dishonesty/deception was the inclusion in the claim of several
items that Mr G said were personal possessions  but that had been advertised for sale on Mr
Gs social media business  page. And it says Mr Gs been trying to sell a lamp  that he said
had been damaged  in the burglary.
It thinks these  two actions were attempts  for Mr G to get an increased  settlement over and
above what Lloyds should have  paid for the claim.
Ref: DRN67670783Im not entirely  persuaded  that Lloyds  has sufficiently shown  that Mr G was intentionally
dishonest  as opposed  to being nave  or unwise.
Ive thought about what Lloyds says about selling  personal  items on a business page. Its
argument is that, once listed for sale by Mr G on his social media business page,  the items
must be business stock. And it supports this argument by saying Mr G couldnt discriminate
between business and personal  sales  or account  for them  if they were sold through  his
business page.
Mr G says that, although  he does operate a business  selling antiques and other items on a
business social media page, he didnt  realise that labelled  unsold items as business  stock
permanently. And hes provided various  explanations  of why the items were either personally
owned but (unsuccessfully) put up for sale on his business page, or, in the case  of one low
value item, was something he bought as business stock but later decided to keep for
himself. I find those explanations reasonable.
I think  selling personal items on a business page is Mr Gs choice. And I think his
explanation that he did so in order to reach the widest possible audience is plausible. And
whilst I can understand  Lloyds suggestion that Mr G couldnt then discriminate  a personal
sale from a business one, Im not convinced thats so. Its fairly common practise  for smaller
business owners  to use business stock  for personal  use, and HMRC provides guidance on
how to account for that in tax returns. I also think its for Mr G to ensure  his records reflect
business or personal sales and stock levels, no matter how they are sold.
Overall, and despite what our investigator said, Im currently more convinced by Mr Gs
explanations of how he thought about his property than I am Lloyds  arguments that they
were business  stock.
Turning to the damaged  lamp, I understand Lloyds has compared a photo showing a lamp,
with damage, to one of a lamp for sale on Mr Gs business  page. It thinks  this shows the
lamp was damaged before the burglary and Mr G has deliberately  added it to his claim to get
a higher payment.  It suggests Mr G has altered a receipt for the lamp  to say there were  two
when in fact there was only one.
Mr G says there were two lamps. One was damaged  when he bought it  and thats the one
he tried to sell. He says he still had it at the time of the burglary, but later got rid of it along
with a number of other items. He says hed decided to keep the other (undamaged) for
himself, and this is the one broken during the burglary.
Ive looked at the photo  Lloyds says supports its opinion.  I havent seen a photo  of a lamp for
sale. I can see a photo of other items for sale that also shows a very small portion  of what
might be a damaged  lamp.  There isnt enough of the lamp showing for me to say its the
same one as in other pictures taken in Mr Gs house after the burglary. And in any case  Mr
G doesnt say it isnt the same lamp   he says he bought two and this is the one that was
damaged all along and hes previously tried to sell. I dont think the photos  show conclusively
that there was only one lamp. Ive also looked at the receipt  Mr G sent in. Its from 2014  so
about three years  before  the burglary.  It says its for ornaments although I think thats
simply a general categorisation  so it could  be for a lamp  (or lamps).  Lloyds says Mr G has
added lamps x 2 in writing to the receipt the day he sent the photo  of the receipt  in. I
havent seen an explanation why Lloyds is so sure when  the note was added, especially
when there  are other receipts  similarly  marked. And, whilst I accept  Lloyds  couldnt confirm
Mr G had bought lamps when  it contacted  the shop in question, I dont think  its shown
conclusively he didnt  buy them as he said.
Overall Im not currently persuaded Mr G has intentionally been dishonest in order to get a
higher payment than he was entitled to.
Ref: DRN67670784I will consider any more evidence Lloyds wishes to send me. But unless  Im persuaded Mr G
deliberately tried to mislead Lloyds, Im going to ask it to reinstate Mr Gs insurance and deal
with his claim in line with any other terms and conditions in his policy. Ill also ask Lloyds to
remove any references to fraud from the relevant databases. Ive also thought  about  the
inconvenience and distress  this has caused Mr G. Hes explained  how difficult  and upsetting
its been  for him to be treated the way he has been  by Lloyds  he says hes been made  to
feel like a criminal. He says hes also had to move out of the house (hopefully  temporarily),
because he no longer  feels secure there. I think it appropriate Lloyds pay Mr G £500 for this.
my provisional  decision
Im currently  intending to uphold  this complaint  and ask Lloyds Bank General  Insurance
Limited to compensate Mr G as outlined above.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6767078