K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold  them a mortgage payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
In summary,  I thought  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should be upheld.  I say this because  
Mr B would have received  a generous level of sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to 
work. Because of this, I didnt think  the PPI was suitable for them.
In my provisional decision,  I asked both parties to come back to me with any additional 
information theyd  like me to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint for the reasons Ive already 
explained in my provisional decision   attached  below. 
Neither party came back to me with any further  points for me to consider, so I see no reason 
to change the findings from my provisional decision.
putting things right
HSBC should  put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and HSBC should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B back  the amount they paid each month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  HSBC can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
If Mr and Mrs B have  received any other redress in respect of the premiums  paid,  HSBC  
can take off what it has already paid from the amount  it owes them.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give 
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and 
Mrs B can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN66749842my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
HSBC UK Bank Plc should  put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66749843copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs B say HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy.
background
This complaint is about  a regular premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1996. 
Mr and Mrs B applied  for the PPI at a meeting.
Our adjudicator didnt think we should uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs B disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Bs case. 
I currently think Mr and Mrs Bs PPI policy was mis-sold here, and Ill explain why.
Based on the information Ive seen, I think HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs B. So it had to 
check it was suitable for both of their needs. And I dont currently think it was.
Mr B has told us that he would have received a very generous level, 24 months full, sick pay from his 
employer. Hes provided  information  to support this. Although the information isnt dated, based on 
what I know  about  sick pay from this employer, I think what Mr B has told us is likely to be correct.
Because of this, I dont think Mr and Mrs B had a need for the PPI, as he could  have made  
repayments to the mortgage for long enough  without  having to really need it. 
Although I appreciate that the cover was for both Mr and Mrs B. I dont think  the recommendation 
HSBC made to cover both of them was correct. 
I dont think Mr and Mrs B wouldve bought the policy  if HSBC had made  clear  it wasnt right for them.  
So, I currently  think  Mr and Mrs B have lost out because  of what HSBC did wrong.  
putting things  right
HSBC should put Mr and Mrs B in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already,  and HSBC should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B back the amount  they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year .
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim  under the PPI policy, HSBC can take off what they got 
for the claim  from the amount it owes them.   
If Mr and Mrs B have received any other redress in respect of the premiums paid, HSBC  can take 
off what  it has already paid from the amount it owes them.
Ref: DRN66749844 HM Revenue & Customs requires  HSBC  to take off tax from this interest.  HSBC  must give Mr and 
Mrs B a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one. Mr and Mrs B can claim 
back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im planning to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
I now invite  Mr and Mrs B and HSBC to give me any further information they want  me to consider 
before I make my final decision. This must be provided  to us by 20 March 2019.
Ref: DRN6674984