K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about the end of term charges that PSA Finance  UK Limited  (PSA) 
asked her to pay.
background
Miss B took receipt of a new vehicle in June 2015. She financed the deal through  a hire 
agreement with PSA and at the end of the term she had the car serviced  as she believed  
this was required every  10,000  miles  or at the end of the contract. But when she handed the 
vehicle back, she was disappointed to receive a charge  from PSA for a missing  service and 
a missing key.
She complained to PSA but they said that Miss B had signed to say she had received two 
keys at the start of the contract and that the servicing  requirements  required her to complete  
a service every year. And they went on to say that end of contract  letters had been supplied  
to her to explain what she needed to do before handing the car back.  So they didnt  think 
they needed to waive the charges  theyd made.
But Miss B disagreed  and she referred  her complaint to this service.  Our adjudicator thought  
the charge for the missing key had been  fairly  made as she thought, on the balance  of 
probabilities, two would have been provided  at the start of the contract. But she thought  PSA 
should waive the servicing  charge. She didnt think enough evidence  had been provided to 
assure her that Miss B had been aware  of the service charges. She noted that the end of 
contract letter and subsequent MOT letter, didnt refer to servicing and she noted that Miss B 
had been paying for a service plan.  So she thought she would have had one completed if 
shed been aware of the requirement. She was persuaded  by Miss Bs argument that she 
believed only one service  was due and as the car hadnt completed the 10,000  contractual 
miles  another  wasnt. 
But PSA disagreed with the adjudicators view. They thought we hadnt  given appropriate  
consideration to the fact that Miss B had a responsibility to ensure she understood the terms 
of the contract. They therefore asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
the missing key
Ref: DRN60122712I think its likely that two keys were supplied as it would be highly unusual for only one to be 
supplied with a new car. As only one has been returned the charge for a replacement seems  
reasonable and I dont  think  PSA have  been unfair in making it.
the missing service
The car should be serviced every year but I think Miss B has made  an honest mistake here 
and that she could expect PSA to have  been more sympathetic.
Miss B had a service plan and could have  had the services completed free of charge. It 
wouldnt make  any sense  not to complete them if shed known this.
She thought  the service was after 10,000 miles and I can understand, given that she was 
only driving 3,000 miles a year, that she may not have considered a more  frequent  service  
likely.
The end of contract letters werent explicit about  when the services  were due and wouldnt 
necessarily have alerted  Miss B to the problem.
PSA got a car back that seems to have  been in good working  order  and condition. It had 
completed only 9,000 of the contracted 30,000 miles and had the final service  completed 
without any apparent issues being present. I think its reasonable to suggest the reduced 
mileage would at least offset any loss in sales value that the missing service history  would  
have caused and I therefore  think it would  be fair for PSA to realise this and waive the 
charges theyve made.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part for the reasons  Ive given above and ask PSA Finance UK 
Limited to waive  the charge for the missing  service history and remove  any adverse reports 
they may have made to Miss Bs credit  file in relation to this issue.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 July 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6012271