K821x#15complaint
Mrs A complains that Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited (Omni) wont accept that a fixed  
sum loan (loan) it gave  her was mis-sold by the broker acting on its behalf.
background
In April 2018 Mrs A signed up for an online education course (course) with a supplier that I 
will call E, for the benefit of her two children, at a cost of £4,308.
Mrs A paid a £50 deposit and financed the remaining £4,258 with a loan from Omni. The 
total amount payable  under the loan was £4,258 payable over 48 months. Mrs As monthly  
repayments were around £89. 
In October  2018 Mrs A complained to Omni  that the course had been  mis-sold  in particular 
she had been  advised, incorrectly, that she could cancel at any time by giving one months  
notice with nothing  further to pay.
In November 2018 Omni wrote to Mrs A to say that it wasnt upholding her complaint  
because it was satisfied  that she was aware, or ought to have reasonably  been  aware,  that 
she could only cancel  within the first 14 days.
Unhappy with Omnis response to her complaint, Mrs A referred  it to our service. In doing so 
she said that as well as being advised she could cancel  at any time  by giving one months 
notice  there were  persistent technical  problem with Es website.
Mrs As complaint was considered by one of our investigators who concluded  that it should 
be upheld. In summary she said:
She found Mrs As submission that there were persistent  problems with Es website  
to be both plausible and persuasive.
She found Mrs As submission that she was told by Es representative that she could 
cancel at any time, by giving one months notice,  to be both plausible  and 
persuasive, particularly given what Mrs A said was her command  of English at the 
relevant time. She also said that she wasnt  persuaded that Mrs A should  have  
thought to question what she says she was told verbally by Es representative based  
on what she signed or initialled  whether by hand or electronically.
Having concluded  that Mrs As complaint  should  be upheld,  the investigator went  on to 
explain what  Omni should have to do to fairly  compensate Mrs A. This was to:
Arrange for the loan to be cancelled  with nothing further to be paid.
Remove all record  of the loan from Mrs As credit  files.
Refund all payments made towards the loan together with 8% simple interest per 
year on each payment  made from the date of payment to the date of settlement. This 
was because she was satisfied  that Mrs As children had derived no benefit  from the 
course.
Arrange to collect from Mrs A  at no cost to her  any electronic equipment supplied 
by E as part of the course,  for example any laptop.
Mrs A responded to say that she accepted  the investigators conclusions.
Ref: DRN63341212Omni responded to say that it didnt accept the investigators conclusions.  In doing so it said,  
in summary:
If Mrs A had technical issues with Es website this appears  to have been an isolated  
issue. But in any event  [this]  does not relate  to the issue  of mis-representation on 
which [the] view is based.
In the absence of knowing for sure what Mrs A was or wasnt  told by Es 
representative, any view expressed  by our service  should be based  on the various 
documents signed by Mrs A.
If Mrs A last accessed the course in June 2018,  and understood she could cancel at 
any time by giving one months  notice, its somewhat surprising  that she waited until 
October 2018 to contact it.
The conclusions reached are at odds with those reached by one or more 
investigators from our service in the past on similar complaints.
The investigator considered Omnis  response but wasnt persuaded to change  her mind. 
Therefore the complaint was passed  to me for review and decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this case in September 2020. In summary  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
First I would like to point out that Im fully aware  of the views  that Omni has made reference 
to in its submissions to our service.  But I would remind  Omni that Im not bound by what one 
or more  of my colleagues might, or might  not, have  concluded in the past. This is because 
each case is considered on its own facts and merits. I would also point out that Im aware of 
a number of views (and at least one decision) where we have upheld  similar complaints to 
that brought  by Mrs A.
Secondly, I dont find that Mrs A left it until October 2018 to cancel,  when the last date the 
course was accessed  was June 2018, to be indicative that she knew,  or ought to have 
known, that she couldnt cancel by giving one months notice. It isnt unusual  for somebody,  
dissatisfied with something, to leave it a period  of time before exercising their right to cancel 
or exercising what they believe  is their right to cancel.
When someone buys goods or services using the type of credit Omni has provided in this 
case, they can make a claim  against the lender for any breach  of contract or 
misrepresentation made by the supplier  of the goods or services,  so long as certain 
conditions are met. 
This consumer protection is provided by Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. More  
generally, where credit of this type is sold by a credit broker  then the lender  is responsible  
for incorrect information given by the broker about the credit  and the underlying purchase. 
This is because, due to Section 56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, the broker  is treated as 
acting as the lenders  agent. What this means  in this case, is that Mrs A can complain to 
Omni if E failed to honour the terms of its agreement with her or gave her incorrect 
information (or made incorrect statements) about  the course or the financial arrangements.
Mrs A says Es representative told her that she could cancel (with nothing  further  to pay) by 
giving just one months  notice.  But Omni says the documentary evidence contradicts this. 
Ref: DRN63341213Ive considered the evidence that exists  of the discussions  Mrs A had with E prior to her 
entering the loan.  There is no recording of these  conversations, which  means Ive had to rely 
on what Mrs A and Omni are saying now, the documents which  were  signed at the time, and 
any other relevant  evidence. 
Omni has placed quite  a lot of weight on the customer clarification  and satisfaction  form. 
This, it says, shows that Mrs A was aware  that she had 14 days to cancel.
In my view the customer clarification and satisfaction form isnt particularly clear. I accept, 
like pointed  out by Omni,  that Mrs A initialled to say that she understood that she had 
14 days to cancel. But this form doesnt  say that if these cancelation rights  arent  exercised 
then there  is no further right to cancel.
So if Mrs A had been given incorrect information about these arrangements  by Es 
representative, I dont  think the customer clarification and satisfaction form would necessarily 
have cleared matters  up. 
Like our investigator I find Mrs As account  of events credible. Amongst other things,  I say 
this because I see no good or plausible reason  as to why Mrs A would have  tried to cancel 
by giving one months  notice  unless  she had been  told this was possible. Furthermore I 
wouldnt have expected Mrs A to have reacted in the way that she did, when she was told by 
Omni that cancellation  with one months  notice wasnt possible, unless she had been told 
that it was. Finally, I think its worth pointing out that Mrs As submissions have been 
consistent throughout.
The customer clarification and satisfaction form she signed is also ambiguous enough that 
its not unreasonable of her to have  held a belief that she could  cancel with one months  
notice with nothing  further to pay. I also dont think its reasonable to expect Mrs A to have 
worked out that what she had been  told was incorrect.
So on balance, Im inclined to believe  Mrs A and I think its probable she was told she could 
cancel the arrangement at any time with one months notice. And based on what has been 
said and provided  by both parties  I think that had Mrs A not been  told she could  cancel by 
giving one months notice then she wouldnt have  gone ahead with the course on the 
grounds of its length and cost.
I accept that Mrs A typed  her name  into an electronic  device, or ticked  a box, and this meant 
she had signed  for both a course and a loan. But in my view she was misled by Es 
representative into doing this. 
Because the relevant  legislation  means  E, in brokering the loan, was acting as Omnis agent,  
Mrs A can hold Omni responsible for what has happened. 
Although I agree with the investigator that, on balance,  Mrs A was told by Es representative 
that she could  cancel at any time, by giving one months notice, Im not persuaded that she 
should have all the loan payments she made returned  to her (together with interest).
I accept that Mrs A says she experienced persistent problems with Es website and that the 
investigator found this submission to be both plausible and persuasive. But in my view had 
this been the case  I might  have expected to have seen more by way of an email exchange 
between Mrs A and E and such an exchange having taken place in the first six months.
Ref: DRN63341214Taking everything into account,  including Omnis  contact notes, itss my view that although 
Mrs A might have experienced some problems  with Es website these werent  persistent. 
And the reason Mrs A looked to cancel, in October 2018, were for other  reasons and 
because she understood she could do so by giving one months notice.
Therefore I think that Omni can reasonably keep the payments Mrs A made towards the loan 
in respect of May to October  2018 (6 payments) and November 2018 (1 payment made in 
December 2018) and that E can reasonably keep the £50 deposit  paid, but that Omni should 
refund (together  with interest) any payments  made by Mrs A after the seventh payment.
Mrs A also submits that her command of English wasnt  very good at the relevant time, a 
submission that the investigator found to be both plausible and persuasive. But because I 
think this complaint should be upheld  for other reasons, Ive not considered this point further 
and I make no findings on it.
I went on to say Omni should, as far as possible,  put Mrs A back  in the position she would 
have been in, had she not been misled. And had she not been misled  I didnt think it was 
likely shed  have purchased the course or signed  the fixed sum loan agreement.  I then went  
on to outline what  Omni  should have to do to fairly  compensate Mrs A.
Mrs A responded to say that she was happy  with my provisional decision and added nothing  
further for my consideration.
Omni responded to my provisional decision to say that it had provided all available  
information and commentary regarding Mrs As specific  case.  But before I issue my final 
decision it would appreciate additional  guidance so as to help it understand the reason for 
my provisional findings. It then went on to say that it felt my provisional findings were  
diametrically opposed  to other  findings  made  by our service on extremely similar fact 
patterns.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied my provisional decision made clear my reasons for finding what I did. So 
although I appreciate that Omni  would  like me to expand on those reasons, Im not 
persuaded I need to do so.
So given what I say above, and given that neither party has provided anything  new for my 
consideration specific to this case, I see no reason to depart from my provisional  findings 
and I now confirm them as final.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and that Omni Capital Retail  Finance Limited 
must, for the reasons  Ive given:
Refund all repayments  Mrs A has made under  the fixed sum loan agreement  (with 
the exception  of the first 7), adding 8% simple interest per year* to the refunded 
repayments, calculated  from the date Mrs A originally made them,  to the date the 
refund is paid. 
Ref: DRN63341215Close the fixed sum loan agreement and end any current  or future liability  Mrs A has 
under it. 
Remove the fixed sum loan agreement from Mrs As credit  file. 
Arrange for the ending of any services  and the collection of any goods supplied  
under the fixed  sum loan agreement, including any device offered as an incentive to 
purchase (for example  a laptop). This must be done at no cost to Mrs A. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Omni Capital Retail  Finance  Limited  to take tax off this 
interest. Omni Capital  Retail Finance Limited must  give Mrs A a certificate showing how 
much tax its taken off, if Mrs A asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2020.
Peter Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6334121