K822xcomplaint
Mr F complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS)  have prevented him from 
accessing his account and have  provided him with poor service.
background 
Mr F holds  a bank account with RBS, but has lived overseas  for some time now. He found 
himself unable to access  his account  through  telephone banking because  RBS no longer 
had his date of birth on record due to an administrative error. This meant Mr F was not able 
to verify his identity, so they asked that he send a copy of his passport or birth certificate so 
they could update their records.
Mr F complained because he has had numerous  problems  in trying to confirm his date of 
birth and gain access  to his account.  This includes, but is not strictly  limited  to:
He initially faxed  a copy  of his birth certificate  to RBS but received no response;
They also failed to tell him from the outset that they would be unable  to accept a copy 
of his birth certificate unless it was certified;
RBS have ignored various written requests submitted by Mr F, and have made it 
difficult for him to contact the right people without  having  to go through a drawn-out  
automated process;
He has been  kept on hold for considerable periods of time when trying to get through 
to RBS, and has had to write  numerous letters (containing requests, instructions or 
queries) of which some were ignored  and did not even receive  a response. 
RBS upheld Mr Fs complaint and offered  £25 compensation for the poor service he 
received. However,  they maintained that they could only accept a certified copy  of his birth 
certificate. 
Our investigator upheld  the complaint, as she considered the service provided had been  
poor. So she recommended  that RBS pay £200 compensation in recognition  of the trouble 
and upset caused. The investigator also said that they should  update  Mr Fs date of birth on 
their system as soon  as they receive  a certified  copy of the birth certificate.  But as no 
agreement could be met, the matter has been passed to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it. 
Ive considered the requirements set by RBS regarding the certification of Mr Fs birth 
certificate copy. Theyve said that the certification must be carried  out by a lawyer or solicitor  
who is listed on a law society or bar association website, or a registered accountant who is 
listed on the institute  of Chartered  Accountants  or an equivalent recognised  body. But I think 
this is an unreasonable requirement  in the circumstances,  as the professionals theyve 
specified belong  to institutions  within the UK. And given that Mr F lives overseas, he may 
find it difficult to fulfil this requirement.
It isnt clear whether  Mr F has since been  able to obtain or send a certified copy  of his birth 
certificate in line with RBSs requirements,  as theyve told us they have still not received 
anything. But if he is still yet to obtain  a copy, RBS should accept a certified  copy of his birth 
Ref: DRN62813042certificate from a notary or other equivalent  professional from within the country of which he 
is a resident. I do not think it is reasonable for them to insist  on the certification being 
provided only by one of the UK professionals listed above. And given that it is RBS error  
that has led to Mr Fs date of birth being  removed from their system, they should also 
reimburse any reasonable costs he may incur  in obtaining a certified copy of his birth 
certificate in his resident country (subject to being  presented with reasonable proof  of the 
costs incurred). 
In terms of the service  Mr F has received,  Id like to assure him that I have considered all the 
correspondence he has sent us about  the poor experience he has had with RBS. And its 
clear he has been  left frustrated. I can see, for example,  that he had a lot of his 
correspondence ignored, and that he has had to spend a substantial amount  of time chasing 
various departments  of the bank for a proper response. And I also think the way they have 
handled the request for Mr Fs date of birth has been poor.  But I have to consider whether, in 
the circumstances, the £200 compensation awarded by the investigator  as well as the £25 
already offered by RBS  is proportionate  to the distress and inconvenience suffered.
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for 
distress or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award must be a 
proportionate reflection  of the impact  that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And 
in order to award further compensation  to Mr F, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful  
actions of RBS have had a greater  impact than just moderate inconvenience  or upset, which  
I cant say it necessarily has in these circumstances, so I dont consider any further 
compensation at a higher  level is warranted.
I appreciate the whole experience would  have been frustrating for Mr F, and I do consider 
that the service  provided by RBS could  have been better and that they ought to have 
acknowledged all his correspondence. But having holistically considered  the service he 
received overall,  I consider an award of £200  (in addition to the £25 already paid) to be fair 
compensation in the circumstances.
I also understand that Mr F has raised additional  points  concerning  the way RBS has 
corresponded with him in relation to his tax status, which is being considered  under  a 
separate complaint reference as RBS have not yet had a chance to investigate  these points. 
So I will not be commenting on these  matters any further within  this decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct The Royal  Bank of Scotland  
Plc to:
Update Mr Fs date of birth as soon as they receive a certified  copy  of his birth 
certificate  which can be certified  by a notary  or other equivalent  professional from 
within the country in which he resides;
Reimburse the reasonable  costs incurred by Mr F in obtaining a certified copy of his 
birth certificate, upon being presented with reasonable  proof  of such costs;
Pay a total of £200 compensation  in recognition of the trouble and upset caused by 
their handling  of the matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019.
Ref: DRN62813043Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6281304