K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained about Saga Services  Limiteds  handling of their car 
insurance policies.
Mrs P is the policy holder  and Mr P is a named  driver. Almost all the correspondence with 
Saga and our service  has been with Mr P. But as the policy is in Mrs Ps name I will refer to 
all of Mr Ps comments  made on Mrs Ps behalf as having been made by Mrs P. 
background
Mrs P took out a car insurance policy on 24 April 2018. She took the policy out through Saga 
who were acting as an insurance broker. The insurance was underwritten by another  
company (the insurer) and not by Saga. Mrs P had over 10 years no claims bonus  (NCB)  
which she used for her policy.
Mrs P bought a new car which she wanted to insure in September 2018 through  Saga. She 
was told that she couldnt use her NCB  on the new car while it was being  used  on the other  
cars policy. She decided  to insure the new car on 21 September  2018 without any NCB.  
She told Saga she was going to sell the other  car a few days later and cancel that policy.  It 
was agreed with Saga that once  that was done she would call Saga to amend her new policy  
to add her NCB to the policy for her new car to benefit from a NCB discount.
Mrs Ps first policy was cancelled on 25 September 2018 and she was given a premium 
refund. She asked  Saga to amend her new policy on 26 September to apply her NCB. But 
she wasnt happy with the discount  that was given  for her NCB; she expected it to be much  
higher. Mrs P cancelled  her new policy on 1 October  2018  and received a premium refund. 
Mrs P wasnt  happy and she complained. She said:
The refund  she received  when she cancelled her first policy should have been 
higher. Saga  should have  refunded  her the £30 legal protection  cover  and the £25 
policy arrangement  fee.
The refund  she received  when she cancelled the new policy should have been 
higher. Saga  should have  refunded  her the £25 arrangement  fee and shouldnt  have 
charged her a cancellation  fee of £5. She also said she wanted the new policy to 
start on 24 September but Saga started it from 21 September  meaning she 
unnecessarily paid for those  days.
When she took out the new policy on 21 September 2018, Saga told her that once 
they applied her NCB her discount  would  have been much  higher meaning she would 
have received a bigger refund.
Saga didnt uphold Mrs Ps complaint.  Mrs P didn't think that was fair and brought her 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked into the complaint. She felt that Saga hadnt  
done anything  wrong. As Mrs P didnt agree,  the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mrs P, but Im not going to uphold her complaint. Ill explain  why.
Ref: DRN67486322In her complaint, Mrs P has made  a number of detailed points and Ive considered all those 
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Saga have dealt with Mrs P in a fair and reasonable  way.
the April 2018  policy
When Mrs P renewed her policy through Saga on 24 April 2018, she paid a total price of 
£255 for the whole policy year. That price included an optional add on for legal protection  
cover at a cost of £30. It also included a £25 arrangement  fee for Saga. The policy  
documentation said that if Mrs P cancelled the legal protection cover after 14 days  she 
wouldnt get a refund.  The policy documentation  also said the £25 arrangement fee was 
non-refundable.
I have also seen the policy documentation for the policy  Mrs P took out through  Saga the 
previous year in 2017 for the same car. While the amounts  were  slightly lower,  she was 
again charged a non refundable  arrangement  fee and legal protection  cover  that wouldnt be 
refunded in the event she cancelled after 14 days.  So I would have expected  the terms 
relating to the legal  protection cover and the arrangement fee to have been familiar  to Mrs P. 
Mrs P cancelled her April 2018 policy in September 2018, some five months after it started.  
The legal protection cover was cancelled with the main policy,  which is standard insurance 
industry practice. That was clearly  more than 14 days after it had started. So I think it was 
reasonable for Saga not to give her a refund as was specified in the policy  documents.  
Saga, like all insurance brokers I know of, charge administrative fees for various tasks. That 
is to cover their reasonable costs involved in administrative tasks, such  as setting up and 
renewing policies,  making  amendments and cancelling  policies.  Provided  the administrative  
fees are reasonable and they make those clear  to their customers, we think brokers  are 
entitled to charge them. So I think Saga charging  Mrs P a £25 arrangement  fee, which was 
clear in the policys paperwork,  was reasonable.
On cancellation  of the policy, the insurer calculated the time for which  Mrs P was insured. 
That was from 24 April to 25 September 2018 (154 days).  The refund the insurer  asked 
Saga to give Mrs P was around £115.  From the £255 Mrs P paid, after deducting  the legal 
protection cover, arrangement fee and the insurers charge for the time on cover, I think 
Mrs P received the correct refund. Im therefore not upholding this part of the complaint.
the September 2018 policy
When Mrs P bought her new car she called Saga on 21 September  2018 to discuss  insuring 
it. The new policy started on 21 September,  but Mrs P said it should have started on 
24 September, so she feels  she should be refunded the cost of the policy for those days. But 
I have seen the full transcript  of that call and its clear to me that Mrs P asked for the policy  
to start on 21 September. Both she and Sagas call handler confirmed  the 21 September 
start date a number of times during that call. So Im satisfied that Saga followed Mrs Ps 
instructions in arranging the policy to start on 21 September. Im therefore not upholding this 
part of the complaint.
Before Mrs P called  Saga  on 21 September, she had obtained  an online quote through  a 
price comparison  website  for a policy to insure  her new car. It was a quote generated 
through Saga and the annual premium was around  £259. But that quote was based on her 
Ref: DRN67486323having 12 years NCB. When she spoke  with Saga on 21 September, Mrs P expected the 
new policy to cost £259. But she was told she couldnt use her NCB on the new policy  
because it was being used for the other policy. And as the quote for £259  was based on her 
having 12 years NCB, Saga told her they would have to get a new quote on the basis  that 
she had no NCB years.  The new quote was £532.84 (including £30 for legal protection cover 
and a £25 arrangement fee). Saga told Mrs P that once she cancelled the other policy  she 
should call them to amend the new policy to add her NCB to get a discount.  
It might help if I explain a bit about how Saga  work. As Ive mentioned  above, Saga are an 
insurance broker. The insurance policies they sell, although they are branded under Sagas 
name, are underwritten by other businesses that are insurers. Saga  work with a specified 
number of different  insurers who they refer to as their panel insurers. So when  a customer, 
like Mrs P, applies for a policy they provide all the relevant details to Saga. Saga then input 
that information into their system which then shows which  insurers  on their panel are willing 
to offer a policy to that customer,  on what terms and at what  price.  Often  not all of the 
insurers on Sagas  panel  will offer a policy. If a number of insurers  do offer a policy, Saga 
will select the one that offers  the most competitive price  and offer that to the customer to 
decide whether  or not they want to take the policy. 
The policy that was offered to Mrs P online for around £259 on the basis  that she had 12 
years NCB was with a certain insurer. When Saga ran the quote again without the NCB 
years, the insurer that offered the £259  policy either  didnt offer a policy  or they did so at a 
higher cost than the different insurer that Saga put forward  to Mrs P at a cost of £532.84. As 
Ive explained  above, £30 of that was for legal protection  cover  and £25 was the 
arrangement fee, so the actual cost of the policy was just under £480. So I think  Saga  
offered Mrs P the policy  that gave the most competitive price available  on their panel.  
Understandably, Mrs P wasnt happy  and questioned the doubling of the price.  Saga 
explained it was with a different insurer and without the 12 years NCB. Although initially  
Saga said that once  the 12 years NCB was applied the premium was likely to reduce down 
to around £259,  the call handler corrected herself  by repeatedly saying  Saga could not say 
or guarantee  how much the discount for the NCB would be. Mrs P asked  but can you 
guarantee that the cost would go down to around  £259 once the NCB  was applied. Sagas 
call handler replied saying  we cannot,  we cannot tell you, we cannot tell you what the refund 
will be until  the NCB  was applied and calculated;  I cant tell you what that figure will 
be; and there will be adjustment, but I cant tell you exactly  what that will be, but there  
will definitely  be a refund of some  sort.
When the 12 years NCB was applied to her policy on 26 September a discount of around 
£75 was given,  which brought the cost of the policy down to just under  £460 (including the 
£30 legal protection and £25 arrangement fee). While I understand why Mrs P was upset, 
Saga did tell her they couldnt  say what the discount would be. And Mrs P understood that. I 
think if she wanted to Mrs P could have  waited until 25 September  to start the new policy at 
the same  time she cancelled the first policy. That way her NCB  could have  been  applied to 
her new policy and she would have known how much it would cost before going ahead with 
it. So Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
Soon after, on 1 October 2018, Mrs P cancelled the new policy.  She was given  a refund of 
the premium after the insurer deducted  the cost for the time she was on cover. She was 
charged for the five days she was on cover between 21 and 25 September on the basis of 
the policy costing  just under £480. She was also charged at the discounted rate after her 
NCB was applied for the five days between  26 September and when she cancelled.  The 
total she was charged for the ten or so days she was on cover was approximately £12. 
Ref: DRN67486324In accordance with the policy terms, because Mrs P cancelled her policy  within 14 days, she 
was given a refund for her legal protection cover. Again, in accordance  with the policy, she 
was charged pro-rata for the time she had the legal protection cover,  which was around  
£0.80 for ten days. So I understand she was refunded £29.20 for the legal protection cover.  
Saga didnt refund the £25 arrangement  fee they charged for the new policy. Not only was 
that detailed in the policy paperwork, Sagas call handler during the 21 September  
discussion did tell Mrs P that the arrangement  fee was non-refundable, which  I think was 
reasonable. Mrs P has said that during that call the call handler  told her they wouldnt charge 
her the arrangement fee. But thats  not the case. Saga ordinarily charge a £25 admin fee to 
amend policies. The discussion between Saga and Mrs P was around the potential  £25 
admin fee that Saga could  have charged  when  Mrs P called to add her NCB  to her new 
policy. It was that that Saga said they wouldnt charge her, not the arrangement  fee. So Im 
not upholding this part of the complaint.
Finally, Saga  charged Mrs P a cancellation  fee of £5 when she cancelled the new policy. 
That was something  Saga were entitled to do in line with the policy  and it was something  
that was explained to Mrs P during the 21 September discussion, so I think  Saga acted 
reasonably. I note that Saga, as a gesture of goodwill,  waived the £50 cancellation fee when  
Mrs P cancelled the first policy,  which I think was reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2020.  
Mehmet Osman 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6748632