K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1988,  and replaced  it with a new 
policy when they remortgaged in 1997.  Mr and Mrs H paid for each  policy with a regular 
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  The policies covered their mortgage 
payments in case either of them was off work sick or lost their job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs H, I dont  think that either of these two PPI 
policies were mis-sold  Ill go through my reasoning.
The first sale,  in 1988, was over three  decades ago and the mortgage closed over two 
decades ago, so understandably neither side have  any of the sales documents anymore. 
Indeed, under data protection regulations, Bank  of Scotland were required  to destroy Mr and 
Mrs Hs information rather than hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs H dont remember  
choosing to buy PPI, but thats also understandable given just how long ago it was, and 
given that buying insurance is not often  memorable.  Ive thought carefully about whats  most 
likely to have happened based on the limited information I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Bank of Scotland to have misrepresented the 
PPI as being compulsory, or to have added  it without  Mr and Mrs Hs permission. But Ive 
not seen any evidence which shows thats  what it did, nor have I seen  any wider problems 
with its sales process  from the time. So I have a situation where  its been  said that Bank  of 
Scotland did something wrong, but it was over 30 years ago, theres no substantive evidence 
which shows it did something wrong,  its too long ago for the bank to be able to produce 
evidence to defend itself,  and I have no wider concerns  about  its practices  around  the time.  
On that basis, I cant fairly conclude  that its most likely Bank  of Scotland  misled  Mr and 
Mrs H. I think its more likely that in 1988 the bank  followed a standard  process,  gave Mr and 
Mrs H a choice about buying PPI, and they chose to take it at the time.
For the sale in 1997,  I can see that Mr and Mrs H signed and submitted a form specifically to 
buy PPI  and they did this separately to applying for the mortgage itself. The cost of the PPI 
was set out separately to the cost of the mortgage,  and not as something  that Mr and Mrs H 
had to have. So again, I think that Mr and Mrs H were given a choice and that they chose 
PPI  even if, understandably, they no longer remember doing so after so long.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H, so it had to check  it was right for 
them. And based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time,  I think it was. For 
Ref: DRN63654342example, Mr and Mrs H werent affected by any of the main things the PPI didnt cover. Mr H 
later became  self-employed, but that wasnt relevant at the time of the sale,  and in any case  
it was not more difficult for self-employed people to claim  here, so he was still covered.
While Mr and Mrs H had another  insurance policy, it covered  different  things  to the PPI, so 
Im afraid it wasnt relevant here.  Mr and Mrs H had some benefits through  work, but the PPI 
paid out on top of those  benefits  and covered them more comprehensively, especially when 
their sick pay reduced to just half pay  which wouldve been a drastic  reduction in income. 
Its worth  bearing in mind  that the mortgages were secured  on Mr and Mrs Hs property, so if 
they fell behind on their payments they risked losing their home.  So I think the PPI couldve 
really been useful for them  in protecting their home and giving some peace of mind.
In the 1997 sale, the cost and benefit of the policy was set out clearly.  So I think Mr and 
Mrs H wouldve understood  how much they would need to pay for it and what  it covered.
Its possible that Bank of Scotland  shouldve  given clearer information about  the PPIs  cost 
and benefit in the 1988 sale. But as I explained  above, the policy  couldve been  really useful 
for Mr and Mrs H if something went wrong. It was relatively low-priced and doesnt  seem to 
have been unaffordable. So I dont think that better  cost or benefit  information was likely to 
have put Mr and Mrs H off taking out that policy.
Lastly, its possible that in both sales Bank of Scotland didnt point out all the main  things  the 
policy wouldnt cover.  But as I said above, Mr and Mrs H dont appear to have been  affected 
by any of those  things. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs 
complaint. This marks the end of our services involvement in the case.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6365434