K820x#14Complaint
Mr W complains that Capital One (Europe) plc rejected his claim under section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect  of a faulty  reconditioned  engine.
Background
In March 2018 Mr W ordered a reconditioned engine from a company I will call T. It cost 
£5,153 with £750 being given in part exchange for an old engine  and the balance  being paid 
by credit card. The engine  was delivered on 8 March. A few days later Mr W installed the 
engine in his vehicle. He was assisted  by an experienced  mechanic I will call Mr H. The 
engine locked up when  tested and Mr W says an endoscope was used to try and identify the 
problem. Part of the endoscope broke off.
Mr W spoke to T and as he was persuaded to return the engine for it to be inspected. Mr H 
who was long experienced mechanic holding senior roles in his career advised against this, 
but Mr W returned the engine. It was taken apart  by T and a small foreign piece of metal was 
found, which appeared to be the tip of a screwdriver, along with the tip of the endoscope. 
The engine was severely damaged. T provided  photographs and video. 
T said that the piece  of metal couldnt  have come from its workshop and it must have found 
its way into the engine after delivery.  Mr W along with Mr H were both adamant  that it hadnt 
been introduced  by them. Mr W took a conciliatory approach and suggested he pay £1,000 
towards the repair. T said it would  cost £2,000 to repair the engine and offered to do it for 
£1,628 plus £100 carriage  and VAT.  
No agreement could  be reached so Mr W made a claim under section 75. This was rejected 
by Capital One. It said Mr W had signed for the delivery of the engine and it was reasonable 
to assume it was in good condition at that point. It said T had confirmed that the piece of 
foreign metal  hadnt come from its workshop and so it must  have been  introduced  after 
delivery. It didnt believe  a breach of contract had been proven. It suggested Mr W may wish 
to arrange for an independent inspection. 
Mr W rejected  this idea as he considered a proper inspection would require a visit to both his 
and Ts premises and interviews of all concerned which  he thought would be prohibitively 
expensive.
He brought his complaint  to this service where it was considered by one of our adjudicators 
who didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr W said he had been sold faulty good and he had 
been misled by T into returning the engine.  
The adjudicator said it was extremely difficult to identify when and how the foreign object got 
into the engine.  He noted the witness statement given  by Mr H and while not doubting  his 
expertise the adjudicator felt that he wasnt independent as he had been involved in the 
installation of the engine. He concluded that there wasnt enough evidence to allow  him to 
say that on balance of probability  the engine was faulty and not fit for purpose at the point of 
sale.
Mr W didnt agree and said that he felt there  were errors  of logic in the adjudicators view. He 
explained his professional  background prior to retirement which meant  he had a great 
degree of expertise as had Mr H. He said T had initially  been reasonable and conciliatory 
which led him to return the engine. However, subsequently it had taken a more  robust  
Ref: DRN65989822approach and hadnt been open  to a compromise  settlement. He felt T had been guilty of 
misrepresentation.
If Ts explanation of the cause was accepted then an independent report was unlikely to be 
able to identity  the source  of the foreign  object.  The outcome as suggested  by both Capital 
One and the adjudicator meant that T would profit and he would bear all of the cost.
I issued provisional  decision as follows: 
I noted that the complaint  had been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. Section  75 offers protection to customers who use certain types of credit to 
make purchases of goods or services.  Under  section 75 the consumer  has an equal  right to 
claim against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there 
has been a misrepresentation or breach of contract  on the suppliers part.
For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
Capital One had said it didnt agree a claim should  be made under section 75, as there 
wasnt enough evidence  to show the merchant  was in breach of contract. I didnt agree.
I explained that I had given a great  deal of consideration  to this complaint and I didnt believe 
rejection was either fair or reasonable. Quite  simply no one could say how the foreign body 
came to be in the engine.  Even in the best run workshops errors could occur.  
Capital One has taken the view that T is a professional  company  with a high expertise and 
so it couldnt be responsible for the foreign  body.  I accepted T is a reputable company and I 
found its evidence  credible, but that didnt mean  something couldnt go wrong in its 
workshop. 
I understood the presumption that the professional supplier of reconditioned  engines would 
be less likely to be the cause of the problem. However, I noted Mr W is also highly 
experienced in this field, as is Mr H. I thought  it unreasonable to regard them  as 
inexperienced amateurs. I also found Mr Ws testimony to be credible. He had set out what  
happened very clearly  and has maintained  his positon throughout. I didnt think  it any more  
likely that the foreign  body found its way into the engine in his workshop.
I also believed more  weight should  have been  given to the evidence of Mr H. He too is highly 
experienced and Mr W had explained wasnt connected to him in any way save for the fact 
he was helping him fit the engine. His evidence wasnt wholly  independent, but he had his 
reputation at stake and I believed his witness statement was credible. 
I said, in short, the engine was damaged and I was happy to accept Ts explanation as to the 
cause. But nobody could  say how or where  the foreign object found its was into engine.  I 
didnt consider an independent report would be of any value, though I could understand why 
Capital One suggested it. All that would  do is identify  the cause of the problem but not 
identify how or where it happened. 
Ref: DRN65989823Given the evidence  didnt help us identify  the source of the fault I felt it would be wrong  for 
Mr W to be held fully responsible. My remit is to decide on the basis of what is fair and 
reasonable and in this case I thought to achieve  that end result the cost should  be shared. 
I gathered Ts offer had been withdrawn. Mr W incurred £5,153 after taking into account the 
part exchanged engine.  I thought it only fair that he be recompensed 50% of that sum. I 
gathered he has since  bought another  engine and so I thought T should  keep  the faulty 
engine and the part exchanged  one.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision and therefore it remains  unchanged and is as 
set out above.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Capital One (Europe) plc to 
recompense Mr W 50% of the sum he paid of £5,153. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr W to accept or reject my decision before 
20 October 2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6598982