K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Active Securities Limited (trading  as 247 Moneybox) lent to her in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Miss S was given four loans by 247 Moneybox between  April and July 2013. Miss S 
successfully repaid her first three  loans  but a balance remains outstanding on the last loan.  
A summary  of Miss Ss borrowing from 247 Moneybox is as follows;
Loan 
NumberBorrowing 
DateRepayment 
DateLoan 
Amount  
1 10/04/2013 01/05/2013 £   80
2 08/05/2013 28/05/2013 £ 185
3 30/05/2013 28/06/2013 £ 260
4 03/07/2013 - £ 400
Miss Ss complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. He didnt think that 
247 Moneybox had been wrong to give any of the loans to Miss S. So he didnt recommend 
that the complaint should be upheld. Miss S didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the 
complaint hasnt been resolved informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to 
decide. This is the last stage of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
247 Moneybox needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Miss S could repay  each loan in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that 247 Moneybox should  fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN60797902the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ss complaint.
247 Moneybox did a number of checks before it lend to Miss S. It asked her for details of her 
income and her normal monthly expenditure. And it checked Miss Ss credit file before 
agreeing three of the loans. Ive looked at the results of those credit checks  and they dont 
show any information that I think should have  caused additional concerns to the lender,
At this stage it is worth noting that the information  a consumer might see, when they request 
a copy of their credit  file, might be very different to that seen by a lender. A lender might  only 
see a small portion of the credit file, or some  data might be missing or anonymised, or the 
data might not be up to date. So, this may explain any differences  between  the information  
provided by 247 Moneyboxs  credit check and the information Miss S says should have been 
seen in her credit report.
The amounts that Miss S asked to borrow were relatively modest compared to the income 
that she declared to the lender. And the repayments  appeared to be easily affordable  based  
on what she said about her disposable  income. So given  the amounts Miss S needed to 
repay, what was apparent  about  her circumstances  at the time, and the length of her 
relationship with the lender, I dont  think it wouldve been  proportionate for 247 Moneybox to 
ask her for the amount  of information  that might have shown the lending was unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Miss S provided or the information 
247 Moneybox shouldve been aware  of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what she was saying. 
So I dont  think 247 Moneybox did anything wrong  when  it agreed to give these loans  to 
Miss S. It follows that I dont uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Active Securities Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 June 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6079790