K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
1997. Mr and Mrs J say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold  them  the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
B&B hasnt provided  any further comments.  Mr and Mrs J have replied to my provisional 
decision, reiterating that the sale of the PPI policy took place when a salesman visited their 
home, sometime after the mortgage began, and that they were pressured into taking the 
policy. 
Whilst I appreciate their comments,  Mr and Mrs J havent provided any new information  or 
documentation which  details  how they were pressured into taking this policy out. I think its 
entirely possible that the salesperson encouraged them to take out the PPI but this isnt the 
same as saying they had to take it out. As mentioned in my provisional decision,  the 
application form completed at the time doesnt  suggest that the policy was compulsory and 
the form was completed after their mortgage  had been accepted,  so it would have  been  
clear this wasnt a condition of the lending. So I think its more likely Mr and Mrs J knew they 
had a choice as to whether they took out the policy and they agreed to take it out.
As Ive not received any new information  to make me reconsider my previous outcome,  I see 
no reason to change  my provisional decision.
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and profit share  it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. B&B should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs J any extra  
interest they paid because of that.
B&B should pay back to Mr and Mrs J the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should 
also pay Mr and Mrs J 8%* simple interest  on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic  rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs J can claim back  the tax if they dont  pay tax.
my final decision
I dont think the PPI policy was mis-sold  so it follows that Bradford & Bingley Plc does 
not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Bradford & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN61151962Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61151963complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in
1997. Mr and Mrs J say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B) mis-sold them the PPI.
background
In 1996 Mr and Mrs J took out a mortgage when purchasing their home. In February 1997  they took 
out a PPI policy to cover that mortgage. After the initial  six months free cover, they paid a monthly  
amount for this policy.
Mr and Mrs J were both cover  by the policy, with Mr J being insured for 60% of the repayment  and 
Mrs J being covered for the remaining 40% of the monthly benefit.  If either of them  had made  a 
successful claim  they would  have  received the relevant proportion of the monthly repayment for up to 
12 months.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint.  Mr and Mrs J disagreed with the adjudicators view 
and so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold so I dont currently intend to uphold this complaint. Ill explain  
why.
I think B&B made  it clear that Mr and Mrs J didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose  to 
take it out. I say this because Ive been sent a copy of the original  mortgage application form from 
1996 and I can see that Mr and Mrs J declined  the cover.  It was only after the mortgage had been 
approved and the money transferred that the PPI policy was set up. So this would suggest that Mr 
and Mrs J knew they didnt have to take out the policy in order  to get their mortgage.
Mr and Mrs J have told us someone from B&B visited their home after the mortgage had been 
agreed and it was during  this meeting that they took out the PPI. They said they felt pressured  into 
taking out the cover. B&B have no record of this policy being  taken out during a home  visit. Where 
there is such a dispute I need to consider what  I think is more likely to have happened.
Ive thought very carefully about what Mr and Mrs J have  said and, whilst I appreciate their 
comments, I do need to take into consideration  that this sale took place  over 20 years ago and 
memories can be affected over time. Ive also noted Mr and Mrs J have said they were a bit nave  
and that they were just grateful to B&B for giving  them a mortgage  so this is why they agreed to the 
cover. Ive looked at a copy  of the PPI application  form which was completed in 1997 and I cant  see 
anything that suggests that the policy  was compulsory.  And as Mr and Mrs J had already had their 
mortgage accepted and the funds released, I think they would have known that refusing the policy 
wouldnt have had an impact  of their mortgage.
So, when taking  everything  into account, I think its more likely that B&B made  it clear that the policy 
was optional and that Mr and Mrs J agreed to take it out  even if that isnt their recollection now.
B&B said they didnt recommend the cover but Mr and Mrs J say they did receive  advice. But I dont 
need to make a decision about this as it wont make a difference to the overall outcome of this 
Ref: DRN61151964complaint. This is because, even if a recommendation  was made, I think it was suitable  for Mr and 
Mrs J. I say this because they were both eligible for the cover and it seems that they wouldnt  have 
been affected  by any of the main exclusions or limitations  under the policy, such as having unusual 
working arrangements or suffering from a medical condition of which they were already  aware.
And it looks like it could  have  been useful  for them.  Its not clear if Mr J would have received any sick 
pay if he was too ill to work but Mrs J has said she would  have received six months  full pay, followed 
by six months half pay. This policy  would  have paid out for up to 12 months which  would have been 
in addition to, and potentially for longer than any sick pay they would have received or, in the case of 
Mrs J, longer than she would have received full pay. And it would have provided  cover for the same 
length of time if either of them had lost their jobs. Whilst I appreciate that Mr J did have some savings  
he could have  used,  by having this policy  he could  have protected his savings  for another  purpose or 
used them to cover other essential living expenses. A mortgage is a long term financial commitment, 
secured against your home and so I think Mr and Mrs J would have felt reassured that they had this 
cover should anything have gone wrong. So these points dont alter my conclusion.
Its possible that not all the information B&B gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI was as clear as it 
shouldve been. But they chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted this type of cover. 
As Ive mentioned  previously, it looks like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think  better  information  about  the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover.
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J. 
But B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because:
B&B got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it should have  told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because B&B didnt tell Mr and Mrs J, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, B&B has basically  offered  to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs to do
B&B has to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.  B&B should also pay back to Mr and Mrs J any extra  interest they paid 
because of that.
B&B should pay back to Mr and Mrs J the extra they paid each  month because the commission 
and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should also pay Mr and Mrs J 
8%* simple  interest on each  payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs J can claim back  the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
I dont think the PPI policy  was mis-sold  so it follows that Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Bradford & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and profit share  it 
got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium.
Ref: DRN6115196