K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains that her application  for credit was unfairly refused by Hitachi Capital (UK) 
Plc. She wants it to grant the loan and pay her compensation.
background
Ms M told us that she applied for a loan to finance a new kitchen. She says she was refused 
the loan as the repayment period would run into a period after shed reached retirement age. 
Ms M considers this was discriminatory. She says shes an excellent  credit history and could 
easily afford to repay the loan. Ms M states  she feels  humiliated  by the refusal  of her 
application. And that shed incurred costs of travel in returning  from her employment abroad  
to complete the finance application process.
Hitachi told us it had assessed Ms Ms application and had decided the loan wasnt  
affordable. It said that she didnt  meet  its lending  criteria.  And that it hadnt discriminated 
against her on grounds of her age.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She felt the reason that 
Hitachi had declined the loan was due to issues of affordability. And that it had assessed Ms 
Ms application based  on the information  it had about her income at the time. She said that 
when Ms M had later disclosed other income Hitachi had given her a chance to appeal. And 
she thought this was fair. 
Ms M didnt agree with this outcome and as its not been possible to resolve this complaint 
an ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms M is upset and disappointed at what  she sees as the unfair refusal of her 
loan application.  I understand  this is all the more frustrating for her when viewed  against  
what might  overall be considered to be her healthy financial situation.
I should emphasise at the outset that my decision is based on whether I consider Hitachi has 
treated Ms M fairly.  Its not for me to decide  if she was the victim of age discrimination. Nor is 
it for me to instruct Hitachi as to whom it should offer a loan or on what terms.
There are usually minimum  requirements which every lender has to follow  before granting  
credit but theres  no fixed check  list. So its important to note that each business which  offers 
loans is entitled  to determine the basis on which it makes the offer of credit available.  As a 
result there is a vast range of different  credit  products on the market. And the terms on which 
these are available varies widely. In short, not all lenders  are willing  to lend to all prospective 
borrowers.
The type of loan which Ms M intended  to obtain was a fixed  sum loan agreement  repayable  
over five years. This included a provision known as Buy Now Pay Later  (BNPL).  This allows  
a customer to repay the entire cost of the agreement within a year and thereby avoid interest 
payments. But if the loan isnt repaid within one year then interest is added and repayments  
can be made over the following four years.
Ref: DRN68377862It seems  that if the proposed loan was to be repaid over the whole five year it would mean 
that Ms M circumstances  would potentially have altered. And she wouldve been able to 
retire if she had chosen to do so. In the light of this, Hitachi requested details of her pension  
provision. Theres nothing unusual or untoward in such  a request as part of any lending 
decision should address the sustainability of repayments over the full loan period.
I accept that Ms M intended to repay the loan within the first 12 months. But the potential  
loan period was up to five years. And unforeseen events can occur  which  might upset even 
the best laid plans. So Hitachi was required to make  reasonable enquiry as to whether she 
would be able - if it proved to be necessary - to maintain  payments over the whole  period.  
When Ms M first provided information Hitachi determined that the loan was not affordable/  
sustainable and declined her application.
Its clear from Hitachis explanation that this was done on the basis  that it didnt consider her 
potential pension provision would be sufficient to sustain repayments  if she retired. In 
reaching this decision  Hitachi used its internal credit scoring system to assess the 
application. It was entitled to do so.
Upon learning  that her application had been declined  Ms M then provided further 
information. This showed she had additional income  from other  sources. And I can see that 
in its final response letter  to her complaint, sent in April 2019, Hitachi  offered  her the chance 
to have her application reviewed  and to provide further information.  Im not aware that she 
did so.
Id expect any lender  - knowing  that a potential  borrower might face a change  of 
circumstance which could  affect their income - to take this into account in making a lending 
decision. It matters not whether the change of circumstance relates to the customer 
approaching pensionable age or any other factor.  The issue  is not why there might be a 
change of circumstance. But what effect  it might have on the ability  of the customer to repay 
the loan.
In summary,  I dont think Hitachi has treated Ms M unfairly - or differently - to any other 
customer where it was aware  of a potential change in their financial circumstances.  On the 
information first provided by Ms M it made a decision  based  on its lending  criteria. And one 
which it was entitled  to make. It provided  Ms M with an opportunity  to have that decision 
reviewed and to provide  additional information.  I think  that was fair and reasonable. And I 
shant be asking Hitachi to do anything else.
Im aware my decision  will come as a disappointment to Ms M. But for the reasons given 
above Ive reached  the same conclusion as our investigator and Im not upholding this 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN68377863Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 May 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6837786