K822xComplaint
Mr H has complained that Santander UK Plc failed to make  a reasonable adjustment for him
under the Equality Act 2010.
Background 
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional 
decision, which forms part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my provisional conclusions.
Response to my provisional decision
Santander maintained that it had assisted Mr H with a reasonable adjustment. And it didnt 
consider that a compensation payment was warranted in this case.  However, it agreed to 
pay £100 compensation to resolve this dispute.
Mr H didnt accept my provisional decision.  He said he cant  use his online business bank 
account fully and that Santander still hasnt made a reasonable adjustment for him.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and,
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the relevant time.
The full facts of the case,  the relevant law and statutory code of practice are set out in my 
provisional decision and so I wont repeat them here. 
Ive considered the further representations  from Mr H and Santander but my decision 
remains the same. However, I will deal with Mr Hs current situation.
Santander updated its mobile  app for business  banking after Mr H brought  his complaint to 
this service. The mobile app now asks for the password or security number in full, rather 
than certain characters, which Mr H finds difficult.
Mr H has confirmed that he can use the mobile app but only up to a point. He said he cant  
open or read any documents, which have been sent to his online account.  To do that, he 
must log on to his online business  banking  account. But then, he is back  to his original 
problem. He cant comply  with the log in procedure because of his dyslexia. So, he says, 
Santander still hasnt  made a reasonable adjustment to its log in procedure.
I did talk to Mr H to understand his needs. He said he would be happy to conduct  his 
business banking  in branch but in his experience, branch staff didnt assist with business  
banking. He said staff referred him to its online service instead.
Ref: DRN61841812I put this to Santander. It replied that the director of Mr Hs local branch has a very good 
relationship with him and she has been  supporting him with his banking needs,  both 
personal and business,  for several  years  and she is more than happy  to continue to do so. 
Santander also said that Mr H is welcome to visit any Santander branch. However,  as he 
has a good relationship with his local branch, and they know  him and his requirements well, 
its not unreasonable to think that he would prefer to use them  as his primary branch. 
Based on this information, I consider  that Santander has put in place a reasonable 
adjustment. In reaching this conclusion, Ive taken into account Mr Hs willingness  to conduct 
his business banking in a local branch. 
However, I still think that Santanders  initial  response  was poor. So, Im asking it to pay him 
£100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused by bringing this complaint.
I realise Mr H would prefer a reasonable adjustment to the log in procedure itself but for the 
reasons set out in my provisional decision, this is not possible yet. In the meantime, I hope  
he can resume his business banking without any major barriers.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am partially upholding this complaint.  
I am asking  Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr H 100 for his distress and inconvenience  caused by 
its poor service.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61841813Complaint
Mr H has complained that Santander UK Plc failed  to make reasonable adjustments  for him under 
the Equality Act 2010.
Background
Mr H is dyslexic.  He has problems with his memory and with processing numerical and word 
sequences. He is treated as disabled under  the Equality Act 2010.
He opened a new business  account on 5 July 2019. He registered his account for online  
business banking. To log in, he must enter digits from a passcode and letters from a memorable  
word. However, he has difficulties doing this because he cant remember a sequence of numbers 
and letters. He is now blocked from using online business banking because  he cant  comply  with 
the log in steps.
Mr H asked Santander  for a reasonable adjustment, which would allow him to use online 
business banking.
Santander told him that online banking  wasnt mandatory. He could manage his account  by 
telephone, in branch, at an ATM or in post office,  depending on the type of account. Later, it 
explained that it had tested  its online services with customers with a wide range of disabilities. It also 
said it must comply with its risk and security  policies. It considered that it had made  reasonable  
adjustments by offering him alternative solutions,  for example by going in to branch.
Mr H wasnt  happy with this response and so he brought his complaint to this service.  He says 
Santander has failed  to make any reasonable adjustments and that it is discriminating against him 
because of his disability. He wants Santander  to list the reasonable adjustments it has made.
An investigator looked  into the case.  He concluded that Santander  had outlined the reasonable 
adjustments it had offered  him and it had suggested extra adjustments, which it was willing to 
make. In particular, it had offered to:
set up a new personal ID for his banking  which  would  make it easier for both parties to 
manage his account;
reset  his fingerprint  ID for personal banking;
set up a one-time passcode  (to help overcome any issues in the future  if he gets locked 
out of accounts); and
set up information on his banking  profile to highlight  his difficulties  remembering security 
information, enabling him to pass  phone security more easily.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators view.  He said that some of these measures were already  in 
place yet he still faced obstacles with online business banking. He maintains that Santander is 
discriminating against him by failing to make a reasonable adjustment.
This complaint has now come  to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account: relevant law and 
regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where appropriate, 
what I consider to have been good  industry practice  at the relevant time.
Ref: DRN61841814The relevant law here is the Equality Act 2010, which requires Santander to make reasonable  
adjustments for disabled customers  when they use its services, including its online services. There  
is also a statutory code of practice for services, public  functions  and associations to accompany 
the Equality Act 2010.
However, I must make  it clear that, as the ombudsman, I cannot  make a finding of discrimination or 
other unlawful act under the Equality Act 2010. Only the courts can do this. My task is to decide if 
Santander has acted  fairly and reasonably  by taking steps to make a reasonable adjustment. And I 
may think about what a court is likely to decide as part of my considerations on what is fair and 
reasonable.
What does the Equality Act 2010 say?
The Equality Act 2010  imposes a duty on businesses to make reasonable adjustments  for disabled  
customers. A failure to make a reasonable  adjustment is a form of direct disability discrimination.
The duty to make a reasonable adjustment requires  a business to:
change the way things  are done or
make changes to physical features to premises or
provide extra aids and services such as providing  extra equipment or providing a 
different, or additional, service (which equality law calls auxiliary aids or auxiliary 
services).
In this case, I am considering whether Santander  has failed to provide auxiliary aids or 
services.
The duty is also described as an anticipatory duty. This means businesses  must anticipate the 
needs of potential customers for reasonable  adjustments. They  should  not wait until a disabled 
person wants  to use a service before considering the duty. (This  is explained  in para 7.20 of the 
statutory code  of practice).
A business  cannot justify  a failure to make  a reasonable adjustment.  However, there are some 
specific restrictions on the duty. In particular,  a business is not required to take any steps, which 
would fundamentally alter the nature  of the service or the nature of the businesss trade or 
profession. (This is set out in the Equality Act 2010 Schedule 2 para 2(7)).
When making a reasonable adjustment a business must take such  steps as are reasonable
in all the circumstances of the case.  What  is a reasonable step to take will vary according to the:
type of service  being  provided
nature of the business, its size and resources, and
effect of the disability on the individual disabled  consumer.
And a business may take into account the following factors:
how effective the step would be in overcoming  any obstacles
the extent to which  it is practicable  for the business to take the step
the financial and other costs of making the adjustment
the extent of any disruption to the business service
financial and other resources
the amount  of any resources already spent on making adjustments.
The question of reasonableness is an objective one and it is ultimately  for the courts to 
decide. (This is in in the statutory  code  of practice, chapter  7).
Ref: DRN61841815Now that I have explained  what  the law says, I will go on to decide  if I think  Santander has acted  
fairly and reasonably by considering a reasonable adjustment.
Has Santander considered a reasonable  adjustment?
It seems Mr H cannot  use the online business banking service because of his disability. He 
cannot comply with the log in procedure. I have no doubt this is frustrating  for him and I 
understand why he feels Santander is providing an inferior service to him as a disabled customer.
However, the log in procedure is Santanders  way of verifying the identity of the accountholder. So, 
it is a vital and essential part of ensuring  the security of its online service. And this is why Santander 
says it must  also adhere to its risk and security policies.
I agree that identity checks are a necessary requirement  of banking and an integral part of online 
banking. Under the Equality  Act 2010, Santander is not required  to take any steps, which would 
fundamentally alter the nature of the service. So I cant ask Santander  to remove its identity 
checks or exempt Mr H from those checks. I also consider that a court  would agree that a bank 
must have these security  measures in place.
Mr H said he asked if there was another way to log on but Santander wouldnt give him any 
alternative options.
Ive looked at Santanders final response letters.  I dont  think they show any real engagement with 
Mr H over his disability. They are generic  and unhelpful. However, I have also listened to the 
phone calls that he had with Santander and they shed more light on the dispute.
During one of those calls, Mr H told the adviser  that he has an online personal account  with 
Santander, which uses a fingerprint scan to log on. He asked Santander why it couldnt use this 
for his online  business account. The adviser  told him this facility isnt available  yet for business  
accounts and it couldnt simply lift and shift it to his business account.
So it seems  that the technology to assist  Mr H exists  but it hasnt been rolled out to business  
banking yet. As Ive explained above, there are a number of factors, which Santander may take into 
account when deciding whether it is reasonable to take this step. Santander has said it is investing 
in and updating technology  on an ongoing basis and is considering biometrics for business banking.  
However, it does not have  an implementation date.
I cant instruct Santander to implement the fingerprint scan immediately, but it seems this 
technology has the potential  to assist  many  more disabled consumers so I would assume its in 
Santanders commercial interests to extend it.
In the meantime, Mr H is still required to verify his identity if he wants to log in to online business 
banking. And this means he must  enter digits  and letters  from a passcode  or memorable  word  or 
other information. It seems  that currently, there is no other way around the online log in 
procedure.
Other reasonable adjustments
The most effective adjustment  a fingerprint  scan  is not yet available for online business 
banking. And, as Ive already explained, Santander doesnt have to take any steps, which would  
dispense with identity checks.
I dont think the offers,  which  were outlined  in the investigators view,  were  relevant or useful.  But 
Santander did also suggest  that Mr H could  visit a local branch, use telephony banking or ATMs. 
And it didnt need to take any additional steps to put these in place since they are existing  services.
Ref: DRN61841816However, I understand  these  are not workable.  Mr H says he needs 24 hours  access  to 
business banking  because of his disability,  although he hasnt explained  why this is so.
In the phone calls, he refused to say what would work  for him and then matters reached an 
impasse. Having spoken  to Mr H, he said he assumed  or expected Santander to put a note on his 
file telling any local branch  that he was allowed  to conduct business banking  in branch.
I understand  that since our involvement, the business banking mobile  app has been  updated and it 
now asks for the password  or security number in full, rather than certain characters,  which  Mr H 
finds difficult.
Santander also told this service that the director of Mr Hs local branch has known him for five 
years and the branch  have  been supporting  him with any additional  needs for both his personal 
and business accounts. This includes receiving correspondence and passing  it over, assisting  
with online credentials and other  actions as required. Santander confirmed that the local branch 
is more than happy for this to continue.
It seems these options  were  not available  when Mr H first raised his complaint or, in the case of the 
local branch,  it wasnt made clear. Hopefully, his original  complaint has been resolved by the 
updated business banking mobile app.
Customer service
Despite Mr Hs refusal to co-operate,  I think Santander could have provided  him with a better 
service as a disabled customer.
It is commendable that it tested  its online  services with disabled consumers but that is not an 
answer to Mr Hs specific needs. And I dont  consider  that its two letters dealt with Mr H as a 
disabled customer with specific needs.
The statutory code of practice states  that once  a business has become  aware of any 
requirements it might then be reasonable  to take a particular step to meet  these requirements, 
especially where the individual has pointed out the difficulty  that they face, (para7.26).  I dont  
consider its enough to say that it tested its online service on disabled users.
When Mr H telephoned Santander, it didnt  direct him to a dedicated accessibility adviser.  I 
appreciate that the adviser he spoke  to tried his best to help Mr H and he had some knowledge of 
reasonable adjustments  but I dont think he was a trained, dedicated adviser on reasonable 
adjustments.
The adviser  offered to refer Mr H to the vulnerability  team. Mr H refused. And I can understand 
why he might have been offended. He is not a vulnerable  person  just because  he is disabled.
Santander has since told this service that it doesnt have a specialist team  other than its 
Specialist Collections Assist team who support vulnerable customers with debt problems. This 
would have been an inappropriate referral and besides, I understand that this team cant help 
with reasonable adjustments anyway.
It has also told us it doesnt  segregate customers and provide them  with specific advisors. Im 
afraid I think  this comment shows a serious  misunderstanding of its obligations  under the Equality  
Act 2010. Providing specialist  help to disabled  customers is not segregation and might itself be a 
reasonable adjustment
Ref: DRN61841817Given these circumstances,  I think Santander didnt provide an appropriate level of service to a 
disabled customer. I think it would be fair and reasonable  to ask it to pay £100 for the distress and 
inconvenience caused  by its poor service for disabled customers.
Going forward, I think  Santander has now offered a workable reasonable adjustment with its 
updated business banking mobile app. I hope this resolves this dispute.
My provisional decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc provided  a poor service to Mr H as a disabled
consumer and I am asking it to pay him £100 for his distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN6184181