K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains Liberty Mutual Insurance Europe SE (LMI)  have unfairly declined his home 
insurance claim.
background
The front door of Mr Ws property was damaged  when the police entered  to arrest his tenant  
 and it needed to be replaced. Mr W contacted LMI in December  2018  to make a claim. 
Mr W said during  the call he was told his claim would be covered and LMI agreed the door 
could be replaced.  So Mr W had the work carried  out.
LMI contacted Mr W around  a week later. They  said they reviewed  his policy  documents  and 
his claim was excluded  from the policy as LMI wont cover any loss, damage or liability  
caused by confiscation, detention or seizure by police  so they declined it. Mr W was 
unhappy with this, he said he was told he could claim and would have replaced the door 
independently, at a cheaper  cost, if hed been told he couldnt. LMI didnt agree,  they said 
their advisor didnt give him authorisation to replace the door  and the work was carried  out 
under his own authority.
Mr W remained unsatisfied, so he brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator said 
the exclusion applied  was clear in the policy documents - but LMI couldve made  it clearer  
his claim was still being considered during the initial call. She recommended  LMI pay Mr W 
£200 in compensation as there had been a loss of expectation. 
LMI accepted our investigators findings.  
Mr W didnt agree the exclusion was clear  in the policy  documents.  He said he replaced the 
door in good faith as LMI had agreed  he could, with no cost to himself  so he shouldnt  be 
out of pocket as a result.
The complaint has now passed to me to make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
LMI can decide what risks it will and wont cover under the policy  - and the terms and 
conditions of the policy define  what those  are. What I need to decide here is whether LMI 
acted in line with the policy terms and if its decision to decline the claim is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ive looked at exclusion LMI relied on to decline Mr Ws claim. In the exclusions section of 
the policy wording,  under  confiscation it says LMI wont cover any loss, damage or liability 
caused by confiscation, detention or seizure by police.
The exclusion is in the exclusions section  of the policy and I think its clearly set out. But it 
comes under  a sub-section labelled confiscation - which I think applies to goods and not 
people. So I dont  think its fair for LMI to rely on this exclusion.
Ref: DRN66014232Ive also looked  at the information LMI gave Mr W when he set up the claim. LMI provided a 
transcript of the call with Mr W in December  2018. During the call Mr W asked if his claim 
would be covered. The advisor checked and read out a section of policy  wording.  They  said 
it would  cover emergency access or damage  to buildings  caused by a member  of 
emergency services breaking into the property to prevent  loss or damage to the property, up 
to the cost of £1,000, under the Buildings  section of the policy.  
The police entered the property to arrest the tenant, not to prevent loss or damage to it. So 
the above wording  didnt  apply to Mr Ws claim. But because of what LMI told him when he 
called to make a claim I think he wouldve believed he was covered. 
The advisor then gave Mr W a reference and said he would need to provide further 
information such as photos of the damage  and two separate  estimates for the work. I think 
this suggested  Mr Ws claim wasnt complete. And LMI didnt tell Mr W the claim was 
accepted and he could carry out work  to the door during the call. So Im not satisfied that 
LMI authorised him to carry  out the work. 
But I think what LMI said about the policy  wording  has caused a loss of expectation.  Mr W 
was led to believe his claim  would be successful - and he was frustrated  and disappointed  to 
later find out it wasnt. So I think £200  is a fair and reasonable amount for LMI to 
compensate Mr W because it fairly  reflects the impact this has had on him.
Mr W said if hed known he wasnt covered, he wouldve got the work done at a cheaper 
price. But Mr W told LMI he used  the company that could  replace the door the quickest  so 
although price  might  have  been  a consideration I think  urgency  to secure the property was 
likely more important to Mr W. Mr W said he asked  for quotes  for a basic but secure door on 
a like for like basis. From  the information available to me I can see the quotes ranged from 
around £795 upwards  and I can see he paid around £1,152 for the work. So Im not 
persuaded this wouldve made a difference to the price he wouldve paid to replace the door.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. To put things right 
Liberty Mutual Insurance  Europe SE should pay Mr W £200 compensation.
Ref: DRN66014233Liberty Mutual Insurance  Europe SE should do this within 28 days of us telling them  Mr W 
has accepted  my final decision. If they pay later than this, they should  add interest at a rate 
of 8% simple per year from the date of my final decision to the date they make payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6601423