K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. The PPI was added to the account  at the same time that Miss J took out the store  card
in person in store.
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss J says FICL mis-sold her the PPI. Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Miss J 
disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so this complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Miss J says the PPI was added without her knowledge or consent.  But based on the 
evidence Ive seen  I think FICL  made it clear that Miss J didnt have to take out the PPI 
and she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this. I 
say this having seen a copy  of Miss Js store card application form. In this there is a 
section for PPI where Miss J signed to agree to take out the cover. But she couldve left 
it blank if she didnt  want the PPI. Miss J also signed  at the bottom  of the application 
form to show she consented to the information  included within  it. So I think this reflected 
what she wanted at the time. 
FICL  didnt recommend the PPI to Miss J so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss J got the information  she needed to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss J about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But Miss J chose to take out the policy - so it looks  like she wanted  this 
type of cover. And looking  at her circumstances from the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong. So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
FICL  couldve  have explained the costs of the policy better  than it did. Compared to other 
PPI policies sold around the time,  it was more  expensive  but it would have covered 
15% of what Miss J owed  on her store card if she successfully  claimed. And it wouldve 
done this until her credit agreement  ended,  or she returned  to work, or the outstanding 
balance at time of her claim  had been repaid, whichever is the earliest. 
Miss J had some sick pay and at the time, and also said she had some other means to 
make her repayments. But we contacted her representative a number of times to try and 
get some  more information  about this. At the time of writing no further  information  has 
Ref: DRN62057292been received,  so Ive not been able to rely on this information as Miss J wouldve 
wanted me to have.  In any event, the PPI wouldve paid out for longer than her sick pay 
is likely  to have lasted  and in addition to any other means she had. So these funds 
couldve been used  for other expenses.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss J to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 June 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6205729