K821x#15complaint
Ms C says that NewDay Ltd allowed her to take out an unaffordable credit  card and also 
increased her credit  limit irresponsibly.
background
In June 2012 Ms C opened a credit card with NewDay. Her limit was £250.  In November 
2012 this limit was increased to £600.  The limit was increased again in March  2013 to 
£1,000 and a further time to £1,750  in November 2013.
Ms C says that she didnt  have the disposable  income to afford the credit  card in 2012  when  
it was given to her. And that all the credit limit increases were also unaffordable as she was 
in financial difficulty and in arrears on other  credit.  NewDay said that Ms C passed its 
affordability checks when  she applied for the credit card.  It said that shed  maintained her 
monthly repayments for the previous three months  each time it increased  her limit, so it 
considered these increases were affordable to her. It also said Ms C was given the 
opportunity to decline the increases but she didnt do this.
Our investigator partially upheld Ms Cs complaint. She said she thought the credit card was 
affordable for Ms C in June 2012 and that Ms Cs usage of the card up to October 2012 
didnt suggest  the November 2012 increase wouldve been unaffordable.  However she said 
NewDay shouldve reviewed Ms Cs credit score in March 2013. If it had done this she 
thought it wouldve determined this increase and so the November  2013  increase were both 
unaffordable based on Ms Cs level of other debt and the arrears. She asked NewDay to 
refund Ms C all interest and charges on the account from the March 2013  increase.
Ms C disagreed that the credit  card was affordable. But she did then agree to the outcome 
on the basis she received 8% interest  on the contractual interest refunds, late payment fees 
would be refunded and the negative markers on her credit file removed. NewDay disagreed 
that the credit limit increases from March 2013  were  unaffordable. So the complaint was 
passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2018. I said I intended  to 
partially uphold  Ms Cs complaint.
I reviewed Ms Cs application for the credit  card to assess whether it was affordable to her 
when she first applied.  I saw shed declared her income as £32,448.  NewDay  said that it 
reviewed Ms Cs income and carried out a credit  check, which showed no defaults  or CCJs  
and suggested  she was up-to-date on her other debts  at this time.  It didnt do an expenditure 
check, which I would normally  expect to see. But it pointed  out that the credit limit offered 
was £250, so the minimum  repayments would be proportionately low in comparison to her 
salary. And I factored in that Ms C had chosen to take out a credit  card with a company 
which advertised itself as lending to people  who may struggle to get credit from other 
companies.
Considering the limit of the card and Ms Cs income and credit file, I thought  NewDay did 
enough to check  if the credit  card was affordable before it was granted.
Ms C mentioned about payday lending complaints she had with us which  were upheld  for the 
above time period. In 2012 there  werent  set rules on what a business had to do before 
increasing a limit. Instead its set out that it should perform proportionate checks  and lend 
Ref: DRN65899162responsibly. So what I needed to decide  was whether or not NewDay did this. Its not my role 
to assess Ms Cs detailed financial situation  at that time to determine what she could or 
couldnt afford. I considered the checks NewDay carried out were reasonable when looking 
at the amount offered.  And I couldnt see that there was anything  in Ms Cs application or 
credit file which wouldve  suggested to it that it needed to investigate  her finances more  
thoroughly before agreeing credit.
I also looked at her usage of the card when she first took it out. She didnt  reach her limit and 
made several payments considerably above  the minimum amount required. She was also 
spending on virtual  gaming,  so using it for non-essential spending. Ms C told us she had no 
disposable income at this time and was in fact living at a deficit.  But her usage  of the card 
and in particular  her over payments towards  it didnt support that.
In November 2012 the limit was increased  to £600.  Ms C said she couldnt afford the 
repayments on this increase.  NewDay  said that it offered her the increase, so she had the 
option to decline  it. And that it judged her affordability on how she had handled her account 
for the previous three months. Ms C had maintained her repayments and hadnt spent more  
than her limit, so it deemed  the increase affordable. 
Ms Cs statement for September 2012 showed she paid £30 towards the card the previous 
month, even though her minimum repayment was £10.07. And her only spending on the 
card that month was to a virtual gaming  website.  In October 2012 she made the minimum 
payment.
I thought NewDay  ought to have  done more considering that it was more than doubling Ms 
Cs limit, but this wouldve been  something  like reviewing  her credit file. So I looked at her 
credit file from this time. While she has said she was using payday lenders, this isnt unusual 
for the type of consumer this card is often taken out by. And it seemed she was either up-to-
date with or had settled  most of these accounts in October 2012. Looking  at her other 
accounts, she was making her agreed  repayments  on these too. So even if NewDay had 
checked her credit file, I didnt think this wouldve suggested it was unaffordable,  so it still 
wouldve increased the limit.
In March 2013 NewDay increased Ms Cs limit again  to £1,000. At this time it again  just 
looked back at her account  management  over the previous three  months. I was in 
agreement with the investigator that at this time NewDay shouldnt have increased her limit.
When Ms C first took out the card, NewDay used her application  information  and a credit 
check to determine  if she was able to afford a credit  card and offered her a £250 limit. In 
March 2013 it increased  her limit to four times that, but didnt  carry out any checks,  it just 
reviewed how she used  the account to date. As Ive set out, in 2012/13 there  werent set 
rules that had to be followed, but the Lending  Code was available  to businesses  as well as 
other guidance on irresponsible lending. Considering  this best practice  and the large 
increase in the limit, I thought NewDay shouldve done more.
NewDay never determined Ms Cs expenditure and hadnt reviewed  her credit file since  June 
2012. Considering it was now offering her four times  the original amount, I thought  it 
shouldve carried out further checks before it offered this increase.  And if it had, I didnt think  
it wouldve  considered  it appropriate to increase her limit.
Ref: DRN65899163I reviewed Ms Cs credit file for March 2013. She had six accounts in payment arrangements  
and two furthers accounts coded  as being in sustained arrears of over three months . 
Considering this, it didnt seem she could afford  an increase, as she wasnt  meeting eight 
existing borrowing commitments. So I didnt think it was reasonable for NewDay to allow  
Ms C to borrow  even more money  when she already couldnt afford to repay her other  
creditors.
NewDay also increased Ms Cs limit again in November 2013.  It raised  the same point about  
checking her management  of the account  up to this date. But at this point it increased her 
limit to £1,750, so seven times  the original borrowing and by an additional  75% of her limit at 
that time.  I again  didnt agree that it was proportionate or responsible  to increase her 
borrowing by so much  without checking  her income  and expenditure, or the status of her 
credit file first.
From reviewing Ms Cs credit file at the time of this increase, she wasnt  in an improved 
position. She was still in payment arrangements and/or  sustained  arrears on all the above 
mentioned accounts.  So I didnt agree this increase  was affordable either.
To assess how things should  be put right I considered Ms Cs usage  of the card.  I could see 
that she frequently spent money  on a website predominately for books and also spent 
money on virtual gaming.  So while I didnt agree that the March  and November 2013  credit 
limit increases were  affordable based on her financial situation as a whole, it didnt seem she 
was just using  this card for essential spending.  And Ms C has had the benefit of this money.
On that basis I considered  NewDay should refund the interest and charges it applied  to the 
account from the March  2013 credit limit increase. 
Ms C asked 8% interest on this amount, but I didnt award this. As shed  not repaid the 
amount she spent its not an amount  shed  been out of pocket by. She also asked for any 
adverse information  that was added to her credit file to be removed. I thought about what 
was most likely to have happened  if the limit increases hadnt taken place. Based on the 
information I had, I thought  it was most  likely that she wouldve defaulted on this account  in 
any event. So I didnt  intend for the adverse information on her credit  file to be amended,  just 
the amount owing updated
I said that the above funds should  be paid by NewDay  to the third party that now owns the 
debt, not directly to Ms C. and I said NewDay should  ask the third party  to update  the 
amount owing of Ms Cs credit file as a result of this payment.
responses
NewDay responded asking for me to clarify  the redress awarded. Following this it didnt 
provide any further  response.
Ms C responding saying  she didnt agree with the redress being paid to the third party. She 
provided me with information on a firms right of set off. She also explained that shes in 
dispute with the third party about  the amount  owed  to it, so if these funds were paid to the 
third party it would prejudice her legal position.
Ref: DRN65899164my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party provided any further  information  in relation to the outcome I reached, I see 
no reason to change  my findings. So for the reasons set out in my provisional  decision and 
summarised above, I partially  uphold this complaint. I consider that the March and 
November 2013  credit limit increases were unaffordable for Ms C and shouldnt have taken 
place.
Ive considered Ms Cs points about the redress I proposed. She is correct  that NewDay  is 
unable to pay the third party through the right of set off. But Im not instructing it to do this 
and NewDay hasnt  attempted to exercise this right. The information  Ms C has provided 
relates to specific situations and doesnt apply in this case.
Ms C never repaid NewDay the additional  funds she spent and shes  confirmed shes also 
not repaid this money to the third party. So while she shouldnt  have been lent this money, at 
this point she hasnt  lost out financially as she hasnt paid it back. Her credit  file has however 
been impacted  as it shows a larger outstanding  debt than it likely would have. So to put 
things right this debt needs  reducing and her file updating.
It wouldnt be fair for Ms C to have spent the money,  not paid it back  and now to also receive  
these funds directly. So Im still directing NewDay to calculate the amount  of interest and 
charges applied to Ms Cs account after the March 2013 increase. This amount should then 
be paid to the third party  so it updates  her current outstanding debt  meaning it more 
accurately reflects  what it wouldve  been  if the unaffordable  limit increases hadnt  taken 
place.
my final decision
I partially uphold  Ms Cs complaint against  NewDay Ltd.
NewDay Ltd should carry out the above  actions  with the third party  within 28 days  of 
receiving notice of Ms Cs acceptance  of this decision.
Ms C should  note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between her and NewDay Ltd as to whether the above redress  
is available.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 February  2019.
Amy Osborne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6589916