K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that MYJAR  Limited  gave  him loans that he couldnt afford. The complaint is
brought to this service on Mr Ss behalf by a firm of solicitors. But for ease I shall refer to all 
actions below being taken by Mr S.
background
Mr S took out two payday loans and two instalment loans with MYJAR  as follows:-
Loan number  and 
type of loanDate of Loan Loan repayment amount  
including interestRepayment date
1.Payday 26/11/2015 £123.20 20/12/2015
2.Instalment 31/1/2016 3 monthly repayments  of 
£133.62, 130.15, and 
£130.1426/2/2016
3.Payday 26/2/2016 £153 24/3/2016
4.Instalment 24/3/2016 6 monthly repayments  of 
around £196Unpaid
Mr S said that the loans  he received  from MYJAR  were unaffordable, taking account of his 
income and expenditure at the time of drawdown.  And taking account of his financial history, 
he wasnt creditworthy. Mr S repaid  the first three loans but he hasnt repaid Loan 4. In late 
April 2016, Mr S told MYJAR he was finding it difficult  to manage financially. MYJAR agreed  
to enter  into a repayment plan with him.
MYJAR said that it had asked Mr S for his income  and regular expenditure in its online 
application. It had also completed external credit checks  and internal credit  scoring  metrics 
for each  loan. It cross  referenced the data from its credit checks with the information 
provided by Mr S.
MYJAR said that as Mr S had declared  housing expenses  of £300, credit repayments  of £50 
and other  expenses of £1,300 before Loan  1, that Loan 1 may have been unaffordable.  So 
in full and final settlement  of Mr Ss complaint, it offered Mr S in its final response letter to 
refund the interest and charges paid on Loan 1 and to pay 8% statutory interest  on the 
refunds. As Mr S had a balance outstanding,  it said that it would deduct the refunded 
amounts from the balance  due. With regard to the other loans, MYJAR said that Mr S had at 
least £345.80 left over every month at the time of these  loans.  As the highest  repayment on 
these loans was £196.91, it considered the loans  were affordable.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator didnt recommend that the complaint should be upheld.  He said that he 
wouldnt comment further on Loan 1 as MYJAR had offered to compensate Mr S for this 
loan. He said that MYJAR had made  sufficient  checks  before Loan 2 but that it hadnt made 
enough checks before  Loans 3 and 4. But the adjudicator was unable to check if Loans 3 
and 4 were affordable as he hadnt  received bank statements  from Mr S.
Mr S rejected MYJARs  offer on Loan  1 and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an
ombudsman.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN65760632After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr S 
and to MYJAR on 21 December 2018.  I summarise my findings:
I explained that MYJAR was required to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks  to make 
sure Mr S could afford to repay  the loan before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr S was borrowing, the length of the loan 
agreement and his lending history. But there  was no set list of checks MYJAR had to do.
I noted that the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) was the regulator at the time Mr S took 
his loans from MYJAR. Its regulations for lenders  are set out in its consumer credit 
sourcebook. These regulations require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess the 
customers ability to meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable 
manner without the customer incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant 
adverse consequences. The FCA defines sustainable as being  able to make repayments  
without undue difficulty. It said this means  borrowers  should  be able to make  their 
repayments on time and out of their income and savings without having to borrow to meet 
these repayments.
So, the fact that the amounts borrowed and the interest paid might  have been low in 
comparison with Mr Ss income, or that he managed to repay three of the loans in full, didnt 
necessarily mean the loans were affordable for him and that he managed  to repay  them in a 
sustainable manner . In other words I couldnt  assume that because Mr S managed to repay 
most of his loans that he was able to do so out of his normal means  without having to borrow 
further.
I noted that MYJAR had offered in its final response letter to refund the interest and charges 
on Loan 1 and to pay 8% statutory interest on the refunds. But MYJAR didnt say in its final 
response letter that it would remove adverse information about  that loan from Mr Ss credit 
file which  we would normally  expect a lender to do if it was compensating a consumer. But 
after Mr S had complained to this service, MYJAR offered to do that in correspondence with 
this service. It also said that it was prepared  to honour its offer in its final response letter.
As MYJAR  had offered  to compensate Mr S for Loan  1, I said that I would only review Mr Ss 
other loans  in my provisional decision.  But I would  refer to Loan  1 in any award I made,  and 
would take it into account when considering Mr Ss full loan history with MYJAR.
MYJAR had told us about the checks it did before lending to Mr S. I noted from MYJARs 
records that it had details of Mr Ss income as well as details about his housing  costs, other 
monthly expenses and monthly  credit repayments  for some  of the loans. I also noted  that 
MYJAR had carried out a credit check and had seen  a brief summary of the credit  check  for 
three of the loans.  Id not seen anything in the summaries  that Id thought  should  have  
caused MYJAR additional concerns  about  Mr Ss financial situation.
Loan 2
Mr Ss income was declared as £1,600 before Loan  2 and remained at the same level until 
Loan 4. Mr Ss declared expenditure  was £550.  Id noted that the three monthly repayment 
amounts for Loan 2 were  repayments of £133.62,  £130.15 and £130.14. Id thought that the 
information MYJAR gathered before Loan  2 suggested that these loan repayments were  
affordable, and Id thought it was reasonable for MYJAR to rely on the information it had at 
this early point in the lending. So, I didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint about Loan 2.
Loan 3
Ref: DRN65760633Mr S took out Loan 3 on the date he repaid Loan 2. The repayment amount for Loan  3 had
increased slightly to £153.  MYJARs  records showed that Mr S had only declared  
expenditure of £300 for his housing costs. As the loan was taken out less than a month after 
Mr Ss previous loan,  I thought that it might be the case that MYJAR had also considered  his 
previous other declared expenditure. If it had taken  this into account, Id thought the 
repayment amount  was still relatively  modest compared to Mr Ss disposable  income. So, I 
still thought it was proportionate for MYJAR  to have considered  Mr Ss disposable income 
again here, without  making further  checks for Loan  3. So, I didnt think  MYJAR had done 
anything wrong  in giving Loan  3 to Mr S.
Loan 4
Mr S obtained Loan 4 on the same date that hed repaid  Loan  3. It was his third loan in less 
than two months and the loan repayment  amounts  had increased to six monthly repayments 
of around £196.  MYJARs records showed an income of £1,600 but no records  about 
outgoings. I again thought  that It might  be the case that it had considered Mr Ss declared  
outgoings before Loan  2. But by this time I thought MYJAR should have been concerned 
about the frequency of Mr Ss loan requests especially in view of his relatively high 
disposable income. I thought they might  have suggested to MYJAR that Mr S was using 
short term loans as a supplement to his normal income, rather  than using them to meet a 
temporary one-off  problem. So by the time of Loan 4, I thought it would have been 
proportionate for MYJAR to have asked  Mr S whether he was taking short term loans from 
other lenders at the same time. I couldnt  see that it did this.
Although I didnt think the checks MYJAR  did for Loan 4 were sufficient, that in itself didnt 
mean that Mr Ss complaint about  this loan should succeed. I also needed to see whether 
what I considered to be proportionate checks would have shown MYJAR  that Mr S couldnt 
sustainably afford Loan  4.
I would normally have  done this by looking at the bank statements for the account  into which 
the loans were paid.  I noted that the adjudicator had asked Mr Ss solicitors to provide  us 
with a copy of Mr Ss bank statements. But, we hadnt received this information.
Id noted that Mr S had provided  his credit report which showed two short  term loans taken in 
the month before Loan 4. But if these had been  taken  into account, I thought they would 
have suggested  to MYJAR that Loan 4 was still affordable. But I was also aware that not all 
payday and short term lenders report to the same  credit reference agencies.  So, Mr S might 
have taken other payday or short term loans prior to Loan 4 which might not have been 
identified by his credit report.
As I hadnt  been  able to see exactly what information MYJAR shouldve taken into account 
before agreeing to lend Loan 4 to Mr S, I hadnt been able to get a picture  of what Mr Ss 
financial situation would have been  like when he applied for Loan 4. And so I couldnt say 
that if MYJAR had completed sufficient checks,  it wouldve found that Mr S couldnt  afford  to 
repay Loan 4 sustainably
.
So whilst I didnt think that the checks MYJAR  had carried out were  proportionate on Loan  4, 
Id not seen enough to have made me think that had MYJAR carried out sufficient checks, 
these wouldve prevented it from lending Loan 4 to Mr S. So based  on what Id seen, I 
couldnt say MYJAR  was wrong to lend Loan  4 to Mr S.
But as MYJAR had already offered to compensate Mr S for Loan 1, to settle the complaint I 
thought it should:-
Ref: DRN657606341. Refund all interest and charges that Mr S paid on Loan 1;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement;
3. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 4 and pay
    any  balance  to Mr S;
4. Remove any adverse  information about Loan  1 from Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If MYJAR 
intends to apply the refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital balance,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Subject to any further representations by Mr S or MYJAR my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  MYJAR Limited  to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr S paid on Loan 1;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement;
3. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 4 and
    pay  any balance  to Mr S;
4. Remove any adverse  information about Loan  1 from Mr Ss credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If MYJAR 
intends to apply the refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital balance,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Neither Mr S nor MYJAR has provided any further information in response to my provisional 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr S and MYJAR have given me nothing further to consider, I see no reason to 
depart from the conclusions I reached  in my provisional decision. It follows that I uphold  part 
of the complaint and require MYJAR to pay Mr S some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order MYJAR Limited  to:
1. Refund all interest and charges that Mr S paid on Loan 1;
2. Pay interest of 8% simple* a year on all refunds  from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement;
3. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 4 and
    pay  any balance  to Mr S;
4. Remove any adverse  information about Loan  1 from Mr Ss credit file.
Ref: DRN65760635*HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If MYJAR 
intends to apply the refunds to reduce  any outstanding  capital balance,  it must do so after 
deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6576063