K820x#14complaint
Mr U1 and Mr U2 complain that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax) acted 
unfairly and unreasonably  when dealing with their mortgage. They want a full refund of the 
extra interest theyve  paid and compensation.
background
Mr U1 and Mr U2 had a joint residential mortgage with Halifax,  which they took out in 2011. 
They later wanted  to rent out the property and needed Halifaxs consent to do so. Halifax 
consented in 2012 for the property to be rented out until October 2013. In October  2013,  
Halifax said that Mr U1 and Mr U2 needed  to choose a new mortgage product from the 
range of consent to let products as the property was being rented out  this was done. But 
when the property was no longer rented out in 2016, Mr U1 and Mr U2 said that they asked 
Halifax to change the product and interest  rate back  to the original one. Halifax  refused and 
this led to a complaint to this service about the extra interest charged while the property  was 
rented out. 
Mr U1 and Mr U2 said in August 2018, they discovered the mortgage was on the standard  
variable rate (SVR) and said Halifax told them that theyd been on a variable interest  rate 
since 2013. Mr U1 and Mr U2 took out a new product. They felt Halifax had misled  them  in 
2013 by not making it clear they would be on a variable rate when taking out that product 
and that they should  be allowed  to have the original mortgage product first taken out in 2011 
now.
Mr U1 and Mr U2 complained to Halifax. It said in 2013 Mr U1 and Mr U2 took out a variable 
interest rate product,  so Halifax wasnt at fault for the mortgage not being on a fixed  interest 
rate from then. It said that the details of the product was set out and accepted  by 
Mr U1 and Mr U2.
Mr U1 and Mr U2 complained to us. Halifax  said that Mr U1 and Mr U2 knew the details of 
the product in 2013 when  they took it out. The adjudicators view was that Halifax didnt mis-
sell the 2013 product  as the details  (including  the variable interest rate) were set out and 
Mr U1 and Mr U2 accepted the offer. The issue about whether the interest rate shouldve  
been changed in 2016 when the property  was no longer rented out, which was connected to 
an earlier decision by this service, couldnt  be resolved as part of this complaint and would 
be dealt with separately.
Mr U1 and Mr U2 disagreed. They said that they didnt choose a product in 2013 and were 
unhappy about how their complaint had been dealt with as telephone conversations  werent  
set out in later letters from Halifax. The adjudicator didnt change his view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The core of this complaint  is about  what 
happened in 2013 as its been agreed between  this service and Halifax that the issue about  
what shouldve happened when the property was no longer rented out will be considered  
separately, given  the previous decision.  
Ref: DRN62704612But I do think that in 2018, it was fair and reasonable  for Mr U1 and Mr U2 to only be offered 
products available at that time,  and not from 2011.  Lenders change their product offers  
regularly and it was Mr U1 and Mr U2s choice  to rent out the property and change the terms 
of the agreement with Halifax. I also note that complaints handling  isnt a regulated activity 
that falls within the jurisdiction of this service, though I can look at whether Halifax has acted 
fairly and reasonably generally. I dont see anything  unfair or unreasonable though in the 
handling of this complaint; it isnt necessary or required to record all telephone conversation 
in letters  to those  involved in the conversation for example.
In 2013, Mr U1 and Mr U2 wanted to continue to rent out a property  under  a residential 
mortgage. They were  told that in order to do so, they should  take out a new consent to let 
product. This isnt unfair or unreasonable as residential mortgage products are for properties  
lived in by the customer. Mr U1 and Mr U2 chose a product and the details  were  set out in 
an offer. One point  made clear  in that offer was that the interest rate would be variable and 
how it would  operate  until January 2017  (and afterwards). Mr U1 and Mr U2 signed to accept 
the offer. Halifax didnt  advise Mr U1 and Mr U2 about the product.  Having  considered the 
evidence available  to me, Halifax didnt mis-sell  the 2013 product to Mr U1 and Mr U2.
I also note that in every annual statements  sent to Mr U1 and Mr U2 since, the information 
tells them  that the interest  rate is variable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr U1 and Mr U2 to accept or reject my 
decision before  13 December 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6270461