K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained that Acromas  Insurance Company Limited undervalued their 
car when  handling a claim on their motor insurance  policy.
Reference to Acromas includes its agents.
background
Mr and Mrs D were involved in an accident  that wasn't their fault. Acromas  said their car 
wasn't economical to repair. It valued the car at £8,430 before deducting an amount for 
Mr and Mrs D to keep the salvage.  
Mr and Mrs D didn't  think Acromas valuation was fair. They brought their complaint to us. 
One of our investigators  looked into it. He thought Acromas had dealt with Mr and Mrs D 
fairly. Mr and Mrs D didn't agree so the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr and Mrs D have made  a number of detailed  points and I've 
considered everything  theyve said carefully. But in this decision I will focus on what I see as 
being the key issues. Further, in responding to a colleagues enquiries  Mr and Mrs D have 
raised some issues that Acromas didn't address  when responding to Mr and Mrs Ds 
complaint. As such I don't think it would  be fair to make a finding on those points. But Ive 
included some factual  information Mr and Mrs D might find useful.
Mr and Mrs D are very unhappy with Acromas  valuation  of the car as they think its worth  
considerably more. I should explain  that it's not my role to value cars but Ill look to see that 
an insurers reached its valuation reasonably.  Our usual approach to complaints about  
valuations is to look at the relevant trade guides  for valuing  second-hand cars. We find these 
more reliable than figures  cars are advertised  for. That's because  the trade  guides  use 
extensive research  of likely selling prices for cars,  whereas  the price a car is advertised for 
isn't necessarily the price its sold for, if in fact it sells at all. 
Acromas referred to the trade guides when it arrived at its valuation of £8,430.  And it 
explained to Mr and Mrs D that where  the cost of repairs are approaching the cars 
pre-accident market value  then it may deem  it uneconomical to repair  to allow  for further 
costs once the cars stripped down.  And thats  what Acromas did in this case.  It determined  
the cars  market value  using the trade guides figures. And it noted that the costs to repair it 
were approaching that sum; so it deemed the car uneconomical to repair.  And I think  it did 
that fairly.
Mr and Mrs D think that because of their cars excellent condition, low mileage,  road fund 
licence bracket and relative rarity the trade guides dont provide an accurate valuation  for it. 
And to support  that argument theyve provided some adverts  for similar cars being  offered at 
higher prices. But as I've said above,  I don't find advertised prices  reliable as they're often 
inflated to allow for negotiation. And I've also noted  that when Acromas valued  the car it 
found adverts for similar cars being  advertised  at prices that supported its valuation. 
Mr and Mrs D have also provided an article  from the motoring press  that would indicate that 
Ref: DRN69261622their car might be worth  more than Acromas valued  it at. But the article  doesn't  provide the 
sources for how its writer arrived at their estimates  for the value of such cars. So I'm not 
persuaded that the information  in that article  means that the trade guides valuations aren't 
reliable. It follows that I dont think Acromas valuation is unfair. 
For completeness, in response to a colleagues  enquiries Mr and Mrs D said they don't think 
the car should  be a total loss and that Acromas  has the category of it wrong. It might  help if I 
explain that, when  a car is considered  a total loss, there are various categories it might  fall 
into, from being so badly  damaged it can't be used  for parts to simply being  uneconomical to 
repair. Mr and Mrs D said that they don't think the car suffered structural  damage.  This isn't a 
point that Acromas addressed when it responded to Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, so I don't 
intend to make a finding on it here.  But I've read the entire file and Ive seen that three 
separate engineers have given their opinion on the car. Two of those  were  working for 
Acromas and a third was an independent  engineer instructed at that time by the third partys 
insurers. And all three have said the car is a category S total loss. But, whatever category it 
falls into, Acromas is required to update a shared database with information so that any 
future prospective buyer  can find out it has previously been deemed a total loss.
In this case Acromas said the car is a category S total loss, which  means its repairable but 
has suffered some structural damage. As I've said above, given that the cost of repairs  was 
significant and was approaching the cars pre-accident market value, I think  Acromas fairly 
considered it to be uneconomical to repair. As such its a total loss regardless of whether its 
repairable. So Acromas  was required to record the car as a total loss on the shared 
database. And I think it was reasonable it did that.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 October  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6926162