K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2001. Mr and Mrs C say Cumberland Building  Society (Cumberland) mis-sold them PPI.
background and summary to complaint
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Cs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  
Mr and Mrs Cs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Cs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Cs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided Cumberland didnt need  to tell Mr 
and Mrs C about the commission it received - so Cumberland doesnt need to pay back any 
of the commission  Mr and Mrs C paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons for each of 
these conclusions below.  
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think Cumberland made it clear that Mr and Mrs C didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because Cumberland has provided some of the 
paperwork from the time of the sale including Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage application. 
Looking at this I can see the application  contains a section about PPI, which  after a brief 
outline description of the cover asked if they wanted cover.  They had to indicate their 
choice by ticking one of two equally prominent  boxes   either Yes or No. And the Yes 
box is ticked for Mr C and the No box for Mrs C. They  were  also asked to sign this 
section of the form to confirm their choice, which they both did. 
Ref: DRN64394522Cumberland has also provided  a copy of Mr and Mrs Cs separate PPI application form, 
which Mr C signed as the sole applicant reflecting their choices made  in the mortgage 
application. Mr C also signed the accompanying direct debit mandate to allow  the PPI 
premiums to be taken from their joint bank account.
So taking everything into account I think Mr and Mrs C chose to take out PPI and they 
likely did so without undue pressure.
Both Mr and Mrs C and Cumberland agree this was an advised  sale where Cumberland  
recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. This means it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the time, shows  
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example Mr C as 
the policyholder  was eligible for the cover and although they had some  existing means  to 
rely on, they still seem to have  had a need for cover. Im mindful too that Mr C was the 
main wage  earner  and so its likely Mr and Mrs Cs budget wouldve come  under some 
financial pressure if Mr C was unable to work  for an extended period of time.
There was nothing about Mr Cs employment  or occupation which would have made  it 
difficult for them to claim. And Mr C didnt have any pre-existing medical conditions  that 
could affect his ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems. 
So I dont  think it was wrong for Cumberland to have recommended  PPI as it wouldve 
helped them out if the insured events ever became  a reality.
Its possible the information Cumberland gave Mr and Mrs C about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Ive found  that they chose to take it out - so it looks like 
they wanted this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr and Mrs C 
as I concluded  above, or too dissimilar to what I think they reasonably  thought they were 
buying from the information  they were given.  It also looks like it was affordable   so it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for them if something went  wrong. Because of this I 
dont think Mr and Mrs C would have declined the cover had Cumberland done anything  
more.
Overall, I consider it more  likely than not that Mr and Mrs C would have still taken out PPI. I 
think the policy could  provide a useful benefit  in a difficult time, given their circumstances at 
the time.  I also think the policy  was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were 
getting. And in those  circumstances, I consider it more  likely than not that they would have 
taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. 
These general points  include: a claim that the Financial Ombudsman Service  is not correctly  
applying the regulators  rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies  
represented poor value because of the number of significant exclusions and limitations of 
cover coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith meant  Cumberland  
should have disclosed  the poor value and explained the significance of the limitations and 
exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making  a claim.
Ref: DRN64394523But Mr and Mrs Cs representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Cs individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Cs particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  Cumberland  doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided Cumberland didnt  need to disclose the commission  it received,  
so Cumberland  doesnt need  to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs C paid. My 
reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr and Mrs Cs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs C should get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  Cumberland  failed to tell Mr and Mrs C about  the high commission and 
profit-share rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions and exclusions on cover. 
Because they say that meant the policy was poor value, I should find that Mr and Mrs C 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy had they known about the level of commission and they 
should receive a refund  of all the premiums they paid.
But in this case, Cumberland has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Cs PPI was 
less than half of what they paid for each premium.  Weve looked at how Cumberland  has 
worked this out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission  in Mr and 
Mrs Cs case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN64394524-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think Cumberland  needed to tell Mr and Mrs C about  the commission. So it follows  
that I dont  think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship - I dont think Cumberland 
treated Mr and Mrs C unfairly. 
This means  Cumberland  doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs C back  any of the commission they 
paid for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Cs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that Cumberland Building  Society didnt need to disclose  the 
commission it received, it doesnt need to pay back any of the commission Mr and Mrs C 
paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6439452