K822xcomplaintMr H is unhappy with the response of Clydesdale Financial Services  Limited, (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance), following a claim against it under section 75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA) 1974.
backgroundMr H was contacted  by Smart Save  Solutions, a company that supplied  and installed solar 
panel systems. Mr H agreed  to enter  into a contract with Smart Save Solution for it to supply 
and install  a system costing about £8,000. To fund this Mr H also agreed  to enter into a 10 
year fixed  sum loan agreement with Barclays Partner Finance (BPF).
In May 2018, Mr H made a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA. Mr H said that Smart 
Save Solutions told him that the solar panels  would be self-funded and that the monthly 
loan repayments  would  be more than off-set by the feed-in-tariff (FIT) income and savings 
generated by the solar panel  system.  But that hadnt  happened. Instead, Mr Hs monthly  
loan repayments  had been  much  higher than the FIT income.
BPF looked into his concerns. It agreed  that the benefits of the solar  panel system may have 
been misrepresented  to Mr H. To put things  right it had worked out what it considered  to be 
an estimate of the potential savings and income to Mr H from the panels over the 10 year 
term of the loan. It had then reworked the loan so that he would pay no more than that. It 
said that as Mr H had paid off his loan early, the overall amount  he had paid was less than 
the benefits it had calculated  he would  receive  and therefore didnt  offer him any 
compensation. It therefore felt its offer was fair. Mr H disagreed and asked this service to 
consider his complaint.
One of our investigators  looked into the offer put forward by BPF.  He thought that the offer 
was fair. 
Mr H didnt agree and so the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I wont be asking BPF to take any further steps to resolve this complaint. Ill 
explain why.
Mr H says that he was cold-called and during  a sales meeting told that the solar panels 
would be entirely  self-financing.  
Neither Mr H nor BPF dispute that Smart Save Solutions misrepresented the benefits  of the 
solar panel  system and as a result  this decision will deal with what  I consider to be fair 
compensation.
The role of this service is to help settle disputes between  consumers and businesses  
providing financial services fairly  and reasonably  with minimum formality. In cases  like this 
one determining fair compensation isnt an exact science. My role is to arrive  at a fair and 
reasonable outcome taking account of the particular  circumstances.
Ref: DRN69277262I appreciate that traditionally the parties are put back in the position they would have  been  in 
if there had been  no misrepresentation.  However, here, I dont think it would be fair or 
proportionate to require the removal of the solar  panels from Mr Hs home. Rather,  I think  the 
fair outcome here is to put him in a position  where the panels are self-funding over the 
original term of the loan.  By allowing Mr H to keep the panels, Im satisfied that hell likely 
benefit from lower electricity bills and FIT payments going forward.
Im satisfied that Mr H was misled into thinking  that the solar panels  would be self-funding. 
So, on that basis I need to decide fair compensation.  Ive carefully  considered the 
methodology that BPF has provided  to this service  to calculate the total benefits of the solar 
panels.
This methodology is based on the actual performance and estimated future  performance  of 
Mr Hs solar panel system.
BPF has set out that when calculating the estimated future  performance  of Mr Hs solar 
panel system, itll use a number of assumptions. These include a self-consumption rate of 
37%. This is the percentage of energy generated by his solar panels that he is expected  to 
use rather than buying electricity from his energy provider.
The government has set out that a self-consumption  rate of 50% should be used. The 
energy Savings Trust website previously set out a table that showed potential  savings under 
various scenarios  depending on the location  and the consumers lifestyle  rather  than a 
specific percentage.
Taking the above into account Im satisfied  that using a self-consumption rate of 37% is fair 
and reasonable in this case.  Im of the opinion  that this takes into account all the available  
evidence discussed  above and also takes into account changing consumer occupancy 
habits over the lifetime  of the solar  panel system. Once the loan has been repaid, as it has in 
this case, Im satisfied  that it is highly likely that Mr H will continue to benefit  from the system  
as a result  of a reduction in his electricity  bills because of the electricity generated by the 
panels and the FIT payments. 
Ive also considered the other assumptions used by BPF, including  electricity price  inflation, 
the degradation  rate and the estimated retail price index (RPI).  Im of the view that these 
appear reasonable taking into account the actual known figures. As an example, the actual  
average RPI for the last four years doesnt seem  to be far from the assumed figure. In 
summary, Im satisfied that the assumptions  that have been used by BPF provide a fair and 
reasonable basis for calculating fair compensation.
Usually, when a business, in this case BPF, makes the solar panels self-funding it means  
that the customer, in this case Mr H, will have overpaid on a monthly basis.  And I would 
expect BPF to refund any overpayments made by Mr H including 8% simple interest from the 
date the payments were made until the date of settlement. In Mr Hs case he paid off the 
loan within  the first year. This means  that he has ended  up paying less than the overall 
benefits he will receive from the solar panels.  So, he hasnt overpaid and therefore there is 
no refund  of overpayments due to him.
Although I know this will be a disappointment  to Mr H, considering what I have explained 
above I think this is a fair resolution to this complaint.
 
Ref: DRN69277263my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Clydesdale  Financial Services  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6927726