K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that Unum Ltd stopped him paying benefit under his income protection 
insurance policy when  he reached the age of 60.
 
background
In 1984, Mr J took out an income protection insurance policy  with Unum. The policy would 
pay a regular benefit in the event that Mr J was unable to work due to illness or injury.
At some later date,  Mr J became ill and unable  to work. He made  a claim under the policy 
which Unum accepted. It began paying him benefit.
In 2019, with his claim still in payment,  Mr J learned  that his policy  would end later that year 
when he reached  his 60th birthday. He complained to Unum,  saying that hed understood the 
policy would continue until he was eligible  for a state  pension.
Unum didnt uphold  his complaint. It explained that it hadnt sold Mr J the policy  but that his 
application form clearly  showed he had chosen for the policy to run until his 60th birthday. It 
said the policys end date was also clearly stated  on the policy  documentation  which  had 
been sent to him at the time the policy began. It therefore said it was correct for it to 
terminate benefit  payments  when he reached 60.
Mr J was unhappy at Unums response. He referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. He was satisfied 
that Unum had acted  fairly. He said that if Mr J wanted  to complain about the sale of the 
policy, he needed to address that complaint to the financial adviser concerned (though he 
pointed out that it might  be argued that Mr J was now out of time to bring such  a complaint 
on the grounds that he should reasonably have been aware  of the policys termination date 
at the time he took out the policy).
Mr J didnt accept the investigators findings.  He said that Unum  didnt  adequately  inform him 
of the policys  end date. He also raised concerns over the level of benefit which Unum had 
been paying him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Unum didnt sell Mr J the policy.  I am therefore  simply  deciding whether it acted fairly in 
terminating the policy, and hence  his benefit  payments,  when he reached the age of 60.
The policy application, which was signed by Mr J, clearly asks for the policy  to run until he is 
60. The policy schedule,  which Im satisfied would have been  sent to Mr J at the time the 
policy began,  clearly states that the policy will terminate on his 60th birthday. Im therefore 
satisfied that by paying benefit until Mr Js 60th birthday, Unum was acting in accordance  
with the terms of the policy
Ref: DRN64365842Mr J says that Unum didnt remind him of this termination date. However,  it was under no 
obligation to do so. I consider it was reasonable for Unum to assume that Mr J was aware  of 
this date given  that it had been confirmed at the time of sale.  
Mr J has also raised  issues about the level of benefit Unum was paying him. However, this 
didnt form part of the complaint he referred to us. If Mr J wants  to complain about the level 
of benefit he was receiving, he needs  to raise this with Unum in the first instance.
Mr J has also suggested he was misled  at the time of sale into taking out a policy with an 
unsuitable end date. However,  as the investigator  has explained, he would need  to raise this 
complaint with the financial  adviser who sold him the policy;  it is nothing  to do with Unum. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6436584