K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited refused to let him reject a faulty 
car.
Background
In May 2018  Mr H acquired  a second  hand  car costing  £8,350  funded by a conditional  sale 
agreement with Clydesdale and a deposit  of £250.  The dealer acted as broker. It was some 
three years old and had done 47,646 miles.  The rear bumper was damaged  during delivery, 
but the dealer said it repaired this. 
Mr H says that in June 2018  an engine  management light came  on and the car was 
inspected by two garages,  but no fault could be identified. However, the dealer agreed to 
offer Mr H a replacement car. He says it delayed doing so and only offered him a more 
expensive alternative.  His complaint to the dealer was rejected and he brought  the matter  to 
this service. 
We then notified  Clydesdale  and it too rejected  Mr Hs complaint as it could find no 
conclusive evidence that the car was faulty. The complaint was considered by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld. He noted  Mr H had said that two 
independent garages inspected the car and hadnt  been able to identify any faults. 
He referred to The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) and said that this requires goods to 
be of satisfactory quality when supplied or sold. The CRA allows a consumer to reject  the 
goods car within the first 30 days, but only if a fault was found  to be present or developing at 
the point of sale.
After 30 days a business has to be given one chance to repair  a vehicle. If at this time the 
repair is unsuccessful, the consumer has the option  to reject.  He accepted  that the 
management light had come on, but two independent garages had been unable  to confirm  a 
fault was present or that it was sold with a fault.  In those circumstances he could see no 
basis for upholding the complaint. He also pointed out that he had no power to consider the 
actions of the dealer.
Mr H didnt agree and said it hadnt  been  made clear to him earlier that this service couldnt 
address his concerns about the dealer. He also said that the offer of a replacement wasnt  
goodwill gesture. He had trusted the dealer to provide  a suitable replacement car and he had 
been let down. This meant he hadnt pursued  his complaint in the most effective way and as 
such he had lost out.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the conditional  sale agreement, in this case is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ref: DRN69903552Clydesdale is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I can understand Mr Hs frustration, but I regret I am unable to uphold  his complaint. I will 
explain why.
Firstly, I must make it clear that his complaint is made against  Clydesdale and so my role is 
consider the actions or lack of them by Clydesdale. We dont have written reports  on the 
state of the car, but Mr H has said that both garages couldnt  identify a fault.  I recognise  a 
warning light came on, but that doesnt of itself establish a fault was present at the point of 
sale. Both garages were  unable to find any obvious underlying  fault.
Consumer law requires that the goods  be faulty before any remedy can be considered. In 
this case no fault has been established  that would allow me to direct  the bank to act. The 
waters have been muddied  a little by the dealer offering to provide another  car. I have not 
seen that it said it would provide an identical one or one at the same cost as the original.  I 
suspect Mr H presumed that is what it was offering, but I dont believe that is what was 
available to him.
Furthermore, whether  the dealer said this was or wasnt  a goodwill gesture is of no 
relevance. I am satisfied  it had no legal obligation  to provide a replacement  car and, whether 
stated or not, this was, in effect,  a goodwill gesture. Overall this means Clydesdale was 
under no obligation to allow him to reject  the car. I appreciate Mr H will be disappointed, but I 
cannot find any grounds that would allow me to uphold  this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or reject  my decision 
before 2 April 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6990355