K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about a whole  of life policy  sold to them by Bank of Scotland 
plc (BoS). Theyre unhappy that at the last review they have to either  increase their 
premiums or accept a lower sum assured. Theyve said they were  never  told that the policy 
was a reviewable one or that they may need to increase  their premiums. Theyve said if they 
had known this at the time they would never  have  taken  it out.
Background
Mr and Mrs C met with an adviser in May 2003  to review their financial planning needs. The 
fact find completed at the time of the sale and the recommendation letter  recorded they were 
looking specifically for mortgage, family protection and critical illness  protection. At the time 
they were both in their thirties, married and employed and had no dependants.  They had a 
surplus of around  £400 a month and had a repayment mortgage in place and two unsecured  
loans between them.
Mr and Mrs C were recommended to take out a joint mortgage protection plan and a whole 
of life policy which also contained critical illness cover, which was called a Flexible Life Plan.  
The policy was set up on a maximum basis with a sum assured of nearly £40,000 and a 
premium of £20 per month.  It was also indexed linked. The policy was reviewed in line with 
its terms and conditions  in 2013 but no changes were required as the premiums were  
enough to maintain the then sum assured. However, at the next review in 2019  this wasnt  
the case and Mr and Mrs C were  asked to either increase their monthly premiums to £34.30 
to keep the sum assured  or accept a lower sum assured of £21,644.  This is what  prompted 
them to complain.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view it couldnt be 
upheld. She looked at Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances and objectives from the time of the 
sale and felt the policy was suitable  for them. She was also satisfied that policy  
documentation provided to Mr and Mrs C at the time fully explained the reviewable  nature of 
the policy.
Mr and Mrs C didnt agree with the assessment.  They explained the policy was sold as a top 
up to cover they already had in place  to allow an additional sum to be left to the other party  
for financial security. They maintained that at no point did the adviser  tell them  verbally that 
the policy would be reviewed or could change.
The investigator considered their additional  comments but wasnt persuaded to change her 
initial outcome.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
I wasnt at the sales  meeting with Mr and Mrs C at the point they took the policy  out, so 
I dont know how the adviser explained the policy to them.  So the only way I can determine 
whether they were  given enough of the right information is to look at the documents  that 
Ref: DRN65013872were provided to them about  the policy at the time.  While  the sale was a long time ago BoS 
has been able to provide  the policy information  and documents and I am pleased to see that 
these documents  are detailed and extensive. In my view they provide full and clear details 
about the policy and how it worked,  for example:
The personal financial report that BoS provided to Mr and Mrs C where  the 
recommendation was set out, dated  May 2003, states the level of cover  under policy  
and also states  that as it was agreed the plan should be arranged  on a maximum 
cover basis  you are prepared to accept  a probable increase in the future cost of the 
plan.
The policy document which explains what the plan is and how it works details that if 
maximum level of cover is chosen  the premium will provide a higher level of cover for 
the same  premium and that the nearer to the maximum  level of cover  you choose  
the less time your plan is likely to last for the original premium.
There is also section entitled regular reviews in this document where  it states the 
policy will be reviewed  regularly,  the first one being after the first 10 years and then 
every 5 years thereafter. It also states  the cover benefit  is fixed until the first review  
if you choose not to follow any recommendation we give to increase your 
premium at this or any subsequent review we will reduce  the life cover benefit to a 
level we think can be maintained until the next review.
The illustration sets out that the plan will be reviewed and premiums may increase.  
And that because of increases to its charges at review stage you may need to 
increase your premiums to maintain your level of cover. 
So in light of this, while I know Mr and Mrs C have  said they werent verbally told the policy 
was reviewable, I am satisfied this information  was in all the paperwork about the policy that 
they received  and should have read. It was incumbent upon them to do this and ensure they 
understood everything. And I can see that they signed a declaration at the time confirming 
this and that they had understood the risks and characteristic of the policy.
It therefore seems to me that they were furnished with all the information  they required at the 
time of the sale and that included the fact the policy was reviewable and what this could  
mean for them.
In addition to this I know Mr and Mrs C had two meetings  with the adviser  before accepting  
the policy, about a month  apart,  and also the policy didnt start until October  2003 due to 
health questions  from the underwriter. So I think they had ample time to think about the 
policy and familiarise themselves with it.
Furthermore, the policy was reviewed  in 2013 and although  no changes to the premiums or 
the sum assured were  required  BoS sent them a letter  explaining that that the review  had 
taken place, that no changes were needed,  why reviews were  necessary, what could 
happen going forward and when the next review  would be. So again,  I think  its reasonable 
that from this letter  Mr and Mrs C would  have known about  the reviewable  nature of the 
policy.
I have also considered whether the policy was suitable for them to ensure it wasnt mis-sold. 
As noted above,  they wanted  some life protection to provide the other party  with financial 
security in the event  of one of their deaths.  Given this, its reasonable that a whole of life 
Ref: DRN65013873policy was sold to them rather than a term assurance policy because there was no way of 
knowing when death might occur. And considering the amount of surplus  income they had 
each month  and the premiums of this policy at the outset I also think  it was affordable for 
them. So, I see nothing wrong  in them being sold a whole of life policy.
Overall, I think the policy was suitable  for them and met their stated objectives at the time. 
I also am satisfied that the documentation  as provided to them, that they confirmed they had 
read, set out clearly,  several times that the policy was a reviewable one and that their 
premiums and their life cover amount could  change in the future  and why this could happen 
in the future.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 March  2021.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6501387