K821x#15complaint
Its been agreed in this case  that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL),  as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Ms G says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms G took out a store card in 1997 in the store. PPI was added at the same time.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
FICL didnt  advise Ms G to take out the policy. But, it did have to give her enough clear 
information to decide for herself if the policy was right for her and she wanted to buy it. 
Ms G had a long term pre-existing medical  condition at the time PPI was added. She was 
taking medication  for it. I think it unlikely  that her PEMC wouldve been covered under the 
policy. I think had she been  given clearer information about  the limitations on cover and 
understood she wouldnt have been  fully covered under the policy, she wouldnt have 
thought it worth it to her, in her circumstances. I think it unlikely that she wouldve taken out 
PPI, so, I think that shes lost out as a result  of what FICL did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Ms G in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms G would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms G owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms G made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms G would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
Ref: DRN69668202C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms G would have owed each month without  PPI  Ms G 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms G paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms G 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her credit card. The interest  rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Ms G what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Ms G a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I uphold Ms Gs complaint  and order Financial Insurance Company Limited to put things right 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6966820