K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H has complained that Nationwide Building Society  will not refund any 
commission it received from their mortgage payment  protection insurance (MPPI) premiums 
for the policy they took out in 1998.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mr and Mrs Hs complaint about commission.  Thats  
because this service has already issued a final decision on this matter  in 2013. 
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs H, and Ill 
explain why. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where MPPI  was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the 
MPPI policy  more than 50% of the MPPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then 
that could create an unfair relationship  between  the parties. So to put that right, the FCA said 
that businesses  should pay back the amount  of commission and profit  share that was more 
than 50% of the MPPI premium.
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Hs MPPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Nationwide  has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Hs commission  was 
less than half the cost of the MPPI. As thats the case, I dont think  it needed to tell them 
about the commission  so I dont think Nationwide treated them unfairly.  This means  it 
doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs H back any of the commission they paid for the MPPI. 
So Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Mrs H paid for the 
MPPI they had with their mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6560762