K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy that Bank of Scotland plc (Halifax)  allowed  payments to leave his account 
after he had told them he had lost his card, and that it said it would deactivate  it but didnt. 
Mr A wants  Halifax to return  the payments which left his account and to compensate him for 
the distress and inconvenience  caused.
background
On the 11 December 2018 Mr A went online to register that his card was damaged.  He also 
rang Halifax minutes later and said he wanted  to report  his card as lost and for it to be made  
inactive. The adviser he spoke to told him the card had been blocked, but in fact then failed 
to record it as deactivated. Mr A said Halifax then allowed 5 payments to 5 separate retailers  
totalling £959.33, to leave  his account on the 14 December  2018.
Mr A also feels  Halifax has passed on his new card details to the retailers without his 
consent and approval, and as such that they have breached the General Data  Protection  
Regulations (GDPR).
Halifax said that all 5 payments had been  set up as continuous payment authority (CPA), 
otherwise known as recurring transactions or instalment payments, and that Mr A had had 
previous transactions with each of these retailers. It also explained that as Mr A had 
previously provided his card details  to the retailers and had authorised the CPAs,  then the 
CPAs would be automatically moved  over to his new card following cancellation.  It also said 
that even if it had successfully recorded  his card as lost on the 11 December 2018 this 
wouldnt have prevented the payments from leaving his account. 
But Halifax  accepted Mr A had received poor service  as it had failed to deactivate his card 
and so paid £50 into his account in reflection of the distress and inconvenience caused.  Mr A 
was unhappy  with Halifaxs response  and so an adjudicator from this service looked  into the 
complaint but didnt  think it had done  anything wrong.
Mr A disagreed with our adjudicators view and so the matter has been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  My decisions are based on the available 
evidence and where evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory,  I reach  my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is more likely  to 
have happened  in light of that evidence and the wider  circumstances.  
I will not repeat our adjudicators background summary since it is accurate and full. My own 
background summary has been necessarily brief to avoid repetition.  So if I havent  
mentioned something  it is not that Ive ignored it, rather that I think  its not relevant. This 
approach allows me to concentrate upon  the determinative issues and avoiding  becoming 
distracted by those  which are peripheral.
I think we have an unfortunate situation  here. I can accept  that it was Mr As intention  when 
he rang Halifax to both report his card as lost and also to stop any further payments leaving 
Ref: DRN61571502his account. But, Mr A didnt tell the adviser  that he wished to stop any future payments 
leaving his account.  The call recording shows that Mr A just said that hed lost his card.  
Cancelling the card would certainly stop any future new payments on the cancelled card, but 
it would  not affect  any CPA payments  in place since they would transfer  over to the newly  
issued card. Mr A had of course previously authorised payments to each one of the 5 
retailers by setting up a CPA with Halifax. 
It maybe the case that Mr A decided not to notify  the retailers  himself that they were not to 
take payments,  in the belief that hed given instructions  to Halifax not to make  such 
payments. But as a fact he hadnt  given any such instruction.  
So the issue  seems  to me to be whether, upon the issue of a new card, Halifax acted 
reasonably in allowing the CPA payments to be automatically transferred over and then paid. 
I think Halifax did act reasonably, because in the absence of an instruction to cancel the 
payments, it was reasonable to assume  that a customer, who had simply lost his card, would 
not want to alter existing  payment arrangements. 
With regard to the suggested breaches of the GDPR  that is not an issue  for me or this 
service. It ought to be directed to the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). However,  
from my reading of the facts of this case it would appear that Mr A did in fact give his 
informed consent  to his data being shared with the relevant third parties,  when he set up the 
CPAs, subject of course to the withdrawal of that consent at a later stage. There  is no 
evidence that such consent was ever withdrawn.
So I cant say that Halifax has done  anything wrong  in allowing the CPA payments to leave  
Mr As account but I do think it was unfair  to tell Mr A that they had deactivated his card 
when they hadnt. Ive thought about the £50 offer of compensation Halifax made to Mr A 
and I agree with our adjudicator that this is reasonable.  It is in line with the moderate  awards  
this service would  make  for distress and inconvenience in circumstances like this, and I think 
it is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Bank of Scotland plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6157150