K820x#14complaint
Mr E had a self-invested personal pension (SIPP) with Suffolk Life Pensions Limited.  He 
says Suffolk Life has:
shown unacceptable  and significant  failings in its due diligence, 
acted in a negligent  manner and 
failed in its responsibility to protect  investors  causing him considerable financial loss.
These failings relate to a direct commercial  property investment made  jointly with a 
syndicate of other investors.  The particular point is that the property was occupied  by an 
unauthorised tenant  and the investors  did not receive the rental income they should have 
received.  And that Suffolk Life continued  to deal with the leader of the syndicate when it 
knew he was not dealing honestly with it and the other investors.  
background
In 2013 Mr E applied  for a SIPP with Suffolk Life.  The application was arranged  by a 
financial adviser I will call Mr B.  The idea was that Mr E, Mr B and a number of other 
investors would  together buy, renovate  and rent out a commercial property as an 
investment.  
Mr E transferred an existing pension  to the SIPP in 2013 in order to have the funds in his 
SIPP to make that investment.  Mr E invested about  £50,000 and owned about  20% of the 
investment.  There were a number  of other investors and so the arrangement was that 
Suffolk Life was authorised to deal with Mr B as the lead investor  - the representative for 
them all.  
The investors paid their share of the investment into a shared account.  The property was 
purchased.  Suffolk  Life was the legal owner  on behalf of the investors.  The property was 
renovated.  The purchase  price  and renovation and other costs were paid out of the account.  
Suffolk Life was dealing with Mr B.  Initially it seemed to be the case that the property was 
not occupied and no rent was therefore  being paid to Suffolk Life for the investors.  It then 
emerged that the property  was occupied although there was no lease and rent was not being  
paid to Suffolk Life.  There was then a dispute between at least  some  of the investors  and 
Mr B as he was involved in that unauthorised  letting.   There  was also some confusion about  
whether part of the property was being  used  for residential purposes which  is not allowed for 
SIPP investments.   
The investors wanted Suffolk Life to sort things  out.  Suffolk Life asked the investors  to pay 
more money into the shared account  so it would have the funds  to take action.
In the end the property was sold in 2017 and Mr E says he has still suffered a substantial 
loss and he complained to Suffolk  Life.  Suffolk Life did not uphold his complaint.   It made a 
number of points  including:
Mr E and the co-investors decided  to appoint Mr B as the lead investor and point of 
contact. 
Mr B ceased to act as a financial adviser,  but remained in his position as lead 
investor. And so it was reasonable for Suffolk Life to act on his instructions. 
Ref: DRN64811532Suffolk Life is not a key holding property manager  inspection and physical 
management doesnt form part of its role. It is for the syndicate of investors  to appoint 
a member of the group to accept this responsibility.  
At no point did Suffolk Life consent  to or authorise the occupation of the premises.  It 
would only authorise this upon  creation of a formal  lease. 
When Suffolk Life became aware  of unauthorised occupation of the property it 
engaged with Mr B in an attempt to establish a lease. 
Suffolk Life thought  it was likely  that the situation that led to the eventual  sale of the 
property was down  to the investors. It said there was a breakdown in the relationship  
within the group. 
Mr E referred his complaint to the Financial Ombudsman Service  and it was considered by 
one of our investigators.  He thought the complaint should not be upheld.   He set out a 
detailed chronology of events and then made a made a number of points including:
Suffolk Life was not at fault in dealing  with Mr B.  Mr B was both a co-investor and an 
FCA registered financial adviser.
So Suffolk Life was not at fault in accepting instructions from Mr B after he was no 
longer regulated.  Suffolk  Life was dealing with Mr B in his capacity  as the lead 
investor not as an IFA.
Suffolk Life had no reason not to accept  Mr Es application  the investment was a 
genuine property  investment.
There did come a point when Suffolk Life should have had concerns about Mr B  
when an IFA for one of the investors  told it he thought the property was occupied by 
a tenant and that the tenant was paying rent.  A few days later there  was another  
conversation with the same IFA who said he did not think  Mr B was trustworthy.   
A short while later Mr Es IFA told Suffolk  Life the property was occupied.   He said an 
FCA registered business was operating from the property. If Suffolk Life had looked 
into this it could  have  discovered that the business occupying  the property had a 
connection to Mr B contrary to assurances he had given  Suffolk Life.
So Suffolk Life had reason  to doubt  Mr Bs honesty and it should  have  stopped 
dealing with him sooner than it did.  
However, this would have made no real difference to the way things turned out.  
Suffolk Life is not a property manager.   It asked investors for more  funds  to cover the 
costs of the property  but further funds  were not paid.  Without  funds it could take no 
action that would have reduced  the losses Mr E suffered.
Mr E did not agree  with the investigator.  The investigator asked Mr E and his representative 
to explain why, so that his specific  concerns could be addressed.    Mr E said he still 
believes Suffolk Life were negligent  and should  have taken action as soon  as it was made 
aware of Mr Bs dishonesty and that this would  have reduced his losses.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator.  
Direct investment by a group of investors in commercial property is a permitted type of 
investment in a SIPP.  Dealing with a group of investors will be difficult  so it is reasonable to 
have some kind of process for dealing with a representative on behalf  of all of the group.  I 
Ref: DRN64811533cannot see that the process Suffolk  Life has was unreasonable or unfair.   The group, 
including Mr E, agreed to use that process and agreed to Mr B being the lead investor.
It was important for Mr B to act in the best interests  of the group.  And  important for him and 
the group  to have some  kind of effective  communication  process  so that the group knew 
what was going  on.  The problem here was that Mr B did not act in the best interest of the 
group and he did not keep  the group informed.  I cannot however see that Suffolk Life was 
under any obligation to supervise Mr B. 
I do not think that Suffolk Life was at fault for not putting in place a lease or for not collecting 
rent when it had not been informed by Mr B (or anyone else) that the property  was being 
occupied. Suffolk Life is only the legal owner  holding the property for the investors.  It is not 
the property manager as such.  It was for the investors to arrange  a lease  subject to the 
approval of Suffolk  Life and it set out its requirements for the lease in general terms. 
By the time Suffolk  Life first heard of any lack of straight  dealing  by Mr B he had already  
allowed the un-authorised occupation of the property.  And  it did stop dealing solely with 
Mr B in June  2015 and started to deal with all of the investors  or their IFAs as no new single 
representative was appointed.  
Also the investors  started to consider selling the property in mid-2015. Suffolk Life told the 
investors what its requirements were for the sale.  It was not Suffolk Lifes responsibility  to 
arrange the sale for the investors  initially at least.  Ultimately the property was sold at 
auction in early 2017 by Suffolk  Life because  the property account was overdrawn.  I cannot 
see that there is evidence  of any undue delay in that process  or that Suffolk Life unfairly or 
unreasonably failed to take steps that would have reduced Mr Es loss.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Es complaint against Suffolk  Life pensions Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6481153