K822xcomplaint
Miss R complains that a hire purchase  agreement, under which a car was supplied to her, 
was mis-sold to her by Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited. 
background
A new car was supplied  to Miss R under a hire purchase agreement with a finance provider 
that she signed in April 2018.  She complained to Arnold Clark in July 2018 and said that she 
disputed the price of the car, the mileage limit had been lowered from 40,000 to 20,000 miles 
without discussion with her and that shed  been  lied to about  the insurance  cover.  
Arnold Clark said that the correct information  was set out in the order form, pre-contract 
credit information and hire purchase agreement  all of which had been signed by Miss R. 
She wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this service.
The adjudicator recommended that this complaint should be upheld. He was satisfied that, 
had the mileage cap been discussed  and the lower cap been identified  as not fit for purpose, 
Miss R wouldnt  have  continued with the purchase of the car. So he thought that Arnold  
Clark should: end the hire purchase  agreement; collect  the car; refund  the deposit  (with 
interest); and remove  any adverse  information from Miss Rs credit file.
Arnold Clark has offered to issue Miss R with a cheque for £734.98 to cover her in full 
against the excess mileage charge that the finance provider might apply in the future 
providing that she doesnt exceed the 40,832  miles cap.
But Miss R has asked  for her complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. She says that 
shes not happy to remain in a contract which is not fit for purpose and feels  that the solution  
of handing the car back is the only satisfactory  outcome for her. She says she feels  that both 
Arnold Clark and the finance provider  have been very dismissive of her and she doesnt  
want to stay in the contract as she has anxieties  about being treated unfairly at the end of 
the contract  regardless of the settlement that Arnold Clark  is offering her.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to 
Miss R and to Arnold Clark on 3 February  2020. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Miss R signed a vehicle  order  agreement with Arnold Clark in April 2018. The basic 
price of the car was shown as £17,995 and there was a £500  discount. Factory 
options, road fund licence  and registration fees were added to give a price of 
£19,010. But Miss R says that the basic price was higher than the manufacturers 
basic price and that the car was available  at a lower price from other  sellers.  But 
Miss R signed the order agreement  and agreed to the basic  price  of the car of 
£19,995. The price  that is agreed  for a car is a commercial decision between  the 
parties and this service  wouldnt  normally interfere with a commercial decision. And I 
see no reason for me to interfere with the price  that was agreed between  Arnold 
Clark and Miss R for the car.
Miss R also signed the hire purchase agreement which said:
Ref: DRN69608522The maximum  annual  mileage is 5000 and the maximum total mileage is 
20,418. The Excess  Mileage Charge payable pursuant to clause 11 of the 
Terms is 3.6 (incl VAT) per mile.
And she signed the pre-contractual explanations checklist  which  said:
An explanation that where an estimated  mileage is applicable, it is a 
fundamental term of the agreement and that estimating mileage too low may 
result in an excess mileage charge being payable when the agreement ends 
or is terminated at any time. I have checked  that the estimated mileage is 
correctly stated on the agreement.
Miss R says that the mileage limit had been  reduced  from 40,000  to 20,000  miles 
without discussion with her. But she signed the agreement and the checklist  and 
agreed to an annual mileage limit of 5,000 miles and a total mileage of 20,418 miles.
In response to the adjudicators recommendations, Arnold Clark has offered to pay 
Miss R £734.98 to cover her in full against  the excess mileage charge that the 
finance provider  might apply (providing that she doesnt exceed the 40,832 miles 
limit). I consider that that offer is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. It puts 
Miss R in a better position that she would  be in if the mileage limit was 40,832 
because shes been compensated for any excess mileage charges upto 40,832 and 
will have received compensation of 3.6p for each mile by which her mileage is less 
than 40,832 miles (excluding  the 20,416 mile limit included in the agreement). 
Miss R says that she was lied to by Arnold Clark about an insurance offer and that 
she was told that she qualified for the offer and that information about  it would be 
provided later. Arnold  Clark  says that she was presented with all of the information 
for her to take advantage  of the insurance offer but chose not to do so. So Arnold 
Clark and Miss R give very different accounts  of what  was said about  the insurance  
offer. But if she was expecting to be provided  with information about the insurance 
offer I consider that it would be reasonable  to expect her to have contacted  Arnold 
Clark within a short  period of time after the car was supplied to her if she hadnt 
received that information. Im not persuaded that theres enough evidence to show  
that Arnold Clark has acted incorrectly in connection  with the insurance offer.
For these reasons, I dont  consider that it would be fair and reasonable for Miss R to 
reject the car. She says that she has anxieties  about  being treated unfairly at the end 
of the contract  but the finance provider will be required  to comply with the terms of 
the agreement. If it doesnt do so she should  complain to it and then, if shes not 
satisfied with its response,  she may be able to make a complaint to this service about 
the finance provider. Shes had use of the car for more than 21 months and I 
consider that it would be fair and reasonable in these  circumstances  for Arnold Clark  
to pay to Miss R the £734.98 that its offered to her. 
So subject to any further representations by Miss R or Arnold  Clark,  my provisional  decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint  in part.
Miss R has responded  to my provisional  decision  in detail and says, in summary, that:
theres no proof that Arnold Clark presented her with any information  about the 
insurance offer - she wouldve taken advantage of the opportunity to save  £300 to 
£400 on her insurance  and it didnt follow correct procedures;
Ref: DRN69608523she accepts that she cant now complain about the price that was agreed for the car 
but its not professional practice for Arnold Clarks representative to denigrate her;
she signed an electronic document and at no point was mileage discussed so she 
believed that the 40,000 allowance on her previous car would be carried forward;
Arnold Clark  is admitting liability by offering her £734.98  but it doesnt cover  the 
loss of equity  that shell suffer when she hands the car back;
Arnold Clark  has used  a test drive voucher dishonestly because she didnt get a test 
drive until the day of purchase;
it failed to go through the documentation  and explain what she was signing or to 
discuss her mileage  requirements;
no affordability assessment was ever done;
it failed to present  her with information  on the free insurance offer;
it added  negative equity into the new agreement without discussing the risks of doing 
so and failed to explain the total payable, termination rights,  the right to withdraw  or 
its commission;
had there not been such a considerable delay by this service she wouldve had the 
car for significantly less than 21 months when her complaint was decided; and 
Arnold Clark  is at fault here as proper procedures werent followed and it acted 
improperly and manipulatively.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular Ive considered the detailed 
comments that Miss R has made  in response to my provisional decision.  She clearly  strongly  
disagrees with my provisional  decision but Im not persuaded that I should change that 
decision. 
Miss R says that Arnold  Clark mis-used a test-drive voucher and didnt consider whether the 
agreement was affordable for her. But those issues werent raised  in her complaint to Arnold 
Clark or this service   so Im unable to now consider  them  as part of this complaint. I wont  
be addressing  in detail all of the comments made  by Miss R but will focus  on what I consider 
to be the significant issues in deciding  her complaint.
Miss R says that the mileage limit wasnt discussed with her. But she signed the vehicle 
order agreement,  the pre-contractual explanations checklist and the hire purchase 
agreement. Both the pre-contractual explanations  checklist and the hire purchase  agreement 
referred to the mileage  limit. Miss R says that she didnt realise that she was signing an 
agreement. But I consider  it to be reasonable to expect a consumer to have read and 
understood what they are being asked  to sign before doing so  even if its a signature on a 
screen. By signing the screen, I consider that Miss R agreed to the terms that are contained 
in the agreement  and the car was supplied to her on that basis.  
Arnold Clark has offered to pay £734.98 to Miss R to cover the excess mileage charges that 
the finance provider might apply. I dont consider that to be an admission of liability that it 
acted incorrectly. I consider that it puts her in a better position than she wouldve been  in 
relation to the excess mileage charges for the reasons set out above. Miss R says that it 
wont cover  the loss of equity in the car that shell  suffer.  But she agreed  to make 48 monthly  
payments of £327.45  for the car and then an optional final payment of £6,277.50. If she 
chooses to keep the car shell have to make the final payment of £6,277.50 but wont  pay 
any excess mileage charges (and will have the benefit of the £734.98 from Arnold Clark). If 
she chooses to return the car she wont make the final payment and will be able to use the 
Ref: DRN69608524£734.98 from Arnold  Clark  to pay any excess mileage charges (unless she drives the car for 
more than 40,832 miles.  The mileage allowance wont  affect the value of the car at the end 
of agreement: if its been driven for 40,000  miles  when  the agreement  ends its value will be 
the same  whether the mileage allowance in the agreement was 20,000 or 40,000 miles.
If Miss R was expecting to be provided  with information about  the insurance  offer I consider 
that it would  be reasonable to expect her to have contacted Arnold  Clark within a short 
period of time after the car was supplied to her if she hadnt received that information. But 
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that she did so.
Nor am I persuaded  that theres enough  to show that Arnold Clark has acted  incorrectly in its 
dealings with Miss R about the car and the hire purchase agreement. So I dont consider that 
it would  be fair and reasonable for her to reject  the car. I consider that it would be fair and 
reasonable in these  circumstances for Arnold  Clark to pay to Miss R the £734.98 that its 
offered to her.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Miss Rs complaint in part. And I 
order Arnold Clark Automobiles Limited  to pay £734.98 to Miss R.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6960852