K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S complains HDI Global Specialty SE unfairly  rejected her claim for storm damage to a 
retaining wall on her property insurance.
All references to HDI include their agents.
Background
In December 2017, a retaining wall in Mrs S property collapsed.  Mrs S notified HDI and 
logged a claim.
HDI assessed the damage to the wall and declined the claim. It said it couldnt find evidence 
of damage that was consistent with a single, extreme weather event. Mrs S challenged HDIs 
assessment and it agreed to send a loss adjuster  to inspect  the damage.
The loss adjuster visited the property  and concluded the claim should be declined.  They  said 
they felt the wall had reached the end of its effective lifespan, and had gradually deteriorated 
until it failed. So they didnt think the damage was a result of an insured event.
Mrs S then instructed an independent expert to assess the damage.  The expert said the 
collapse of the wall was made worse  by a build-up  of water pressure from saturated  soils 
directly behind the retaining  wall. This was linked to the heavy rainfall during the month of 
December. He said it was likely  strong winds contributed to the final collapse of the wall, as 
there were no signs of distortions or fracturing, and the wall appeared to be in a reasonable 
condition. 
Mrs S submitted this report to HDI who appointed  its own expert to review  the damage.  
HDIs expert reviewed everything and visited the property to carry out his own inspection. He 
concluded the wall had failed due to a build-up  of soil and water pressure, which  exceeded 
the walls  declining  ability to resist  such forces. He said the wall failed due to structural  
weakness and not because of an insurable  event under  the policy.
HDI maintained its decision to decline Mrs S claim. Unhappy with HDIs response,  Mrs S 
referred the complaint to our service. Our investigator looked at everything and 
recommended the complaint not be upheld. He found there  were  storm conditions present at 
the time of Mrs S claim, and he agreed that the damage to Mrs S wall was typical of the 
damage caused by a storm. But after considering all of the reports, he found  the damage  to 
the wall happened  over time and was not because of one storm.
Our investigator also considered if Mrs S had a valid claim under the accidental damage  
section of her policy, but he found  that HDI had relied on an exclusion for wear  and tear 
fairly. So he didnt  think HDI should do anything further in regards to the claim.
Mrs S disagreed with our investigators  findings.  She said she believed  the storm and 
subsequent flood of water behind the wall directly caused the collapse.  She said that over 
time there had been developments around the property  such as a close of bungalows 
being built. And she said that each storm had a unique action so a storm 50 years ago may 
have a very different outcome.
Mrs S asked for an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
Ref: DRN66759272My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why below.
I appreciate Mrs S has gone to some effort to provide evidence to substantiate  her claim, 
and I want to reassure  her that Ive carefully considered  everything  shes  said before 
reaching my decision.
Based on everything  Ive seen, I need  to consider  whether HDI has assessed  Mrs S claim 
fairly under the terms and conditions of her policy. And to do this I need  to consider:
1.Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
2.Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
3.Was the storm the main cause  of the damage
In order for the claim to be successful, the answer to all three questions  must be yes.
Ive also checked  the terms and conditions  of Mrs S policy.  The conditions  state the insurer 
will not pay for the cost of wear and tear, gradual  deteriorationarising from any cause . So 
I need to consider if HDI has rejected  the claim fairly under this condition too.
Was there evidence of a storm around the time of the claim?
HDI has acknowledged there were high winds around the time of Mrs S claim. But it says 
the amount of rainfall wasnt sufficient to be classed as a storm. Mrs S policy  does not 
include a definition for storm. So Ive considered weather reports  provided by both parties  
and independent weather  records around  the time of the event to decide if there was a 
storm.
Having done so, I can see evidence of high winds around the time of the claim. I can also 
see periods of heavy  rainfall. I dont think the rainfall  alone  would be sufficient to class  as a 
storm, but combined with the high winds I am satisfied  there  were  storm conditions around 
the time of the claim.
Is the damage typical of the damage that would be caused by a storm?
Ive considered the photographs provided  which clearly show  a section of the wall collapsed.  
I am satisfied that the damage shown is typical of the damage that would be caused by a 
storm.
Ref: DRN66759273Was the storm the main  cause of the damage?
Both parties  to this complaint have provided  expert reports  to support their claim. In total, 
there are four reports to consider, and Ive reviewed  each  of these in turn to decide if the 
storm was the main cause  of the damage.
Ive focussed  more on the two expert  reports, as they are specialists in this field. In addition, 
both of these reports  focus more on the likely cause of damage  to the wall. 
Having considered everything, I am more persuaded by the report  provided by HDIs expert.  
I say this because  overall,  the report is more detailed, and it clearly sets out a process  of 
elimination for the main cause of damage to the wall. This report rules out the storm as the 
main cause of damage. It considers the weather conditions at the time,  but doesnt  feel the 
amount of rainfall  was sufficient to meet the definition of a flood. Having also considered  the 
weather reports and total amount of rainfall,  I agree with this conclusion.  And it says it 
doesnt feel the wind speeds  recorded  were sufficient to increase the lateral loading on the 
wall. 
In addition, HDIs expert provides a summary of the condition  of the wall. It states that at the 
point of failure it revealed highly weathered and very weak  brownish red siltstone and 
mudstone. Weathering has turned  some of the material into a silt clay. The remainder is 
thinly bedded and friable. This suggests to me that the material in the wall was less stable 
and weaker because of wear and tear over time.
Ive considered Mrs S experts comments that the collapse  of the wall was made worse by a 
build-up of water pressure  from saturated soils,  and that strong winds  contributed to the final 
collapse of the wall. But overall, this report is less detailed than HDIs expert report. I dont  
think it makes  as convincing a case for what caused  the wall to collapse. I agree that the 
storm probably did have  an impact on the collapse, but I am more persuaded that the 
underlying and main  reason for it was the long-term degradation of the wall. 
So based  on everything Ive seen, I dont  think the storm was the main cause of the damage  
to Mrs S wall. Ive seen that Mrs S policy also includes accidental  damage cover.  But the 
definition of accidental  damage is defined as unexpected and unintended damage  caused 
by sudden and external  means.  So because  I think the damage  happened gradually over 
time, I think it was fair for HDI to say the damage was not because  of sudden or external 
means. So Im not going to require HDI to do anything  further.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Dan Prevett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6675927