K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J complained  that Ageas Insurance Limited unfairly  voided  their home insurance 
policy (treated it as though it had never existed)  after they made a claim for loss suffered in a 
burglary.
background
Mr and Mrs J took out their policy through a broker in November 2017. They insured their 
contents for £80,000.  Cover for high risk items or valuables was limited under the policy  to 
30% of their contents  cover,  being  £24,000 but £10,000 for stolen jewellery or watches 
unless stolen from a safe.
Mr and Mrs J made  a claim to Ageas after their home was burgled in October 2018. A 
considerable amount of jewellery and cash together with a safe was stolen from their 
property. After investigation Ageas said the total value of their jewellery  was over £124,000. 
Mr and Mrs J said they thought their jewellery was worth £70,000 and that the rest of their 
contents were worth  £10,000.  They also said their broker had never asked them  about their 
jewellery and theyd never received  the policy schedule setting out these  limits.
Ageas said if it had been aware how much their jewellery was worth,  it would never have 
offered them  the policy.  Ageas decided to void the policy and returned  the premiums  
Mr and Mrs J had paid.
Mr and Mrs J complained  to this service. I issued  a provisional decision explaining why I was 
minded not to uphold their complaint. An extract from my provisional findings is set out 
below:
Mr and Mrs J purchased the policy via an insurance broker. The broker was acting as an 
independent intermediary on behalf  of Mr and Mrs J and not as Ageass agent. So Ageas 
isnt liable for any failings there might have been on the part of the broker.  In this complaint 
Im only looking at whether Ageas has treated Mr and Mrs J fairly and reasonably.  Mr and 
Mrs J have made a separate complaint against  the broker.
When a consumer buys an insurance policy, theyll be asked  to provide certain 
information. In simple terms the insurer is trying to assess how likely it is that the consumer  
will make a claim. It can be a misrepresentation if an answer  given is inaccurate or 
incomplete. But the insurer will only be entitled to take action if its a qualifying 
misrepresentation in accordance with the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA).
Where a broker acts for a consumer, as in this case, they may make a misrepresentation 
on the consumers  behalf. The insurer will need  to prove its a qualifying misrepresentation 
by showing a failure to take reasonable care and that it wouldnt have  entered into the 
contract at all or on different terms.
Firstly I need to establish whether the information  given to Ageas was incorrect.  Its not 
clear to me whether the broker told Ageas  that Mr and Mrs Js valuables were worth  
£10,000 or £12,500. But I dont think it matters since both figures were such a long way 
short of their actual  value of £124,000. The broker also said that their total contents  were 
worth £80,000. Ageass  loss adjuster estimated that the remaining contents were  worth 
£50,000 to £55,000. So the contents  were worth  at least double what  they were insured 
Ref: DRN66375882for. Im aware that much of the jewellery  was gold which  fluctuates  a lot in value. But I 
havent seen any evidence to suggest  that the under-insurance is due to a difference in 
gold prices or that Ageas has over-valued the contents. I think in both respects the 
information given  to Ageas was likely to have been  incorrect.
Ageas has shown  that under its arrangement with the broker,  the broker gathered all 
the information  it needed from the consumer. Ageas would then decide whether the 
risk was acceptable and if it were,  it would issue a quote as it did in this case.
I dont think Mr and Mrs J did take reasonable care in providing  information about how 
much their valuables and contents were worth. In circumstances where we consider  a 
misrepresentation to be careless we require the insurer to respond  proportionately. The 
insurer should base  its approach on what it would  have done if the consumer had taken 
reasonable care and provided the correct information.
Ageas has said it wouldnt  have offered the policy if it had known how much Mr and 
Mrs Js valuables were worth. The underwriting criteria it provided to us shows that at the 
relevant time the maximum sum insured for contents  acceptable  to it was £80,000 and the 
limit of cover for valuables was 30 per cent of the sum insured for contents. So Im 
satisfied it would have  declined cover if the true values  had been  disclosed. It follows that 
Im satisfied Mr and Mrs J made a qualifying misrepresentation. And, in the circumstances, 
Ageas was entitled to void the policy.
In response Mr and Mrs J made the following points:
They thought the limit of £12,500  for valuables was to cover valuables lost or stolen 
outside their home.
They shouldnt be liable for misrepresentation by their broker.
They didnt  know  what  some  of the jewellery was worth because it had been given to 
them.
If theyd known  their jewellery was worth £124,000, they wouldnt have estimated it to be 
worth £70,000 and taken out cover for £80,000  including  their other  contents.
Theyre not sure Ageas has valued their jewellery or their other contents accurately.
They believe theyve been discriminated against  by Ageas.
Ageas accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered separately Mr and Mrs Js complaint against  their broker. He was the one 
who told them what the limits of cover were.  So I cant hold Ageas responsible  for any 
misunderstanding arising from that conversation. The documentation issued by Ageas was 
clear regarding the limits and it was the brokers responsibility to send that to Mr and Mrs J.
The broker  gave Ageas information  about  Mr and Mrs J on their behalf. Ageas was entitled  
to rely on that. If that information turned out to be inaccurate, as in this case, it would be 
unfair for Ageas not to be able to respond in the same way as it would have done if 
Mr and Mrs J had given it the information directly.
Ref: DRN66375883I appreciate Mr and Mrs J didnt know their jewellery was worth so much. But I dont think  it 
was Ageass responsibility  to advise them to get a valuation. It did ask them to check that the 
information in the Statement  of Insurance, which included the limits of cover, was correct.  It 
also warned them that their policy  could be invalid and claims not paid if theyd  given 
incorrect information. I dont think Ageas needed to do any more  than this.
Ageas had the jewellery valued  by a specialist jeweller. I havent seen any evidence to show  
that its valuation  was incorrect.
The loss adjuster visited Mr and Mrs Js home  and discussed with them  the items that had 
been stolen. The figure of £50,000 to £55,000  doesnt seem to me excessive as an estimate  
for contents  in the sort of property Mr and Mrs J own.  Mr and Mrs J havent produced a 
breakdown to justify  their figure of £10,000.  So Im not persuaded that Ageas acted unfairly 
in arriving at its valuation  of Mr and Mrs Js total contents.
Mr and Mrs J havent previously complained that Ageas has discriminated against  them.  Im 
satisfied Ageas hasnt  treated Mr and Mrs J any differently than it would any other 
policyholder in the same position.  Nor do I think Ageas acted  unfairly or unreasonably.  
I hope it helps  Mr and Mrs J to know that their honesty is not in question.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 October  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6637588