K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Santander UK Plc mis-sold Mrs M and Mr S payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mrs M and Mr S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered Mrs Ms comments in response  to the adjudicators  view of the case. 
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mrs M and Mr S have said the PPI was added without their real consent. They say that, 
although they agree they signed to apply for PPI, they were made to feel the PPI was all part 
of the package, with the form saying  we strongly  recommend you take insurance and the 
adviser just telling them where  to sign. 
The problem I have,  in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt  know the exact words 
used by the adviser and the tone in which they were  said.  It isnt necessarily wrong to 
strongly advise someone to buy an insurance  policy, even if the adviser  is partly  motivated 
by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth  recommending.  The 
closer it gets to making someone feel they have no real sensible alternative  to taking the 
policy, the less acceptable it is. But, as I say, I cant be sure exactly what was said. And it 
wouldnt be fair to say the bank did something wrong unless  I had stronger evidence  of this. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
In recommending the PPI to Mrs M and Mr S, Santander had a higher standard to 
reach during  the sales process  it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  for Mrs M 
and Mr Ss particular circumstances. But it looks to me as though any 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based  on what Ive seen of Mrs M 
and Mr Ss situation at the time. Its likely  Mrs M (the person covered) was eligible for 
the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage can lead to significant 
difficulties. The PPI would  have paid benefits  at the same time as Mrs M received 
any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have  paid unemployment 
benefits in addition to any redundancy pay. And it would have put off the time when 
they would  need  to fall back  on any savings or other means they may have  had for 
paying the mortgage. This all would have put Mrs M and Mr S in a more secure 
position, if theyd  eventually lost income  due to long term sickness or unemployment. 
And Ive not been told anything to suggest  they couldnt afford  the PPI when they 
Ref: DRN61176302took it out. So I think the PPI would have been  potentially useful, and so a 
recommendation was suitable. 
 
It looks as though Santander  could  have explained the costs and benefits of the 
policy better than it did. But even if it had, I think Mrs M and Mr S would  have still 
bought it.
Its possible Santander didnt  clearly point out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mrs M and Mr S would have been  affected by any of these. And 
theyd be paying for it monthly, so they could cancel  it at any time without further cost 
if their situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 September 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6117630