K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc (RSA) is responsible for poor 
service in connection with a home  emergency insurance policy.  She says RSA should  
reimburse her what she paid out to others  for tracing  and making  access to a leak and for 
repairing that leak.
background
So that third parties  cant be identified, I wont  use their names.
In November 2016 Mrs R took out a policy in the name of an insurance intermediary.  It was 
for thirteen months. It included insurance  cover for boiler repairs. The policy  also provided an 
annual boiler service. 
Mrs R had an annual service in July 2017. Much  later Mrs R was to complain that the 
engineer hadnt checked  and cleaned her magnetic filter. 
Mrs R renewed  the policy  from 3 December 2017.  The policy schedule said her boiler was 
then three  years old. RSA was the insurer responsible for dealing  with claims. Where  I refer 
to RSA or the insurer I include the intermediary, engineers and others  insofar as I hold RSA 
responsible for their actions.
The policy didnt cover damage caused by sludge,  scale and other debris.
On Sunday 30 September 2018 Mrs R returned home, turned on her central  heating  and 
noticed water running through  her lounge ceiling. She called the insurer for help. But the 
insurer declined to help until Mrs R had got someone else to trace and access  the source  of 
the leak. 
Mrs R paid £126.00 for a local tradesman  to cut a hole in her ceiling to trace  and access the 
source of the leak.
The insurer  sent an engineer on 1 October  2018. He said there  was a leaking manifold, but 
the policy didnt  cover repair because there was sludge in the system. Mrs R paid him 
privately £120.00 for repair  of the leaking manifold. 
On 2 October 2018 the engineer did an annual service. He found sludge  in the magnetic 
filter and cleaned it out. Mrs R complained that in July 2017 the engineer who did the annual  
service hadnt cleaned her filter. She complained  that the insurer  should reimburse her for 
her payments to the local tradesman  and to the engineer. She didnt  claim the costs  of 
putting right the lounge  ceiling, and redecorating.  
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  She didnt think  that 
RSA acted fairly in rejecting Mrs Rs claim. She said that if the contractor had checked and 
cleaned the magnetic tray as the policy says it will, it couldve highlighted the presence of 
sludge and given Mrs R an opportunity  to put things right before the leak occurred. The 
investigator said that the overall handling  of the claim had been poor. She recommended 
that RSA should pay Mrs R:
Ref: DRN660262821.£240.00 for her payments to contractors; and
2.8% simple interest on this amount  from the time she paid the contractors; and
3.£100.00 compensation for distress and inconvenience
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mrs R 
and to RSA on 14 August  2019. I summarise my findings:
I didnt think the insurer treated  Mrs R unfairly by declining to visit until someone else 
had exposed the source of the leak.
The boiler was only about four years old. And it had been protected  by a magnetic 
filter. So I wasnt persuaded that there was enough technical evidence that sludge 
caused the leaking manifold. So I wasnt persuaded that the policy  excluded  its 
repair.
Mrs R hadnt shown  us an invoice or other evidence that she paid the engineer  
£120.00. But I was minded to find it fair and reasonable  to direct that  if she 
provides such evidence  RSA should reimburse her.
Subject to any further information from Mrs R or from RSA, my provisional decision was that 
I was minded to uphold  this complaint in part. I intended to direct Royal & Sun Alliance 
Insurance plc (if Mrs R provides an invoice or other document showing payment of £120.00  
to the engineer) to pay Mrs R:
1.£120.00 for her payment to the engineer;
2.simple interest on £120.00  at a yearly rate of 8% from 1 October 2018 to the date it 
pays her. If the insurer considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it must tell Mrs R how much  its taken  off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
RSA agreed with the provisional decision. It says that it has now seen its engineers invoice 
for £120.00.
Mrs R disagreed with the provisional decision. She says, in summary, that:
All of her dealings  have been  with the intermediary, she wasnt aware  it was 
operating on someone elses  behalf.
The broken  manifold  was in the void between the lounge ceiling and bedroom floor.
When challenged,  the intermediary has given  incorrect information, firstly to her 
concerning speaking to the engineer, then in relation to when and whether annual  
services were carried out. 
She has found this whole procedure extremely stressful, not only from being  out of 
pocket, but also from the intermediarys  cavalier  attitude.
Ref: DRN66026283my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the intermediarys policy terms dated  October 2016.  And I find that those  were  the 
terms that applied  to the first thirteen months of Mrs Rs policy,  including the annual  service 
in July 2017.
The policy terms dated October 2016  make  it clear that another  insurer  not RSA - was 
responsible for dealing  with claims. So I find that RSA had no involvement  and no 
responsibility for the annual service in July 2017.
Under the rules  by which the Financial Ombudsman  Service is bound, we can only deal with 
consumer complaints against  one insurer (or other  regulated financial services firm) at a 
time. Im dealing with a complaint  against  RSA. Mrs R may wish us to investigate her 
complaint against  the other  insurer. So I make  no findings about the service in July 2017.
Ive seen the intermediarys policy terms dated  November  2017. And I find that those were 
the terms that applied to Mrs Rs policy for the year from December 2017. 
The policy schedule said that Mrs Rs annual service was due in about July 2018.  And RSA 
has suggested that it did a service  that month.  But I dont think thats  correct.  I think Mrs R is 
correct that while she was away, the insurer tried to contact her to arrange a service.  So I 
dont hold the insurer responsible for the couple of months delay.
On her return, Mrs R reported  a leak through her lounge ceiling. And the policy  didnt say 
that it covered  tracing and accessing  leaks. Rather, one of the policy  conditions  was as 
follows:
If a leak from internal  pipework is discovered and is not easily accessible, the leak 
must be exposed prior to the [intermediary] engineers attendance
The leaking  manifold had to be accessed  by making a hole in the ceiling. So I think the leak 
wasnt easily accessible. I dont  think the insurer treated Mrs R unfairly  by declining to visit 
until someone else had exposed the source of the leak. So I wont direct RSA to pay Mrs R 
£126.00 for the cost of making access.
When he attended, the engineer sent by RSA said he would have to charge Mrs R privately  
because there was sludge in the system. 
But the onus is on the insurer to show that Mrs Rs claim was excluded. And the relevant 
exclusion requires the insurer to show not only the presence of sludge but also that it caused 
the damage. The engineers report noted sludge  but didnt say it was the cause of the 
leaking manifold.  The insurers notes later quoted the engineer  as saying that the damage 
was due to the sludge.  
But I keep in mind  that the boiler  was only about  four years old. And it had been  protected by 
a magnetic filter. So Im not persuaded that theres enough technical evidence  that sludge  
caused the leaking manifold. So Im not persuaded that the policy  excluded  its repair.
 
Ref: DRN66026284Mrs R has now shown us an invoice from the engineer for £120.00 dated 2 October 2018. 
So I find it fair and reasonable to direct that RSA should reimburse her.
Ive thought about directing the insurer to pay Mrs R compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience caused by RSA unfairly turning down her claim and her complaint. But I think 
much of this distress and inconvenience is to do with being out of pocket. So I find it fair 
enough to direct the insurer  to add interest  at our usual rate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. 
I direct  Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to pay Mrs R:
1.£120.00 for her payment to the engineer;
2.simple interest on £120.00  at a yearly rate of 8% from 2 October 2018 to the date it 
pays her. If the insurer considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it must tell Mrs R how much  its taken  off. It 
should also give her a tax deduction certificate if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6602628