K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about the mis-sale of payment protection  insurance  (PPI). Im aware Mrs H 
has made complaints  about a number of products.  So to be clear, this decision is about  the 
PPI sold with her Marks & Spencer personal  reserve  account in 1997.  
A company called Allianz Insurance plc is now responsible for these types of sale,  so Ill be 
referring to Allianz  throughout this decision.
background
I can see Mrs H has been offered some money  back, but Allianz says the PPI wasnt mis-
sold. One of our adjudicators looked at this complaint and also said it wasnt mis-sold. 
But Mrs H disagreed with this and asked for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Hs mis-sale  complaint.
We no longer have access to the original application form Mrs H used to set up her account 
as it was 22 years ago. But weve been sent an example of the type of form that was used 
at the time. This form corresponds with many others  Ive seen.
There was a section  on the form which was about  PPI and there  was a box to tick if it was 
something that Mrs H wanted to have. To get the PPI added, Mrs H would have also 
needed to fill out her name in the person insured box and enter her date of birth.  She 
would also have needed to sign the application  form at the bottom  of the page.  
So I think Mrs H would  have been  able to see the policy was optional  and that she didnt 
need to buy it if she didnt want to.
I dont think this was an advised  sale because I havent seen any of the type of paperwork  
we associate with advised sales. So I think Mrs Hs application form was filled out and then 
sent off to be processed, on a non-advised basis. This corresponds with many similar cases  
Ive seen.
This means  it was for Mrs H to decide  for herself  whether the PPI was right for her. She still 
had a right to be given  information that was clear so she could make an informed decision 
about what she wanted to do.
Obviously all this happened  a very long time ago and I cant say Mrs H was told everything 
she should have  been. And I can see ways in which the form could have  been  set out more 
clearly. But Im afraid this doesnt change my overall decision, because  I think Mrs H would 
have probably  still taken out the cover.
Ref: DRN67721022This is because I think she could see the policy  wasnt something she needed  to buy. I also 
think she was eligible for the cover  and not caught  by any of the main exclusions we tend to 
see in some of these policies. I can see the cost was disclosed on the form at the point 
where she was asked to make her choice. And at 65p for every £100 outstanding on her 
card account, I think the PPI was probably affordable  for her.
I think the benefits on this PPI compared well with other PPI policies  Ive seen in that Mrs H 
could have had her balance reduced  by 15% each month if shed needed to claim.  This 
could have continued until the balance  was paid off. So I think  the policy  was of use to her 
and as a non-advised sale, Im afraid Mrs H made her own decision about whether or not to 
add the cover.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs H, but I dont  think the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
Im not upholding this complaint and I dont  direct Allianz Insurance plc to do anything  more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6772102