K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Santander UK Plc incorrectly sent a letter relating to their 
savings account  to Mrs Ls ex-partner, Mr T. Mr and Mrs L were expecting to receive  a 
significant amount  of money from Mr Ts mothers estate, but as a result of this error have 
said they now think its very unlikely theyll receive  anything. Theyre  unhappy with the 
breach of confidentiality and distress caused  by this situation.
background
Santander sent a letter to Mr Ts address  about  some recent payments that had left Mr and 
Mrs Ls joint savings account.  Mr T is Mrs Ls ex-partner, and she used  to live at that 
address.
Mrs L was expecting some money from the estate of Mr Ts mother, and when this didnt 
happen, Mr T said hed give her some money.
Mr and Mrs L have said that Mr T opened the letter and called them  to say it looked like they 
didnt need the money  hed previously said he was going to give them.
Mr and Mrs L complained  to Santander  that as Mr T will no longer give Mrs L any money 
theyll lose out on a significant amount.
Santander replied  and accepted theyd made  a mistake. They  told Mr and Mrs L what to do 
to fix the issue with the address and said by way of an apology theyd offer £250 
compensation  this included £20 per person to register with CIFAS, a fraud prevention 
agency.
Mr and Mrs L did follow what Santander had told them to do to resolve the address  issue,  
but didnt accept the compensation awarded.  They said serious  distress  had been  caused, 
and there  were breaches of confidentiality  for both of them.  They were also extremely 
unhappy at the financial loss resulting from Mr T saying hed no longer pay them  any money.  
Mr L has said although Santander couldnt reasonably  have seen what was going to happen 
the situation is Mr T is no longer going  to pay this money. As such, Santander are 
responsible for some  of this loss.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint. They  didnt think Santander could reasonably  
have foreseen  that sending this letter in error would mean Mrs Ls ex-partner wouldnt give 
them money previously  promised  so they didnt award anything  for this. And they felt the 
award of £250  was sufficient to resolve  this complaint  as the primary reason for the 
distress was not receiving  the money Mr T had said hed give them.
Mr and Mrs L accepted  that Santander  couldnt have known what  would happen. But they 
felt £250 should be awarded  to each of them,  as there were two breaches of security as well 
as distress caused primarily to Mrs L. And they didnt  agree the primary reason for the 
distress was because of the money no longer being paid, but rather  because of the breaches  
of security and Mrs L having her ex-partner  know  some of her current financial situation.  
Because of this, the case has been passed  to me.
Ref: DRN60416722my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im satisfied that the 
compensation of £250 is a fair award to resolve this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs L have said this is a breach of both their data, and combined with the distress  
caused to Mrs L in particular means  £250 isnt enough.
I can accept that Mr and Mrs L have both been  caused distress as a result of this situation  
and Im sorry to hear that. But when considering compensation for this error I have to think 
about the impact  its had, and any potential implications.
Mr and Mrs L have had to deal with Mr T knowing some information about their financial 
situation. That shouldnt  have happened. But Ive not seen anything  to make me think theres 
a significant concern regarding the security  of their information. And Santander said the 
compensation theyve  awarded means Mr and Mrs L could register with CIFAS if theyd like 
to. This would reduce that risk, so I dont think this is a good reason to increase the 
compensation.
Mr L has explained its been distressing for Mrs L to have her ex-partner know  anything 
about her current financial  situation.  And again,  this shouldnt have happened. But this 
contact didnt come out of the blue which couldve been more distressing  they were  in 
touch about the potential  payment from Mr T. The letter Mr T received was also about  a 
savings account   it didnt relate to a current account which  couldve shown more detail 
about Mr and Mrs Ls day to day financial spending. And setting aside  that potential  
payment, and while I do accept Mr and Mrs L have been caused distress by this situation, 
Ive not seen enough to make me think the award  Santander have offered isnt fair.
Although Mr and Mrs L accepted our adjudicators view about part of the complaint I think its 
helpful to for me to address this issue of foreseeability in this case to give a full answer.
Santander have  accepted  they sent Mr and Mrs Ls joint savings account letter to Mr T in 
error. Im satisfied based on what Ive seen Santander didnt know  of the potential impact of 
this mistake. And the agreement  between  Mr T and Mrs L was a private one with no legal 
obligation on Mr T to pay this money,  so I cant say the payment was guaranteed. I also note 
the amount Mr and Mrs L say Mr T was originally going to pay was quite a lot more than the 
amounts mentioned in the mis-addressed letter. With all this in mind,  I dont think its fair to 
award any compensation against Santander for the financial loss Mr and Mrs L have said 
theyll now experience.
Mr and Mrs L have made  reference  to other  cases where were awarded compensation, and 
argued their situation is worse. But each case is considered on its own merits and Im 
satisfied that £250  is a fair amount given the overall circumstances of this particular case. 
Santander UK Plc should pay the amount of £250  to Mr and Mrs L, if they havent already 
done so. 
Ref: DRN60416723my final decision
It follows, for the reasons Ive given, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Jon Pearce
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6041672