K820x#14complaint
Mr R says Nationwide Building  Society  (Nationwide) mis-sold  him two payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policies.
background
Mr R bought a PPI policy when he borrowed £9,500 in 1999. Mr R borrowed an extra 
£1,260.64 to pay for the policy. This is called a single premium PPI policy   and Mr R had to 
pay interest on the extra he borrowed. Below,  Ill refer to this loan as Loan 1.
In 2000, Mr R borrowed £11,500  in part, to repay  Loan 1. He bought a single premium  PPI 
policy with this loan too and borrowed an extra £1,936.05 to pay for it. Below, Ill refer to this 
loan as Loan 2.
Mr R says both policies  were mis-sold.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold his complaint.
Mr R doesnt agree with the adjudicators conclusions and has asked  that an ombudsman 
make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Rs complaint.
Mr R says he took out both loans in a branch of Nationwide. Nationwide  says it was over the 
phone.
For Loan 1, Nationwide has sent us:
a copy of the application form Mr R completed  and signed on 2 March 1999
a screenshot  of its internal records which shows the call notes made  by a sales  
advisor or sales advisors from Nationwide on 9, 12 and 16 March  1999
a copy of the loan agreement.
The application form was completed by hand.  The only printed information is Mr Rs address 
in the top left-hand  corner. At the top of the form, it says Mr R can apply for a loan in one of 
three ways:  he can call the phone number provided;  he can complete the form and return it 
in the envelope provided; or, he can complete the form and fax it to Nationwide. So it looks  
like Mr R initially completed and returned  an application form hed been sent in the post.
Someone from Nationwide then called Mr R. The screenshot Ive seen  shows a sales 
advisor called  Mr R on 9 March 1999 but he was busy. So a sales advisor  called him back 
on 12 March 1999. The sales  advisors  note for this call says:
Ref: DRN61127692mr t/o will need 9500 to inc settling ntl, gave  him pmts for 9500 x 48 with and w/out  
ins, he to think about and call back.
Mr R spoke to a sales advisor again on 16 March  1999. The note says:
mr t/o will go for 9500  x 48 with ins.
Mr R signed the loan agreement on 18 March 1999.  Nationwides representative signed it on 
22 March 1999.  This usually happens when a loan is arranged  over the phone.  The 
agreement is signed on different days because  its sent to the consumer in the post after the 
telephone call, for the consumer to sign and return. If it had been a branch sale, Id have 
expected the representative to have signed  the agreement on the same day as Mr R. Based 
on all the evidence Ive seen, I think its most likely  this was a telephone sale.
For Loan 2, Nationwide has only sent me a copy of the loan agreement. Like Loan 1, Mr R 
signed it a few days before someone from Nationwide signed  it. So similarly, I think its most  
likely this was a telephone sale too.
Nationwide cant provide a call recording of any telephone conversations.  So I cant  be sure 
what was said. But Ive carefully considered the other information available.
I can see Mr R ticked a box on the application form for Loan  1 to indicate  he didnt want PPI. 
But the call notes Ive mentioned above  indicate PPI was discussed, and Mr R was offered 
Loan 1 with and without  PPI (referred to as ins in the call notes). It looks like he took a few 
days to think about it before  deciding to take the loan with PPI. The loan agreements for both 
loans  which follow the same format  refer to PPI as Optional Credit Insurance and set 
out the cost of PPI separately. On balance, I think  Mr R knew  he had a choice and chose to 
buy PPI with both loans.
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend Mr R buy either policy. And Mr R agrees.  This means  it 
didnt have to make sure the policies were suitable for him. But it had to tell him about the 
policies in a way that was clear, fair and not misleading so that he could make an informed 
decision about whether or not to buy them.
As I dont know what was said during the phone  calls,  its possible the information  Mr R was 
given wasnt as clear  as it should have  been. However, for the reasons Ive explained above, 
I think Mr R chose to buy PPI, so I think he wanted this type of cover. And I think hed have 
known, broadly, that the policies would have covered his loan payments  if he couldnt work.  
Ive checked and based on what Mr R has told us, he was eligible for the policies. He was 
employed and in good health so he wasnt affected  by any exclusions or limitations which 
might materially affect a self-employed consumer or someone who had a pre-existing  
medical condition.
Mr R says he would have  lost out if hed cancelled  the policies early.  But he would have 
received a proportional refund if hed cancelled the policies early.  So he wouldnt have lost 
out.
Ive considered what Mr R has said about  the sick pay hed receive  from his employer. He 
told us he would have  received full pay for six months and half pay for six months. But as 
Nationwide didnt make  a recommendation, it was for Mr R to decide whether or not the 
policy met his needs. He would have known his sick pay when he chose to buy the policy.  
So I dont  think it would  have made  a difference  if hed been given clearer information.
Ref: DRN61127693Id add that the policies  would have covered Mr Rs loan payments if he was off work  sick 
until he returned to work  or the loan was repaid. As the loan terms were four and five years, 
and he would have  had a significant  drop in income  if he was off work for more than six 
months, this would have  been a useful benefit.  Both policies would have also covered his 
loan payments for up to a year if hed lost his job. As hed only been  working  for his 
employer for six months when he took out Loan 1, and for just over two years  when he took 
out Loan 2, I dont  think hed have received much if he lost his job  so this element of the 
cover may have been especially  useful.
Mr R says he had savings  he could  have used if he couldnt work or lost his job. But again,  
Mr R would have known  how much  he had in savings when he chose to buy PPI. So I cant 
see how more or clearer  information  would have  made a difference.  Id also add that Loan 1 
was used to refinance  another  loan with Nationwide and repay £7,000  of credit card debt. 
Mr R hasnt said why he took out this loan (or Loan 2) if he had significant  savings. So he 
may be mistaken about the savings he had or he may have  set them  aside for some  reason. 
In any event, the PPI policies  meant  he wouldnt have had to rely on whatever savings he 
had if he was sick or lost his job.
Finally, I dont know if the cost of each policy was explained clearly on the phone. But the 
loan agreements Mr R signed showed:
how much Mr R was borrowing to pay for PPI
how much interest hed pay on the extra  he borrowed if the loan ran to term
how much hed pay for PPI, including  interest, if the loan ran to term
how much hed have  to pay each month as a result of the extra he borrowed.
So Mr R knew  how much each policy cost when  he signed and returned the loan 
agreements even if the cost of each policy wasnt explained clearly  on the phone.
All things  considered, I dont think Mr R has lost out because of anything Nationwide did 
wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 February  2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6112769