K822xcomplaint
Mr R complains that Nationwide  Building Society  took two months  to replace his bank card 
and he had bad customer service when chasing this up.
background 
Mr R had his bank  card stopped in October 2018. Nationwide attempted  to send him a new 
card three times but because they were having  a problem with their system, the card was 
not issued. Mr R was without his card for seven weeks.
Mr R had to phone Nationwide  many times to chase his card over the course of seven 
weeks. During the calls he complained  about  the customer service he received from 
Nationwide staff. Nationwide offered  £400  in compensation for their errors.
Mr R was not happy and complained to us that £400 was not enough.
Our investigator agreed that £400  was fair in the circumstances because  Mr R did have 
access to his money in branch and through online  banking although he did not have the 
convenience of being able to use his debit card. But she accepts the stress and upset that 
the delays and numerous phone calls had on Mr R. Mr R was unhappy with this and the 
matter has come to me for final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Nationwide have accepted that there  was a major  technical issue  with generating a card for 
Mr R. As a result he was without a card for nearly two months despite three attempts at 
getting a card to him. It has already offered to pay compensation of £400  to reflect the 
inconvenience of being without a card and the bad customer service he has received. So I 
have considered what the impact of all this was on Mr R and whether the offer of 
compensation is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
The impact  on Mr R of being  without his card for nearly two months was that he needed to 
travel to his nearest branch  to get cash out. He went to his branch 14 times over the course 
of that period to take cash out. This is different  to his usual activity  where  he would use 
contactless daily and would take cash from the cash machine every couple  of days. Mr R 
also had to carry cash around for his daily expenses, which he normally  doesnt have to do. 
He also had to pay more attention to his budgeting, as it was harder for him to access  his 
money.
Mr R says that he wasnt able to travel to work  because he couldnt top up his oyster  card. 
However, I agree with the investigator that Mr R could have topped up his oyster  card with 
cash and that would  have allowed him to go to work and university. I do not think Nationwide 
can be held responsible for Mr R not doing  this. Mr R also complained  that he was unable  to 
do his laundry without  his card. I think Nationwide  are not responsible  for the stress Mr R felt 
at not being able to go to work or do his laundry as he had access  to cash  through  his 
branch which  would have made it possible for him to do both.
Because the promised cards didnt arrive Mr R had to chase up Nationwide and had some 
stressful conversations.  Nationwide  have accepted that there has been a lot of 
Ref: DRN64721662miscommunication. Having to keep contacting Nationwide to chase his card and explaining 
the issues has been stressful for Mr R who had to go to the doctors  and was on medication 
for stress for six weeks.
I have listened  to Mr Rs calls with Nationwide. I acknowledge that the calls on the 12 and 13 
November were particularly frustrating for Mr R since  he thought  he was returning  a 
managers call and instead  ended up on the phone for hours trying to locate the manager 
who was dealing with his case. The staff he spoke to were  polite and wanted to help but 
were unable to provide  a resolution and did not take responsibility for dealing  with his issue.  
Mr R found himself calling the contact  centre  numerous times and having to explain his issue  
repeatedly. I acknowledge the impact  that all this had on Mr Rs stress levels and health.  
Nationwide have acknowledged that the calls could  have been handled better.
Taking all of this into account,  I was minded  to award Mr R £600  because I think that £600  
would be a fair and reasonable amount of compensation to reflect  Mr Rs stress and the 
inconvenience he suffered because of being without his card for so long.
responses to my provisional  decision
Nationwide has accepted my provisional  decision. Mr R hasnt  provided  any comments. 
my findings
Although Mr R hasnt provided  any comments,  I have nevertheless re-considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of this complaint.  I have  seen nothing to change my mind and so my provisional findings 
stand.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint and I direct Nationwide Building  Society  to pay Mr R a 
total of £600 for his material distress and inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6472166