K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained about  Perspective (West)  Limited. They are unhappy with 
the service it provided to them.
 
background
Mr and Mrs W say that the problems with their advisers, Perspective (West), began in June  
2017 when a quarterly payment wasnt received as expected from their pension  provider. 
This had to be queried with the pension  provider which said that here was insufficient  cash  in 
the account to make  the payment. This was resolved in July 2017. Mr and Mrs W questioned 
why this possibility  had not been  picked up by their advisers given there had always been  a 
quarterly payment since the pension was set up.
The next issue arose when Mr and Mrs W were asked to sign an authorisation for 
rebalancing funds in an investment bond. This was completed but when they received 
confirmation of the rebalancing  from the bond  provider it wasnt consistent with what they 
had agreed. Ultimately the bond  provider accepted that this was due to its system errors. Mr 
and Mrs W raised  this issue  with Perspective  and questioned  whether  it had checked  the 
calculations.
Then at an annual review  meeting in February  2018 Mr and Mrs W, were  advised to dispose  
of the bond and to arrange Self Investment Personal Pensions (SIPPs) instead. The balance 
of the funds from the bond could be invested  into their ISAs.  Arranging SIPPs would allow 
Mr and Mrs W to benefit  from tax relief of £900.  This would offset  the cost of the bond 
surrender which  was £1290. Mr and Mrs W say they agreed  to go ahead providing this could  
be completed before the end of the tax year.
Mr and Mrs W say that they were then surprised  to receive a call from Perspective  on 23 
March 2018 when the adviser apologised for not starting work on the surrender of the bond. 
They say the adviser asked,  given time was now short, that they send a cheque  to fund both 
SIPPs. Mr and Mrs W were about to leave for a weekend break and could do nothing  about  
arranging the payment  there and then.  Mr and Mrs W didnt have cash available and told the 
adviser to do nothing until they could speak again.  The adviser said he would telephone  
again next week.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  think there was time to complete the transaction by the financial year 
end. They decided to complain to the business.  By not setting up the SIPPs the annual tax 
reliefs were  lost. They complained that the fees they had paid the business werent justified 
given the poor service.
The business responded to the complaint. It said that it wasnt  certain  why the pension 
payment had failed.  It had operated  successfully  for many years but it wasnt responsible for 
the pension payments. This was a matter for the pension provider. It wasnt  responsible for 
the actions of this third party.  This was an isolated  error and had been corrected swiftly. With 
regard to the bond, the bond  provider had accepted that it was in error and the error had 
been rectified quickly. 
It added that at the time of the call on 23 March 2018, the financial advice report was 
complete but awaiting final checks, there  appeared to be available  cash to make the pension 
contributions and a payment to the SIPPs was still feasible as a cheque or electronic 
payment was only necessary by 5 April to meet HMRC requirements for tax relief.  Similar 
Ref: DRN63266432advice had been given in previous years  but not followed. So it said that the likelihood  was 
that in reality Mr and Mrs W had given up on this exercise (arranging SIPPs)  by 23 March or 
certainly by 26 March.
Mr and Mrs W commented on that response  and said, in summary, the bond provider had 
thanked them for pointing  out the error.  It wouldnt have come  to light without  their 
involvement. They had considered setting  up SIPPs before as advised, but had decided 
against it. The need for cash to set up the SIPPs  only arose  because  of the delay in 
surrendering the bond. It would have taken three days  to transfer money  from the building 
society to the bank before a cheque could  be sent.  No mention was made at the time about  
the possibility  of a cheque  being sent direct  to the SIPP provider. Due to the Easter holidays 
a cheque wouldnt reach the SIPP provider  until 3 April and there  would be no time for it to 
clear by 5 April. The SIPP provider said that it would take six days to set up the SIPPs, and 
this wouldnt be completed in time. And they hadnt  given up on the SIPPs as they have set 
up similar products with a different adviser since then.
The complaint was referred  to this service where  it was considered  by an adjudicator. He 
didnt think that it should be upheld. In summary he said;
The failed quarterly  income payment was due to a failure of a pro-rata  function  
which was required to facilitate the sale of funds  to the cash  account  to provide the 
cash withdrawal. It was uncertain as to how this function failed and why it had to be 
reinstated, having worked perfectly well in previous years.  This was a one off error  
which was quickly corrected. There was no loss caused and the impact of the error  
appears to have been relatively minimal.
Mr and Mrs W had contacted the bond  provider  directly  about the rebalancing and 
they promised  to investigate further. It subsequently  confirmed that the allocations 
had been calculated wrongly  by its system.  This was an error made by the bond 
provider. It was identified  and corrected with relatively minimal impact upon Mr and 
Mrs W.
With regard to the telephone call on 23 March  and finding cash  to make the pension 
contributions for the SIPPs, the SIPP provider  would require receipt of a cheque  or 
electronic payment  by 5 April to meet HMRC's requirement for tax relief, not cleared 
funds. This was confirmed  by HMRC tax manual. The adjudicator  felt that there was 
ample time for the SIPPs  to be set up.
Mr and Mrs W didnt  agree.  They  added  that their loss was not theoretical. Had Perspective 
carried out the agreed work in time they would be £900 better off. They have since  set up 
pension accounts  with advice from a new adviser.  It was never suggested  that payment 
could be made direct  to the SIPP provider and they were not told that it wasnt necessary  to 
have cleared funds  until much  later.  They paid fees for management  services  and as such, 
Perspective should have checked  that the rebalancing was carried  out as requested.
As no agreement has been reached the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive summarised what  each party has said 
in this complaint  but I have read everything. My decision  will focus on the issues  which  I 
consider to be crucial  to the outcome.
Ref: DRN63266433Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I agree  with the adjudicator and broadly  with his 
conclusions. I sympathise with Mr and Mrs W, they seem to have suffered from errors in the 
handling of their bond and also in relation to payments from their pension.  They  also 
consider that they were placed in a difficult position  when  they feel they werent  given 
sufficient time to arrange SIPPs. This meant that they didnt  take full advantage of the tax 
benefits that would have  arisen had they made  pension contributions in time.
Its clear that errors were made  when  Mr and Mrs Ws bond was rebalanced. But its also 
clear that those errors were primarily the responsibility of the bond provider and not 
Perspective.  Once Mr and Mrs W pointed out the errors, they were corrected quickly  and 
there was no actual loss as a result of them. I can understand their concern because they 
feel that it fell upon  them  to check the rebalancing and identify the errors. And I can 
appreciate that this may have damaged their confidence in Perspective. But ultimately,  
Perspective wasnt responsible for the actual  errors,  and these were corrected quickly  and 
there was no actual loss. 
The position  with the pension payment is similar. The pension provider is responsible for the 
regular payments and not Perspective. The payment had been  made  correctly  for years but 
on this one occasion it failed. Again, this was put right quite quickly and theres nothing to 
suggest that Perspective was in any way responsible for the payment not being  made as 
scheduled.
Mr and Mrs W may have  felt there  was insufficient  time to arrange the SIPPs when they 
spoke with Perspective on 23 and 26 March. But I agree with the adjudicator that the SIPPs 
could probably  have been set up in time so that tax relief  could  have been  claimed.  Time 
may have  been  tight, and the situation wasnt ideal but I think that if Mr and Mrs W had 
committed to going  ahead  with the SIPPs at that point it could have been achieved.  There 
was the impact of the Easter  holidays which would have reduced the working  days available, 
but I still think there was sufficient time.  The SIPP provider didnt need  cleared funds,  only to 
be in receipt of a cheque. Mr and Mrs W may not have  been told that specifically, but thats  
probably something that would have become apparent had they decided  to go ahead at that 
point.
I can see that by 26 March their confidence in Perspective had been damaged.  That 
probably had some  influence on their thinking, but Im satisfied  that the SIPPs  could have 
been arranged  in time if they had gone ahead.  I can understand why they chose not to, but 
equally, I dont  think it would be fair and reasonable to uphold  the complaint when the 
relevant tax reliefs  could  probably have been secured had they chosen to go ahead.
Mr and Mrs W decided  to move to another adviser.  That is something that they are entitled 
to do. I have noted that the new advisers charges are higher, but thats not something that I 
can reasonably  say Perspective is responsible for. Mr and Mrs W are free to instruct  
whoever they wish and ultimately, its their decision if they choose to instruct a business with 
higher charges.
Ref: DRN63266434my final decision
So for these reasons I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 March  2020.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6326643