K820x#13complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001 during a meeting.  Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax mis-sold him the 
PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr R aware that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before  
adding it to his card. I dont know for certain what was said at the time but Halifax  has sent 
us a copy of the paperwork  available from the time. Mr Rs credit  card application form had 
his personal details completed, and a separate section  where  PPI was selected before the 
form was printed. I think its likely the form was completed during  a conversation  Mr R had 
with the Halifax  representative. Mr R was also agreeing to an important financial 
commitment, so I would  have expected  him to have read the form thoroughly and asked any 
questions he might have  had before signing in agreement with the selections made on it. 
With the in mind I think Halifax made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out  although I can understand why he may not remember  this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr R so it had to check that the PPI was right for him. Mr R 
has told us that he would  have been  entitled to some sick pay at the time. But the PPI would 
have paid out in addition  to Mr Rs sick pay, and for longer. Based on what Ive seen of 
Mr Rs circumstances at the time he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits  on 
the PPI cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  So I think it was right for him.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr R about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr R paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr R back  some  of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
If Halifax hasnt already it will make  arrangements to pay Mr R now Ive issued  my final 
decision. 
Ref: DRN68027042my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6802704