K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  that Barclays Bank Plc rejected her claim under Section 75 Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 in respect  of a washing machine and fridge  freezer.
background
Miss O bought a washing machine on 29 July 2011  and a fridge freezer on 3 August 2011 
from a retailer I will call A using her credit card. She contacted  Barclays  in February 2018 to 
make a claim under section 75. She said at the point of delivery in 2011 she noticed there 
was a problem  with both items and believed it to be a manufacturing  fault.
She says that she was in contact with the manufacturer over the years as she encountered 
various problems. The manufacturer  has a record of an engineer  visiting  Miss O in March  
2012 and clearing ice from the fan blade. It said its next contact was in early 2018  when  the 
fridge freezer was found to be beyond repair. Miss O said she thought the fridge freezer had 
been the subject of a recall. 
After the claim and subsequent complaint had been  rejected  by Barclays  the matter was 
brought to this service. It was considered by one of our investigators  who didnt recommend 
it be upheld. Initially it was thought that the complaint was out of time due to the fact the 
faults had arisen  back in 2011, but it was accepted that this was not the case.
The investigator spoke  with the manufacturer  and was established that the fridge  freezer had 
been the subject of a recall for repairs to be carried out. He asked the manufacturer  to get in 
touch with Miss O. I gather it offered to replace the fridge freezer at cost price  due to the 
time that had elapsed  since  she had bought  it. Miss O rejected that offer.
Miss O also supplied copy of a letter she had sent to Barclays  in May 2014 asking for a 
refund of the purchase price  for both items. The investigator also discovered that Miss O had 
bought an extended warranty, but it wasnt clear that she had made any claim under that.
The investigator felt that as Miss O hadnt  contacted Barclays until over three years had 
passed it was difficult to say that the machine had been faulty  at the point of sale. While he 
acknowledged she had encountered some issues he also believed she had had use of both 
items for over six years and any faults would be most likely down to wear  and tear. He also 
said that even  if it was established  that the goods had been faulty when they were bought it 
was clear that Miss O had made  significant use of them so she wouldnt be entitled to a 
refund of the full cost.
Miss O didnt  agree and said that she had been  in contact with the manufacturer  shortly  after 
purchase. She said that as a loyal customer of Barclays it should refund the purchase price.  
The engineer who had called in 2018 had identified the fridge freezer  as dangerous. She 
explained she was disabled and relied  on these products.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
Ref: DRN61828652purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
The issue  is whether the goods were fit for purpose at the point of sale and while  I have 
every sympathy with Miss O I dont consider I can conclude that I have seen sufficient  
evidence to uphold  her complaint.
Miss O says that she was in frequent contact with the manufacturer, but it only has record  of 
a visit in 2012 for what appears to be routine maintenance and again in 2018.  If the goods  
had been faulty I would have expected  the issue to have been addressed earlier.  Or 
alternatively I would have expected Miss O to claim under the extended  warranty which  she 
had purchased. The passage if time has made  it difficult  to establish that either  machine was 
not fit for purpose  when they were  bought. 
The other evidence  I have seen is a copy of a letter Miss O sent to Barclays  in 2014  which  is 
some three years after she bought the goods. That indicates she had been  having problems, 
but it is not clear  why she didnt follow this up when she received no response.  Barclays  
says it has no record of that letter.
So I can see that Miss O had experienced some issues with both machines, though it seems 
the fridge freezer has been  more problematic.  However, it doesnt follow that they were  not 
fit for purpose when  they were bought.
I have considered the recall for the fridge freezer, but this was for repairs  and not 
replacement. Miss O doesnt seem to have acted on the recall  and so I cant  hold Barclays 
responsible for those  repairs not being done  at the time. 
Regrettably white goods have a shelf life and it is possible for them to suffer wear and tear 
over a period  of some seven years  which can result in them no longer  being usable. That 
doesnt mean they werent fit for purpose back in 2011. And even if I were to uphold  her 
complaint I would have  to take into account  that she has had over six years worth of use 
even if they had reliability problems. Any compensation  I would be able to recommend would 
be minimal. 
I appreciate that Miss O relies on these machines, but I dont consider I can ask Barclays to 
accept her section 75 claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Miss O to accept or reject my decision before 
7 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6182865