K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Ms P say Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold  them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr N when he applied for a mortgage in 
1994. The policy covered Mr N for accident,  sickness and unemployment. Ms P became a 
party to the mortgage later.
Santander merged  with the business that originally  sold Mr N the mortgage and PPI and it is 
responsible for dealing  with this complaint. So, to keep things simpler, Ill refer to Santander  
as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr N and Ms P disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. Mr Ns main concern is that he was given insufficient information  about the monthly  
cost of the policy. He also says it wasnt  made clear why the policy  was suitable for him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
I think Santander made Mr N aware  that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it out. 
I say this because  where  it mentions PPI on Mr Ns mortgage application  it says:  We 
recommend that your monthly mortgage payments are protected  against the event of 
Redundancy, Accident  and Sickness. This can be arranged through  ourselves
It goes on to explain that the policy  is only available  to some applicants.  There  are 2 tick 
boxes offering different levels of cover. 
Mr N ticked to say he wanted  to apply for redundancy, accident and sickness  cover.  
So, on balance, I think PPI was added to Mr N and Ms Ps mortgage when Mr N decided he 
wanted to have the benefits the policy  could  offer him and he chose the cover  he wanted.  
Santander recommended  the PPI and it doesnt  look like it was unsuitable  based  on what 
Ive seen of Mr N and Ms Ps circumstances at the time. 
Ive taken into account what Mr N and Ms P told us about their sick pay and the other  means 
they couldve relied on if they werent  working. PPI wouldve paid out on top of sick pay and 
for longer - up to 24 months per claim. This couldve been a useful  benefit  at whats likely to 
have been a difficult time if Mr N needed  to claim, especially as he mightve had extra  costs  
if he was ill or disabled. The policy wouldve also paid out for up to 24 months per claim in 
the event that Mr N lost his job unexpectedly  and was out of work. 
Ref: DRN69592742I dont know if Mr N and Ms P wouldve always had savings they couldve relied on to cover 
their mortgage monthly repayments and other outgoings if Mr N wasnt  working. And PPI 
provided more dependable  protection than relying  on others for financial assistance. So 
I think having this cover wouldve been important  to Mr N at the time. 
Mr N was eligible for the policy. Its possible some of the information Mr N was given about 
the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  There were some  things  the policy didnt cover.  
But it doesnt look as if those applied in Mr Ns case.  So, I dont think having more 
information about things the policy didnt cover wouldve affected his decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr N when he bought  the policy. But Ive seen 
nothing to suggest the policy wasnt affordable for Mr N. He chose  the level of cover he 
wanted so it seems he was happy at the time to pay for it. Mr N and Ms P couldve cancelled 
the policy at any time (or reduced the amount of cover) if the cost became a problem for 
them or they didn't want to keep paying  for it. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr N still wouldve  decided to buy the policy even  if hed been better  informed as the 
policy offered useful protection in his particular situation. 
So, I dont find that Mr N and Ms P lost out as a result of anything that Santander mightve  
done wrong. This means  Santander doesnt need to do anything to put things  right.
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Ms P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6959274