K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs M have  complained about  the decline of a claim made under their serious illness 
policy with Vitality Corporate Services Limited  (Vitality).
Background
Mr and Mrs M have  a policy  with Vitality which provided them each with life and serious 
illness cover.  The policy started in December 2014.  If either of them were to be diagnosed 
with any of the serious illnesses covered by the policy, theyd receive a percentage of the 
£50,000 serious illness benefit.
In February 2018  Mr M made a claim following surgery to treat a perforated  bowel. Vitality  
considered the claim but declined it as it said Mr Ms specific  condition  wasnt  covered.
Mr M complained. He said his condition  was extremely serious  and hed spent considerable 
time in hospital being treated and recovering.  He didnt  think  it was fair for Vitality to 
differentiate between the condition hed suffered and a total colectomy, which  was covered 
under the policy.  Mr and Mrs M also asked  Vitality to remove the serious  illness benefit.
Vitality didnt change  its decision. It also removed the serious illness  benefit  and explained 
no further claims could be considered.
Mr and Mrs M referred their complaint to our service. Mr M said theyd taken the policy  out in 
good faith that it would cover them for serious  health  conditions. He also said that he thought  
it would  be fair for Vitality to pay out a percentage of the benefit, as it did for other conditions.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She thought the decision to decline the claim 
was fair as Mr Ms condition  wasnt listed as one of the illnesses covered. She explained the 
policy was set up to cover a specific number of illnesses,  and the benefit payable  depended 
upon the severity  of the illness. She said she couldnt hold Vitality responsible for what  Mr 
and Mrs M believed the policy would cover  as it was sold to them  by an independent 
financial adviser (IFA).
Mr and Mrs M asked  for an ombudsman to consider their complaint as they expected the 
policy to assist in these circumstances.
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
I first wish to say Im sorry to hear about Mr Ms health. Its clear  his condition  was very 
serious, requiring  significant treatment in hospital.  I dont doubt  that it has caused him and 
his family  distress and financial worry. I can also completely understand why he believed his 
policy wouldve provided some cover in light of the seriousness of his illness.
That said,  I do think Vitalitys decision to decline Mr Ms claim was fair. According to the 
report completed by his consultant, Mr M suffered a perforated sigmoid  diverticulum which 
required sigmoid colectomy and a temporary  colostomy. This essentially meant that Mr M 
suffered from a perforated bowel, which required surgery to remove part of his bowel. 
Mr and Mrs Ms policy sets out the medical conditions and treatments that it covers;  the only 
Ref: DRN65355022relevant condition under which Mr Ms claim could be considered is total colectomy. This is 
defined as:
Removal of the whole  of the colon creating an opening on the abdomen joining the small 
intestine to the abdomen wall called an Ileostomy. This procedure  is covered if it is 
established that the ileostomy is permanent in the opinion of both a Consultant 
Gastroenterologist and our Chief Medical  Officer.
It isnt in dispute that part of Mr Ms colon was removed, rather  than his whole colon. For this 
reason, his condition  doesnt meet the definition under the policy. So, I think  it was 
reasonable for Vitality to decline the claim.
Mr M feels this is unfair. He thinks Vitality  should  at least  make  a partial payment given the 
severity of his condition.
I appreciate Mr Ms strength of feeling  on the matter and why he feels  a partial payment 
should be made. But Mr and Mrs Ms policy isnt designed to cover each and every illness 
that a person may suffer  from. The policy terms clearly set out what illnesses are covered 
and the level of severity  attributed  to it. They also specify that no payment  will be made for 
illnesses that arent  listed or illnesses that dont meet the policy  definition.  All policies of this 
nature limit the illnesses that they cover  although  Vitalitys policy  is one of the most  
comprehensive on the market. To cover every  illness of any severity would be very difficult 
to achieve and would be unaffordable for most consumers.  So, critical illness policies  cover  
the most  common and serious illnesses experienced to keep premiums  affordable.
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M may not have understood this when they agreed  to take the 
policy out, but it was the responsibility  of the IFA to explain the cover to them. And I think  
Vitality provided Mr and Mrs M with sufficient information about how the policy  worked after it 
started in 2014.
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 September 2019.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6535502