K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say National Westminster Bank plc mis-sold them a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy in 1996  when they applied  for a mortgage in one of the 
banks branches.  The cover  was in Mr Cs sole name and gave him protection against  
accident, sickness and unemployment. They paid a monthly amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs C disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
NatWest had to make  it clear to Mr and Mrs C the PPI was optional,  and they had to agree 
to take it. Mr and Mrs C say they had no idea they had PPI, there  was no discussion and it 
was added without  their consent.  They  have  also said they felt pressured to take it out. This 
seems however inconsistent with their comment that there  was no discussion about  it. As I 
cant know what was said in the meeting, Ive thought carefully  about  Mr and Mrs Cs 
comments and looked at the paperwork available from the sale. 
On Mr and Mrs Cs mortgage offer it said You have selected a monthly benefit of £400  
under Mortgage Repayment Protector  Insurance  . This suggests me it was presented  to 
them as optional. The cost was also set out separately.  They  also completed and signed a 
separate direct debit  mandate for the PPI. I havent  been able to find strong  enough 
evidence to support  their claim they were  pressured  to take it. And I have to take into 
account how long ago the sale was and how that might affect  what  they recall.
So overall, I think its most likely NatWest made it clear the PPI was optional, and Mr and 
Mrs C chose to take it.
NatWest didnt recommend the PPI so it didnt  have to make sure the policy was suitable  for 
Mr C. But it had to give clear, fair and not misleading  information  about the PPI so that they 
could make a properly informed choice.
Its possible NatWest didnt give Mr and Mrs C as much information as it shouldve  done. But 
I dont think better information  wouldve put them off taking out the PPI for Mr C. I say this 
because:
It seems  Mr C was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
main things  not covered by the policy.
Ref: DRN68018512Mr C told us he was entitled  to six months  full pay and six months half pay if he was off 
work sick. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to his work benefits and for up to 12 
months. He said he had some savings  but the PPI wouldve allowed him to use them to 
cover other living expenses whilst not working.  Mr C also said his partner already  had 
similar cover but Mrs C wasnt covered under this policy so thats not relevant to this 
sale. Given the consequences for Mr and Mrs C of defaulting  on a debt secured against  
their home, I think the PPI would have been  useful for them  if Mr C was sick or lost his 
job.
I dont know when  the cost was first made  clear  to Mr and Mrs C but I havent seen any 
evidence that the PPI premium was unaffordable,  and the policy  was competitively 
priced.
It follows that I dont think Mr and Mrs C have  lost out because of any problems with the 
sale.
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 June  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6801851