K822xcomplaint
Mr H is unhappy with how Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited (trading as 
Barclays Partner Finance) has treated him.
Hes unhappy that Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) paid his kitchen supplier without his
agreement and with its subsequent actions  in relation to a section 75 (s75)  claim, debt
collection activities and the effect all of this has had on his credit file.
background 
In 2016 Mr H bought a kitchen, financed by a point  of sale loan provided by BPF. The loan
was agreed on a 12 months  interest  free basis, meaning that if it was repaid within  the first
12 months from supply of the goods,  no interest  would  be added to the principle  loan sum.
Whereas, if it wasnt repaid within the first 12 months, interest  would be added and the loan
would need to be repaid  over 60 months.
Mr H encountered several  issues with the supply  and fit of the kitchen. He contacted BPF 
in April 2016 to inform  it of the problems he was having. BPF asked Mr H if he wanted to 
make a s75 claim, but Mr H declined  this on the basis  he was seeking to resolve the issues
through other means.
In April 2017, Mr H contacted BPF after it had notified him that the 12 month interest  free 
period had begun. He expressed concern  about  this on the basis  he had previously told 
BPF about  the issues he was having and said he hadnt signed anything  to say he was 
satisfied with the kitchen. BPF explained that the kitchen supplier wouldve let it know  that 
from its perspective, the goods has been supplied and therefore that the loan amount 
should be paid.  BPF offered though to raise  a s75 claim and said it would place the
account on hold until the outcome of the claim.
BPF gave  Mr H an e-mail  address for him to send details of the issues and concerns  and
Mr H did this. BPF says it wrote to Mr H in a letter dated 3 May 2017,  explaining that the
supplier had told it the kitchen had been completed  and asking him to provide pictures  of the
kitchen  so that it could  consider his claim further.  Mr H says he didnt receive this letter,  or
a letter  dated  10 May 2017 which informed Mr H the claim had been closed due to the
information requested  not having been received.
Mr H said that after not hearing anything, he sent BPF a letter  in October  2017  and tried to
call them to find out what was happening with his claim.  He says that, after spending a long
time holding  on the phone and not getting through, he gave up.
Mr H then contacted  BPF again in March 2018,  after it had notified him the 12 month  interest
free period  was coming to an end. He complained that as far as he had been aware,  BPFs
s75 investigation was ongoing. He said he hadnt received either the letter  of 3 May 2017 or
10 May 2017.
Mr H told BPF he would be cancelling his direct debit as he was not prepared  to pay for the
loan without appropriate reductions to reflect money  he was owed by the supplier and
additional costs  hed incurred due to issues with the installation. BPF told Mr H before the
end of the interest free period, that the loan would remain as it was and anything that
needed to be put right was separate to this.
Ref: DRN68598882BPF issued  its final response letter in May 2018. In summary, it said that:
- It was correct to have  paid the supplier when  it did as Mr H had a fully functioning
kitchen at that time
- It had handled Mr Hs s75 claim appropriately  and would need further photographic
evidence of faults in order to take things forward
- It awarded Mr H £25 for not having  called him back when it should
Mr H did refer his concerns to us. In September 2018 (before the case was allocated  to a 
case-handler here) the other  ADR service issued  its findings in relation to Mr Hs concerns 
about the installation of his kitchen. Briefly, it gave its view on the extent to which  the 
kitchen supplier should pay some money  for the inconvenience caused to Mr H, to reflect 
some costs that Mr H incurred as result  of issues caused by the supplier and for some 
goods that had needed to be returned.
An investigator here then looked into things and didnt uphold the complaint. In summary  she
said that
- The kitchen had been supplied, so under  the terms of the loan BPF was entitled to
pay the supplier and begin  the loan term.
- It was Mr Hs choice  to cancel the direct debit for the loan and BPF has a duty to
report accurate information to credit reference agencies.
- The other  ADR scheme had made a number of suggestions and awards and its
likely this has put right anything that had gone  wrong.
- BPF had said that outbound  collections calls could only happen within  certain
(reasonable) hours. One call appeared to have been  made  very early in the morning
 but listening  to a recording of the call, this didnt  appear to have inconvenienced
Mr H.
Mr H remained  unhappy and so the case was passed to me as an ombudsman to
decide.
I issued my provisional findings on 7 February 2020. In this I said:
Was it reasonable for BPF to pay the supplier when  it did?
Ive first thought about whether it was fair for BPF to pay the supplier when it did. Mr H says
that BPF should  have contacted him to check  he was happy with the goods before paying
the supplier. BPF says this wasnt  required   and that it was entitled to pay the supplier
when it did because the supplier had confirmed  the goods had been supplied  at that point in
time.
Its clear that Mr H encountered several  issues  in relation to the supply and fit of his kitchen.
And this perhaps  explains why the supplier didnt  tell BPF the kitchen had been  supplied
until around a year after Mr H had ordered the kitchen.
  
Ive seen the loan agreement. The relevant section, says We will pay the amount of the loan
to the retailer  once we approve the loan and receive  the signed agreement  or when the
retailer has supplied the goods or services to you, if this is later.
Ref: DRN68598883Ive listened to various calls between Mr H and BPF. And during one of them, I heard Mr H
tell BPF that (notwithstanding concerns he had about the kitchen and that he was due some
money back) it had been supplied and was working  when BPF paid the supplier. Therefore,
what happened is in line with the loan agreement and I consider it to be fair.
BPFs handling of Mr Hs claim under s75 of the Consumer  Credit Act (CCA)
Mr H first asked BPF to initiate a claim under s75 in April 2017. He says that he didnt 
receive the letters that BPF said it sent dated  3 May 2017 and 10 May 2017. He says he did 
though receive  a letter dated 9 May 2017  which said the claim/investigation was ongoing.
BPF has provided evidence to show it did send the letters dated 3 May 2017 and
10 May 2017. It said the letter  dated 9 May 2017 was one that was automatically generated 
on the basis the claim was still open at that point. BPF has conceded that the sending of that 
automatic letter wouldve  been a bit confusing given that the letter 3 May 2017 was asking 
Mr H to do something.
Its not possible for me to know exactly whats happened here. Where evidence  is either  
conflicting or incomplete, I need to make  a decision based on what  I think is most likely to 
have happened. BPF has provided  copies  of the letters dated 3 May 2017 and 10 May 2017 
and evidence they were sent. So, Im satisfied its more likely than not the letters were 
generated and sent.
I accept Mr H says he didnt  see them. But as I think its most likely they were sent, I cant 
say that BPF did anything  wrong in terms of its handling of the s75 claim in 2017.
Ive also taken account of that fact Mr H says he sent BPF a letter in October 2018 asking for 
an update and that he tried to call them but gave up due to being on hold for a long time.
BPF says it has no record of receiving a letter from Mr H at that time. Even if I accept that Mr 
H did try to contact BPF for an update, he then didnt do anything more  until receiving the 
correspondence in March 2018   some 10 months after hed last heard from BPF. I would 
question whether it was reasonable for him to think that the s75 claim was still ongoing,
having not heard anything for this length  of time.
Ive gone on to think about  BPFs handling  of the s75 claim in 2018. BPF told Mr H that its 
only responsibility was ensuring that he had received a functioning kitchen. However,  I dont 
think that was right.  Under s75, as the finance provider, BPF needed to consider its liability 
in relation to misrepresentation and/or breach of contract. It was apparent  that Mr H had a 
functioning kitchen  in 2018,  however the contract was for the supply and fit of a particular 
kitchen and Mr H had raised several  concerns  about this.
When another competent alternative  dispute resolution organisation looked into Mr Hs 
concerns and issues, it agreed  that some things  had not gone  as they should. It said the
supplier needed  to:
-Pay compensation for inconvenience from delays and issues  with the kitchen supply 
and fit,
-Pay compensation for additional costs Mr H incurred as a result of the delays  and 
issues with the supply and fit and;
-    Refund Mr H for some  items that hed returned.
Ref: DRN68598884The first two items relate  to a breach of contract  and so are things that BPF could and
should have looked into under s75.
Because another competent alternative  dispute resolution organisation has looked into 
things, its likely that Mr H is now in the position  he would have been in, had BPF considered 
things properly. So, I dont  consider  it necessary to comment on whether a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation has occurred.
BPF could  also have been  clearer  with Mr H around  its responsibility  and potential liability. 
Although BPF consistently said its responsibility was limited  to ensuring he had a functioning 
kitchen, it asked him to send details of all of his concerns  and issues on a number of 
occasions, including during a phone call on 9 April 2018  two days  before the interest fee 
period was due to end. I think this wouldve given Mr H the impression that his wider 
concerns would be looked into. But in its final response letter, BPF simply said that it would
need photographic evidence of faults to take things forward.
I think BPFs  handling of Mr Hs s75 claim has caused him unnecessary distress and 
inconvenience. I note that BPF has recently  agreed  it could  have handled things better and 
offered to pay Mr H £175 in addition to the £25 already offered  so a total of £200.
I am currently of the view that this represents  a reasonable  amount of compensation to
reflect the handling of Mr Hs s75 claim in 2018 and the impact this had on him.
Has BPF acted fairly  in relation to the finance  agreement and Mr Hs credit  file?
Mr H told BPF in March 2018  that he wanted BPF to reduce the loan amount and that he 
was going to cancel the loan direct debit. BPF explained the loan amount would remain the 
same and anything  that needed to put right would be separate to this. There was nothing 
unusual in this and its the position I would normally expect a finance provider to take.
The credit agreement set out when Mr H needed  to make payments and the consequences 
of not doing so. And he was sent and received the reminder  that he needed to pay the 
original loan amount  by a certain  point  in time in order to avoid interest being added to the 
loan.
I do think BPF could have re-emphasised to Mr H during the conversations  in March/April  
2018 that payments were soon due and that cancelling  his direct debit would
have an adverse impact  on his credit file. However, given how strongly  Mr H felt that the loan 
amount should  be reduced,  I dont  think BPF not doing this led to Mr Hs credit file being
impacted - because I dont think it wouldve altered  Mr Hs decision to not make repayments.
So, by choosing not to make payment, Mr H was taking the risk that his credit  file would be
adversely impacted  as turned out to be the case.
Ive also thought about the extent to which  BPFs handling of the s75 claim in 2018 has 
impacted whats happened with Mr Hs credit  file. And concluded it hasnt had an impact  for 
the same  reason that Mr H was clearly  seeking  a reduction in the loan amount.
Had BPF handled the s75 claim properly, its unlikely  the claim wouldve been  concluded  
before Mr Hs first payment was due. And even if BPF had reached  the same  or a similar 
outcome to the other  competent  dispute  resolution organisation, it wouldnt have made  any 
adjustments to the loan.
Ref: DRN68598885Mr H has told us that he brought  the account  up to date in August 2019, but that his credit 
file is showing him as still being  in arrears after that point. BPF is required to report 
accurately to credit reference agencies. If BPF is incorrectly reporting the status of the loan 
account, it should update  this straight away. If it considers that it is correctly  reporting after 
Mr H says he cleared the arrears, it should provide Mr H with an explanation of why this is 
correct.
Mr H has also raised concerns about  BPF passing his loan to debt collectors.  However, BPF
was entitled to do this and I cant say it did anything wrong or acted unfairly.
Collections activity  was Mr H contacted at inappropriate times
Mr H has raised  concerns that he was called at inappropriate times by BPF. This wasnt part 
of his original complaint  however BPF has responded to information requests on the subject
and appears content with us considering this issue.
Mr H has provided screenshots appearing to show calls received from BPF in the early  
hours of the morning.  BPF has said it has an automated outward  dial system which operates  
between the hours of 8am-4pm and 11am to 8pm. BPF has speculated that perhaps Mr H 
was abroad when he received those calls and the time on the phone  wasnt  GMT.
I cant be sure whats happened here,  but Ive not seen  enough  evidence  to say that BPF
contacted Mr H at a time that it should have known was inappropriate.
my provisional decision
I am currently minded  to uphold this complaint in part and say that
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  needs to pay Mr S a total of £200 in compensation.
I asked both parties for their comments.
Mr H responded with a number of comments on my provisional findings. In summary, these 
were:
-Clarification of dates relating to the kitchen  installation  and the interest free period.
-Comments about what  happened  in April/May 2017 in terms of communications with 
BPF about the situation.
-Asking for an explanation of why any customer would pay for something thats not been 
delivered and pay for items that had been returned.
-Asking for details  of when certain  things had happened that were mentioned  in my 
report.
-He didnt receive the final response  letter sent by BPF in May 2018. He questioned  why 
BPF didnt correspond with him by e-mail.
-BPF told him to go to the other alternative dispute resolution (ADR) organisation 
because it realised  it hadnt opened  a s75 claim when it should, had paid the supplier 
without receipt of a signed installation report and was trying to avoid its responsibilities.
-BPF didnt tell him he could refer his concerns to this Service. It was Citizens  Advice 
who did this.
-He re-iterated points  hed previously made  in relation to when the interest free period 
began.
Ref: DRN68598886-He disagreed with my provisional finding  that BPF was entitled to pay the supplier by 
reference to what  the loan agreement  says.
-In respect of the letters  sent by BPF April/May 2017 in relation to its handling of the 
s75, Mr H commented that the system  was broken.  And he disagreed with my 
conclusions.
-Mr H said that what  Id written  in relation to the communication between him and BPF 
from March 2018 onwards wasnt accurate.  He re-iterated what  had happened and 
offered to re-send  information about this.
-BPF had shown no intention to resolve his concerns.  
-Mr H re-iterated that BPF had made an error  in terms of the original amount of 
compensation it said it had offered.
-Mr H disagreed with my conclusion that £200 represented a fair amount of 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused by its poor handling of his s75 
claim.
-My comment that Mr H had asked for the loan amount  to be reduced is incorrect.  He 
wanted to pay the right amount.
-Mr H said BPF had never told him that the loan amount wouldnt be adjusted  and that 
anything needing  to be put right would be separate to this.
-The impact on Mr Hs credit file was created by BPF threatening  and being unwilling  
to accept its responsibility under s75.
-Mr H guessed that I didnt want to deal with his concerns in relation to what his credit 
file recently showed.
-My conclusion  that BPF was entitled to pass Mr Hs account  to debt collection isnt fair 
considering the difficulty he had trying  to get money back  for now getting what  he 
ordered and not getting a refund on items  hed returned
BPF accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  This includes Mr Hs response to my 
provisional decision. Having done  so, I am still upholding this complaint. And I still consider 
that £200 is a fair amount of compensation to reflect BPFs poor handling of his s75 claim.
I also remain of the view that BPF isnt responsible for the impact on Mr Hs credit file, of his 
initial non payment of the loan.
I appreciate this last part in particular will likely come as a disappointment to Mr H.
My findings  are focused on what I consider  to be the key relevant considerations. If I dont 
mention something  specific that Mr H has said it doesnt mean I havent taken it into account. 
I have read and considered all of his submissions. 
I would also note that Mr H has asked a number of questions in response  to my provisional 
findings. My role is to determine what is fair and reasonable based on what I consider to be 
the relevant considerations, so this decision doesnt contain answers to all of his questions.
Ref: DRN68598887Was it reasonable for BPF to pay the supplier when  it did?
I still find that it was reasonable for BPF to pay the supplier when it did. I acknowledge that 
Mr H disagrees  with this and he questions why anyone would pay for something thats not 
been delivered. However, the loan agreement set out that BPF could pay the supplier when 
the goods or services had been  provided. There was no requirement  for Mr H to sign 
something saying  he was satisfied with the installation. The supplier told BPF that the goods 
had been supplied. All things considered,  it was reasonable  for BPF to make  payment.
BPFs handling of Mr Hs claim under s75 of the Consumer  Credit Act (CCA)
I still find that BPF could  have been  clearer with Mr H around its responsibility and potential  
liability - for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision. 
I acknowledge that Mr H doesnt think the amount of compensation I suggested is enough. 
And that he thinks what happened  in relation to the letters  sent in April/May  2017 shows that 
BPFs systems and processes are broken.
Its not within my remit to comment on the adequacy of BPFs  systems  and processes in a 
general sense. My role is to focus  on what happened here and the impact any errors had on 
Mr H. 
I remain of the view that £200 represents a reasonable  amount of compensation to reflect 
the distress and inconvenience  caused  to Mr H by BPFs poor handling of his s75 claim.  
Has BPF acted fairly  in relation to the finance  agreement and Mr Hs credit  file?
I remain of the view that BPF could have re-emphasised to Mr H during the conversations  in 
March/April 2018 that payments were soon due and that cancelling his direct debit would
have an adverse impact  on his credit file.
But I also still think that if BPF had done  this, it wouldnt have made a difference. I say this 
because Mr H wasnt willing to make loan repayments unless he was charged what he 
considered to be the right amount. And BPF had confirmed to him over the telephone that 
the loan amount and timings were correct  and stood.
In response to my provisional findings,  Mr H has commented that me saying  he was seeking  
an adjustment to the loan amount is incorrect. He says he was looking for the right amount  
to be charged.  To my mind, these are essentially the same thing. 
I also remain of the view that BPFs handling of Mr Hs s75 claim hasnt caused  the issues 
with his credit file. I say this for the same reason as set out in my provisional findings.  Had 
BPF handled the s75 claim properly, its unlikely the claim wouldve been concluded before 
Mr Hs first payment was due. And even if BPF had reached the same  or a similar outcome 
to the other competent dispute resolution  organisation, it wouldnt have made  any 
adjustments to the loan.
Ultimately, by choosing  not to make payment, Mr H was taking the risk that his credit file 
would be adversely impacted  as turned out to be the case.
Ref: DRN68598888Collections activity  was Mr H contacted at inappropriate times
Neither party has provided any additional  comments or information about  this. So, it remains  
that Ive not seen enough evidence to say that BPF contacted Mr H at a time that it should  
have known was inappropriate.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Clydesdale Financial  Services 
Limited to pay Mr H a total of £200 in compensation. 
In addition, if Mr H tells Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  that he still believes it is 
inaccurately reporting the status of his account to credit reference agencies, Clydesdale 
Financial Services Limited   must  consider this. If it believes  it is reporting accurately to credit  
reference agencies,  it must provide Mr H with an explanation of why this is the case. If Mr H 
isnt satisfied with the explanation, he is entitled  to raise a new complaint with Clydesdale  
Financial Services Limited  about  this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2020.
Ben Brewer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6859888