K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about a letter incorrectly sent to him by Together Personal Finance Limited
(Together). 
background
Mr J took out a regulated loan of £10,000 with Together. The loan term was 10 years and 
was secured against Mr Js property.  Mr J began to struggle to pay his contractual  monthly 
payments and arrears  built up so Together started  the process of repossession. The total Mr 
J owed at the point Together sought  repossession was around  £41,000.
In January 2019 Together obtained a court order that allowed it to seek repossession if Mr J 
didnt sell the property  and exchange  contracts by 28 February 2019. Mr J found  a buyer for 
the property and exchanged contracts   meeting  the conditions of the court order. 
Mr J complains that in April 2019 he received a letter from Together asking him to contact 
the business to discuss  his financial situation  - and the possibility of a repayment plan. Mr J 
says he stopped the sale, as this letter led him to believe that he could come  to an 
agreement with Together rather than sell the property. He says he agreed  with the buyer  to 
stop the sale even though contracts had been  exchanged. At this point Mr J broke  the 
conditions of the court order.
Together looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. It said the letter was sent in error and 
as the house was going through the sale process,  the letter had no relevance to his 
situation. They then applied to the court  to continue with the repossession,  which the court  
agreed. The property has now been repossessed.
As Mr J was unhappy with Togethers  response and action  to repossess, he brought  the 
complaint to our service. Our investigator  looked into the complaint but didnt think  it should  
be upheld. She said that the letter didnt guarantee that a payment plan would be agreed  or 
put in place.
Mr J remained  unhappy, so the complaints been  passed to me to issue a final decision.
Our service has previously looked into a complaint and issued a final decision about whether 
Together could  seek repossession,  so this wont be addressed again in this decision.  I will 
only be addressing  the letter sent to Mr J.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64174492I am sorry  to hear that Mr J is having some  financial difficulties and Im sure it isnt an easy  
time for him. But based on what I have seen from both parties, I agree with the investigator 
that the complaint shouldnt be upheld, for much the same reasons.  
I can understand Mr Js frustration at being  sent the letter but what I have to look at is 
whether I think its fair and reasonable to hold Together responsible for the action he took. 
At the point Mr J received the letter  from Together, he had already  been to court and the 
court had made the decision that the property should be sold by Mr J or repossessed. From 
the information Ive seen  from both parties, nothing  suggests  the court had made  any 
changes to that decision. This certainly  wasnt something that was included in the letter.
Together have  supplied a copy of the letter that was sent to Mr J. The heading of the letter 
says we need to speak  to you about  your account. I can understand why Mr J might  have 
thought the business  were reaching out to potentially help him in his situation, but there  was 
no guarantee at this point that he would  get any help. The letter  was clear that a 
conversation and some further forms would need  to be completed first. The letter says that 
Together would call Mr J, or he could call them to talk through his circumstances  which he 
did. Im satisfied that at this point Mr J had not been told, nor been given the impression that 
the sale of the house was no longer needed.  And it follows  that he shouldnt have cancelled  
the sale. 
When Mr J did call Together, shortly after he received the letter, its important to keep in 
mind that Together  admitted their error  and corrected it at the earliest  opportunity. So 
although its clear  an error  was made  when the letter was sent to Mr J, I dont find it had a 
direct impact  on Mr J selling his property. 
At the point Mr J got the letter he had also exchanged contracts,  I would have found it poor 
advice on behalf  of the business if they had advised Mr J to pull out of the sale  as its likely 
there would have been a penalty  to do so due to a breach in contracts. After all Mr J was in a 
situation where he was struggling financially and this would have added  to that debt.
Having considered everything  Ive seen from both parties very carefully,  I find it would be 
unfair to hold Together responsible for Mr Js decision  to stop the sale of his property.
I understand Mr Js property has now been repossessed.  I would urge him to speak to some 
third party organisations  to get support with his living situation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Tom Wagstaff
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6417449