K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F are beneficiaries of a group, private  medical insurance policy,  via Mr Fs 
employer. They complain  that BUPA Insurance Limited refused one of Mrs Fs claims.
background
I understand that Mrs F had pain in her knee since 2017, following a fall. Despite various 
investigations, there was no conclusive diagnosis. 
In March 2018, Mrs F saw a consultant  knee  surgeon who carried  out an arthroscopy on her 
knee; thats keyhole surgery for examining and treating joint problems. Following the 
arthroscopy, the surgeon diagnosed grade four osteoarthritis. Mr and Mrs F say that the 
consultant recommended  a full knee replacement in the future. Further treatment followed. 
In October  2018, BUPA received a funding  request  form dated July 2018  from Mrs Fs 
surgeon in relation to the arthroscopy. Bupa declined  the claim. It said that using the 
European Society of Sports Traumatology, Knee Surgery and Arthroscopy (ESSKA)  
guidelines, the evidence suggests that a knee  arthroscopy wont work for advanced 
osteoarthritis, so the procedure  isnt covered under  the policy.  
Mr and Mrs F say that it wasnt known until after the arthroscopy  that Mrs F had advanced  
arthritis, so the arthroscopy  was necessary to diagnose what  was wrong with Mrs Fs knee. 
They say that the guidelines  to which BUPA refer werent meant  to address a situation 
where advanced osteoarthritis hasnt  yet been  diagnosed.  Mr and Mrs F want BUPA  to settle 
their claim for the arthroscopy.
One of our investigators  looked at what had happened. She said that BUPA had acted  fairly  
in declining Mrs Fs claim. The investigator said that BUPAs decision to decline Mrs Fs 
claim was reasonable,  based on the evidence available.  
Mr and Mrs F didnt  agree  with the investigator. They said:
The arthroscopy was a necessary and appropriate procedure. 
They asked to see all of the evidence BUPA had relied on. 
The October  2018 letter from Mrs Fs surgeon  to BUPA contradicts the relevant facts 
and evidence they have presented and was created months after the procedure and 
in circumstances  that cast doubt  on the investigators interpretation of it. 
There was no diagnosis of advanced  arthritis before the arthroscopy.
Before the procedure,  Mrs Fs surgeon  saw meniscal tears and minor arthritis, so it is 
an acute condition; in addition, the surgeon  wanted to have a better look at 
Mrs Fs knee. 
The arthroscopy occurred after a long process of seeing doctors and experts and 
having scans.
The surgeon did not expect to find advanced arthritis  but trimmed the meniscus tear 
and cleaned the joint, so the procedure was a success in part. 
Ref: DRN68139302The procedure was also to provide a clear  diagnosis for future treatment.
So, there  was more than one valid reason for the procedure. 
If the forms had been filled out before  the operation, they would have been different 
and wouldnt have  indicated advanced osteoarthritis. 
BUPA may have  directed their surgeon or his assistant to fill the form out in a 
particular way in order to avoid liability for their legitimate claim; they wish to see the 
forms their surgeon  filled out which were  rejected by BUPA.
Insurers tend to block  payment for arthroscopies against the recommendation of 
surgeons.
There was further  correspondence between Mr and Mrs F and the investigator,  which I wont  
repeat here. As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to 
me, an ombudsman, to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Mr and Mrs F have very strong  feelings about this matter. They have  provided  
detailed submissions to support  the complaint, which I have read and considered.  However, 
I trust that they will not take as a discourtesy the fact that I focus on what  I consider to be the 
central issues.     
This service was set up to provide an informal  alternative  to the courts  for consumers who 
have complaints about business  actions.  We decide  cases  with the minimum of formality.  
We dont have powers to compel parties  to share  evidence or to give evidence under oath. I 
appreciate that there have been some concerns on Mr and Mrs Fs part about sharing the 
information on which BUPA has relied. Whilst I think most of that has been  resolved, I 
understand that BUPA hasnt consented to release to Mr and Mrs F rejected funding forms, 
as its not the originator  of the data. Its open to Mr and Mrs F to ask Mrs Fs surgeon for 
those forms. 
My role isnt to substitute the medical  judgement of any of the medical professionals  involved  
in the case with my own. But I do weigh up all the medical evidence  Ive been provided  with 
to decide whether I think BUPA handled  the claim fairly  and reasonably. 
 
Ref: DRN68139303the relevant policy  terms and conditions
The starting point  is the terms and conditions  of the policy. The membership guide defines  
Eligible treatment  as:
treatment  of an acute condition together with the products and equipment  used as part of 
the treatment that:
oare consistent with generally accepted  standards of medical  practice and 
representative of best practices  in the medical  profession in the UK
oare clinically appropriate  in terms of type, frequency,  extent,  duration  and the facility  
or location where the services  are provided
oare demonstrated through scientific evidence to be effective in improving health 
outcomes, and 
oare not provided  or used primarily for the expediency of you or your consultant or 
other healthcare  professional
and the treatment,  services or charges  are not excluded under your benefits.
has the claim been declined unfairly?
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that BUPA has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Fs complaint because I dont think that BUPA has treated 
them unfairly. I say that because:
The policy covers treatment thats  consistent with generally accepted standards  of 
medical practice and representative of best practices in the medical profession in the 
UK, clinically appropriate and demonstrated to be effective. In assessing  that, its 
reasonable in this case for BUPA to look to a framework issued by ESSKA.
Mr and Mrs F say that the funding request form completed by Mrs Fs surgeon in July 
2018 doesnt reflect the true position  in March 2018.  They  have made serious 
allegations about BUPA directing Mrs Fs surgeon  to fill out that form in a particular 
way. I cant resolve  those serious allegations here but I can say that Ive seen no 
evidence to support  what Mr and Mrs F say about that.
The funding request  form of July 2018  says that Mrs F had grade two to three 
osteoarthritis and a degenerative meniscus  lesion. Mrs Fs surgeon answered No 
to a question about whether Mrs Fs knee was either normal  or had only minimal 
osteoarthritis and handwrote G [Grade] -.  I appreciate that Mr and Mrs F 
dispute that but I dont think it was unreasonable for BUPA to rely on what  Mrs Fs 
surgeon said: theres no medical  evidence to contradict that. 
ESSKA guidance says that no arthroscopic surgery should be proposed for a 
degenerative meniscus lesion  with advanced osteoarthritis. 
Grade three arthritis is considered advanced, so arthroscopy doesnt  come within the 
policy definition of eligible treatment in Mrs Fs case.
Ref: DRN68139304Mr and Mrs F say that if their surgeon had completed the funding form in March 
2018, it would have shown different information.  In its membership  guide,  BUPA  
recommends that members always contact it before  arranging or receiving 
treatment. That didnt  happen here but thats  not BUPAs fault. BUPA can only make 
a decision on the information presented to it. 
Mr and Mrs F say that the procedure was intended to be a diagnostic  tool but that 
wasnt mentioned  in the funding request form.
Mr and Mrs F have referred to decisions made by other  insurers.  But I need  to take 
into account the specific circumstances of this case.  Having done  so, I dont think its 
unreasonable or unfair for BUPA to decline the claim.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to accept  or reject my 
decision before  10 November 2019.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6813930