K821x#15complaint
Miss S is unhappy Claim Easy Ltd (CEL) is charging  her a fee for a mis-sold  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy claim.
background
In February 2018  Miss S signed a letter of authority (LoA). This instructed CEL to investigate  
whether she had any PPI policies.
In November 2018 CEL submitted a LoA dated  15 November 2018, it said was signed by 
Miss S and a PPI questionnaire  to her lender. And in January 2019 Miss S was told by her 
lender that her claim  had been  successful.  CEL sent her an invoice for its success  fee of 
35% plus VAT.
Miss S said she felt shed  been abandoned by CEL as it hadnt done anything  about her 
claim between  February  2018  and November 2018.  She also said she hadnt signed the LoA 
it submitted to her lender  in November 2018.
CEL said Miss S lender accepted LoAs  for 12 months, so the February  2018  LoA was still 
valid. And the volume of PPI claims being  made,  as the PPI deadline approached had 
caused some delay in progressing  her claim.
Miss S wasnt happy with CELs response  and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said CEL could charge its fee as Miss S claim had been successful. But the 
fee should be no more than 20% plus VAT, in line with the cap that was introduced in July 
2018.
Miss S said she didnt trust CEL and its actions  had caused her extreme  anxiety and stress. 
She has asked for an ombudsman to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Im partially upholding 
this complaint. And Ill explain why.
The agreement Miss S had with CEL was on a No win No fee basis.  This means  CEL 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work  they did. So, 
any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim was 
successful, CELs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually did. This 
is the risk taken by all parties  in this type of agreement.
Miss S signed a LoA in February 2018  and has said she was told by her lender that this 
wasnt sent to them  until October 2018.  And as CEL sent notification to Miss S on 
8 November 2018 to say it had found  a PPI policy with her lender, Ive no reason to doubt 
this.
On 26 November 2018, I can see CEL submitted Miss S claim again  to her lender, along  
with a PPI questionnaire  and a LoA dated  15 November 2018.  
Ref: DRN66127812In January 2019 Miss S lender told her that her claim had been successful and the amount 
of compensation  shed  be awarded. And from then CEL have been asking Miss S to pay its 
success fee.
I can understand Miss S frustration as there  was considerable delay from her signing a LoA 
in February 2018  to CEL submitting her claim to her lender in October  2018.  And I can see 
CEL despite  having  submitted the claim sent requests  to Miss S for the return  of forms it had 
already received and submitted. So, I can understand why Miss S lost faith in the work that 
CEL was doing for her. And why she doesnt  think CELs fee is justified.
Miss S has asked CEL several times for a breakdown of the work it did for her claim. And I 
can see her frustration about the LoA dated 15 November  2018 as she said she didnt sign 
it. But as outlined above it was the agreement Miss S signed with CEL in February 2018 that 
was submitted in October 2018. And her agreement  with CEL wasnt based  on how much 
work CEL did but whether  her claim was successful or not. And her claim was successful. 
So, Im satisfied CEL can charge a success fee. 
CELs terms and conditions say its fee is 35% plus VAT and gives monetary  examples  of 
what compensation could be paid if a claim was successful. 
The Financial Guidance  and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management 
Regulator to introduce  a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force  on 
10 July 2018.  From this date, claims management companies couldnt legally charge a 
success fee of more than 20% plus VAT.  But this wasnt  retrospective, and Miss S signed 
the LoA in February 2018 before the cap was introduced. 
So, Ive looked  to see if CEL has acted fairly and reasonably  in this case  in asking for its fee 
of 35% plus VAT to be paid.
CEL didnt submit Miss S claim until October  2018, after the introduction of the fee cap. And 
I havent seen  any work  of value that CEL did for Miss S before then. CEL has said the delay 
was because of the approaching deadline for making PPI complaints. But Im not persuaded 
by this as the deadline  wasnt until August  2019.
I cant see CEL updated Miss S about  her claim before it submitted her February 2018 LoA 
to her lender in October  2018. And I think CEL knowing  about the introduction  of the fee cap 
and the delay in progressing Miss S claim, should have informed her about the fee cap to 
check she wanted to continue with her claim.  
So, I agree  with our investigator that it isnt fair or reasonable for CEL to charge a success  
fee of 35% plus VAT. And that CEL should  limit its fee to the cap, so its fee should be no 
more than 20% plus VAT.
I know Miss S is unhappy about CEL asking for its fee, but its terms and conditions  say:
Payment is due within 14 days of receipt of your redress.
And Miss S has received  her redress, so I think CEL can ask for its fee to be paid. But Im 
partially upholding Miss Ss complaint  as I dont think  all of the fee CEL had charged should 
be paid.
Ref: DRN66127813my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint. And require  Claims Easy Limited  to reduce its success  fee 
in line with the fee cap and charge no more than 20% plus VAT.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 December 2019..
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6612781