K820x#14complaint
Mr G doesnt think  HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) has offered  him fair compensation following 
a complaint about the sale of a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background
In 2018, Mr G contacted  HSBC to say it had mis-sold him a PPI policy.
In December 2018, HSBC upheld his complaint.  It agreed it had mis-sold him a PPI policy  
with a flexiloan.  
A flexiloan is a type of personal loan. The business  tells the consumer how much  he can 
borrow. The consumer then chooses how much to withdraw and when, and how much  to 
repay each  month.  And, if the consumer hasnt borrowed the full amount or has repaid  it, he 
can withdraw more money  up to the limit, if and when  he needs it.
HSBC doesnt  know how much Mr G paid for PPI. But it knows the start and end date of his 
flexiloan. So its offered to pay Mr G the average  of the PPI refunds its paid consumers who 
had the same type of loan for the same  length  of time. And its added simple interest (at 8% 
per year) to compensate Mr G for being  out of pocket.
Mr G doesnt think  hes ever had a loan for such a short period of time  and has asked that 
an ombudsman make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As HSBC has upheld Mr Gs complaint that the PPI policy was mis-sold, I dont need to 
decide whether  or not it was. All thats  left for me to decide is whether or not I think HSBC  
has offered him fair compensation. I think it has and Ill explain why.
HSBC has sent us screenshots of its internal records. These show that the flexiloan started 
on 30 August 1995 and ended on 12 December 1995.
Mr G doesnt remember  his flexiloan. He doesnt  remember the start or end date or how 
much he borrowed. However, he says he doesnt  think hes ever had a loan for such  a short 
period of time. Thats  fair enough. I may not remember  something but Ill know if it seems 
odd or out of character. 
That said,  I have to make my decision based  on the available  evidence.  I know Mr G will be 
disappointed, but I simply havent  seen  enough evidence which suggests HSBCs records 
are wrong.
And in the absence  of any evidence or information about how much he paid for PPI, I think 
the way HSBC has calculated his offer is fair. Indeed, I dont think  it could  have calculated  
his offer in any other way.
Ref: DRN63757342my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think HSBC UK Bank Plc has offered Mr G fair 
compensation. If its already paid him, it doesnt  need to do anything.  If it hasnt, it should 
pay him the amount its offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 October  2019.
Christopher Reeves
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6375734