K820x#14complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is about the handling  of a claim made under her central heating  insurance 
policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
On 21 January 2019, Mrs B made a claim under her policy when her boiler was making a 
loud noise. An engineer attended  on 23 January  2019 and the boiler  stopped working. He 
ordered a part but this didnt resolve the problem. I understand there were  two more 
attendances before an engineer attended on 26 January 2019 and said the boiler  needed a 
new heat exchanger. He went back on 28 January 2019 and the boiler was repaired.  So 
there were five visits altogether. 
Mrs B is very unhappy with this. She says she was without any heating or hot water  for the 
week that it took to repair the boiler  and her dog passed away  because  of the lack of heating  
and her health has significantly deteriorated. Mrs B says she had to move two heaters  
around the house with her from room to room and use hot water  bottles; it was too cold to 
sleep at night  and she had severe pains in her hips and legs as a result. Mrs B also says the 
boiler has been making noises again,  although not as bad as before. 
Mrs B says British Gas should have replaced  her boiler after two days of not being able to 
repair it. She has paid over £2,500 for the policy since  she took it out and had nine visits to 
her property in return for this. British Gas has therefore had enough money from her to 
replace her boiler.  British Gas should also pay for her homeopathy treatment of £350 and if 
this does not get rid of her pain, it should give her a lump sum.
British Gas initially offered  £60 compensation for the time taken to deal with the claim and 
then another £60 for the calls Mrs B had to make, including chasing  a response to her 
complaint. As Mrs B said she had been caused  physical injury  as a result  of being without 
heating, British Gas passed this onto its insurer to deal with. It offered Mrs B £250 
compensation for this.
Mrs B doesnt accept the amounts offered are sufficient to reflect the trouble caused to her. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She recommended  that British Gas pay an 
additional £50 compensation  (so a total of £170).
Mrs B doesnt accept the investigators assessment, so the matter has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There were five visits in total to repair the boiler,  and it took a week from Mrs B reporting the 
claim to the boiler  being fixed. While it can sometimes take a while to complete a permanent  
repair, it seems  to me this could  have been done sooner than it was and with fewer visits. 
Mrs B says in some  correspondence she was without heating and hot water for the entire 
week, and elsewhere  she has said five days.  Mrs B had to wait two days before the first 
attendance. However,  it appears the boiler  was working at that stage but was making  a loud 
Ref: DRN62824942noise. So if the boiler wasnt working until 28 January 2019,  this would have been five days 
without heating and hot water. 
British Gas says its engineer restored the heating  on 26 January 2019, before going back  on 
28 January 2019  to repair it permanently, so Mrs B was without heating for three days. Mrs 
B is adamant this isnt true. She says she phoned  immediately after the engineer left on 26 
January 2019,  as she was still without heating.  
British Gass engineers  contemporaneous record of the attendance on 26 January 2019 
says: h/e [heat exchanger] blocked  unable to unblock full just enough to get boiler working 
over weekend new h/e req [heat  exchanger  required]. I have no reason to doubt this report  
although it is possible that he left the boiler working  but failed again  shortly afterwards. 
However, even if I accept that the boiler  didnt work at all between  23 and 28 January 2019, 
when the boiler  was permanently repaired,  I am not persuaded that British Gas needs to pay 
Mrs B the compensation she has asked for.  
I have no doubt  this was a very difficult time for Mrs B. It was a very cold time of year and it 
is difficult to live without heating and hot water. Mrs B also had health problems which  meant 
this was worse for her. I also note there  were  five attendances altogether,  which would have 
been inconvenient to accommodate. 
Mrs B says that she had no mobility  difficulties before January 2019 and that due to being  
without heating for five days, while waiting for British Gas to repair her boiler, she has been 
left needing crutches  and mobility aides around the house in order  to manage  her day to day 
activities. Mrs B also says one of her dogs  died as a direct  result.  While I do not doubt the 
severity of Mrs Bs situation, there is no independent  proof  that her condition,  or her dog 
passing away, is a direct and sole result  of any avoidable delay in repairing the heating. 
Mrs B has provided some  medical records which record attendances with her GP relating to 
pain. However, the notes  do not state that this was caused directly by being without central 
heating for five days. And there is reference  to related medical issues prior to the claim. 
While being without heating for any period of time will not have  helped  Mrs Bs condition, 
there is no convincing  evidence that British  Gas is responsible for Mrs Bs condition.  I do not 
therefore consider  it needs to make any payment for medical treatment. British Gas has 
offered £250 for any effect  on her medical  condition  separately.  
Overall, I am satisfied that the total compensation of £170 recommended  by the investigator, 
plus the £250, is not unreasonable to reflect the time Mrs B was without heating which could  
have been avoided and the number of attendances that took place. It is also in line with 
awards made in similar scenarios. 
Ref: DRN62824943my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to pay a total 
sum of £170  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  to Mrs B by its 
handling of her claim. (If it has already paid the compensation it previously offered, it only 
needs to now pay the balance between  the amount paid and the £170 total.)  This is in 
addition to the £250 offered separately in respect of Mrs Bs medical condition.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6282494