K821x#15complaint
Mr U is unhappy with the Early Repayment Charge (ERC) he had to pay when he redeemed 
his mortgage early with National  Westminster Bank Plc (NatWest). He doesnt think the ERC 
represented a reasonable pre-estimate of costs to the bank. 
background
Mr U took out a mortgage on a two year fixed rate in 2016. His mortgage offer explained that 
he would  have to pay an ERC if he redeemed his mortgage early.
Mr U has made it clear  that he knew about the ERC, but hes challenging whether the ERC 
represented a reasonable pre-estimate of costs to NatWest as a result  of him paying  the 
mortgage off early.
Mr U wanted NatWest  to demonstrate this was the case or otherwise  refund the ERC.  He 
also says NatWest has avoided addressing  the matter and has asked for additional 
compensation for the trouble and upset  this caused  him.
Our investigator thought this complaint shouldnt be upheld. He felt the information  given  to 
this service by NatWest showed  the ERC was calculated in a reasonable manner and wasnt 
charged unfairly.
Mr U disagreed and so the complaint  was referred  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive decided to uphold Mr Us complaint. Before issuing this decision I let 
both parties know about the intended outcome. Mr U accepted  my findings and NatWest  is 
aware of the reasons for upholding. Ill explain  my reasons again below.
The regulator set out their rules and guidance  around  ERCs  in The Mortgages and Home 
Finance: Conduct  of Business sourcebook (MCOB). MCOB says lenders are only allowed to 
charge an ERC if its a reasonable pre-estimate of costs as a result of customers redeeming 
their mortgage before  their contract  has finished.  Mr U doesnt believe the ERC he had to 
pay fulfils this requirement.
MCOB applies to regulated mortgages . Mr Us mortgage was a buy-to-let mortgage which 
isnt regulated and so MCOB doesnt  apply here. However, NatWest have told us that with 
regards to ERCs they take the same approach for residential and buy-to-let mortgages.
So Ive looked  at whether  the ERC Mr U had to pay was a reasonable pre-estimate of costs 
to NatWest.
NatWest have shown  us what cost factors they consider when setting the ERC and they 
provided their calculations. This is commercially  sensitive information  and weve  accepted 
this in confidence. The rules we operate  under  allow us to do this. So Im afraid Im not able 
to give any more detail  about the actual calculations given to us. 
Ref: DRN68294382I looked at the information  NatWest provided and didnt think it was clear and detailed  
enough, so I asked them for further  evidence. They responded  with more information, 
however based  on the information Ive seen I still cant  be satisfied that the ERC  charged 
represented a reasonable pre-estimate of costs. Ive explained to NatWest  why this is the 
case.
This complaint has been going  on for some time and Ive explained to NatWest that we 
cannot wait for their information indefinitely. Ive given NatWest several opportunities and 
time to provide  further information, however they have now confirmed they wont  be able to 
provide this within the given timeframes. So I have to make my decision based on the 
information I have.
Its possible that the ERC NatWest charged  Mr U was reasonable. However, I havent seen 
enough evidence  to be satisfied it was. For this reason Im upholding Mr Us complaint and 
request NatWest to refund him the ERC.
Ive considered the fact Mr U says NatWest caused  him trouble and upset by deliberately not 
addressing his complaint properly. However,  I havent seen anything that makes me think 
additional compensation is warranted in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and ask National Westminster  Bank  Plc to refund Mr U the ERC of 
£2,931.50 plus 8% per year simple interest  from the time the ERC  was paid until settlement.
The interest may be subject to income tax. If National Westminster  Bank  Plc consider that 
they are required by HM Revenue & Customs  (HMRC)  to deduct the tax from the interest 
payment, they should tell Mr U how much they have taken off. They  should  also give Mr U a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2019.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6829438