K821x#15complaint
Mr H is unhappy about the way British  Gas Insurance Limited (British Gas) dealt with a claim 
he made under his homecare policy.
background
Mr H had a problem with a mixer tap in his bathroom  in December 2018. He says British Gas 
delayed in fixing the tap. 
British Gas sent a heating  engineer  to repair  the tap, but he wasnt the right person to do the 
job as a plumber  was required. Two days later, a plumber arrived  and fixed  the issue,  but the 
tap was leaking. Mr H says he was unable  to bath his children whilst waiting for the plumber.
Mr H emailed British  Gas on the same day to say the repair  wasnt  completed to an 
acceptable standard and he chased the matter for nine months, after which he got the repair  
done. He also complained  that the engineer  had told him his hot water valve wasnt working 
but didnt repair this. 
Mr H complained but didnt get a response and so he referred his complaint to our service. 
Our investigator found that British Gas didnt deal with the repair properly  or efficiently which  
caused distress and inconvenience to Mr H and recommended British  Gas pay him £350. 
British Gas didnt  think £350 was appropriate  as it said that if the leak was that bad, Mr H 
would have chased it sooner. 
And so the case has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  Mr Hs complaint  
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say an insurer  must handle claims promptly  and 
fairly. 
Ive seen that Mr H reported the problem to British Gas in December 2018, but the repair  
wasnt carried out satisfactorily until September 2019. This was despite  Mr H raising a formal  
complaint. 
Mr H was also unhappy that the hot water valve hadnt been replaced when the initial  
engineer had told him it wasnt  working.  British Gas has since  provided evidence  that the 
water valve  was ok. Ive seen a note dated  18 December 2019 which says the Gate  valve 
now working to isolate hot water to tap that needs  new washer
Mr H hasnt provided any evidence to show the valve isnt working  and hasnt provided an 
explanation or any details  which show it is affecting the way the hot water is working. And so 
I dont think anything further needs to be done about this. 
In relation to the original issue with the tap, Im not satisfied British  Gas dealt with the claim 
promptly which caused Mr H inconvenience  as he had to chase. And so British  Gas should 
Ref: DRN69465412compensate Mr H for the stress and inconvenience  caused to him. To decide  what a fair 
amount of compensation would be, Ive taken the following issues into account:
The wrong engineer was sent
The second engineer didnt repair the fault satisfactorily 
There was a delay  in dealing with this issue
Mr H had to deal with a leaking tap and the issues surrounding this, including  no bath 
time for his children for a number of days
British Gas has raised concerns about  the length  of time taken for Mr H to chase matters. 
But Mr H was proactive  in pursuing his complaint and referred  his complaint to this service.  I 
dont think Mr Hs actions were unreasonable or delayed. He raised  a complaint, didnt get a 
response and referred matters to our service.  He then waited for a response but chased 
when he was reaching the 12-month limit after which the parts  he had replaced would no 
longer be under guarantee.  And so I think £350  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I think Mr Hs complaint  should  be upheld  and I direct  British 
Gas Insurance  Limited to pay Mr H £350  compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2021.
Shamaila Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6946541