K822xcomplaint
Mr F has complained about the way in which Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) has 
administered his mortgage account  in relation  to a payment break  granted in 2016. Mr F 
says he was misled by Halifax about how it would  use a payment advance  towards  
payments during the period of his payment  break.
background 
Mr F has an interest-only mortgage with Halifax. It was for £140,000.  Following  an historic 
adjustment of £3,180 applied to Mr Fs mortgage account in 2011, there was an advance  
balance on his account, which also included a small element  of overpayments  hed made. 
The total advance  amount  was £3,376.50.  This effectively reduced  the mortgage  account 
balance to around £136,600.
On 18 October 2016 Mr F asked for a payment  break  whilst  essential works were carried  out 
to his property. Halifax  agreed to this and explained that the advance  of £3,376.50 could be 
applied towards  the payments. As the call handler was in the process  of explaining how this 
would affect the account, the call was cut off.  The call handler  tried to call back  but wasnt  
able to get through to Mr F.
Mr F later called back the same  day and spoke to another call handler.  She agreed  that Mr F 
could miss payments  for two months, and explained  that Halifax would use the advance  on 
the account towards this. During the call it was explained that the advance  would reduce, 
and that this might result  in the account falling into arrears, with the consequent impact on 
Mr Fs credit file. Mr F was advised to contact Halifax again after two months to update 
Halifax.
Mr F contacted Halifax again on 24 November 2016 and said that he wanted to use the 
advance on the account until January 2017. The call handler  confirmed that the balance of 
the mortgage would increase due to the advance being depleted.  Mr F said he hadnt been 
told this before. No complaint was raised  at that time. Mr F recommenced payments from 
30 May 2017.  
In October  2017, six months before the end of the interest-only term, Mr F says that he was 
putting in place his preparations  for paying off the mortgage, which he believed had a 
balance of about £136,600. Mr F says he was shocked to find that the balance  was back  up 
to £140,000.
Mr F complained to Halifax. He says that it was at this point he was told that the advance  on 
the account had been eradicated by being  applied to his mortgage payments during the 
payment break.
Mr F says that, in October  2016, hed asked for payments to be suspended by way of a 
payment holiday,  which  would  extend the term until repairs were completed. But by telling  
him in 2016 to use the advance on the account,  Mr F says he has unwittingly taken his final 
balance back up to £140,000, which means he needed to find a further  £4,000 to close the 
account.
Mr F says that he was misled and that he has suffered  financial  detriment  as a result. Mr F 
says that in 2011 Halifax made a goodwill payment of £3,180  over an error  it had made on 
Ref: DRN64082132his account, so he feels the amount of compensation he should receive for this latest error 
should be at the very least a similar  amount.  
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint, so it was brought to us where  an adjudicator  looked  at it. 
After listening to all the calls, she was satisfied that Mr F knew in November 2016 that using 
the advance as a set-off against  payments  due would  affect  the overall outstanding 
mortgage balance.  Halifax offered  to refund the payment for October  2016,  an amount of 
£424.70, because  this hadnt been made  sufficiently  clear to Mr F during his calls in October  
2016. The adjudicator thought this was fair.
Mr F disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to review the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The telephone calls are set out in detail in the case file. I dont  need  to repeat all of that here, 
because Mr F has copies  of the call recordings, and Ive also listened to them. So theres no 
need for me to repeat what was said by whom  during these calls.
Im satisfied from the telephone call on 24 November 2016 that Mr F was made aware that 
using the advance on the account would result in the balance on the account increasing. 
Mr F confirmed during that call that he wasnt aware of that, but said he was happy to 
proceed.
Having listened  to the calls, I think the evidence is persuasive that Mr F was told of the 
impact on his account balance on 24 November 2016. Ive reached  the same  conclusion as 
the adjudicator  about the calls on 18 October 2016;  in those calls the implications  of missed 
payments on Mr Fs credit file were discussed,  but not the effect  on the overall account 
balance if repayments  were to be set off against the advance.
But in any event, I think that, if Mr F had told Halifax not to use the credit  balance but instead 
simply to grant a concession where  he made no payments at all during the relevant period, 
hed have been worse off. I say this because the consequence of a payment holiday is that 
the missed payments are recorded on his credit file as arrears. In addition,  interest accrues 
on the missed payments.  This means  that the balance on his account  would  probably  have 
been higher than it was than by using the advance on the account.
Overall, I think Halifaxs offer to refund the October payment of £424.70 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that in full and final settlement  of this complaint I order  Bank of Scotland  plc to 
pay to Mr F:
£424.70, for the October 2016  mortgage repayment;
interest at 8% simple  per annum on £424.70  from 30 October 2016 to the date of 
payment.*
Ref: DRN64082133Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 November  2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
* If Bank of Scotland plc considers that it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award it 
may do so, but it must give Mr F the necessary tax certificate  so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if he is 
entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN6408213