K822xcomplaint
Mr C is unhappy with the income protection insurance policy  sold to him by ActiveQuote 
Limited. He says it was mis-sold.
background 
In September  2017 Mr C bought an income  protection insurance policy  recommended to 
him by ActiveQuote. The policy had a monthly benefit of £2,500  and a deferral  period  of four 
weeks. Mr C had initially applied for an income  protection policy  online via ActiveQuotes 
website. After that he was contacted by ActiveQuotes  representative a couple  of times, 
during which  the benefits of different income protection policies were discussed  before he 
was sold the policy he ended up with.
In May 2018  Mr C sustained a hand  injury and was unable  to work. He made a claim under  
the policy. The insurer said it hadnt been  given the correct information  about the type of 
work Mr C did when  the policy was set up. As Mr Cs job was predominately  a manual role it 
said hed placed  on the wrong  product. He shouldve had a pure  protection  policy  rather 
than an income protection policy. And the monthly premium  of a pure protection  policy was 
almost double the cost of the premium hed been  paying.
As such it said it wouldnt be paying Mr C the full monthly  benefit.  So instead  of receiving 
£2,500 per month  after the four week deferral period   Mr C only received around £960 per 
month. Mr C was unhappy with this and says that ActiveQuote  mis-sold the policy  to him.
Our investigator agreed that the policy had been mis-sold. She asked ActiveQuote  to pay:
-the shortfall  between  the benefit Mr C received from the insurer  each month and what  
he shouldve  received under the policy he thought he was buying,  plus interest. She said 
it could deduct  from that sum the amount Mr C wouldve paid for a higher premium 
during that period; and 
-£250 as compensation for the trouble and upset hed experienced as a result  of the 
policy having  been mis-sold.
Whilst ActiveQuote accepts that its advisor made  an assumption about the type of work 
Mr C did when selling the policy  to him, it doesnt think the outcome of our investigator is fair. 
It says its prepared to pay £250 for trouble and upset but the not the shortfall in benefit.
So the complaint has now been  passed to me to look at everything afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When first applying  for an income protection policy via ActiveQuotes website, Mr C was 
asked what he did for a living. From a drop down menu, he selected  that he was a project  / 
programme manager.  He also confirmed that he was self-employed  and was in the 
construction and property  industry.
Ref: DRN62344762I think Mr C answered  that question honestly and its consistent with the role he was doing  at 
the time,  which hes described to us as: overseeing major remodelling of properties, lifting 
and placing  structural steel beams,  pitching roofs, heavy demolition,  framing, kitchen fitting, 
and other  general  building works .
ActiveQuote says when  applying for income protection via its website, there  are other  drop 
down options  available  including: foreman  heavy  manual, foreman  light manual and 
foreman  no manual.  That may be the case but Mr C considered  himself  to be a project 
manager and I dont think hes answered  that carelessly or unreasonably. 
Because of the other drop down options available, which its advisor wouldve been aware of, 
ActiveQuote says its adviser assumed that Mr C didnt carry out any manual duties. But I 
dont think that was a reasonable assumption to make  especially as they didnt ask any 
further questions  to understand the nature  of Mr Cs role and / or whether it was 
predominantly manual or sedentary in nature.
As a result Mr C was sold a policy that wasnt suitable for him. The key facts for the income 
protection policy says that policy for was people who had low-risk, mainly office based 
occupations. The pure protection policy is for skilled tradespeople and / or those who work in 
physical and manual occupations.
So Im satisfied ActiveQuote  mis-sold  the policy to Mr C as it wasnt  suitable for his needs. 
And that meant  at the time he had to claim on the policy he was sold,  he was only entitled to 
a proportion of the monthly  benefit. 
If hed been sold a suitable  policy Mr C wouldve received a monthly benefit of £2,500. That 
wouldve started four weeks after he sustained his injury and being unable  to work. The 
insurer says that the monthly premium for that sort of policy  wouldve been  more expensive 
at £40.06 per month for the first year of the policy, rising to £44.61 per month if it had been 
renewed in September 2018.  
putting things  right
Mr C was entitled to start receiving the monthly benefit on 21 June 2018.  He says he was 
unable to work because of his hand  injury  until 1 January 2019 - the date Mr C was 
medically declared able to return back to work.  I accept thats  the case  as thats the date the 
insurer stopped  paying a benefit to Mr C. 
I know Mr C continued to be off work  early  into 2019  but he says that this was due to an 
operation he had regarding a pre-existing medical  issue and not connected  to the hand 
injury he sustained in May 2018. 
So ActiveQuote should work out the weekly shortfall in Mr Cs benefit, during  the period 
21 June to 31 December  2018 inclusive, taking  into account:
owhat  he shouldve received (based on a monthly benefit of £2,500  per month  / 
£576.92 per week);
owhat  he actually received from the insurer; and 
othe additional premium  he wouldve  paid had he been sold the pure protection policy 
(on a pro-rata weekly basis)   unless he was paying  that higher  premium between 
the period  21 June to 31 December 2018  inclusive.
Ref: DRN62344763ActiveQuote should  then pay Mr C:
1.the shortfall  in benefit for the above  period.
2.interest at an annual rate of 8% simple* from the date of each week  when  the 
shortfall in payment  was made during  the period of claim  to the date on which  
ActiveQuote makes  payment to him. 
3.£250 as compensation for the trouble and upset hes experienced. I think  that 
amount is fair and reasonable  because he had to go to the trouble of borrowing 
money from family to help pay for things  because of the shortfall in the monthly 
benefit hed received.  He also wouldve been worried  about whether this help could  
be maintained. That trouble  and upset wouldnt have occurred if Mr C had received 
the full benefit  he thought he was entitled to under  the policy  from 21 June 2018.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Cs complaint. ActiveQuote Limited  should put things right by doing what  Ive 
explained above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
*If ActiveQuote  Limited considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income 
tax from any interest paid, it should  tell Mr C how much  its taken  off. It should also give Mr C a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one. That way he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue 
& Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6234476