K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains John Lewis Financial Services Limited (JLFS) wont refund him the cost of 
faulty ski equipment  he bought using his JLFS  credit card. He would like the cost of boots, 
insoles and heaters  refunded.
background
Mr W says he bought  various items of ski equipment in January 2018 using his JLFS credit 
card. He says the buckles were faulty on the ski boots; the batteries on the warmers were 
used. And both the warmers and insoles were incorrectly fitted. He added that the lenses on 
the ski goggles  were hard to change.
He says as he couldnt  get a refund from the retailer he contacted  JLFS  to put in a Section 
75 Consumer Credit  Act 1974 claim.  He says JLFS asked him to get an independent report 
to confirm the ski kit was faulty which he wasnt happy to do. 
JLFS said it was unable  to progress either a Section 75 or Chargeback  request as it needed 
independent evidence that the equipment Mr W bought was faulty. It said Mr W wasnt an 
expert in ski equipment so couldnt  just take his information as accurate.  
It did acknowledge there was some delay  in dealing with Mr Ws complaint as Mr W was 
abroad when he put in his complaint. So it took some time to get a dispute  form to him. 
Although it did try to help over the telephone.  And advised where Mr W could print a form 
from its website. But as this didnt seem to work  it paid £50 compensation which  it felt was 
fair.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ws complaint. He noted that JLFS  considered  both a 
Section 75 claim and a Chargeback request. He noted that under Section 75 claims  have to 
be for items of £100 or more. As the insoles were  sold separately and cost approximately  
£30 he didnt feel Section 75 applied to these items.
As both the ski boots  and goggles had been replaced by the manufacturer he felt this was a 
fair resolution. He didnt  feel that replacing these items meant all the items Mr W bought 
were faulty.  He didnt  feel scratches on the batteries for the warmers conclusively meant the 
batteries were used.  And he didnt feel JLFS request for an independent assessment of the 
ski equipment was unreasonable.
In terms of the Chargeback request he felt JLFS had considered this. But he felt, as there 
was no impartial evidence  of faults, that it was reasonable that JLFS didnt pursue this claim 
on Mr Ws behalf.
JLFS accepted this view but Mr W didnt. He said he had provided photographic and video 
evidence to support  his claims that the insoles had been incorrectly  fitted. He wanted  a full 
refund of the insoles.
He also provided  photographic evidence which he felt showed the batteries were scratched  
and, as others he bought werent, he felt this evidence the original ones were used.
He felt JLFS ignored  and dragged out his complaint in the hope he would give up. And that 
its request for an independent expert opinion was unnecessary.  Mr W felt he was more than 
capable of deciding  himself if the equipment was faulty.  
Ref: DRN62540592Mr W said he wanted some compensation for the costs incurred and the inconvenience of 
complaining.
Our investigator considered these points but as he didnt change  his view Mr Ws complaint  
has been put forward for an Ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W feels strongly about this. So I appreciate he is going to be disappointed as Ive 
reached the same conclusion as our investigator.
Mr W is complaining  about various items of equipment and JLFS customer service. So I 
think it might  be helpful if I deal with these in turn.
In terms of the ski boots  and googles I understand these have been  replaced. And as Mr W 
hasnt made  any specific  comments about  the replacements I assume  he is happy with 
them. I appreciate  there  is a degree  of inconvenience when items need to be replaced.  But I 
feel that a replacement of these items is a fair resolution. So I dont think  I need to consider 
this any further.
In terms of the insoles,  warmers  and batteries  I appreciate Mr W has sent some  
photographic evidence in. But the problems Mr W says he has had of incorrect fitting of the 
warmers and insoles  and used batteries arent  clear  to me from those photos. So whilst I 
appreciate that Mr W is frustrated by JLFS  request  for an independent report  I can 
appreciate why JLFS  asked for this. And I dont think it was an unreasonable  request. 
Ive also noted  that the batteries are under warranty so Mr W could make use of that 
warranty if they dont  last as long as he would expect.
On the basis I dont have any clear  evidence to show  faults  with the insoles, warmers or 
batteries I dont think I can reasonably expect JLFS to refund the cost of these.
Mr W has commented about  the time taken for JLFS to deal with his complaint  he feels  it 
has dragged its heels in an attempt to get him to drop his complaint. 
From what  Ive seen I dont feel this is a fair assessment. Mr W contacted JLFS on 21 
January 2018,  JLFS  replied apologising for the time taken on 26 January 2018. On the same 
day it sent a Disputes Resolution form for Mr W to complete. Mr W then contacted JLFS on 8 
February 2018 to ask for the form electronically as he was abroad.  He chased this up on 10 
February 2018. In this call JLFS  advised  Mr W he could download the form and helped him 
find where it was on its website.
On 20 February 2018 JLFS received  Mr Ws complaint form. Its notes  show  on 24 February 
2018 it sent the form to its Disputes department and on 27 February  2018 to its Chargeback  
Department. On 8 March  2018 it chased the Chargeback Department and on 27 March  2018 
it then started corresponding to us as by this time Mr W had put in his complaint to us.
Ref: DRN62540593I think JLFS did try to help Mr W put in his complaint. It has acknowledged there was some 
delay with Mr W not being able to get a dispute resolution form as he was abroad when he 
first contacted JLFS.  And Mr W was unable to download a form from JLFS website. JLFS  
paid Mr W £50 for the inconvenience  which I think was reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr W has additionally asked for compensation for costs incurred in putting  his complaint and 
for the inconvenience.  Mr W hasnt given us any evidence  of specific costs  that I could 
consider. Its unfortunate but when  a complaint is made it does take some  time and cause 
some inconvenience  for all parties  to provide relevant information. But that isnt in itself 
automatically grounds to award compensation.
In this case I havent found any evidence  that JLFS has done  anything wrong. And I think  the 
£50 it has paid for the initial  delay in dealing with Mr Ws complaint was reasonable. So I 
dont think I can reasonably ask JLFS  to compensate Mr W any further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6254059