K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that J D Williams & Company Limited (J D Williams)  unfairly charged too 
much interest on her credit account.
background
Ms F has a credit account with J D Williams and has been  shopping with them  for many 
years. Ms F said she generally pays her balance  on time and in full, so shes  not usually 
charged any interest. 
In December 2018, Ms F made some  purchases  using her credit account. She made 
a payment of £120, but didnt pay the balance of £163.64 in full by the due date. 
When she received her next statement, Ms F had been charged interest on her account. She 
said she was expecting  to be charged £2 - £3 in interest, as she knew  shed not paid her full 
balance. But she was charged £9.94,  and said she thought this was too much  and might be 
a mistake. 
Ms F complained to J D Williams about  the interest charges. J D Williams said itd applied  
the interest correctly. It acknowledged Ms F had paid £120  towards  the balance,  but said as 
the balance wasnt  paid in full, itd applied interest to the total amount of £163.64. It said this 
was in line with the terms and conditions  of the credit agreement  it had with Ms F. 
Ms F said she disagreed  with the explanation she was given about  the charges. She carried  
on making payments  to cover her purchases, but didnt pay enough to also clear the interest  
shed been charged. This meant a balance was left on the account,  and further interest 
continued to be added.  
Unhappy with J D Williams response  to her concerns,  Ms F brought her complaint to us. An 
investigator reviewed the complaint and said J D Williams hadnt done anything  wrong. Ms F 
disagreed, and asked for an ombudsman to make  a decision. 
Ms F also said shed used a discount offer on her December 2018  order,  but no money had 
been deducted from her balance.  She was unhappy  about this as she thought shed been 
overcharged. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im in agreement with 
the investigator. Ill explain why.
Were the interest charges  correct?
Having looked  at the terms  of the credit  agreement Ms F entered into with J D Williams, 
section two of the agreement  explains no interest will be charged  when  an account is paid in 
full before the next statement date. It goes  on to say that if an account isnt paid in full by the 
next statement  date,  interest will be charged from the date of purchase,  ignoring  any part 
payment that may have been made.
Ref: DRN67578732Ms F made  a payment  in December 2018  that didnt cover the full balance  she owed, so 
J D Williams charged  interest on the total balance when it sent the next statement. This is in 
line with the credit agreement, so I cant agree J D Williams calculated  the interest 
incorrectly. 
Ms F was charged more interest  than shed expected and thought  this might have been 
a mistake. She said she thought shed  only be charged interest on the remaining balance  
after her payment. Ms F took out the credit  agreement with J D Williams  in 2003, and said 
she usually pays her balance in full, so I can understand she may have been uncertain about  
how much  interest she would have to pay, or how interest would be calculated. 
Did J D Williams explain the charges clearly?  
When Ms F received her statement showing higher interest charges  than shed expected, 
she questioned  this. J D Williams explained  the charges to her and demonstrated they were  
correct. I know  Ms F thinks the amount  of interest she was charged was disproportionate  to 
the remaining  balance  she owed. But, as Ive explained, J D Williams  charged  interest on the 
total balance of Ms Fs account, and it was entitled to do this. I think J D Williams  explained 
everything clearly, so this should have resolved things for Ms F. 
Since then,  J D Williams  has written to Ms F every month, letting her know how much  she 
owes and asking for payment. Its also responded to all of her correspondence,  explaining  
how the charges  are applied. Its done  everything  I would expect in these circumstances,  so 
I dont think Ms F has been treated unfairly.  
What happened  next?
Ms F didnt pay the interest charges. She made  some further payments to cover  her 
purchases, but she didnt pay enough to clear the balance of her account  back  down to zero, 
so interest continued  to be added each month.  As no payments were  made in April or May 
2019, two late payment  charges of £12 each were also been  added to the account. 
Unfortunately, as the original interest  charge of £9.94 was left unpaid, Ms F now finds herself  
in a worse position  due to the additional interest and charges that have  built up. The current 
balance Ms F owes is £46.43, which is wholly made  up of interest and charges.
What needs to happen now?
Ive asked J D Williams  to suspend adding charges to Ms Fs account temporarily and its 
agreed to do so until the end of August 2019.
Ms F should contact J D Williams as soon as possible and arrange to either  pay the balance  
of her account, or discuss  a repayment  plan.
If Ms F doesnt  make  a payment to J D Williams soon, its likely  that it will default her 
account. Any default would be recorded against Ms Fs credit file for six years,  and may 
negatively impact her ability to get credit elsewhere.  
Would a discount  code have made any difference?
Ms F said she believes she was overcharged  for the goods  she ordered in December 2018. 
She said a discount  of 15 or 20% should have been applied to her order. 
Ref: DRN67578733Ms F said she cant recall the exact details of the discount, and J D Williams said it no longer 
has a record the discount offers it may have sent to Ms F in 2018. However, a discount  
wouldnt make  any real difference  to the outcome here. With a 20% discount, the amount 
Ms F paid towards her account in December 2018  still wouldnt have covered the total 
balance. So interest would have still been  charged on the total amount shed spent. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given its my final decision not to uphold this complaint. I make  no 
award against J D Williams & Company Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.  
Gemma Warner
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6757873