K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains the telematics box for his Advantage Insurance Company Limited  motor  
insurance policy gave  him an unfair score. 
Mr Es been  represented  by his mother for this complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to her 
comments as being those of Mr E.
background
In May 2018  Mr E took out an Advantage motor insurance policy. It required him to have a 
telematics box fitted to his car to monitor  how it was driven. This recorded four aspects of 
driving behaviour.  These included acceleration and braking. Each is given a score out of 
100. Those  scores are, with different weightings, used to produce an overall cumulative 
driving score  also out of 100. The policy terms said if this score dropped below 40 hed be 
sent a warning and his cover might be cancelled.  
In July 2018 Mr E told Advantage  the box wasnt working properly. It hadnt been recording 
journeys since late June 2018.  Advantage  provided  a new one. It removed the driving data 
registered between  late June 2018  and the date of the installation of the new box  early 
August 2018.  In September 2018  Mr E told Advantage  the new one wasnt working properly. 
He felt it was giving incorrect scores for his driving. In early  November 2018 Advantage 
responded to Mr E s complaint.  It said it had checked the driving  data. It said it hadnt found 
anything to indicate a problem with the box. 
Mr E wasnt  satisfied with the response. Soon after, he received an email  warning him his 
score was below  40. It said if it didnt  increase  to above that score his policy  would be 
cancelled. So he brought his complaint to this service. He says he drives sensibly so feels  
there must be something  wrong  with the box or data. He wants  a full refund of the premium 
paid for the policy.  
Our Investigator  said she hadnt seen anything  to show the box wasnt  recording properly. 
She didnt  recommend Advantage  refund any of Mr Es premium.  He didnt accept that. So 
the complaint  has come  to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making 
Advantage pay Mr E any compensation or do anything differently.
Advantage says it reviewed the box and data.  It doesnt feel there is any inaccuracy or 
problem with it. Its provided data to this service. So Ive checked  it using  my understanding  
of how the box and score calculations  work. 
For me to fairly say Advantage should  refund Mr Es premium,  I need to think  there  probably  
was a problem  with the scoring  and that this caused him some  detriment.  I accept its 
possible there was a problem. But I havent seen enough to make  me think that was 
probably the case.
Mr Es used  his braking  score as an example of how the box wasnt working properly. My 
understanding is the box records  a braking event when  a certain g-force  level is exceeded   
Ref: DRN67415822so when there is sharp braking perhaps.  Each  event has a negative impact on Mr Es daily 
and cumulative scores  for braking. That then feeds into his overall  cumulative  driving  score   
the one that results in a warning if it falls below 40.
The data shows braking events during many journeys.  It also shows  others without a braking 
event  where he scores  the full 100 for braking that day. So it was possible  for Mr E to drive 
without the box recording one.  
Mr Es complained that his cumulative braking score was stuck  at five and then reduced to 
zero despite  him driving sensibly. As well as the daily scores  varying,  I can see the 
cumulative braking score was well above  50 for some time.  It then went down to zero and 
later increased to 15 towards the end of the policy period.  That was in line with frequent daily 
scores of 100 for braking.
Acceleration is  also scored  using the telematics boxs g-force  indicator. The scores show  a 
similar pattern  for acceleration. The cumulative  score improves  as the daily score shows 
frequent scores  of 100. Towards the end of the policy period frequent  low daily scores are 
reflected in a low cumulative score. 
Mr Es cumulative speeding  score was fairly low in the early period of cover.  That was 
because he had a few speeding  events  recorded  against him. He was recorded as 
exceeding the speed limit for the road. Ive checked a selection  of these events using the 
coordinates recorded in the data. I cant be certain  at what speed  Mr E was travelling  but 
the speed limits used  by Advantage seem to be correct.    
The cumulative overall  score varied  throughout the policy.  It was 51 early  on, increasing to 
above 70, reducing to 38 at its lowest and then up to 58 by the end of the cover  in May 2019. 
Having considered this score, against  the varying cumulative scores  for the four driving 
behaviours, I cant say I can see anything that indicates any inaccuracy. 
As an example, when  Mr Es cumulative over score  feel below 40 it was at a time when his 
braking score was very low. His time of day score was also reducing  reflecting an 
increased number  of times he was recorded as driving at night. Time of day score, as I 
understand it, is the most  heavily  weighted  of the four scores.
 
Mr Es provided print outs of scores. He feels these show  inaccuracies  in the scoring.  He 
points to them showing his scores for the four behaviours as green  so considered  good.  
But his overall  cumulative  score is still red  so below 40. They  do show  instances  where  he 
has three scores green yet a red overall  score. But they also include a very low red braking 
score. And as I said above  the four behaviour  scores dont have the same impact  on the 
overall score. They are weighted differently. So each has a different impact on the overall  
score  some more and some less.  
So Ive considered everything Mr E has said. But based on what Ive seen I cant  say the box 
wasnt working properly  or there were problems with the data.  
Ref: DRN67415823my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that Im not making  Advantage Insurance  
Company Limited  refund  any premium  or do anything differently. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2020.
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6741582