K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1988. The policy was taken out by the late Mr K and Mrs H. For simplicity, and as the 
complaint refers to events  from 1988, I will refer to the consumers largely as Mr and Mrs K, 
when talking about the time of the sale. Mrs H says Santander UK Plc mis-sold them  PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr and Mrs 
Ks circumstances  at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ks representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Due to the length of time thats passed,  its maybe not surprising that neither  party  has been 
able to give us a policy document from the time of the sale. So, Ive considered what we 
know about policies  sold around the time and the terms we usually see in these types of 
policies.
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ks. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding  Mr and 
Mrs Ks complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
 
I think Santander made it clear that Mr and Mrs K didnt have to take out the PPI and 
they chose to take it out. I say this because I have seen  insufficient  evidence to uphold  
the complaint  on this issue. This sale happened in 1988, 33 years  ago. Considering  the 
time that has passed since the sale, it is maybe not surprising that neither party  has 
been able to provide any signed  documentation  from the point of sale for me to consider. 
So, considering  the time that has passed  since the sale,  and in the absence  of detailed  
Ref: DRN65495512testimony from Mrs K to the contrary,  I have  seen insufficient evidence  to be able to 
uphold the complaint on this point.
And whilst  Mrs K has said that they felt pressured to buy the cover, this is a very 
subjective area of complaint and there is no evidence to support that testimony. So, it 
seems most likely that Mr and Mrs K agreed to take the cover out and did so knowing 
they had a choice about doing  so, and without any undue pressure. 
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs K, so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them. And the evidence about Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances at the time,  shows  
that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them. For example, Mr and 
Mrs K were eligible  for the cover and although they had existing means  they still seem to 
have had a need  for cover. The policy could have paid out in addition to the sick pay they 
had and for longer than Mr and Mrs Ks employers would have paid them  at their full rate 
of pay. And Mr and Mrs K told us that they had no other means  they could rely on to 
make their repayments if they were too ill to work, or if they lost their work.  
There was nothing about Mr and Mrs Ks employment or occupation which would have  
made it difficult for them to claim. Although Mr and Mrs K says they each had a medical  
condition some time before the policy  was taken out, I dont think  it was wrong for 
Santander to have recommended it. I say this because Mr and Mrs Ks conditions 
occurred in 1984 and 1986  respectively.  It seems that Mrs Ks condition didnt cost her 
any time off work at the time and that Mr K lost only a week  off work at the time his 
condition occurred. Mrs K hasnt provided any detailed testimony about these conditions 
and theres no testimony that they caused  them ongoing issues or any time off work in 
the intervening  years  before the sale, such that they may have thought these would  be 
the main reason they might  need  to be off work  in the future. It also looks  like the cover 
was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went  
wrong. There were also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health and/or back 
problems.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs K about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out - so it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs K as I 
concluded above, or too dissimilar to what they reasonably  thought they were buying 
from the information they were  given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like 
it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think 
Mr and Mrs K would have declined the cover  had Santander done  anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs K would have  still taken out PPI. I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. I also think 
the policy was sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were  getting. And in 
those circumstances,  I think  that they would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr and Mrs Ks representative has raised  a number of what  I consider  to be general  
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant Santander should  have  disclosed  the poor 
value and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
Ref: DRN65495513But Mr and Mrs Ks representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts  
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Ks individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Ks particular  
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold this complaint.
This means  Santander  doesnt have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint  so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 September 2021.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6549551