K822xcomplaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about the handling  of a claim under a plumbing and drainage  policy with 
Aviva Insurance Limited. Aviva uses agents  to handle claims and complaints on its behalf. 
Any reference to Aviva in this decision  should  be read as including  anything said and done  
by those agents on its behalf.  
background 
Mrs C made  a claim under her policy with Aviva on 29 October 2018, as sewage waste was 
overflowing from a manhole in her garden, as a result of a blocked drain. Aviva sent out one 
of its contractors, who said it was a shared drain and this was not covered under the policy. 
Mrs C therefore contacted her water  supplier,  who confirmed the blockage  was on a part of 
the foul waste drain within Mrs Cs property and was not part of the shared drainage system. 
Aviva went  out again in early November 2018.  An engineer apparently  cleared  part of the 
drains and carried  out a camera survey. However, this did not resolve  the issue.  I 
understand nothing more  happened until Mrs C called Aviva on 23 December 2018  to chase 
the matter up. Aviva  agreed to go out again  and a contractor attended on 2 January 2019 
and cleared the blockage.
Mrs C is very unhappy with the handling  of the claim. She has made a number of points, 
which Ive summarised below:  
Aviva  told her part of the drain  was blocked with tree roots and had collapsed,  which  
shed have to get repaired herself.  This wasnt true. There  was no collapsed  drain  
and no tree roots.
Due to the considerable delay in dealing with the blockage,  it became worse and her 
garden was flooded.  She had to have areas  of her property  power washed to remove  
the sewage, and sterilise  the areas affected at a cost of £160.  This damaged  the 
external woodwork on the steps, fencing, back windows  and a back  wall and decking  
area. This needed to be repainted.
Because the drains were  blocked  for so long, her toilet  started  to back  up and she 
was unable to use it from around 12 December 2018 onwards. As a result, she had 
to move out and stay with relatives and friends.  She was unable  to spend Christmas  
in her own home.
There were  sewer  smells coming up from her kitchen  sink during this whole period. 
She is in her 70s and is unwell,  as such shes not able to walk her dog and normally  
allows her dog into her garden. But because of all the sewage  water in the garden,  
shed have to clean her dog down  every time she let it outside.
She also had to use several  cans of cleaning fluid at £14.99 each. 
Mrs C wants her garden put back to its previous state and compensation for the effect of this 
matter on her. She said the soil in her garden  would be contaminated and therefore needed 
to be removed and replaced, among other things.
Aviva agrees  there  were delays which could have  been avoided and offered £500  
compensation. Aviva also agreed to reinstate Mrs Cs garden or pay her the cash  equivalent  
to have the work done herself. Aviva says the soil in the garden would no longer  be 
contaminated, as it has been open  and free from leaking waste  for some time. Its contractors 
Ref: DRN62618462estimated that the cost of the work required would be £1,008.54. Aviva also agreed to 
reimburse £160 for the cleaning of the steps.
Mrs C didnt accept Avivas  offer.  Mrs C provided a quote for the work required in the sum of 
£2,175 for landscaping work and £720 for the repainting of some timber  steps  and decking.  
Mrs C had the work done in May 2019.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He accepted that there was a lot of 
inconvenience caused to Mrs C and that this was all at a time when Mrs C was going 
through personal health difficulties. The investigator  therefore recommended that the 
compensation be increased  to £750.  
The investigator thought the two quotes were  for the same work,  except  Avivas  also 
included laying new turf. Aviva had offered  to do this work in March 2019  and Mrs C had 
gone ahead  with her own contractor to do the same  work but for a much  higher cost. The 
investigator therefore did not think  it is reasonable to ask Aviva to pay more  than its 
contractors would have  charged, when it had offered to do the same work before Mrs C went 
ahead with it. The investigator had previously recommended that Aviva get the soil tested  by 
an independent surveyor to see if it is contaminated but, as the work  to the garden had 
already been completed, he determined  this was no longer appropriate. 
Mrs C initially  accepted  the investigators assessment and Aviva arranged to pay the 
amounts proposed. However, Mrs C subsequently asked for her complaint to be given  
further consideration; she doesnt consider the amount  of compensation proposed  is fair, 
given she had to wait almost a year to have the works done. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that this was a terrible  ordeal for Mrs C. She had taken this insurance out to 
respond promptly in an emergency situation, such as happened here, where her garden was 
being flooded  by sewage. What appears to have  been a relatively straightforward  job of 
unblocking pipework  between two manholes  on her property took around two months  to do 
and several appointments and phone calls.  In addition, the problem was getting worse  until 
Mrs C was not able to stay in her own home  for two to three weeks, as the toilet was blocked  
and backing up. 
I am pleased  to note that Aviva accepts responsibility for this delay  and the trouble this 
caused Mrs C. The dispute  is about what should  be done  to put this right. 
With regard to the damage to Mrs Cs garden, Aviva says the two quotes  were for exactly  
the same  work, except  that its quote also includes re-turfing the affected 12 feet square 
area, whereas Mrs Cs quote  doesnt and records that she will re-seed the area later.  
I dont think the quotes  are exactly the same. Avivas quote is for re-levelling the affected 
area with some topsoil  but doesnt  say that the existing soil will be removed. Mrs Cs quote 
says that soil will be removed from the affected  areas but does not say to what depth. 
So the quotes are not for exactly  the same work. But that doesnt mean that Mrs Cs quote 
should be reimbursed. I says this because, while  I can see why Mrs C would want some  of 
Ref: DRN62618463the soil to be removed,  theres no convincing evidence this was required  because  the soil 
was still contaminated.  Aviva says that having been  open to the elements for some time, it 
would no longer be contaminated (rainwater  would have  washed  away  any contaminants).  
Theres no independent evidence to counter this and there has been no soil analysis done.   
On balance, I am therefore satisfied that Avivas  schedule  of works was reasonable.
Aviva offered to do all the work required in March  2019. While  I can understand that Mrs C 
might have preferred  to use her own contractor, this does not mean that Aviva  is responsible  
for the cost of that if it is higher than it would  have cost it to use its own contractors. I agree 
with the investigator  therefore that Aviva  should pay the amount of its quote for the works. 
Interest should  be added  from the date Mrs C paid her contractors  (which  I understand was  
May 2019) at our usual  rate. 
With regard to appropriate compensation, the problem  with the drains  went  on from October 
2018 to 2 January 2019, when it was finally fixed. While Aviva says there  was uncertainty  
about the shared drains, this should  not have taken this long. It appears to have been a 
relatively straightforward drain  problem and should  have  been resolved within  a couple of 
days at most in my opinion. 
This caused Mrs C considerable trouble: she was left unable  to use her toilet for a time; 
unable to use her garden normally  and had to move out for some time. She then had to wait 
several months with the garden as it was, until this could be rectified.
Overall, I consider that the total sum of £750  compensation  (taken together  with 
reimbursement of Mrs Cs costs) is not unreasonable and is in line with awards  made in 
similar cases involving  substantial  distress  and inconvenience.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs C the following: 
£1,008.54  for the work to the garden, together  with interest  at 8% simple per annum 
from the date Mrs C paid for this work  to the date of reimbursement; 
£160 for the power washing, together with interest at 8% simple  per annum from the 
date Mrs C paid for this work to the date of reimbursement; and 
£750 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by its handling of her 
claim. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6261846