K822xcomplaint
Mr N complains that a car bought using finance  from BMW  Financial Services  (GB)  Limited 
continues to have  issues with tyre pressure.
background
Mr N bought a car financed with a four-year  hire purchase agreement  from BMW  Financial 
Services in August 2017. He says the car has been  returned to the dealer at least nine times 
with an ongoing  issue with tyre pressure.
Following the involvement of this service, BMW Financial Services agreed to make  Mr N an 
offer to refund one monthly instalment (£629.88),  repair the car and provide a courtesy car in 
the meantime.
Our adjudicator found this to be a fair and reasonable offer.  He said it wasnt  reasonable for 
a car to have that number of tyre pressure faults,  but he could not establish  that the issue 
was present at the point of sale so didnt feel it was appropriate to reject the car.
Ms W (Mr Ns representative)  responded to say, in summary, that the cars tyre pressure  
warning light was on when they picked up the car, that the issue  affects safety, driveability 
and tyre wear as well as the inconvenience  of having to regularly re-inflate the tyre. She 
adds that a deposit of £2,000 was paid, not the £300 quoted on the contract, and shed like 
that refunded  as well as the offered repair and courtesy car.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision to Mr N and to BMW Financial Services  on 5 January 2021. I 
summarise my findings here:
I acknowledged that Ms W said the tyre pressure warning light was on when the car 
was picked up and I saw evidence that remedial work was attempted twice in 
September 2017. So I considered  it more  likely  than not that the issue was present at 
the point of sale;
BMW Financial Services confirmed that Mr N paid £2,000 in August 2017, however  it 
says £300 went  towards the finance and the remaining £1,700  was for various  
insurances;
Ms W said the issue was resolved in 2019,  when  the tyres were replaced,  so the 
offer to repair the car, and provide  a courtesy  car, was no longer  relevant;
I was satisfied that the car was not of the quality that Mr N should  reasonably  have 
expected and that the tyre pressure fault was present from the point of sale;
I considered this would have affected Mr Ns enjoyment of the car due to the number 
of times it was returned to the garage  and the need  to regularly re-inflate the tyres;
I could not conclude the usage of the car had been significantly  affected as the 
mileage was in line with the annual  mileage on Mr Ns finance agreement;
I considered a fair outcome  was for BMW Financial Services to refund Mr N one 
months repayment for the times the car was in the garage and a further months  
repayment for the inconvenience caused by the constant reinflation of the tyres.
My provisional decision was that BMW  Financial  Services should refund  Mr N £1,259.76.
BMW Financial Services accepted my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN60134802Mr N responded to say, in summary, that whilst the tyres  probably  would have needed  to be 
changed, the fundamental reason they were  changed was due to the tyre pressure issue . 
He says four tyres cost £250 each, in 2019,  and so he feels  £2,000 redress is reasonable.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no reason to doubt Mr N when he says the fundamental reason the tyres were  
changed was due to the tyre pressure.  But I need to consider  whether  it is fair to ask BMW 
Financial Services to cover the cost of four, premium-range, tyres given the circumstances:
Mr N had said that the tyre pressure issue consistently affected  one tyre (left hand 
rear), although I acknowledge he is now saying the problem transferred  to the other  
tyres once that one was replaced;
The garage had previously offered to look at the possibility of changing the tyres,  but 
Mr N had not been prepared to book  the car in yet again;
Ms W said the tyres  were worn in April 2019;
Between the purchase date and December 2019  the car had covered roughly 20,000 
miles, which is a reasonable mileage between tyre changes;
So although  I accept  that Mr N says one of the tyres needed changing due to uneven wear  
caused by the pressure  issue, I cant conclude  that the tyres were  changed  significantly  
earlier than they would  ordinarily have been. And so I consider it would be unfair to ask 
BMW Financial Services to reimburse Mr N for this cost.
For the above reasons, Im still satisfied that my provisional decision was fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. BMW Financial Services  (GB) Limited should 
refund Mr N two months repayments based  on his finance agreement   a total of £1,259.76.
Ref: DRN60134803Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 March 2021.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6013480