K821x#15Complaint
Mr S, who is represented by a third party, has complained that Northern  Bank Limited 
(Northern Bank), trading  as Danske Bank, mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy  in February 1999.
Background
Mr C bought his PPI at a meeting when  he was applying to take out a credit  card.  He says 
he had to buy the PPI to get the credit card account. He also says he didnt need it. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Northern Bank didnt agree agreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me for a decision.  
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Mr S bought the PPI in a meeting. He says he cant recall whether  or not Northern Bank 
recommended that he buy the PPI cover. Northern Bank says it recommended the PPI and 
that seems to be right from what  Ive seen about  the sale.  Northern  Bank also needed  to 
make sure that the information  it gave Mr S about  the PPI was clear, fair and not misleading 
so he could make an informed decision about buying it. 
Ive seen that when he bought the PPI, Mr S was working with the Armed Forces   and had 
been for some time. This means if hed been unable to work because of accident or sickness 
hed have continued to receive  full pay until either  he was fit to work again or he was 
medically discharged.  Hed certainly  have been  likely to have received full pay for longer 
than the 12 months  for which this policy wouldve paid out. 
So although  Mr S might have been  able to make  a successful claim,  the cover  would be only 
of limited value to him, given the good benefits  he already had. Northern Bank  has 
suggested that Mr S would only be able to enjoy the work benefits  that would cover  his pay if 
his sickness or accident was work-related.  Given that such benefits are designed to help 
employees in a range of circumstances when  they are unable  to work due to accident  or 
sickness through no fault of their own, I consider that to be a narrow  interpretation that is 
unlikely to reflect how the PPI would work in practice.
Northern Bank also pointed out that Mr S had other  financial  commitments.  Whilst the policy  
would pay out regardless of other  assets he had, this would be only for the purpose of 
meeting any monthly  payments due on the card  assuming there was an account balance  
so its usefulness is very much dependent on the card usage.  And given that Mr S would not 
have suffered any reduction  in his income in the event he couldnt work, I dont consider this 
to be a significant enough benefit  to justify buying  the policy.
 
Also, Ive also seen  that the policy also had life cover. But Mr S would most likely have 
received death  in service benefits  if hed died.
 
Ref: DRN64733012In summary,  I dont think the PPI was suitable  for Mr S and I dont  consider that Northern 
Bank has provided me with arguments  to that affect my decision. 
It follows that I dont think the PPI cover was suitable for Mr Ss situation and was therefore 
mis-sold. 
What the business needs  to do to put things  right
Northern Bank should put Mr S in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled already and:
A.Northern Bank should find out how much Mr S would owe on his credit card if the policy 
hadnt been added to it. It should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any 
interest charged on those  premiums. It should also remove  any charges  that were  
caused by the mis-sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added  to those charges.
Northern Bank should then refund  the difference between what  Mr S owed and what  he 
would have owed.  If Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Northern 
Bank can take off what he got for the claim from the amount it owes him.
B.If  when Northern  Bank works out what Mr S would have owed each month  without PPI 
 he paid more  than enough to clear his balance, Northern  Bank should also pay simple  
interest on the extra Mr S paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when 
Mr S wouldve  owed  Northern Bank  something  on his credit  card.  The interest rate 
should be 8% a year.
C.Northern Bank should tell Mr S what its done to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Northern  Bank to take off tax from this interest.  Northern Bank 
must give Mr S a certificate showing  how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ss complaint.  I require Northern Bank Limited to 
pay Mr S compensation in accordance  with the calculation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6473301