K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains about the advice  Lloyds Bank  Plc gave to her late husband, Mr M. Briefly,  
she says that Lloyds recommend Mr M invest money into the wrong type of trust. She also 
complains that it wrongly led Mr M to believe that certain funds would fall outside  his estate 
for inheritance tax (IHT)  purposes. 
background
In 2009 and 2010, Mr and Mrs M met Lloyds to discuss  what  to do with a compensation 
payment Mr M expected  to receive. Following Lloyds recommendations, in August 2010  Mr 
M invested  £700,000 in a personal injury trust. This was a bare  trust,  meaning that Mr M 
had the absolute right to the capital and assets within the trust, as well as to the income 
generated.
Lloyds met with Mr M again in 2013. Following  further advice from Lloyds, he invested more 
money into the trust.
Mrs M told us that on both occasions,  Lloyds led Mr M to believe that placing money  into the 
bare trust meant that it would fall outside his estate for IHT purposes.
Mr and Mrs M later discovered that the money  held in the trust would in fact fall within  his 
estate for IHT purposes. Mr M set up a discretionary trust instead, and complained to Lloyds 
about the advice he had received in 2009/10  and 2013.
Sadly, Mr M died in 2017. His estate was not required  to pay IHT, because  his wife Mrs M 
inherited his assets  and a spousal exemption applied.
One of our investigators  looked at this complaint. Briefly, he said:
The Financial Ombudsman  Service cannot  investigate a complaint about  any advice 
Lloyds might have given to the trustees of the trust. The net asset value of the trust 
was more than £1 million at the relevant time,  and that means any complaint the 
trustees might make in their capacity as trustees falls outside  of our jurisdiction.
We are also unable  to investigate any losses Mrs M may have suffered personally 
(including any losses her estate might suffer in future), because  she was not Lloyds 
customer in respect  of this matter.
We can investigate a complaint from Mrs M, in her capacity as the personal  
representative of her late husband, about the advice  Lloyds gave  to Mr M personally. 
That means we can consider  any losses  suffered by Mr M or his estate as a result  of 
an error made by Lloyds,  but we cant consider any losses suffered by Mrs M or her 
estate.
He didnt think Lloyds  had done anything  wrong in 2009  or 2010. He noted:
oThe documentary evidence from 2009  and 2010 suggests that Mr M told 
Lloyds that inheritance tax planning  wasnt a priority for him. 
oAt the time, it was unclear how Mr Ms ongoing  care needs would be funded. 
There were questions  about where he was going  to live, and a possibility that 
Ref: DRN62376662he might  (but for the compensation  payment he was expecting  to receive)  be 
entitled to means  tested  benefits in future. Bearing those uncertainties in 
mind, our investigator thought it was sensible for Lloyds to recommend the 
bare trust. That allowed Mr M to keep  control of the money, but preserved  any 
potential entitlement  he might have had to means  tested benefits.
He did think Lloyds  could have done  better in 2013  but he didnt think it had made  
an error that actually  caused a loss to Mr M or to Mr Ms estate:
oLloyds documentary records from 2013 indicate  that the issue of inheritance  
tax was discussed  but the records dont show the extent of those 
discussions.
oIn addition, by 2013 Mr Ms financial position was considerably  more  certain  
than it had been in 2009 and 2010. Hed moved to a newly  built house, and 
did not intend to move again.  His care costs  were being met by a third party, 
and it was very unlikely  he would ever have to fund them using his own 
resources. There was scope for inheritance tax planning  and if Mr M had 
been given more information by Lloyds in 2013,  it is likely that he would have 
moved his money away from Lloyds  much earlier. 
oHowever, since Mr Ms estate was not in fact liable for inheritance tax, neither  
Mr M nor his estate suffered a financial loss as a result of an error by Lloyds.
Mrs M did not accept our investigators findings.  Briefly, she said:
By April 2010, it was already clear how Mr Ms care costs would be met. 
There was never  any question of Mr M being  entitled to means tested benefits. Even 
ignoring the compensation award,  in April 2010  Mr and Mrs M already had savings 
above the relevant limit.
She strongly refutes  Lloyds suggestion that it offered advice  in relation to IHT 
planning but she and her husband declined it. Lloyds internal file notes do not prove 
that it made any attempt to highlight the extent  of the IHT position.
She is still unclear  about whether it was permissible for the later investment  monies 
to be added to the trust.
Overall, Lloyds provided a poor service. She and her husband paid £10,000 a year 
for Lloyds to look after their investments and advise  them,  and yet it failed to carry 
out reviews  it would  only respond to direct queries.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have come  to the same 
conclusions as our investigator, for the same reasons.
I am sorry  to further disappoint Mrs M, but I am satisfied that our investigator  was right to say 
that we cant consider  losses she might have suffered personally. Similarly, we cant  
consider any IHT her estate might have to pay. Lloyds customer here was Mr M, so we can 
Ref: DRN62376663only consider whether  Lloyds made  an error that caused a financial loss (or material  distress  
or inconvenience)  to Mr M himself or to his estate.  
I entirely accept that the advice Lloyds gave  to Mr M in 2010 wasnt the most  tax efficient for 
inheritance tax purposes. But I dont think that was the point. I note that Lloyds wrote to Mr M 
in July 2009 to explain:
The funds within the Trust essentially remain yours, you being the only beneficiary, 
and are held in the Trust merely for the purposes  [explained earlier in the letter].  The 
income generated will be taxed as your own, at your own marginal rate of tax, as will 
any capital gains. Inheritance Tax will apply on your death. Using  a Trust does not 
provide any tax savings  but that is not the purpose of it.
I consider that Lloyds  2009 and 2010 advice was intended to benefit Mr M during his 
lifetime. The advice wasnt  intended to reduce his estates tax liability  after his death, and so 
I dont criticise  Lloyds  for giving advice  that was not tax efficient from an IHT perspective.
Mrs M is right to say that Lloyds files do not show  that it made any attempt to highlight  the 
extent of Mr Ms IHT liability. It has provided  some evidence to show  that it offered tax 
services,  but that is not the same as explicitly telling  Mr M how large his estates tax liability 
was likely to be. However,  I dont  think Lloyds promised  to give Mr M tax advice in 2009  or 
2010, and so I do not criticise  it for not doing so.
Again, I think  our investigator was right to say that Lloyds could have done more  in 2013. But 
he was also right to say that, regardless of any mistakes Lloyds might  or might not have 
made, no inheritance  tax was in fact charged  to Mr Ms estate. 
I appreciate that Lloyds  did nothing to ensure that Mr Ms estate did not have to pay IHT. His 
own actions  in leaving his estate to his wife  meant that his estate was not liable for IHT. 
As a result, regardless  of whether I thought Lloyds had made an error here I would not be 
able to order it to refund any inheritance  tax to Mr M or his estate. 
I do understand that Mrs Ms estate may be liable for inheritance tax in future  (though I 
understand she has taken out an insurance  policy to cover  that possibility, at her own 
expense). But that isnt something  I am able to consider.
Mrs M has also questioned whether it was legally permissible for funds to be added to Mr 
Ms trust in 2013. I cant see any reason why it would have been  unlawful for funds to be 
added, but her question about  legality is one that can only be definitively answered  by a 
court. 
The question of effectiveness  whether adding the funds to the trust was effective in terms 
of causing those funds to be disregarded for the purposes of Mr Ms entitlement  to state 
benefits  is different to the question  of legality. But, in assessing  whether Lloyds actions 
caused a loss to Mr M himself, I dont need  to decide whether the trust was effective. 
Everyone now accepts  that, at least  from 2013  onwards, Mr M would not have been entitled 
to means tested benefits in any event. So, nothing Lloyds did (or failed to do) in 2013  could  
have resulted in him losing out on means  tested benefits.
Mrs M has also complained that Lloyds  charges  were high compared with the service  it 
offered. She has since moved away from Lloyds, and she told us that the new firm provides 
a much better service  at a much lower  price. But that does not in itself mean that Lloyds  has 
Ref: DRN62376664done anything  wrong, and I havent  seen anything to suggest that Lloyds charged for a 
service it did not provide.  Different firms do charge different amounts for different services, 
and I dont think it would be fair for me to uphold a complaint  solely on the grounds that 
another firm would have  provided a cheaper  service. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives of Mr Ms estate to accept  or reject  my decision before 13 February  2021.
Laura Colman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6237666