K821x#15complaint
Mrs R is unhappy Admiral  Insurance  Company  Limited (Admiral) has declined  a claim she 
made for two stolen  cars,  under her multicar  motor  insurance policy.
background
In January 2018 two vehicles Mrs R owns were stolen from outside  her sons  girlfriends 
address. Both cars had been parked there  overnight.  And the theft was noticed by Mrs Rs 
son the following  morning.  It has been explained that the keys for the car were still in the 
property  but the cars had gone. Both cars had a keyless entry  function.  So, Mrs R has said 
she feels the cars were  stolen by someone intercepting  this function. She has explained the 
police told her another car in a nearby road was also stolen this way in the same night.
Mrs R made  a claim under her motor insurance  policy for her loss. Admiral asked for 
information from Mrs R, her son, and her sons girlfriend.  And after receiving this Admiral 
said it wasnt satisfied with the information  that had been provided to it.
It said it had asked about the keys to both cars. And was told there  was only one key to each 
vehicle. It accepted this may have been the case for one of the cars. But, it didnt for the 
other. It said that vehicle  had been bought as a new car in 2017.  And it would be unusual to 
only receive one car key in this type of transaction. It explained that the dealership who had 
sold the car couldnt remember the sale or handover  of the car, but was certain  it would have 
handed two keys to Mrs R. So, it was concerned with the accuracy of the information 
provided by Mrs R in relation to how many keys she had for the car.
Admiral also raised concerns about the details given to it about the purchase and handover 
of this car. It said the information provided  to it was inconsistent. It said Mrs R had told it her 
son had been  present  and dealt with the sale of the car. But, Mrs Rs son and girlfriend had 
noted it was Mrs R and her sons girlfriend who had gone to collect  the car. And only one key 
was provided at that time.
Because Admiral  wasnt satisfied with the information provided by Mrs R here it declined her 
claim. It said Mrs R had made a deliberate attempt to mislead it over the circumstances of 
the theft. And it referenced the fraud condition of Mrs Rs policy.  It said it would need  to 
recover the costs it had already incurred for the claim  from Mrs R. Mrs R felt this was 
unreasonable. So, she referred  her complaint to this service  for an independent review.
Our investigator thought this complaint should be upheld. He said the sales  executive that 
sold the new car couldnt remember the sale or handover. So, the evidence Admiral  had 
provided didnt  prove  two keys were actually provided to Mrs R by the dealership. 
And he said he didnt  think  the information  provided to Admiral  had been  inconsistent.  He 
said Mrs R had been clear that her son had attended the dealership  at the time the car was 
sold. But, that her sons  girlfriend had come with her to pick up the car. And both Mrs Rs son 
and girlfriend had said she had gone with Mrs R to pick up the car. So, our investigator said 
Ref: DRN68944712Admiral had been incorrect to decline the claim for fraud. And he recommended  Admiral 
settle the claim.
Mrs R agreed  to our investigators opinion.  But Admiral didnt. It didnt provide any further 
comments or evidence in respect of this. So, this complaint has been  referred  to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
this complaint. Ive explained why below.
Ive looked at Mrs Rs policy  documents, to see what cover her policy  provides. On doing so, 
I can see it does provide cover for losses caused  by theft. Admiral  didnt gather the police 
report for this incident. But, the information provided to me suggests the police registered the 
incident and gave it a crime reference  number. And Mrs R said the police visited  her a few 
days after the loss  noting there had also been a similar theft in a nearby road on the same 
night. Admiral hasnt disputed that a theft occurred.  So, Im satisfied  Mrs R has proven her 
policy covers the type of loss shes suffered.
But Admiral  has declined  to settle Mrs Rs claim because it says she has breached the fraud  
condition of her policy.  Im aware of the fraud  condition noted  in Mrs Rs policy. This does 
confirm that Admiral wont pay a claim if any part of the claim is fraudulent, false  or 
exaggerated. And it will seek  to recover any costs it has incurred  for the claim  as well as 
retaining the premium  paid to it. 
But in order to rely on the fraud condition to decline  the claim Admiral  needs to show  it is 
more likely that not that Mrs R had made  a false, fraudulent or exaggerated claim. And that 
Mrs R had done so in order to obtain  a benefit  to which she wasnt  entitled to under the 
policy. So, Ive thought carefully about whether Admiral has shown this is the case.
Im not satisfied it has. Admirals main concern here is that there were two keys for at least  
one of the vehicles. And in respect  of the new car I accept it is usual for two keys to be given 
at the time the car is handed over to the new owner.  But, Admiral  hasnt  provided  any 
evidence to show this happened when the new car was collected. It hasnt provided any 
handover documents from the dealership  and the dealership says it cant  remember  this 
particular handover. So, I cant discount that only one key was provided to Mrs R  whether 
by mistake or not. Mrs R and her family have explained they have only ever shared one key. 
And I dont  think Admiral has provided any firm evidence to show  this is incorrect,  and that 
Mrs R has been dishonest  in this respect.
Ive also considered the statements provided  by Mrs R, her son and her sons  girlfriend. And 
Im not convinced these  are inconsistent.  Or that they provide any evidence of an intention to 
commit fraud, make a false claim or exaggerate the loss. Mrs Rs son and his girlfriend  are 
both consistent  in saying that it was Mrs Rs sons girlfriend  that went  with Mrs R to collect 
the car. And looking  at Mrs Rs statement, whilst  she does say her son was doing the 
dealing with the salesman this doesnt specify whether this was at the handover of the car, 
or during the initial meeting to purchase the vehicle. Mrs R said as far as she knows only 
one key was received.  And I cant see any firm evidence to dispute  this. 
Ref: DRN68944713In respect of Mrs Rs second  car, Admiral doesnt seem to have raised  many  concerns in 
respect of this. It has accepted that dealership doesnt record  the number of keys sold for the 
car. So, I dont think there is any evidence  to suggest Mrs R has been  dishonest in respect  
of the amount of keys she had for this car. 
Even if there  were  some inconsistencies to the statements provided about the sale and 
handover of the new car, I dont think this makes a difference  to the outcome of the claim. 
Admiral hasnt provided any firm evidence there was a second  key for either car, or that this 
was the most likely method of theft.  
As above, Mrs R reported her loss to the police, and this seems  to have been accepted by 
them. Mrs R said they explained to her there was another  theft of a car that had keyless 
entry in the road behind  the one her cars were stolen from.  And it seems unusual  to me that 
the thieves would have access to keys for all three cars, in order to steal them.  It seems 
more likely the thefts were  as a result of using  a device to override the security measures of 
the cars.
Given the above, Im satisfied Admiral should settle  Mrs Rs claim for the stolen vehicles. 
This includes the contents of the vehicles  that were stolen too, as I can see this is also 
covered by the policy it provides cover for child equipment and personal belongings. 
Admiral should settle the claim in line with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy. 
And, if it provides a cash settlement  to Mrs R it should provide an amount of 8% interest, 
simple per annum, from the date of loss to the date of settlement.
Mrs R has also explained that because she was without a car as a result of the declined  
claim she had to hire another vehicle. She needed this for her own use, and to assist  with 
caring from a family member. I think it was reasonable for Mrs R to hire a car, given she was 
without one whilst disputing the decline of her claim. Mrs R had lost the use of a car. So, 
Admiral should also reimburse Mrs R for the cost of the hire car, on receipt of evidence of 
this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Admiral Insurance  Company 
Limited to;
Settle Mrs Rs claim, in line with the remaining terms and conditions  of her policy, 
including for the contents of her vehicles.  If a cash settlement is provided Admiral  
should pay 8% interest on this amount,  from the date of loss to the date of settlement1.
Reimburse Mrs R for the cost of the hire car, on receipt of evidence of this. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.  
Rachel Woods
ombudsman
1 If Admiral considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs R how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs R a certificate showing  
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6894471