K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that American Express Services Europe Limited wont  refund to him the 
money that he paid for a hotel room.  His complaint is made  against  American  Express under 
the chargeback  rules.  
background
Mr B used his American Express  credit  card in June  2018 to reserve  a room at an overseas 
hotel for a stay later that month through a booking agent. He says that he cancelled the 
reservation within the free cancellation period and booked other accommodation. But he 
then received an e-mail from the booking agent which said that he had two bookings for 
accommodation at the same  time.  He says that he contacted the hotel to cancel the booking 
 but the hotel charged him £1,469.43.  He contacted the booking agent  and the hotel. And 
he then claimed a refund from American  Express under the chargeback  rules.  But he wasnt 
satisfied with its response so complained to this service.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that he 
wouldve expected  the booking agent to confirm the cancellation - and if that hadnt 
happened, to see some evidence that Mr B chased the booking agent promptly.  And he said 
that American Express hadnt misled Mr B or done anything wrong.
Mr B has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary, 
that:
hes been asked  for evidence  to demonstrate  that he cancelled  his original hotel 
booking when he booked the second one  but none exists;
the burden of proof on him is too high and the finding should  be based on a balance  
of probabilities;
its clear that he had no use for two simultaneous bookings - and wouldve cancelled 
the first one;
hes familiar  with technology and has worked in technology all of his adult life;
he uses American Express  cards considerably across  two businesses and personally 
 and this isn't a vexatious attempt  to get a refund; and
the booking  agent had a technical problem, the hotel refused  to accept the 
cancellation had already been made  and American Express  did the same.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no right for a consumer to require that a chargeback claim be made. But if the right 
to make a chargeback  claim  exists under the applicable scheme  rules   and if theres a 
reasonable prospect of success  I consider it to be good  practice for a chargeback  claim to 
be made.
Mr B first contacted American Express about  the £1,469.43 payment that had been  made  to 
the hotel in late June 2018.  He provided  evidence  to show that he booked the hotel and the 
other accommodation and confirmation  from the booking agent that hed cancelled the hotel 
booking  but only after the free cancellation  period  had ended.  He hasnt been able to 
provide any evidence to show that he cancelled the booking from the booking  agent before 
the free cancellation period had ended. And if hed done so, I dont consider it to be 
Ref: DRN60958622unreasonable to expect  him to have  received  a confirmation that his booking had been  
cancelled - and if he didnt receive that confirmation to check that his booking  had been 
cancelled.
The booking agent hadnt cancelled the booking and it e-mailed Mr B to say that he had two 
bookings on the same date for his trip and that he should cancel any that he didnt need. 
Mr B then cancelled the hotel booking  but that was after the free cancellation period had 
ended and the hotel charged him £1,469.43.
I can understand Mr Bs frustration that hes being  asked  for evidence that he doesnt  have. 
But other than what  he says, theres no evidence to show that he cancelled  the hotel 
booking within the free cancellation period. So I consider that the hotel was entitled  to 
charge him for the room in accordance with its cancellation policy.  
Im not persuaded that theres enough  evidence to show that there  was a technology 
problem with the booking agent  that stopped Mr Bs cancellation from being made. Nor am I 
persuaded that theres enough evidence to show that the booking agent  has acted 
incorrectly.
I consider that American Express has responded to Mr Bs chargeback  claim correctly.  It 
contacted the hotel  that had made the disputed  charge and obtained  evidence  from it. That 
evidence showed  that the reservation hadnt  been cancelled within the free cancellation 
period so the hotel was entitled  to charge Mr B for the room. And Mr B wasnt  able to provide 
any evidence to show that he had cancelled the reservation within the free cancellation 
period. And on the basis of the evidence that it had received, I consider that it was fair and 
reasonable for it to decline Mr Bs request for a refund. 
So I find that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require  
American Express to refund to Mr B the £1,469.43 that hes been charged by the hotel,  to 
pay him any compensation or to take any other action  in response to his complaint.
 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6095862