K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains about Standard Life Assurance Limited (Standard Life).  He says
Standard Life failed to fairly implement a Pension Sharing Order  (PSO).
background
I issued a provisional decision 10 September 2018. Ive recapped the background below:
Mr H has a Self-Invested Personal Pension  plan (SIPP) with Standard Life.
As part of Mr Hs divorce a PSO  was issued by the Court. The PSO said Mr Hs ex-wife was 
entitled to 47.94% of the Cash  Equivalent Value (CEV) of Mr Hs SIPP.  The effective date 
of the PSO was 4 November 2014.
On 8 July 2015 Standard  Life calculated the CEV Mr Hs ex-wife was entitled to under Mr 
Hs SIPP. The total figure reached was £233,269 and regarding Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer 
Global Property Fund No 4 Cape Verde investment (Stirling Mortimer) Standard  Lifes  
calculation said:
Amount confirmed as held in Heritage  International Fund Managers Ltd Stirling  Mortimer
Global Property Fund No 4 Cape Verde (value  @ 31/12/2013): - £95,676.03. 47.94% share=
£45,876.09.
Standard Life wrote to Mr H on 9 July 2015 and confirmed  it had removed the 
appropriate pension  share from his plan.  Regarding  the Stirling  Mortimer fund, Standard 
Life said The 47.94%  share due to [Mr Hs ex-wife] from the suspended  Heritage 
International Fund Managers Ltd Stirling Mortimer Global Property Fund No 4 Cape 
Verde was £45,876.09.
In implementing  the PSO,  Standard  Life cashed in 47.94% of all but one of Mr Hs 
SIPP holdings. As Standard Life wasnt able to cash in Mr Hs Stirling  Mortimer 
investment, it disinvested a larger proportion of Mr Hs liquid  assets to make  up the 
£45,876.09 it calculated Mr Hs ex-wife was entitled  to under this investment.
With the help of his representative, Mr H later complained to Standard  Life about how the 
PSO had been implemented. He said Standard Life has failed to fairly split the value of his 
SIPP when executing the PSO. Specifically he said hed been unfairly left with the entirety 
of his Stirling Mortimer investment when  this fund should have been split between  him and 
his ex-wife, along with his other investments.
Standard Life responded and said:
the implementation of the PSO had, unfortunately,  left Mr H with a greater  
proportion of the Stirling Mortimer fund than he wouldve held had it been a liquid,  
open-ended fund at the time of the implementation of the PSO
it acted appropriately  based on its obligations and information available at the date 
of the PSO implementation
when a PSO was granted Standard Life had a legal duty to provide a pension  credit 
to the ex-spouse  based  on the Court Order
Ref: DRN66390192the pension  debit valuation consisted  of the entitlement percentage across each of 
the investments  in Mr Hs SIPP (essentially, 47.94% of each investment) giving an 
overall entitlement to Mr Hs ex-wife of around  £233,000
the process of providing a pension credit for an ex-spouse resulted in the remaining 
member spouse taking on the investment  risk associated  with any remaining funds
at the time of the PSO, the Stirling Mortimer fund Mr H was invested  in was a 
closed- ended,  illiquid investment. But periodic  valuations had been received which 
allowed Standard  Life to hold a value for the assets. This is why the fund was 
included in the valuation for the PSO implementation
the valuation  used for the fund was the value as at 31 December 2013
Stirling Mortimer fund valuations were  based  on annual accounts  at year end and 
were published  at the end of the following year. So the value as at 31 December 
2013 was published  on 31 December 2014.  Another valuation wouldnt have been  
expected until 31 December 2015  which, accordingly, would be the value as at 31 
December 2014
the valuation  Standard Life used  was the most up to date value available
it had no reason to suspect that there were issues with the fund at the time of the 
PSO implementation  
because the fund was closed-ended  and illiquid, Standard Life was unable to directly  
disinvest any holdings  in the Stirling Mortimer fund to add to the pension  credit for Mr 
Hs ex-wife. However,  Standard Life was still obligated to provide the correct  pension 
credit value.  So other liquid assets were disinvested to account for the 47.94%  
entitlement to the Stirling Mortimer fund
in March 2016, based on communications  Standard Life later received from the 
fund manager,  the decision was taken  to classify  the Stirling  Mortimer fund as 
distressed and reduce the value  held against the assets to a nominal £0.01. 
The revaluation  did not mean that no value would ever be realised  but just that 
an up to date, satisfactory valuation couldnt  be obtained and so it couldnt be 
certain of the true value of the investment
Mr H was unsatisfied with Standard Lifes response and said it was common knowledge in 
2014 that the Stirling Mortimer fund had been in trouble  for many years. As he remained  
unhappy Mr H referred  his complaint to our service.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and said:
when Standard Life received the PSO,  the Stirling Mortimer fund was an illiquid 
investment. But as it wasnt  classed as suspended and Standard Life was still 
receiving valuations  from the fund manager so it was included in the valuation  when 
the PSO was drawn up
Standard Life had correctly valued  Mr Hs SIPP at the time the PSO was drawn up
because the Stirling Mortimer  fund was illiquid Standard Life wasnt able to disinvest  
directly from it so other liquid assets held in Mr Hs plan had to be disinvested
he didnt think Standard Life had acted unreasonably
Mr Hs representative responded on Mr Hs behalf saying:
the Stirling Mortimer fund had been  suspended for several years,  with people  unable 
to cash in their holdings. Standard Life was aware of this
Standard Life shouldve contacted Mr H to explain the logic and process behind the 
implementation of the PSO
Ref: DRN66390193Standard Life had failed to take Mr Hs positon  into account when implementing the 
PSO so hadnt treated him fairly
Standard Life later offered Mr H £350  for trouble and upset it accepted  it had caused by 
not contacting him before  it sold a larger proportion of his other investments when it was 
unable to cash in any of his Stirling Mortimer investment to implement the PSO. Mr H 
rejected this offer.
Because Mr H disagreed  with our investigator  and Standard Life the matter  was passed 
to me. And my provisional findings  were as follows:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, Im intending to 
uphold Mr Hs complaint.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should emphasise that while  
Ive taken note of all the arguments made by both parties, I have limited  my response to 
the issues I consider  to be central  to this complaint.  That is to say:
what Standard  Lifes obligations were regarding  the implementation of the PSO, 
both in terms of what Standard Life is required to do by the overriding legislative and 
regulatory provisions  and its own SIPP framework and its own SIPP  terms and 
conditions
whether Standard Life met its obligations regarding the implementation of the PSO  - 
with specific reference to how it treated Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer investment, 
including if it treated Mr H fairly
if Standard  Life didnt meet its obligations  when it implemented  the PSO  what, if 
any, impact this has had
Im aware of the legislative framework surrounding PSOs  introduced  by the Welfare  
Reforms and Pension Act 1999 (WRPA  1999).  There are a number of regulations dealing 
with how PSOs are made and effected.  Before a PSO is made the pension  provider will be 
required to provide a considerable amount of information about the particular  pension  
scheme including what its worth  although values can fluctuate between then and any PSO  
being made. Once a PSO is made, a copy is sent to the scheme provider  who is then 
responsible for implementing the PSO within the deadlines set.
Theres no dispute that Standard  Life had an obligation to act in accordance with the PSO 
made on 3 October  2014 and which took effect  on 4 November 2014 and follow the 
instructions provided  by the Court. The PSO said Mr Hs ex-wife was entitled to 47.94% of 
the Cash Equivalent  Value (CEV) of his SIPP. So Standard Lifes obligation was to 
calculate what 47.94% of the CEV of Mr Hs SIPP was as at 4 November 2014 (the 
effective date of the PSO) and pay this amount to Mr Hs ex-wife.
Section 30 of the WRPA 1999  provides  for the calculation of the CEV to be carried  out in 
accordance with the Pension Sharing (Valuation)  Regulations 2000.
Regulation 3(b) says that where the relevant pension arrangement  is not an occupational 
pension scheme  cash  equivalents may be calculated  and verified in accordance  with 
Regulations 6 and 7 (regulation 7 isnt relevant here). Regulation 6 (3) deals with rights to 
money purchase benefits and says that the cash equivalent shall be calculated and verified 
in such manner as may be approved in a particular case by the person responsible  for the 
Ref: DRN66390194relevant arrangement.  So essentially  its up to Standard Life to calculate  and verify  the 
CEV.
Thats the central issue in this case  how Standard  Life has calculated  the CEV and, 
in particular, the value that Standard  Life placed  on Mr Hs Stirling  Mortimer 
investment.
Standard Life implemented the PSO  in July 2015.  Standard Life valued  Mr Hs Stirling  
Mortimer investment as £95,676.03 on 4 November 2014 based on the latest  fund 
valuation (31 December  2013)  published  by Stirling Mortimer  on 31 December 2014.
Standard Life knew that the latest  valuation (£95,676.03) couldnt be considered  to be a 
cash value  i.e. a price at which the investment could be sold and the proceeds realised 
(either at the latest available  valuation date, the effective date of the PSO  or even when 
the PSO payment was made to Mr Hs ex-wife.)
Indeed from what  Standard Life has said it was aware that Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer 
investment didnt have  an immediately  realisable  cash value/CEV, and certainly not for 
the purposes of it forming  part of the PSO payment that was to be made. As Standard Life 
has said:
All of these Stirling Mortimer funds are Closed  Ended funds ()These funds are highly 
illiquid and an investor is never able to get access to their money upon their say so- it is 
entirely down to the fund manager  to decide when the time and circumstances are right 
to sell the investment  () So effectively it was never  possible  to disinvest the fund when 
implementing the pension sharing order ().
I think Standard  Life should have approached the valuation cautiously, knowing the fund 
was illiquid  and that there was no ready market for the investment which would allow  the 
valuation to be tested.
There was other information available about  Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer investment at the 
valuation date used  by Standard Life, the effective date of the PSO and the PSO  payment 
date. Below Ive highlighted some  of the information  available at the time. And as Standard 
Life says it was monitoring  Stirling Mortimer funds  extensively  during the relevant  period I 
wouldve expected  it to be reasonably aware of this:
When the Stirling Mortimer fund was set up the original intention was for shares to 
be redeemed on 31 January 2010.  The prospectus included  the following:
Shares may be redeemed earlier or later depending on the success  of the 
investment and the successful completion and resale of the right  to purchase 
contracts and the development.  The Directors have the right to extend the life of 
the Fund by such period as the Directors may resolve not less than 30 days  prior 
to the Redemption Date. Such extension will take place if the Fund had been 
unable to dispose of all right to purchase contracts and will continue until all 
such contracts and any properties required to be completed have been disposed.
That means the original redemption date had been missed by some five and a half years. I 
think that was an indication that things hadnt  worked out with the investment as intended.
Ref: DRN66390195In December 2012 the Serious Fraud Office (SFO) announced  it was 
investigating the Stirling Mortimer fund (including the specific  fund Mr H was 
invested in). The news about the two funds (one of which was the one Mr H was 
invested in) wasnt good
The December 2013 fund update said:
FREQUENTLY ASKED QUESTIONS  
Q. Can I redeem my shares
A. This is a closed ended  Fund and as such the shares can only be redeemed  when the 
Funds assets have  been sold. Unfortunately it is not possible to place a firm timescale  
on any redemptions but every effort is being  made to return the money as soon as 
possible.
Q. When is the redemption date?
A. The redemption dates  have been extended indefinitely while efforts  are made to sell 
the assets of the Fund
Id have thought news that redemption dates had been extended indefinitely and that it 
was proving difficult to sell the funds assets  might have rung some alarm bells.  The 
update also said that the fund had been delisted from the Channel Islands Securities 
Exchange which, again,  was an indication  that the fund wasnt performing as planned.
I know Standard  Life didnt recommend the investment  and so isnt responsible for its 
suitability. But the update  did indicate  unhappiness amongst investors with the fund and 
concern as to whether money  would be returned.
The July 2014  Quarterly  Update didnt offer more encouraging news. It confirmed 
the Stirling Mortimer company and funds had been  de-listed from the Channel  
Islands Securities Exchange with effect  from 26 June 2014 and that the application 
to suspend the Company as a Registered  Fund  had been approved. The update  
said:
 Substantial efforts continue  with the purpose of disposing  of the Funds  property assets 
and returning  money  after expenses to our Shareholders. This has been hampered by 
three factors. () the impact  of the worldwide recession () developers have built a 
substantial number of properties  without constricting any facilities  to go with them  which 
they were contracted to do () the knock on effect  of the downturn has been that the 
frequency of flights has not increased as projected  when the Funds were launched ()
The Funds shareholders will be aware that money was misappropriated from the 
client accounts of the Funds former lawyers (.) the prospects of recovery are poor 
and/or outweighed by the expense  of the litigation ().
So the problem  with disposing of the funds assets   and so being in a position to 
return money to shareholders  continued  and, it seems, had worsened due to the 
three factors cited. The misappropriation  of money from the funds (despite any 
judgments and recovery) would have  added to concerns about how the funds were  
being managed.
Ref: DRN66390196Weve been  publishing our decisions since 1 April 2013. Between  then and July 
2015 weve published a number of final decisions involving the Stirling  Mortimer No 
4 Cape Verde  fund
Typically our approach,  where the complaint  is upheld and redress awarded, is to say 
that a nil value should be assumed for the investment  on the basis that it has no 
marketable value  and any future  value  looked  doubtful. Some of those decisions were 
the subject of comment in the financial press. Plus there were a number of articles 
about the fund generally  for example I note various articles in Professional Adviser  in
January 2015  and March 2015 which referred to the fund as a troubled overseas 
property scheme and beleaguered overseas property scheme? Ive also been able 
to access a number  of blogs and internet forums that were active  in early 2015.  And 
adverts placed by law firms and CMCs encouraging Stirling  Mortimer investors who 
had suffered financial losses to get in touch
There was also an update on FSCS  website on 21 January 2015.  It said that 
FSCS had received a number of claims against firms that were  no longer trading 
about advice relating  to investments in Stirling Mortimer  funds. FSCS said it was 
aware SFO was undertaking investigations into three Stirling  Mortimer funds,  
including the Stirling Mortimer  No 4 Cape Verde  fund
All in all I think there was sufficient information for Standard Life to have  known that the 
fund was encountering significant  difficulties and that investors  had probably  lost the 
money theyd invested. I think that should  have  made Standard Life very wary of relying  
on the paper valuation for Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer holding. Especially when Standard 
Life knew the valuation  was out of date in any event. I realise the December 2013 
valuation (published in December 2014) was the most up to date valuation  that Standard 
Life had. But, combined with everything  else Standard Life knew or should have known 
about the investment, I think Standard Life should  have realised that a valuation of 
£95,676.03 for Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer holding was unsafe to rely on.
The size of the investment should have made  Standard  Life cautious too  both in 
money terms and as a proportion (approaching 20%) of his overall  SIPP fund value. If 
the Stirling Mortimer investment was valued incorrectly  then that would have a serious 
impact on calculating the CEV and Mr Hs ex-wifes  share.
Based on what was known and what I believe Standard Life ought  reasonably  to have 
been aware of about Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer investment Im not persuaded that it was 
wholly appropriate for Standard Life to include the investment in its calculation  of the 
amount that needed to be paid to Mr Hs ex-wife under  the PSO. Its clear to me that not 
including this investment in the calculation was possible. Because  as Ive mentioned 
above Mr H held another investment in his SIPP, Investment K, which wasnt included in 
Standard Lifes  PSO calculation. Arguably because,  like the Stirling  Mortimer Investment 
K didnt have a cash value or appear  to have a cash value that would be realisable any 
time soon.
That brings me to Standard Lifes SIPP terms and conditions. It seems they make 
express provision for situations like Mr Hs. And it doesnt appear to me that Standard  
Life took appropriate action in line with this. The relevant terms and conditions say:
Pension sharing order
Ref: DRN6639019715.10 If we receive a pension sharing order () we must comply  with it. If there is 
insufficient money in your holding (), you must instruct  us to sell investments on your 
behalf () If you dont  do so well sell investments on the basis described in sections 
6.6 and 6.7 to provide the transfer payment thats required to discharge the order  ()
Where we have to sell investments () to meet the requirements [to comply  with 
any pension sharing order] well:
a)  sell a proportion of every investment held for you under the plan for which  a 
partial sale is possible under the plan ()
Distressed investments
5.33 If an investment  held in your plan cant be sold due to the investment provider 
experiencing financial or operational distress,  default or bankruptcy, we will treat 
that investment  as being distressed and apply the following conditions:
a) If the investment provider cant give us an up-to-date  value for the investment, or if the 
valuation is more than three months old, well normally value that investment at £0.01 even 
where its possible that the investment might  have a residual value. This is to avoid  your 
plan having an unrealistically high value  ()
[Selling investments]
Before your holding () becomes insufficient  to allow  us to meet the requirements  set out 
() well contact  your financial adviser and ask for your instructions on selling investments 
in your plan to generate the required amount. If you or your adviser dont give us 
instructions well sell investments on the basis described ()
6.7 Where we have  to sell investments () to meet the requirements set out () well sell 
a proportion of every investment held for you under your plan for which  a partial  sale is 
possible, excluding  commercial property () (since theyre not liquid assets) ()
Well tell you if an investment is sold and the reasons for the sale ().
So, to summarise, according to Standard  Lifes own terms and conditions  the following 
actions wouldve been appropriate given the circumstances with Mr Hs SIPP  and the 
PSO:
1.to meet the requirements  of the PSO Standard Life would have to sell a 
proportion of the investments held in Mr Hs SIPP
2.if the partial sale of an investment wasnt possible because  of financial or 
operational difficulty it would be treated as distressed and valued at £0.01 to 
avoid Mr Hs SIPP having an unrealistically  high value
3.to comply with the PSO and where  the proportional sale of units  across  all the 
investments Mr H held wasnt sufficient to help meet  this, it would  contact Mr 
Hs financial adviser and ask for his instructions on selling a larger  proportion  of 
the other investments he held to generate the required  amount  for the PSO
4.if no instructions were received from Mr H or his adviser then Standard  Life 
would go ahead  and sell an appropriate portion  of the other investments Mr H 
held to meet the PSO
Ref: DRN663901985.in any event, Standard Life would make  Mr H aware  of any investments it 
sold and why
So, according to Standard  Lifes terms and conditions,  where  a consumers investment 
holdings arent  sufficient to meet the requirements  of a PSO,  Standard  Lifes  process  in 
the first instance is to contact the consumer or their financial adviser  to ask for their 
instructions on selling investments held to generate the amount required.
Standard Life accepts that it didnt  do that. It simply went ahead and sold other  investments  
to provide the full CEV that it had calculated Mr Hs ex-wife was due. But I dont think much 
turns on this as my view is that Standard Life didnt act in accordance with its own SIPP  
terms and conditions. That resulted in Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer investment being 
overvalued.
Its clear to me, as Standard Life has also accepted that it failed to contact Mr H or his 
adviser as it shouldve before it cashed in a larger proportion  of his other SIPP  investments 
when the same couldnt be done with his Stirling Mortimer investment. This meant  that Mr 
H had no warning of the fact that Standard Life was selling a larger proportion of his other  
investments or an understanding  of what position this action  would ultimately leave him in. 
If Standard Life had contacted Mr H then hed have been aware what value Standard Life 
proposed to place  on the Stirling Mortimer investment. Mr H or his advisers  may have  had 
their own view as to the true value  of that holding. And he could have pointed out to 
Standard Life why the value that it was proposing to attach to the Stirling Mortimer 
investment wasnt realistic.
Mr H wouldve benefited from some explanation or reasoning behind Standard Lifes  
proposed action regarding the implementation  of the PSO. Least of all because  this 
wouldve meant the matter didnt come as a complete surprise  to Mr H when he was 
later told what  had happened. Mr H was understandably under the impression that 
investments held in his SIPP would  be split in accordance with the PSO. This meant  
that he either wouldnt be left with his entire  Stirling Mortimer holding or that it wouldnt 
form part of the PSO calculation if valued  correctly in the first place.
Standard Life has offered  Mr H £350  compensation in recognition of the fact it didnt 
contact him prior to selling a larger proportion of his other investments to meet  the PSO. 
I think Standard  Lifes offer regarding this issue is fair in the circumstances. Mr H had a 
reasonable expectation that hed be kept informed about action taken regarding the 
selling of his investments. And Standard Life doesnt deny that it failed to do this. I think  
that £350 fairly recognises the trouble and upset caused to Mr H by what  Standard Life 
admits was an oversight.  I think this level of award is appropriate in the circumstances.
Turning now to the treatment of Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer investment, I think Standard 
Life shouldve treated Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer investment as a distressed investment in 
the same  way it did his Investment K holding.
Given what had happened to the investment and what  was generally known about it I think  
it should have  been clear  to Standard Life that the investment provider was experiencing 
financial or operational distress and so the investment should have been treated as a 
distressed investment and given a nominal  £0.01  value.
My view about that is reinforced by the fact that Standard Life, in May 2016, less than a 
year after it had implemented  the PSO on the basis that Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer holding  
Ref: DRN66390199was worth £95,676.03, classified the investment as distressed  and reduced the its value to 
a nominal £0.01. I think  that was action that Standard Life should  have taken  ten months 
earlier.
In saying  that Ive looked at the further  information Standard Life got in April 2016   and 
based on which it did classify the investment as distressed.  It was relatively brief.  It didnt 
reveal any further significant developments  in fact it confirmed that thered been no 
progress since the last update. It did mention that funding for litigation (should mediation  
not prove successful) had been  secured. Arguably  that might be regarded as more positive 
news  yet Standard Life took the decision to treat the investment as distressed.
But all in all I think the update simply confirmed what Standard Life ought to have realised  
earlier  that the fund was in serious  trouble and that had been  the case for some  time 
and well before  Standard  Life implemented  the PSO. I dont see theres any real 
distinction between  what Standard Life knew (or ought to have known) in (and before) 
July 2015 and what it knew (or ought to have known) in May 2016 and which led to its 
decision to write down  the investment to a nominal value. In my view Standard Life 
should have treated the investment as distressed and as provided for in condition 5.33 of 
the SIPP terms and conditions in July 2015  when it came to implementing the PSO.
Standard Life might argue that the PSO required it to value the holding as at November 
2014 so whats  relevant  is the position then. But I dont think it would be fair to ignore what 
Standard Life knew or ought to have  known by the time it came  to implement the PSO.  And 
much of what Ive pointed  to was in existence in November 2014  in any event. So Standard  
Life should have  known then about  the financial and operational difficulties or distress  that 
the fund was experiencing and written  down the investment of the value accordingly.
To be clear Im not saying that the fact that the Stirling Mortimer investment was illiquid  was 
sufficient to mean that Standard Life should have treated it as a distressed investment. What 
I am saying  is that from all the other  information  available to Standard Life it should have 
realized that the Stirling Mortimer investment had all the hall marks of a distressed 
investment and that it was very likely  that the valuation which Standard  Life relied on didnt 
represent the true value of the investment.
All in all I dont think Standard Life acted in accordance with the terms and conditions  of its 
SIPP  it failed to recognize that Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer  investment should be treated as a 
distressed investment.
Had Standard  Life done so the Stirling Mortimer investment wouldnt have been included 
in the PSO calculation from the outset and had its value misrepresented/included in the 
amount Standard Life calculated as being  due to Mr Hs ex-wife under the PSO.
I note that prior to the implementation of the PSO,  Standard Lifes internal emails show 
communication between  staff about how the Stirling Mortimer fund ought to be treated 
as part of the PSO.
An internal  email on 11 June 2015 from a Standard Life employee to another  employee said:
() I hope  you can help with a query I have  re this PSO which  I am trying to implement. 
We have all documentation  to implement and I had requested sells [sic] of 47.94%  of all 
funds. Ive been informed by [another  Standard  Life employee] in the SIPP  area that 2 of the 
external funds [Stirling Mortimer and Investment K] cannot be sold () Ive discussed this 
Ref: DRN663901910with [another Standard Life employee who] had confirmed we can meet the liability, if we 
work the pension credit  out as a flat amount,  from other  investments.  Can you please 
confirm if we can proceed or if we need  both parties agreement to do this?  ()
The response included  the following:
() Ive discussed this with [another Standard Life employee] and hope youve now 
been able to implement the PSO. The relevant points are:
-If we can meet the liability  of the pension credit from other investments then we 
must proceed with implementing the PSO
-We do not need the consent  of the parties in order to do this ()
I think the fact that Standard Life staff were querying  how Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer 
Investment should be treated and whether Mr H should be informed of what  it was going 
to do to meet the requirements of the PSO, suggests to me that it was aware of the 
significance/potential impact of what it was intending to do.
Standard Life took the view that condition 15.10 of the SIPP  terms and conditions  applied.  
But I think Standard Life overlooked condition 5.33:  Standard Life failed to consider if Mr 
Hs Stirling Mortimer investment should have been treated as a distressed investment.
If Standard Life had considered that issue I think  the only reasonable conclusion  taking 
into account what Ive said about  what Standard Life knew  or ought to have known  
was that it was a distressed investment  and so should be valued at a nominal £0.01.
I think best practice would  have  been for Standard  Life to make Mr H or his adviser aware of 
its intention and/or offered Mr H the opportunity to fund the PSO  amount through  other 
means. But Mr H was never afforded this opportunity.
I also think that once  it became apparent  that Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer investment couldnt  be 
sold, this shouldve also alerted Standard Life to the fact that it may have originally 
misjudged its value  and that it shouldnt have been  included in the PSO calculation.
Overall I am satisfied that Mr Hs complaint against Standard Life should  be upheld. And 
so Ive considered  what needs to be done to put Mr H back into the position  he should 
have been, if Standard  Life had treated Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer investment correctly  
before implementing the PSO.
I recognise that Mr Hs ex-wife has in effect  been overpaid. If Standard Life had valued  Mr 
Hs Stirling Mortimer investment at a nominal £0.01  then the amount paid to his ex-wife  
would have been some  £45,876.09 less. But I dont think that means that Standard Life 
shouldnt be required to put Mr H back in the position hed have been in if Standard  Life had 
acted as I think  it should have done.  Its a matter for Standard Life if it seeks recovery  of what 
I consider to be the overpaid amount from Mr Hs ex-wife.
I think that in addition to the trouble and upset caused to Mr H he has also suffered some  
financial loss. I believe Standard Life proceeded to implement the PSO without the 
appropriate level of regard for Mr Hs circumstances. And a financial loss that has occurred 
has been as a direct result of this. Because  Standard Life failed to treat Mr Hs Stirling  
Mortimer investment appropriately and therefore cashed in a larger proportion of his other  
Ref: DRN663901911investments to make up for this, a larger amount was transferred to Mr Hs ex-wife as part 
of the PSO than shouldve  been.
my provisional decision
I am currently minded  to uphold this complaint. I intend to direct Standard Life Assurance
Limited to make good the loss to Mr Hs pension  fund. Because  Mr Hs Stirling  Mortimer
investment wasnt treated  as a distressed investment the CEV was overvalued which  meant
that Mr Hs ex-wifes share of the CEV was too high. In effect, she received  £45,876.09  too
much. Putting Mr H back in the position he would have been  in isnt entirely straightforward
because other assets were disinvested to make up the amount due to his ex-wife.  But
essentially his loss is £45,876.09.  So, to keep things simple, Standard Life should  pay that
amount, increased  in line with the growth achieved in Mr Hs SIPP from the date Mr Hs ex-
wifes share  of the CEV was paid out to the date of payment into Mr Hs SIPP.
In addition, I also intend to direct  Standard  Life to make a payment  to Mr H of £350 for the
trouble and upset  he has suffered.
I invited Mr H and Standard Life Assurance Limited  to comment  on my provisional decision.
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision and made  no further comments. Standard Life 
responded saying it didnt  think  my decision was fair or reasonable. It also provided  specific  
comments on my provisional decision which Ill outline and deal with below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My decision  remains broadly the same as before (and as set out above). That means  Im 
upholding Mr Hs complaint in part for the reasons Ive given. However Ill respond to some 
of the points Standard Life has raised  following my provisional decision.
For simplicity Ive captured Standard Lifes comments  in summary below and provided my 
responses following  this.
1.Standard Life says the actual requirement for an investment to be treated as 
distressed is that the investment cant be sold as a consequence of financial or 
operational distress.  Following this it argues, in this case  the investment  could  
not be sold due to it being a closed ended illiquid fund. It therefore  didnt fully 
meet the criteria to be considered a distressed investment.
Im unable to fully agree with Standard Life here.  Its true the Stirling Mortimer investment 
couldnt be sold due to it being a closed ended illiquid fund. However this alone doesnt  
capture the full picture surrounding  the investment.
As mentioned in my provisional decision  the Stirling Mortimer prospectus gave a redemption  
date of 31 January  2010. Now this was an indicative date,  subject to various  factors  set out 
in the memorandum. But if things had gone to plan investors were meant to get their money 
and any return back by 31 January 2010.  I think this is important  in view of the fact that 
Standard Life didnt implement the PSO until July 2015- more than five years later. It seems  
to me this was a clear indicator things hadnt gone  to plan and that there were wider  reasons 
for why the Stirling Mortimer investment couldnt be sold- namely the operational and 
Ref: DRN663901912financial difficulties/distress  the investment was experiencing. By mid-July this was widely  
known in the financial services industry. Again, as I covered in my provisional decision there 
was the Serious Fraud Offices announcement in December  2012. I think  potential  fraud 
would amount to financial  or operational distress.
Im also mindful that the December 2013  Stirling Mortimer update said the funds redemption 
date had been extended indefinitely while  efforts were made  to sell the funds  assets. Again, 
this indicated financial and operational difficulties. Further to this there was also a negative 
outlook provided in the July 2014  Quarterly  Update. The Stirling  Mortimer company and its 
funds had been delisted from the Channel Islands Securities Exchange and Stirling 
Mortimers application to suspend the company as a Registered Fund had been approved. 
For the reasons  outlined  above and in my provisional decision I think  there was enough 
compelling evidence  the Stirling Mortimer fund was experiencing financial and/or operational 
distress. And so section 5.33 of Standard  Lifes terms and conditions for treating the Stirling 
Mortimer investment as distressed were met.
2.Standard Life says on the basis that section  5.33 [of its SIPP  Terms and 
Conditions] and the requirements  for an investment to be classified as a 
distressed investment were not met, we believe there was no requirement  to 
seek instructions from [Mr H].
As Ive outlined above I find that section 5.33 of Standard Lifes  SIPP  Terms and Conditions 
and the requirements  for an investment to be classified as a distressed investment were  
met. 
Im not entirely clear what point Standard Life is trying to make regarding  the requirement  to 
seek instructions though,  as section 5.33 of the SIPP Terms and Conditions doesnt deal 
with this. However section  15.10  does make specific provisions for what  happens in the 
event of a PSO. And in doing  so says the customer (Mr H) must instruct the sale of 
investments if theres insufficient money  in the cash account. If Standard  Life doesnt get any 
instructions then it will go ahead and sell as per sections 6.6 and 6.7. 
Standard Life did have an obligation-under section  15.10- to seek  Mr Hs instructions first. It 
didnt do this. And Im mindful that it seemed  to accept this when further to this complaint 
being referred to our service it offered Mr H £350 for trouble and upset it caused by not 
contacting him before  it sold a larger proportion  of his other investments when it was unable  
to cash in any of his Stirling Mortimer investment to implement the PSO.
3.Standard Life says the circumstances of the other investment, Investment K, 
which I referred to in my provisional decision,  were  very different to those of the 
Stirling Mortimer investment.
I accept this and would also say this isnt directly relevant as all thats  really  being looked at 
here is if the Stirling Mortimer investment shouldve been treated as a distressed investment.
4.Standard Life says valuing the Stirling Mortimer investment at £0.01  is not an 
actual valuation, it is a notional  value given to mitigate the risk of us overvaluing 
an investment when calculating pension benefits  and charges.  It is not a 
comment on the actual  value  of the investment. It says it did this because the 
information we received led us to believe we couldnt fully rely on the valuation  
provided in the investment accounts.  There was a lack of certainty  around  some 
Ref: DRN663901913of the assumptions  made in the accounts  as a result of the comments  made in 
the 2016 update. Standard Life concludes, this didnt mean we believed  there  
would be no return to investors in the long term.
In my provisional decision I did acknowledge the £0.01 valuing of the Stirling Mortimer 
investment was a nominal  value. However  for the reasons Ive explained  previously the lack 
of certainty around  the valuation provided  shouldve been identified  earlier.
5.Standard Life says its mindful that it had the competing interests  of two parties 
to consider. Had we sought to apply a £0.01  value  on the basis of blog and 
internet forum accounts at the time of the PSO, we would have been liable for a 
complaint from Mr Hs former spouse on the basis that her PSO value was 
incorrectly valued because of a failure  to apply verified data to the investment 
value - which was available at that time. It goes on to say accounts continued 
to be prepared and provide a positive net asset value. It was therefore  still 
appropriate to include the investment in any asset  assessment for PSO 
purposes in July 2015.
Im not persuaded by Standard Lifes argument  here. Its primary duty was to its customer, Mr 
H. And it was required to treat him fairly  in implementing the PSO as well as apply the SIPP  
terms and conditions properly. Its possible Mr Hs ex-wife might  have  complained her share 
under the PSO had been reduced if the Stirling Mortimer investment was treated as having a 
nominal value of £0.01.  But if that was the right thing to do then Standard  Life should have 
acted accordingly  and then dealt with any complaint  Mr Hs ex-wife  may have raised and 
explained to her that it had acted correctly and in line with the SIPP terms and conditions  
which made specific provision for that sort of situation. And its possible, had Standard Life 
contacted the parties and explained the position Mr Hs ex-wife  might have agreed that the 
nominal £0.01  valuation should be used.  Standard  Life deprived  Mr H of the opportunity for 
other options to be considered before it took the action it did. I dont think this was fair or 
reasonable in the circumstances.
6.Standard Life says the Ombudsmans  provisional decision leaves us with a 
potential liability of c.£45,000 and although he [sic] suggests  Mr Hs former 
spouse has been overpaid  his [sic] decision doesnt give us an entitlement  to 
recover this from the former  spouse. 
I recognise this. Standard  Life might not be able to recover money that it wouldnt  have  paid 
out if it had dealt with things  properly.  But that doesnt mean Mr H should have to bear the 
loss hes suffered because of Standard  Lifes failings. 
If Standard Life pays  the compensation  in full to Mr H it may ask him to provide an 
assignment of any rights  he may have against  his ex-wife in respect of the overpayment. 
Standard Life must  draft the assignment for Mr H to consider and agree.   
7.Standard Life says it would be helpful if the Ombudsman could also consider  
what he [sic] thinks would or should happen  to the funds when the true value of 
this investment is known.
Standard Life may also ask Mr H for an undertaking to account to it for the net amount of any 
payment he may receive from the Stirling Mortimer  investment. The undertaking should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on the amount Mr H may receive from the 
investment and any eventual sums he would be able to access  from the SIPP. Standard Life 
Ref: DRN663901914must meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. Again an undertaking only applies if 
Standard Life pays the compensation in full. 
8.Standard Life says one of the important  requirements for us is to ensure we 
give proper effect to the Courts intentions when making the order  for both the 
customer and his former spouse. At the time the PSO was issued, the Cape 
Verde Fund held a significant value which we believe the court  was aware  of 
during its deliberations. If the court awarded  Mr Hs former spouse  47.9% of Mr 
Hs SIPP that included  the value of the Cape Verde Fund it is very possible that 
the court would have awarded  her a higher percentage of the remaining funds if 
(as the Ombudsman  has suggested) a 0.01p value had been put on the Cape 
Verde Fund at an earlier date.
What Standard Life suggests here is possible.  But its also possible that it wouldnt have 
made any difference and Mr Hs ex-wife wouldve have got exactly  the same  percentage of 
Mr Hs SIPP  with no adjustment in her favour  for any failed  investments  within  it. But this is 
entirely hypothetical. So I dont think its unreasonable to proceed  on the basis that it 
wouldnt have made any difference.  
In conclusion, having carefully considered the matter again  I think Standard Life Assurance
Limited should make good the loss to Mr Hs pension fund on the basis  I outlined in my 
provisional decision. Because Mr Hs Stirling Mortimer investment wasnt  treated as a 
distressed investment the CEV was overvalued which meant  that Mr Hs ex-wifes share of 
the CEV was too high. In effect, she received  £45,876.09 too much. Putting Mr H back in the 
position he would have been in isnt entirely  straightforward because other assets  were  
disinvested to make up the amount due to his ex-wife. But essentially his loss is £45,876.09. 
So, to keep things  simple, Standard Life should  pay that amount, increased in line with the 
growth achieved  in Mr Hs SIPP from the date Mr Hs ex-wifes share of the CEV was paid 
out to the date of payment  into Mr Hs SIPP.
In addition, I also direct Standard Life to make a payment to Mr H of £350 for the trouble and 
upset he has suffered.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve  this matter I order  Standard  
Life Assurance Limited to pay Mr H the compensation  due as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2019.
Chillel Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6639019