K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say they were mis-sold a joint life policy and individual whole of life with critical 
illness policies by Bank of Scotland Plc alongside  their mortgage lending. They say they 
were pressured into taking out cover that they did not want  or need.   
To resolve  their complaint, they want to be refunded for the premiums they have paid for the 
policy, with interest.  
background
In April 1996, Mr and Mrs J met with a Bank of Scotland  adviser to apply for a joint mortgage  
of £120,000. The adviser proposed Mr and Mrs J take out joint life assurance for an amount 
and term matching the lending. He also recommended  they each take out critical illness  
policies in the event either  of them was to fall seriously ill.  
In 2001, Mr and Mrs J repaid their mortgage  in full. In 2002, they cancelled the joint life 
assurance policy. In 2007, they both cancelled their whole  of life policies and received 
surrender values. 
Mr and Mrs J complained  to Bank  of Scotland in late 2018.  They  said the adviser  had led 
them to believe their policies were a condition of securing their mortgage lending  and they 
were nave, so they went along with what was proposed. They said they were in excellent  
health, had benefits with their respective jobs and savings to fall back on. Finally,  they said 
they continued to pay for cover they didnt want or need despite  repaying their mortgage  in 
2001.  
Bank of Scotland said it believed the recommendations were  suitable.  However,  it did 
acknowledge that Mr and Mrs J could  potentially have been sold level term assurance, 
rather than whole of life policies, as the lending had a fixed term. However, when it did an 
actuarial calculation retrospectively, it noted the term assurance policies would have been 
more costly. 
Bank of Scotland said it was satisfied Mr and Mrs J had sufficient reflection time, after their 
mortgage was in place, to make  a balanced and informed  decision to start their policies. It 
also said that they were  made aware  of their cancellation rights both at the time of the sale 
and when their mortgage  was repaid.  
Mr and Mrs J referred  their complaint  to this service. They said the financial adviser failed in 
his moral obligation to ensure the products proposed were  right for them because he did not 
record that they had enough savings to pay their mortgage for three years.  Further,  Mrs J 
said they felt the fact Bank of Scotlands adviser  recommended they cancel the cover when 
their mortgage was repaid supported that it was mis-sold in the first place. 
Our investigator said, in summary, that he was unable  to agree that the policies 
recommended to Mr and Mrs J were unsuitable. He felt the policies offered useful protection  
to them  because they were different to their current death in service  benefits. Also,  he did 
not accept Mr and Mrs J had to take out the policies  he found it more  likely that they could 
decline the recommendations, as they had done with a similar proposal.  
Mr and Mrs J disagreed.  They said, in summary:
Ref: DRN63710702there is clear evidence that pressure and persuasive tactics  have  been  applied when 
the policies were sold; 
advisers are incentivised to sell the policies;
there is no explanation as to why the two critical illness policies had different sums 
assured;
Bank of Scotland should be required to provide  signed documentation to prove  the 
policies were optional;
it is not reasonable to ignore death  in service  benefits of three  times  their respective 
salaries;
the fact they carried on paying for the policies beyond the repayment of the mortgage  
shows that they were  not aware that the policies were optional;
it should not have been their responsibility  to cancel unnecessary protection  policies.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Though I know it will not be what 
Mr and Mrs J have hoped for, I agree with our investigator that the complaint should not be 
upheld. 
I realise theres been a degree  of confusion over the type of policies Mr and Mrs J took out. 
At the time the complaint was pursued,  it was lodged  as being about payment protection  
insurance (PPI), using  a PPI questionnaire. 
The policies Mr and Mrs J took out were different types of protection policies. They  were  a 
joint term assurance policy and single whole of life policies  with critical illness  benefit.  
In the case of the life assurance  policy, a sum broadly  equivalent to the mortgage  would be 
paid out in the event  that Mr or Mrs J were  to pass away. Similarly, a lump sum would have 
been paid to either Mr or Mrs J if they had been  diagnosed with a listed illness set out in the 
policy terms. This would  be the case as long as the premiums were paid. PPI offers  different 
protection for the repayments being made to a debt,  if a policyholder  cannot meet those 
payments in certain circumstances for example,  by reason of accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. 
So, a number of the points Mr and Mrs J have made about his employment are more specific 
to a complaint  about PPI. Term  assurance  and critical  illness policies arent  designed to 
replace income.  So while  I appreciate the sickness provisions  Mr and Mrs J had in their 
employment with the same  company,  critical illness cover differs  to income  protection.  As it 
was, Mr and Mrs J refused the income protection recommendation  put to them  by the 
adviser. 
I understand how strongly Mr and Mrs J feel about what  they were  told when they met with 
the adviser. Their  version of events is something I need to consider against the other  
information that exists from the time of the sale. Unfortunately, there is no recording of the 
meeting. 
The documentation  from the sale is not consistent with Mr and Mrs Js recollection now.  The 
recommendation letter sent by the adviser after the meeting  invites  them to check carefully 
the type of proposals being  made and to notify him if they have changed their mind about  
recommendations theyve rejected  as Mr and Mrs J did not accept everything the adviser 
proposed.  
Ref: DRN63710703In addition, the policies started several months  after the mortgage had begun, because of 
delays caused  by underwriting  this would not follow if the policies had been  a condition of 
securing the mortgage. Bank  of Scotland has confirmed that if it was mandatory to have this 
type of insurance  as a condition of the mortgage, it would not have provided  funds  until the 
insurance was in place. The adviser noted  in his fact find document how the repayment 
mortgage has already  completed.   
I must make my findings on what I believe most  likely, on balance.  The weight of evidence 
does not suggest Mr and Mrs J were told their policies were mandatory.  They  were  able to 
refuse certain recommendations to them.  The insurance policies would have been likely sent 
with cancellation  rights. And, the evidence from the time of the sale supplied  by Bank of 
Scotland records that the key features, disclosure and cancellation rights  [were]  fully 
explained  by the adviser. 
It follows that I am not persuaded these policies were recommended to Mr and Mrs J as a 
mandatory provision  of their mortgage lending.  
Ive also gone  on to look at the suitability of the policies  for Mr and Mrs Js circumstances. 
They say, in the main, that their savings and generous benefits held through their 
employment  meant that the policies were  unnecessary.  
I dont agree that the provisions Mr and Mrs J held would have precluded the adviser from 
proposing life and critical illness insurance  policies to them.  What  I must decide is whether 
the adviser acted  fairly ad reasonably in recommending  the products to Mr and Mrs J. And I 
believe they were  suitable  proposals.  
Mr and Mrs J had a very young dependent child at the time of the advice. The adviser  did 
record Mr and Mrs Js savings on his fact find document and note was made of these being 
used in the event of funeral expenses  if that arose. The adviser  also made note of the death 
in service benefits.  
I know Mrs J feels  that both she and Mr J held secure employment at the time with generous  
provisions if they had passed away.  Nonetheless, even if it seems unlikely, there are a 
number of reasons  why a persons employment  could end beyond  their control. And taking 
out insurance in the event a person may fall ill or pass  away provides greater security  than 
employment benefits on that basis. It is a sensible form of financial planning.
Further, the documentation sets out that Mr and Mrs J did not hold critical illness  cover  at the 
time of the advice.  
I know Mrs J has explained they held savings that would  have  enabled them to keep up with 
their outgoings. That would follow as to why they declined the income protection  
recommendation. But the sum of these  was not greater than their mortgage debt. And in the 
event either  of them died or fell ill with a serious  illness, there could have  been  other  
reasonable calls on that money.
Mr and Mrs J have said that because  a differing Bank of Scotland adviser  discussed  
cancelling the policies when their mortgage  debt was repaid, that this must suggest the 
recommendation was not suitable  in the first place.  I dont agree with that. The difference by 
2001 was that the debt that the life assurance policy was set up to run alongside  had since 
been repaid. In that instance,  a policyholder might choose to retain  life assurance for 
Ref: DRN63710704additional family cover. But it was Mr and Mrs Js choice as to whether to cancel it or not 
going forward.  
Similarly, the whole  of life policies  continued to offer insurance in the event one or both 
Mr and Mrs J fell ill with a defined illness. Given they had a dependent child, I do not believe 
this was an unreasonable proposal.  
I know Mrs J has queried  why the sums assured for the whole of life policies differed. Each  
was based on a minimum £20 monthly premium. The reason for the different prices was 
because they had differing underwriting  policies are offered based on many variables 
including age, medical circumstances, and family history.  I can see the insurer  wrote out to 
Mr J about his particular  circumstances, and his policy was more  costly. 
Im also conscious that Mr and Mrs J have had the benefit of both of these policies up to the 
time they cancelled them.  The nature of such policies is to insure  against  unforeseen death 
or illness, and thankfully no claim has been required. But I cant  look at this complaint with 
the benefit of hindsight   I must  decide  if Bank  of Scotland acted fairly in 1996. And given 
the lack of existing insurance provisions (aside from their combined  savings and identical 
employment benefits which were noted) I think the adviser made reasonable proposals. 
I dont therefore  agree that a refund of these premiums is due now, as Mrs J has calculated. 
To award  that would mean that I ought to treat the policies as if theyd never begun  that 
would flow from unreasonable or unfair advice. Thats not the case here. The adviser met 
their documented requirements at the time of the advice and was, in my view,  suitable for 
him to recommend.  
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Nor do I make any award. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 January  2020.  
Jo Storey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6371070