K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr M bought  the policy in 1998 when altering his mortgage arrangements. He applied for the 
PPI policy  at a meeting.  Bearing in mind  the paperwork  from the time, Mr M was employed 
at the time as an engineer, had been there for seven  months  and was entitled to full pay as 
sick pay. Taking into account his length of service and everything  else I have, I think  Mr Ms 
sick pay wouldve likely lasted significantly less than twelve months and also his redundancy 
pay was likely worth  significantly less than twelve months pay.
Mr M has told us he suffered broken bones twice as a child and again  four years before  the 
sale when he missed  two weeks of work. He hasnt told us of any other  health  issues.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to pay £350 a month towards Mr Ms mortgage balance  
in the event of a successful claim.  B&B has told us it cost £22.76 at the time.
B&B has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account closed in 2001. 
Mr Ms representative has made  lengthy  and substantial representations on his behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mr Ms representative says:
B&B failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance  for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should  be presumed Mr M wouldnt have taken the 
policy and the complaint  should be upheld. Mr Ms representatives believe there  to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress, which are some of the 
most common  reasons  people are off work. This significantly  reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs  including  interest and the fact it was unlikely you could make a 
successful claim meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good faith means B&B should have told Mr 
M about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost  good  faith also means  B&B should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations  of cover to Mr M and the impact  they would 
have had on his chances of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage  is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term transaction  cover would stop just at the time it 
would be most needed;  and
The information Mr M received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions  and limitations on the scope of 
the cover meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN69320792Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mr M disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons.
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1998 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2001. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance  on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone  Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries 
Ref: DRN69320793I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like B&B at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code  and these 
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mr Ms case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments.
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so B&B 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mr Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If B&B gave advice,  whether it advised Mr M with reasonable care and skill  in particular, 
whether the policy was appropriate or suitable  for him, given his needs  and circumstances.  
-Whether B&B gave Mr M sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  him to 
make an informed  choice about  whether to take the policy,  including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent  Mr M suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation  for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr M and B&B,  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN69320794did Mr M know he had a choice?
B&B had to make  it clear the PPI policy was optional. Mr M has said he had no interest in 
PPI and it was just included as part of the package with his mortgage. But Mr M already had 
the mortgage at the time he took this PPI. Also he signed a separate PPI application  form to 
take the PPI  so it looks like the PPI was presented  as something separate  from the 
mortgage alterations being made at the time. The form filled in at the time for the mortgage  
alterations also had a separate PPI section  asking Mr M to answer yes or no to whether he 
wanted B&Bs PPI. This was answered yes. Taking everything into account, I think its more 
likely Mr M knew the policy was optional  and agreed  to take it without undue  pressure. 
did B&B  provide advice?
Both B&B and Mr M agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. This means B&B 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mr M. Instead, it had to give him sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether 
to take the policy,  including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr M was given a broad description of what the policy  
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr M was unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr M would have taken the policy  
without any sense of what it was for and of how much the premium might be  and the forms 
at the time made it clear  the cover was for accident, sickness and unemployment.
Im also satisfied Mr M was aware  of what the policy benefit was, as this was set out on the 
PPI application  form he signed. But the evidence from the time of sale doesnt  tell us 
whether B&B gave sufficient information  about the actual  cost or about the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr M agreed to take the policy.
So I dont  think B&B gave Mr M sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take the policy,  including  drawing his attention 
to and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions  of the 
policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ms. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business should have explained 
the low claims ratio  what Mr Ms representative considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact that much  of the premium went to the business rather  than the insurer. 
Ref: DRN69320795-The common law duty of utmost  good  faith means the business shouldnt have just told 
Mr M about  the limitations  and exclusions, it should have  gone  further  and explained the 
significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that B&B ought to have  done  either. 
what effect did B&Bs  shortcomings have  on Mr M? To what extent  did Mr M suffer  
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that B&B didnt  do all it should  have done when it sold this policy  to Mr M. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  he suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mr M would  have still 
taken the policy,  had B&B done things  properly. 
Mr M says he would not have taken  it and believes I should presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr M had to weigh up in his own mind the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work.
As Ive found above, Mr M chose to take this policy. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr M thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
The information Mr M was given about the benefit was clear. But the information about other 
aspects of the policy, such as the cost, limitations and exclusions wasnt as clear as it should 
have been.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr M knew hed have to pay something for the 
PPI, it doesnt appear B&B told him the exact  premium when he applied  for it. But it seems  
unlikely Mr M wouldve taken the PPI without an idea of the approximate costs.   Also,  around 
the time the policy started, Mr M was likely sent policy  information  showing the exact cost  
and if this had been significantly at odds  with his expectations when he applied, its possible 
Mr M might have  raised  this with B&B at the time,  or reconsidered his decision.  
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr M would have found  the cost unacceptable if he had been  
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
Ref: DRN69320796Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr M thought  he had bought  and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to illness for which Mr M had symptoms before the 
start. Also, unless the policy had been  in force for at least  two years  and there  had also 
been two consecutive years without treatment  or advice  for the issue,  the policy would 
exclude claims  relating  to illness and injury, or any underlying or attributable conditions, 
for which  Mr M had been  advised or treated  or of which  he was or ought to have  been  
aware in the two years before the policy start;
The policy limited,  and in some situations,  excluded unemployment cover if Mr M wasnt  
a permanent  employee;
The requirement that to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be totally  unable to do his 
usual job and also unable to do any other  job for which he was fitted by knowledge  and 
training; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather than the remaining term of 
the mortgage, and there were provisions for the policy  to end after 12 benefit payments. 
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mr M pause for thought  and may well have caused  him to conclude the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr M from taking  the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mr Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows the policy  wasnt  
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. 
The policy wouldnt  have covered time off work  related to the broken bones Mr M had 
suffered in the past. But I havent  seen anything to persuade me Mr M wouldve thought  
himself at much risk of missing work in future, and for longer, due to those past issues. So I 
dont think he wouldve placed much weight on that in his decision   and I dont think  better 
information about this exclusion wouldve put him off the cover. Also,  I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest he wouldve been caught by any of the other significant exclusions. So, 
with all this in mind, I think Mr M still had good  reasons to take the policy.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions, or place  any additional 
restrictions or more onerous  evidential  requirements in the event of a claim on those 
grounds than would have applied to any other  disability claim. And I think its unlikely Mr M 
would have expected to make a disability claim on the policy  without first providing some 
evidence to support  that claim.
If Mr M had known  he could only claim for disability  if he was not only totally  unable to do his 
own job but also unable  to do any job for which he was fitted by knowledge and training, it 
might have played into his thinking  about what to do. And I accept it may have given him 
pause for thought  although given his circumstances, on balance, I think  he would have still 
been interested in taking the cover.
Ref: DRN69320797B&B may not have  told Mr M that any claim he made would be limited to a 12 month  period.  
This may have differed  from what he expected and might have hoped for. But 12 months  
was longer than Mr M wouldve likely received full sick pay for and his redundancy 
entitlement was also likely less than 12 months income. In those circumstances, I consider it 
likely Mr M would have still thought a policy that paid up to 12 monthly benefit payments 
towards his mortgage  would  be of benefit  to him and would help him manage the 
consequences if he couldnt work  in the circumstances covered by the policy.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr M would still have taken  the policy. The policy was sufficiently close to what its 
likely he thought he was getting and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he were  made redundant, or unable to work through accident  or disability. 
In the circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that Mr M would have taken the policy  
in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr M would  not have  bought  the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr M 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr M in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN69320798That is because,  while I accept its possible Mr M wouldnt have taken the policy,  Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken it 
had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
B&B should  pay Mr M compensation,  as that would  put him in a better position than he 
would have been in if everything  had happened as it should have done.
Im also aware that Mr M thinks  B&B misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
B&Bs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why B&B failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  B&B gave Mr M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1998 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ms representative says a court might take if it were 
to find B&B negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr M and about the remedy a court  
might award if it were  to find that B&B had been  in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. 
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6932079