K821x#15Complaint
Miss C has complained that Indigo Michael  Limited  (trading as Safety Net Credit (SNC))  
irresponsibly provided her with an unaffordable Safety Net facility  in August 2016. She also 
says SNC  increased her credit limit on a number of occasions without asking  her. 
Background
Miss C approached SNC for a Safety Net facility in August 2016. This was a running credit  
account where a consumer could either  request funds up to their credit limit, or funds would 
be deposited into their bank account  once  their account balance fell below  a safety net 
amount of the customers choosing. This facility  was not a payday loan. 
Miss C was initially given  a facility with a £300  credit  limit in August 2016. Her limit was then 
increased on 13 occasions, until it reached  £1,000 in November 2018.
In SNCs response to Miss Cs complaint  it accepted that something may have  gone  wrong  
when it provided  her with her final credit limit increase in November 2018. It therefore  
proposed to rework her account  as if no interest  had been charged  from this date. The result  
of this wouldve  left Miss C with a final balance of £123.09. Miss C didnt  accept this offer 
and brought her complaint  to our service. 
One of our adjudicators looked  at Miss Cs complaint. She thought the checks SNC carried  
out were proportionate  and based  on the information it saw she didnt think  that SNC was 
wrong to have provided the facility. However, the adjudicator didnt think  that SNC  shouldve 
allowed further drawdowns on the facility  after 12 December  2016. 
Miss C agreed with the adjudicators findings. 
SNC didnt  agree with the adjudicators findings, it said that Miss C had regular transfers 
coming in to her bank  account from the same sender who paid her salary. And while  Miss C 
did take a number of drawdowns, she was using the facility as SNC  had intended. Finally,  
SNC reiterated that the settlement offer in the final response letter was still available to Miss 
C. 
No agreement could  be reached,  so the case  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, Im partly upholding 
Miss Cs complaint. And Ive explained below  the reasons  for my decision.
the relevant regulations in place  at the time Miss C was given her Safety Net facility 
Both Miss C and SNC  appear to accept that it wasnt  unreasonable  for the facility to have 
been approved.  As such, it seems  that this is no longer in dispute, so I wont  be making a 
finding on this aspect of the case. However,  I have considered how SNC monitoried the way 
Miss C used the facility.   
Ref: DRN68417812However, there was also an expectation  that SNC would review  and monitor how Miss C 
used the facility. CONC 6.7.2 says A firm must monitor  a customers repayment  record  and 
take appropriate action where there  are signs of actual or possible repayment difficulties. So 
it wasnt enough of SNC  to just carry out an assessment before the facility was approved, it 
needed to continue to monitor how Miss C used  the facility and then step in and provide help 
when or if it could see Miss C was or was likely  having financial difficulties.  
It is also important to note that Miss C wasnt contractually obliged to completely repay  the 
facility in full when she next got paid and the amount of interest shed have  to pay was 
capped. So, like the adjudicator I agree the facility was affordable when it was first given to 
her, indeed, based on the information SNC  saw, the facility appeared affordable. So I wont  
be upholding Miss Cs complaint about  SNC  initially providing the facility.  
monitoring the facility  
As Ive explained above, SNC  needed  to carry out reasonable checks before the facility was 
approved, but it didnt  then have to carry out an additional affordability  assessment each 
time Miss C borrowed money. But it was required to carry out an assessment each time Miss 
Cs credit  limit increased and it also had to monitor Miss Cs repayment  record to look for 
signs of financial difficulties. So in effect  it had to monitor how Miss C was using the facility. 
Having reviewed the same information that SNC saw, I think  there was clear information  
which ought to have led SNC  to decline Miss Cs request for any further  drawdowns  from
12 December 2016 onwards.  And Ive explained  below,  why by this point I think there were 
signs that Miss C wasnt using the facility in a sustainable manner.
To explain why I dont think Miss C was using the facility sustainably,  Ive considered the 
relationship between when repayments were made to SNC, the value  of those payments 
and then when  Miss C returned for further  borrowing. Ive thought about these points, 
because the checks  SNC  carried  out worked on the basis that Miss C would repay what  she 
borrowed within a reasonable period of time. And I think  looking at this relationship,  by 
December 2016  SNC  ought to have seen enough  to be concerned about how Miss C was 
using her facility, and have prevented her from taking any further  drawdowns  because there 
was a real risk she was having financial difficulties.  
By December 2016 a clear pattern of repayments  had emerged. Shortly  after Miss C 
received her salary (this varies slightly as it seems she is paid twice a month) SNC took a 
payment which  either cleared the outstanding  balance or reduced it significantly. This 
happened each  time Miss C took a drawdown  from the start of the facility. 
However, in all of these instances,  within  a matter of days, and sometimes hours (as was the 
case with some of the drawdowns in October),  Miss C returned  for further borrowing either  
up to, or close to her credit limit at the time. And, by December  it was clear the monthly 
repayments she was making, had the effect of clearing, in full what she owed. This is 
important, because as Ive mentioned when SNC approved the facility, it was entitled to 
believe that Miss C would repay what she owed over a reasonable period of time. However, 
by now, it was clear this was not happing. 
What was actually  happening was that Miss Cs monthly repayments were close  to 30% of 
her salary   which is an amount that I consider to be unsustainable. Bearing in mind on top 
Ref: DRN68417813of this, Miss C also had her regular  living costs and other credit commitments she was 
required to make. 
This happened for a number of months in a row, so is a clear indication that Miss C wasnt 
repaying this facility in a reasonable  period  of time.  To me, she seems  to be using the facility 
as if it was similar to a payday loan. So, Miss C was taking out funds, repaying them,  usually 
within a couple  of weeks and then having to immediately return  to SNC in order  to fill a hole 
which was left in her finances caused  by making  the full repayment. Essentially, Miss C 
wasnt in fact repaying her balance,  but paying interest to service  the debt over an extended 
period of time. 
So, whether  or not the facility at this point in time was pound  and pence affordable,  isnt 
really the point, I think by December 2016 it was clear Miss C wasnt  in a position to 
sustainably take on further drawdowns  from her facility because  she returned  so quickly  for 
new lending  after shed made payments to SNC.  
And having thought about this pattern,  it isnt clear, why SNC  believed that it was sustainable 
to have allowed  Miss C to continue to draw down, indeed Miss C took a further 204 
drawdowns after December 2016 on the facility. Up to this point, the amount of credit 
available for Miss C had increased by more than 50% from £300 (in August 2016) to £460 in 
December 2016.  
In addition to the way that Miss C used  the facility, I think there were a couple of other signs 
that shouldve  given SNC cause for concern that Miss C may have been having  some wider 
financial problems. 
The information from the bank statements that SNC  saw indicated that Miss C was a regular 
user of high cost short term credit  and regularly had at least  3 outstanding loans each 
month. These loans  are intended  for short term use, but by December 2016 SNC was aware  
of Miss C using these loans since July 2016. 
SNC was also aware that Miss C was always  significantly overdrawn and wasnt making  any 
headway in to coming  out of her overdraft.  In my view this is a sign that someone  was 
having financial difficulties   after all the bigger picture was clearly  one of Miss Cs 
indebtedness growing  month by month. 
So while I dont think SNC was wrong to have provided Miss C her initial credit limit, there 
were clear  signs  that Miss C was having  difficulties as she wasnt  using the facility  as SNC 
intended. As a result  there was a clear risk that any further drawdowns were  not going to be 
repaid in  sustainable manner. As a result, SNC  shouldnt have allowed any further 
drawdowns after 12 December 2016.  
what SNC  should do to put things  right
To put things right for Miss C, SNC  should:
remove any unpaid  interest fees and charges  from the current outstanding  balance and 
then refund  all the interest, fees and charges applied to Miss Cs Safety Net facility  from 
12 December  2016; 
add interest at 8% per year simple  on the above interest and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement ;
Ref: DRN68417814then deduct from the above refund any unpaid principal that remains due. If the above  
refund is sufficient to repay what Miss C owes, then the remainder of the refund  should 
then be paid directly  to Miss C. 
If, however, the refund above isnt sufficient to repay the outstanding principal, then 
SNC and Miss C should  try and come  to a mutually agreeable repayment plan in order  
to repay what is owed. But Id remind SNC of its obligation  to treat Miss C  fairly.  
remove any adverse information recorded on Miss Cs credit  file from 
12 December  2016.
HM Revenue & Customs requires SNC to take off tax from this interest. SNC must give
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I partly uphold  Miss Cs complaint. 
Indigo Michael Limited should put things right for Miss C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6841781