K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading as Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time (Lloyds) 
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Miss M took out a PPI policy when  she applied  for a further advance  on her mortgage in 
January 2003.  
Miss M paid a monthly  amount of £3.50  for the policy.  It provided a monthly benefit of 
£44.80, plus an additional £3 for every £1,000 of the original loan amount, if Miss M was too 
ill to work  or made involuntarily  redundant. This would have been paid for up to 12 months 
per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case. Having  done  so, I wont  be upholding 
Miss Ms complaint and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Miss M that the policy  was optional.  And it had to get her 
consent before it added PPI to her account.
Lloyds has provided  a copy of Miss Ms further  advance  application  and relevant paperwork 
 including  a separate  application  form for PPI. Miss M has signed the PPI application form 
indicating she wanted the policy added to her account. So, I think Miss M was aware she 
had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that she chose to take it at the time. 
Miss M didnt say whether she received any advice or not, but Lloyds has reviewed the sale 
as though advice was given. This puts more responsibility on Lloyds  it means it had to 
check the policy was suitable for Miss M before  it sold the policy  to her. So, Ive considered 
the case on the basis that advice was given. Having done so, based  on the information Ive 
seen, I dont think Lloyds  was wrong  to recommend the policy to Miss M.
I say this because  Miss M was eligible for the policy, and although  she says she had a pre-
existing medical condition (which would have  been  excluded by the policy) I dont think  this 
means it wasnt right for her. Miss M said the condition  affected her around five years before 
the policy was sold and she hasnt said anything to make me think  the condition  was 
ongoing. So, I think its more likely  than not Miss M would  not have thought she would need 
to claim for her pre-existing medical  condition. But the policy could have been useful to her if 
she developed  any other conditions that prevented her from being able to work.  And Miss M 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of the other terms which  might  have made  it 
harder for her to claim on the policy, such as having  unusual employment circumstances.
Ref: DRN62111422Miss M says she was entitled to at least six months full sick pay if she was too ill to work 
and redundancy  pay if lost her job. Miss M also says she had a life insurance policy in place.
Ive thought about everything Miss M has said, but I dont think  this means  that the policy  
wasnt right for her. The policy  would have paid out in addition  to her employee benefits and 
potentially for longer.  She could  also have  made  repeat  claims subject to a requalification 
period. The life insurance policy wouldnt have  helped her if she was off sick from work or 
made redundant. So, I think  the policy could have been useful to Miss M if she fell on hard 
times.
I also havent seen  anything to suggest  the policy was unaffordable  for Miss M at the time it 
was taken. And it could  have been cancelled at any time without penalty.
Its possible Lloyds didnt  give Miss M all of the other  information she needed.  But for the 
same reasons as Ive explained above, I dont think this would have put her off taking the 
policy.
The further advance  was a long-term commitment, and the repercussions of not keeping up 
with repayments  could have been  serious.  So, I think  the policy could have  been  useful to 
Miss M and I dont think she lost out because of anything Lloyds did wrong. This means I 
dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
Miss Ms representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says applies to all PPI complaints.  These  general  points include: a claim that 
we are not correctly  applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; 
these policies represented poor value  because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant Lloyds should have  disclosed the poor value and explained the significance of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Miss Ms representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Miss Ms individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Miss Ms particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 August 2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6211142