K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain about  the way a faster  payment  they made was handled by 
Yorkshire Building Society.  
Background
On 14 April 2019 a faster payment was arranged online to pay a credit  card.  But the 
payment of £3,251.57 was sent to the wrong  recipient. 
On 23 April 2019 the account  holders contacted YBS as the business Mrs H meant  to pay 
hadnt received  the faster  payment.  Over  the following days  Mrs H was referred to the 
payment recipient to retrieve it. 
On 29 April 2019 YBS tried to recall the faster payment but the information it used was 
incomplete. YBS tried again  on 8 May 2019.  
Mr and Mrs H have told us they had to liaise with the third party  that received the payment 
and YBS in order to reclaim the £3,251.57 that was sent in error. When the third party  
initially returned the payment on 6 June 2019  it was rejected by YBS as it didnt contain  
sufficient detail to trace Mr and Mrs Hs account. The payment was successfully received on 
20 June 2019  and applied to their account. 
After Mr and Mrs H complained YBS agreed there were delays in starting the faster  payment 
recall process and paid them £100.  Mr and Mrs H went  on to refer their complaint to our 
service and it was passed to an investigator. The investigator thought YBS had dealt with the 
complaint fairly so didnt ask it to do anything  else. Mr and Mrs H asked to appeal  so their 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the most recent emails  to the investigator, Mr and Mrs H accept that the payment was 
most likely sent to the wrong party due to their error. Theyve explained that the focus of their 
complaint relates  to the unfair treatment they feel YBS provided after the mistake was made. 
I can see there was a delay in getting the funds back and YBS says it should have started 
the recall process  sooner.  In addition YBS confirms that it submitted the faster payment 
recall form on 29 April 2019 but the information  used was incomplete which meant  that the 
process didnt actually start until 8 May 2019. Mr and Mrs H first got in touch with YBS about 
this issue on 23 April 2019  and I can see YBS delayed matters  by around two weeks.  
In response to the investigator, Mr and Mrs H say that it was their actions that resulted in the 
payment being  returned. I dont know whether it was the information YBS submitted or 
Mr and Mrs Hs actions that led to the payment being refunded.  But Im satisfied YBS did try 
to recover the faster  payment  and sent information to the third party  to that end, via its 
intermediary bank, on 8 May 2019.
The funds were originally  refunded  on 6 June 2019  but rejected. YBS says the reference 
number used only contained eight digits which meant its systems couldnt locate the correct 
Ref: DRN61759142account to pay it in to. I can see YBS account  numbers  do contain 10 digits, not eight. 
Without any other identifying information  I think the decision to reject  the 6 June 2019 
payment was reasonable. The payment was sent back on 20 June 2019 and whilst it still 
only held eight digits in the account number it also contained Mr and Mrs Hs surname.  YBS 
say they were able to locate the payment with Mr and Mrs Hs help and apply it to the right 
account. I know Mr and Mrs H feel the decision to reject the first payment was unfair but, for 
the reasons Ive given above,  I havent  found that to be the case. Once the payment was 
sent back and identified it was reapplied to Mr and Mrs Hs YBS account. 
I appreciate this situation was very stressful for Mr and Mrs H, especially when considering  
the amount of money involved. And I can see that they had to make a lot of calls to the 
businesses involved to sort things out. But I have to take into account that YBS acted in line 
with Mr and Mrs Hs instructions when it made the payment on 14 April 2019. Unfortunately,  
there was always going  to be a degree  of inconvenience to Mr and Mrs H when  recovering 
funds sent to the wrong party. 
I agree  that there were  delays and that the service provided should have been better. But Im 
not persuaded that YBS failed to provide  any help in recovering the funds. Im satisfied  that, 
after a delay  of around two weeks, it did submit  the necessary faster  payment  recall 
information. The funds  were ultimately returned to Mr and Mrs Hs account and YBS paid 
them £100  to apologise for the delay. Whilst I know my decision will disappoint 
Mr and Mrs H, Im satisfied YBS payment of £100 fairly reflects the impact of the delay on 
them. I think YBS has dealt with this complaint  fairly so Im not telling it to take any further 
action. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint  because Yorkshire  Building  Society  has 
already paid a settlement that is fair and reasonable.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 March  2020.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6175914