K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that The Mortgage Business plc (TMB):
-sold her property for much  less than it was worth  after it was taken into possession;
-disposed of personal possessions Ms P had left at the property; and
-appointed  a debt recovery agent in August 2018 to collect the debt still outstanding  
after the sale of the property. 
background
Ms Ps mortgage fell into arrears. Unfortunately, as Ms P wasnt able to repay the arrears 
and as they were  continuing to increase, the property was taken  into possession.
In April 2014 a surveyor's  report  was carried out on the property. The report  gave an 
estimated market value  of up to £140,000. Six other properties were used for comparison in 
the report. The property was marketed  on-line and with a local estate agent.
In May 2014  an auctioneers appraisal was also carried.  The appraisal recommended  a 
reserve of £60,000  to £68,000 at auction.
The property was sold at auction in June  2014  for £95,000 less fees. This left a shortfall of 
over £214,000 outstanding.
In 2018 a debt collection  agency contacted  Ms P about the shortfall.
Ms P complained to TMB as she felt the property had been sold at too low a price.
TMB did not uphold Ms Ps complaint. It said it had relied on the professional advice of the 
surveyor to assess the propertys value. When the property didnt sell it then obtained an 
auctioneers appraisal  and the property was sold at auction. It said it had appointed an 
external business  to oversee the sale of the property to ensure that Ms P was treated fairly.
Ms P wasnt satisfied with TMBs  response and brought her complaint  to this service.  She 
also said that TMB had disposed of personal  possessions she had left at the property. 
Our investigator said he didnt think Ms Ps complaint could be upheld.  
He explained  that TMB was allowed to rely on the valuations provided  by the professionals it 
had appointed to advise  on the sale of the property. He noted  that the price achieved  at 
auction may not have been  what the property was worth in the past, but he said TMB was 
entitled to rely on up-to-date valuations from the surveyor and auctioneer  when establishing 
the current value  of the property.
He noted that Ms P had also complained that her possessions had been disposed of without 
her permission. Our investigator  explained  that under the terms and conditions of Ms Ps 
mortgage, TMB had the right to remove, store, sell or dispose of anything  left at the property 
after it had been  taken into possession. As this was the case he said he couldnt reasonably 
say that TMB had done anything wrong if it had disposed of any items  left in the property.
He noted that Ms P hadnt raised  this matter with TMB so it hadn't had the opportunity  to 
look into this issue. He said that if Ms P wanted to pursue this matter further she should raise  
it with TMB  in the first instance.
Ref: DRN60965562Ms P didnt accept our investigators  view.  She reiterated that she felt the property had been 
sold for less than its true value. Ms P referred to information she had provided to this service 
which she felt showed that her property had not been  sold at a fair price. 
Ms P also said that TMBs agents had blocked  her from removing her personal  possessions 
from the property. 
In a subsequent telephone call with this service Ms P also said that she was unhappy about 
the charges that had been added to her mortgage account as she felt they were  unfair.  And 
Ms P said she wanted to know why TMB had waited four years before it pursued her for the 
outstanding debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am sympathetic to Ms Ps position. I can see that this has been  a very worrying  time for her 
and I have carefully considered everything  both Ms P and TMB have said and provided.
Valuation and price  achieved for Ms Ps property
As our adjudicator explained, when marketing  a property following a possession  order the 
lender is required  to ensure that it does  so at the best price  reasonably  possible.  In order  to 
do this TMBs agents obtained  a surveyors valuation and then an auctioneers appraisal. 
When the property  was not sold by an estate agent the property  was sold at auction for 
£95,000 less costs, significantly more that the reserve of £60,000 to £68,000.
I can see that Ms P feels very strongly that her property was undervalued.  I note everything  
Ms P has said and the information she has provided about the property, earlier valuations 
and the value of other  properties in the area. Ms P has provided a range of information to 
support her position.   
However, my consideration of this matter only extends to whether TMB failed to take 
adequate steps to ensure  that the property  was sold for the best price  reasonably  possible at 
that time.  As TMB  obtained  two professional valuations and the property was marketed to try 
to achieve the surveyors  valuation I am satisfied that TMB met good industry practice. I 
cant reasonably  say that it should  have done  more.
Ms P has sent this service a number  of photographs to illustrate why she feels the property 
was worth a lot more  than it was sold for at auction.  I do understand Ms Ps strength of 
feeling on this matter. But I must take into account  that the valuations  TMB  obtained were  
from a professional surveyor and an auctioneer. I cant reasonably say the TMB  acted 
incorrectly when it relied on the professional valuations it received.
personal possessions
Ms P says that TMBs  agents blocked her from removing her personal possessions from 
the property. As our investigator  explained Ms P will need to raise this matter  with TMB in 
the first instance, and give it the opportunity to investigate, before we can look into this 
matter further. 
Ref: DRN60965563charges added to Ms Ps mortgage account  and referral  to a debt recovery  agent
In a recent  conversation with this service  Ms P said that she was unhappy about the charges 
that were added to her mortgage account  as she felt they were unfair. And Ms P said she 
wanted to know  why TMB had waited four years before it instructed a debt recovery  agent to 
pursue her for the outstanding debt.
Ms P will need to raise  these issues with TMB first, and give it the opportunity to look into 
them for her. As our investigator explained, lenders are required to treat customers  in 
financial difficulty fairly. If Ms P isnt satisfied with the response she receives from TMB  she 
is, of course,  free to refer the matter to this service.
I do understand that this is not the decision Ms P was hoping  for. I can see that this has 
been a very difficult  time for her. But I cant reasonably say that TMB acted unfairly  when it 
relied on the professional valuations it received when it sold the property.
I would encourage  Ms P to engage with the debt recovery  agent, or to seek  support from an 
organisation that helps with this type of situation  such as Step-Change (0330 055 2198). 
my final decision
Although I am sympathetic to Ms Ps situation,  my decision is that I am not able to uphold  
this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2021.
Suzannah Stuart
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6096556