K821x#15complaint
Mr A says Car Giant Limited (Car  Giant) mis-sold him a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a hire purchase 
agreement in August  2008. Mr A applied for the car finance and PPI during a face to face 
meeting with Car Giant.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Car Giant disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr As complaint because:
I dont think Car Giant gave Mr A clear enough information about  the cost of the policy. I say 
this because although I can see the documentation  from the time of sale shows the inclusion 
of the policy, it doesnt  include information on what it would cost. And given the limited 
amount of cover the policy offered, I think this wouldve mattered to Mr A.
I dont think Mr A wouldve  bought  the policy if Car Giant had given him enough information 
about the cost of it. I say this because I dont  think hed have thought it was good value for 
money. So, I think Mr A has lost out because of what  Car Giant  did wrong. 
Ive taken into account everything Ive seen and everything Car Giant has said. And Iveseen  
that it says it wouldve  sent Mr A a welcome letter following  the sale.  But by that point, it had 
already sold the policy  to Mr A. And whilst  Mr A mayve cancelled the policy following receipt  
of the letter,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to expect Mr A to do that as a result  of 
something Car Giant did wrong in the first place.  So I still think  I should  uphold  the 
complaint.
putting things right
Car Giant  should  put Mr A in the position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Car Giant should:
Pay Mr A the amount  he paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year
If Mr A made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Car Giant  can take off what  he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
Ref: DRN69964202 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Car Giant to take off tax from this interest. Car Giant must  give Mr 
A a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr As complaint and require Car Giant Limited to 
put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6996420