K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Allianz Insurance Plc declined her pet insurance claim. My references  
to Allianz include  its agents.
background
On 3 July 2018 Miss M took out a covered for life pet insurance policy for her dog which 
started 31 July 2018. Allianz was the insurer.
In December 2018 Miss Ms dog had vomiting  and diarrhoea and was diagnosed with 
pancreatitis. Miss M claimed for the vet treatment. Allianz saw from the dogs vet records 
that shortly before  Miss M took out the policy the dog had vomiting and diarrhoea. 
Allianz declined  the claim  for two reasons. First, it said the dogs pancreatitis was pre-
existing as shed  shown clinical signs of the condition  before the policy was taken out. 
Second, Allianz said that when Miss M bought the policy, she should  have  told it her dog had 
been unwell. If Allianz  had been told it would have placed two specific exclusions  on the 
policy, for gastro intestinal/digestive  disorders and for vomiting  and diarrhoea.  It applied 
those exclusions retrospectively and said the claim fell under the gastro  intestinal/digestive  
disorders exclusion.
Miss M complained to us. She said her vet had told Allianz that pancreatitis wasnt a pre-
existing condition.
Our investigator thought Allianz had fairly  declined the claim. 
Miss M disagrees  and wants  an ombudsmans  decision. She said shed been told that when 
a dog's diet changed it can have  vomiting and diarrhoea. She also emphasised her vet said 
the pancreatitis wasnt linked to her dogs earlier vomiting and diarrhoea.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Miss M but I dont  uphold her complaint. I have to decide  whether 
Allianz fairly  and reasonably declined her claim and I think it did for one of the two reasons 
it's given.  Ill explain  why.
The vet records show that on 8 June 2018  Miss Ms dog went  to the vet for a check-up and it 
was noted that shed  vomited four times that day and had some diarrhoea. On 1 July 2018 
shed visited the vet for vomiting and diarrhoea  and the notes say she had five to six 
episodes of both vomiting and diarrhoea.  Those  episodes were before policy was taken out. 
When Miss Ms dog was seen by the vet in December 2018 she also had vomiting and 
diarrhoea and pancreatitis was diagnosed.
Miss Ms vet says the episodes of vomiting  and diarrhoea before the policy  was taken  out 
were down to dietary indiscretion and/or parasitic  infection. In December the dog had 
similar symptoms,  but she was clinically much  sicker  and had a fever, a blood test showed 
she had an elevated canine pancreas lipase  (CPLI).  The vets opinion is that it's very 
Ref: DRN62794042unlikely the dog had an elevated CPLI during  the earlier vomiting and diarrhoea as the 
abnormality normally wouldnt improve without specific  treatment.
Given Miss Ms vets evidence I dont think Allianz fairly declined  the claim on the basis that 
Miss M's dog's vomiting and diarrhoea before the policy was taken out was a clinical  sign of 
the pancreatitis she was diagnosed with after the start of the policy. Theres no evidence  that 
the pancreatitis was a pre-existing condition.
However, when Miss M took out the policy over the phone Allianz asked her some  questions 
about her dogs heath. Ive listened  to the phone call and Allianz asked:
has (your dog) shown  any sign of illness or injury or been unwell either now or in the 
past, this is regardless  of whether or not she was seen by the vet for the problem? 
 Miss M responded, I can only go on the last month Ive had her and, in that time, no.
Allianz also asked:
have you discussed anything else with your vet about (your dog). We need to know 
any potential signs of illness or injury even if the vet didnt think there was anything  to 
worry about at the time or the signs went away quickly
Miss M responded no.
As Miss M had told her vet that her dog had considerable  vomiting  and diarrhoea  a few 
weeks and also a few days before  she was asked those questions, and seen the vet about  
the symptoms, I think it would have been  reasonable for Miss M to have told Allianz about 
the vomiting and diarrhoea  in answer to the questions asked.
If Miss M had told Allianz it would have added two specific exclusions to the policy  from the 
start of the policy, for gastro intestinal/digestive disorders and for vomiting and diarrhoea. 
The exclusions are reviewable in 12 months from the last treatment date providing the dog 
isnt on a prescription or special diet/food management. Allianz sent us evidence of its 
underwriting criteria to show those two exclusions  apply if a dog previously had vomiting  and 
diarrhoea. 
Allianz added those exclusions to the policy retrospectively and said the gastro 
intestinal/digestive disorders exclusion  meant the claim  for pancreatitis wasnt  covered.
I'm satisfied that Allianz fairly added those two exclusions to apply  retrospectively.  I dont 
think Miss M took reasonable care with her answers  to the above questions she was asked. 
In those circumstances the relevant law, the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012, allows insurers to fairly to apply  exclusions  retrospectively. 
Although the episodes  of vomiting and diarrhoea before and after the policy was taken out 
may not be linked Allianz can still decline the pancreatitis claim due to the gastro  
intestinal/digestive disorders exclusion  it fairly placed on the policy.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN62794043Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6279404