K820x#14Complaint
Mr J complains that MBNA Limited defaulted his two credit card accounts  during a period 
when theyd put the accounts on hold. He wants the defaults to be removed and for MBNA to 
discuss a monthly payment arrangement  or a partial  settlement of the accounts.
Background
Mr J had two credit  card accounts with MBNA.  He says that during a conversation with 
MBNA in December 2018, he was told the accounts would be put on-hold for seven 
months. And he says he was told, at the end of the seven month period, he could make an 
offer of a one-off  payment or make an arrangement to pay monthly. At that time one of the 
accounts showed a debit  balance of approximately £16,000 and the other showed a debit 
balance of approximately £13,000. The account statements show  that MBNA added  no 
interest to either account from November 2018.
MBNA says, in February 2019, it sent a default notice to Mr J for each account. By that time 
one account was approximately £2,100 in arrears and the other was approximately £1,700 in 
arrears. This was because Mr J hadnt made  any payments  for approximately  three months.  
MBNA also says it sent Mr J a final arrears  reminder  letter for each account in March 2019. 
Mr J says he didnt receive either  of these letters.
Mr J says he called MBNA on 23 April 2019 and was told the account would be put on hold 
for one month.  But he says he called MBNA  two days later and was told it was in the 
process of defaulting  the accounts. MBNA has provided a call recording from Mr Js 
conversation with it of 25 April 2019.  During the conversation, MBNA told Mr J he was told in 
the previous conversation that the account could default at any time and putting  a hold on it 
isnt a guarantee that the default can be stopped. Mr J didnt deny  that he was told this. 
MBNA went  on to say the accounts were in the process of defaulting and explained what 
that meant.
Mr J complained to MBNA.  In its response  dated  26 April 2019,  MBNA said it had sent a 
notice of default about both accounts. The letters said MBNA required payment of the 
arrears by 14 March 2019 it sent a further  letter to Mr J on 14 March  saying the accounts  
were at risk of defaulting.  As it didnt  receive  payment form him, it defaulted  the accounts. 
MBNAs response letter also confirmed that the outstanding balance may be sold to a third 
party or the debt collection  may be administered by a third party.
Mr J referred his complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold his complaint. He said hes 
seen that the default notice was addressed correctly and that MBNA  informed Mr J on the 
telephone that the accounts may default.  He also said he hadnt  heard MBNA tell Mr J it 
would put his account on hold for seven months  in any of the call recordings. But hed heard 
MBNA telling  Mr J its policy  had changed and it wouldnt accept partial  settlements. He 
thought Mr Js proposed  offer of £250 per month wouldnt have been enough to stop the 
accounts defaulting. Overall, he thought MBNA had acted fairly  and itd tried to assist Mr J, 
where possible.
Mr J disagreed with our investigators findings  and asked for his complaint to be referred  to 
an ombudsman for a final decision.
Ref: DRN61102622My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator. Ill explain why.
To decide Mr Js complaint Ive thought about  whether  MBNA  reasonably  informed him that 
the accounts may default. And Ive thought about  whether  MBNA  unfairly  told him anything 
which would lead him to expect a different outcome.
MBNA has provided a recording  of a telephone conversation it had with Mr J on 
17 December 2018. During that conversation, he referred to a previous conversation  with 
MBNA and said he was told hed not have to pay for six months  and then could make an 
offer to repay the account. MBNA  didnt  confirm that he was on such an arrangement during 
the call recording Ive been able to listen to. MBNA  hasnt been able to provide any other call 
recordings confirming any such arrangement. MBNAs contact notes indicate that there  was 
telephone contact on 15 December 2018, but they dont  confirm that Mr J was told of a 
seven month  arrangement.
Evidence Ive received  from MBNA  confirms  that Mr J had been  in contact with it in the 
weeks leading-up to December.  Specifically, Ive seen that an income and expenditure 
assessment had been undertaken. I understand that was to establish how much  Mr J could 
afford to repay on a monthly basis. And Ive seen that no interest was charged from 
November 2018.  So I think Mr Js recollections about him having a conversation in which he 
was told about  the account being  put on-hold for a number of months are plausible. But I 
cant know what was said with regard  to anything else that may happen during the time the 
account was on-hold.  I dont know  what  was expected of Mr J during this time and I dont 
know what he was told about  the possibility of the account defaulting  during  this time.
MBNA didnt  charge  Mr J any interest from November 2018, so I think  MBNA assisted him. 
Ive seen that Mr J didnt make any payments to the accounts after November 2018. I would 
ordinarily think it reasonable for MBNA to have expected  a regular payment during this time, 
but I dont know  what it agreed with him in that regard. So I cant say MBNA should have 
expected payment.
In any event, by February, the accounts were  in arrears of nearly £4,000 in total. Given that 
Mr J has said he could afford  a maximum of £250  per month  and the income  and 
expenditure assessment concluded he had negative expendable income  I think  the level of 
arrears was substantial.  So I think it was reasonable that MBNA  took action. 
MBNAs contact notes say that the default notice was sent to Mr J in February 2019.
That meant Mr J still had time to take action to prevent  the accounts from defaulting. MBNA 
gave him approximately one month to settle the arrears and after one month  wrote  to him 
again, effectively  giving  him more time.  But Mr J didnt contact MBNA in time to prevent the 
accounts defaulting. He says he didnt  receive the notices  from MBNA. But, from the 
evidence MBNA has provided,  I think it did send  them and I think it used the correct address, 
so I cant say it acted unfairly in this regard.
As mentioned above, Mr J has said he could afford  £250 per month. But given the 
conclusions of the income and expenditure assessment, I cant assume  that a monthly 
payment of £250  would  have been sustainable,  even if it had been  agreed by MBNA  it has 
said it wouldnt have agreed  to this in any event.  And it doesnt appear that Mr J would have  
Ref: DRN61102623been able to find the money to clear  the arrears.  So even if Mr J received the default notices, 
I dont think its likely  that he could  have prevented the accounts from defaulting. 
Overall, I think MBNA has treated Mr J reasonably  in relation to it defaulting  his accounts. 
When it became aware of his financial difficulty it assessed his income and expenditure and 
then didnt charge  interest to his accounts.  I havent seen that it made any commitment to 
consider a reduced settlement or monthly  payment plan after a specified number of months. 
And I think it gave reasonable notice so that Mr J could  take action before it defaulted the 
accounts. So I dont  think it needs  to take any action to resolve his complaint.
There is one other  matter Id like to address. Mr J told us recently  since he made the 
complaint  that the management  of the accounts has passed to a third party.  He says, 
during a call to MBNA on 7 May 2019,  he was told the accounts wouldnt be passed  to a 
third party while this Service  investigated his complaint. Having  listened  to the call recording, 
I can understand why he may have been  left with that impression. But Im confident that 
wasnt what MBNA meant. MBNA said we  cant really do anything  until they get in touch 
with us, Im afraid. I think that was in relation to what it had already said about  not having  
received notice from this Service that we had received the complaint. So I think MBNA was 
saying it cant do anything  about  the complaint  not the account. 
I dont think MBNA made any promises not to pass-on  the management of the accounts and 
it had said it might in a previous telephone conversation with him. So I dont think  its acted 
unreasonably in doing so.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint about MBNA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2019.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6110262