K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain about  errors in the administration of their mortgage application by 
the appointed representatives  of Connells Limited. Mr and Mrs D would like to be 
compensated and refunded the extra interest  they had to pay.
background
Mr and Mrs D had a mortgage  with a fixed interest  rate mortgage product  that would expire 
at the end of September 2018. In order to arrange  for a new mortgage product they made  an 
appointment with a Connells adviser  on 26 July 2018. There  was a discussion about  a 
number of options and Mr and Mrs D gave instructions to proceed with one of those options 
on 31 July. In early September Mr D contacted  Connells and was told that an application 
hadnt yet been made  to the lender.
Mr and Mrs D met with Connells on 8 September and were told that their preferred rate had 
now been withdrawn  by the lender, that because of the delay that they would have to pay 
the lenders Standard Variable  Rate (SVR) for a period and that there  would be other  
problems with the application not raised  in the first meeting. Mr and Mrs D submitted fresh 
documentation for the application.
On 14 September  Connells raised the issue that Mr and Mrs D would have to pay a brokers 
fee. Mr and Mrs D believed  that this wouldnt apply as they understood that they were 
members of Connells  lifetime scheme. Eventually Connells accepted that they were  
members of the scheme. Connells  then kept asking  for more information  for Mr and Mrs D 
about their employment  which caused  them problems at work.  There  was then an issue  
when Connells suggested extending  the mortgage  term which  Mr and Mrs D refused to do. 
Mr and Mrs D moved  onto the new mortgage product on 31 October 2018.
Connells upheld Mr and Mrs Ds complaint and offered them  compensation of £250 for their 
distress and inconvenience and £181  for the extra interest they paid for the month that they 
were on the SVR. Our adjudicator felt that Connells had underestimated the extra  interest 
that Mr and Mrs D paid and recommended  that the complaint should be upheld on that 
basis. Connells disagreed  and asked for a review of the amount of interest that should be 
refunded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I believe all parties are agreed that Mr and Mrs D got a poor service from Connells. Mr and 
Mrs D wanted to get a new fixed mortgage  product and went to Connells  in plenty of time to 
get one organised. They had a reasonable expectation that there  could be a smooth 
transition to a new mortgage product and that they wouldnt be exposed to paying  the SVR.  
But instead  their application seems to have been forgotten  about and they were put to a lot 
of trouble to get another application submitted and of course their deadline was missed.
I have to put a figure on the trouble and upset  they suffered. There would certainly have 
been upset that the matter was not completed  on time. There  seems to have been a lot of 
work involved in the second application  but of course there might have been a deal of work 
Ref: DRN63142962involved in the first application had it been properly organised.  There  was the added stress  
involved as their employment arrangements had changed. There  was a suggestion  that they 
would have to change the mortgage  term to get a mortgage. There was also the mix-up  as to 
whether they had paid a lifetime fee.
 I appreciate that Mr and Mrs D feel very strongly about this. On the other  hand,  this wasnt a 
case where they might have missed a house purchase because  of a delay  in processing the 
mortgage with all the stress involved  in that. Weighing everything up, I believe that the 
suggested compensation of £250  is appropriate for Mr and Mrs Ds trouble  and upset.
The other matter is to compensate them for their financial  loss. Connells in their letter  of 6 
November 2018  offered  £181 for that being  the difference between the SVR payment and 
the payment on your new rate for one month which equates to £181. Our adjudicator felt 
that the principle  was correct but this couldnt  be the correct figure as Connells figures were 
based on a SVR of 4% whereas the SVR was 4.24%.
There has been some correspondence between our adjudicator and Connells since.  Mr and 
Mrs Ds lender charged them interest for the month  they were on the SVR. This was added 
to the mortgage  balance  which Mr and Mrs D paid off on redemption.  Mr and Mrs D also 
paid and were  refunded  a monthly payment at the end of October. This wasnt a refund of 
the SVR for that month, which  Mr and Mrs D had paid at redemption, but a payment on top 
of that which  the lender collected  because of the way the DD system  worked.  So, Mr and 
Mrs D paid the SVR as part of the redemption payment and werent refunded  it. 
Mr and Mrs D should be put in in the position  they would have been in had they been on the 
new mortgage product  for the month of October  2018. Connells should pay Mr and Mrs D 
the difference between the interest that the lender charged them  for that month at the SVR 
of 4.24% and the interest they would have paid on the mortgage  balance if they were paying 
at an interest rate of 1.68% for that month which was the rate of the new mortgage product.      
Ref: DRN63142963my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and order Connells Limited to pay Mr and Mrs D
1. £250; and
2. The difference  between  the amount of interest  the lender charged  Mr and Mrs D for the 
month of October 2018 at the SVR of 4.24% and the amount of interest they would have 
paid on the mortgage balance at an interest  rate of 1.68%  for that month.      
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 December 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6314296