K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that his broker, CETA  insurance  Limited, provided poor service to him when 
he took out a caravan insurance  policy through it.
background
Mr J bought a caravan  in 2009.  The policy he took out provided  new for old cover.  In 2016 it 
was written-off. The insurer said he was only entitled  to the caravans  market value, which  
was £5,275, although it cost £12,000 when new.  
We upheld Mr Js complaint against  the insurer. We didnt  think the policy  wording was clear. 
We said the insurer hadnt highlighted a significant  restriction in Mr Js policy.  The restriction 
was that the sum insured had to be enough  to pay for a new caravan. Otherwise,  the sum 
payable was limited  to the caravans  market  value. Loss adjusters said that at the time of 
loss, a replacement  caravan  would have cost £20,000. We required the insurer to pay Mr J 
£12,000 as hed asked. That was the sum he thought was covered for the premium  he paid, 
and the insurer  had done nothing to alert him about having to increase  the sum insured.   
But Mr J also thought  CETA was at fault. He said that as his broker,  CETA should have told 
him at the point  of sale that to maintain new for old cover, hed have to increase the sum 
insured each year. CETA told Mr J that it had offered him quotes on a non-advised basis. 
One of our investigators  reviewed Mr Js complaint about CETA.  He thought CETA had a 
duty as a broker to give Mr J clear information. That meant highlighting any restrictive or 
onerous terms. Mr J had sought new for old cover through CETA , so he should have been 
told hed have to update  the sum originally insured in order to benefit  from that. As a 
replacement caravan would have cost £20,000,  the investigator thought CETA should pay 
Mr J the difference  between that sum and the sum the insurer  had paid him. 
CETA said £12,000 was set out in all the policy and renewal documents  and Mr J hadnt  
queried it. It said there was no change  in cover to alert Mr J to at renewal.  It noted  that we 
had said in the decision we made about the insurer that Mr J thought  the new for old cover 
was the sum insured. We said hed accepted that he wasnt  entitled to £20,000. In CETAs 
view, the £12,000 paid by the insurer was the new for old cover sold to Mr J. And it said he 
should have taken some  responsibility for reviewing  the sum insured.
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr J thought the policy covered the caravans value when new,  as that was what  he paid the 
premium for. The policy didnt make it clear  what new for old meant. We thought  the insurer 
should have highlighted that the policy only provided a market  value  sum if the sum insured 
was less than was needed to buy a new caravan. Mr Js complaint against  the insurer was 
that its lack of clarity led to a market value  settlement offer of £5,275 for the caravan. He 
didnt expect the insurer to pay him £20,000 as he hadnt paid the premium for that sum.   
Ref: DRN63432972CETA knew  Mr J wanted new for old cover. Such cover is usually available from insurers  
only when an increased premium is paid each year, in line with the rising price  of caravans. I 
think CETA should have  been aware of that, although Mr J wasnt  aware of it. Even in a non-
advised sale, I think a broker is still required to provide important factual  information  to a 
consumer, in order to treat the customer fairly. I think  CETA should have done that here. I 
think it could have  done so without straying  into giving advice or making a recommendation.    
Mr J says had he known  the facts from the outset  or at renewal  he would have  increased  
the level of cover he had. Mr J had to pay more than £20,000 for a new caravan. He says he 
has new for old cover for it with his current insurer. He says the difference  in price  between 
that and standard cover  isnt significant, but that hed have paid for it regardless.  
I think its more likely than not that Mr J would have been willing to pay a higher premium 
from 2009 onwards  had he properly understood how a new for old policy  operates. But 
CETA didnt  highlight or explain  it to Mr J when it sold the policy  to him, so he lost the 
chance to do that. The insurer compounded the problem due to the policys lack of clarity.    
I think CETA  was partly  responsible for Mr J not fully insuring his caravan. The insurer  has 
mostly compensated  him for his loss, but I think it would be reasonable for CETA to pay the 
difference between  the sum the insurer paid and £20,000.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require CETA Insurance  Limited to pay 
Mr J £8,000. It should also pay interest on that sum  at the simple yearly  rate of 8% - from 
the date of loss to the date of settlement.
If CETA thinks  its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr J how much its taken  off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
 
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6343297