K820x#14complaint
Mr B and Mrs R complain  that Ageas Insurance Limited has unfairly  declined  a claim they 
made on their buildings insurance policy.
background
Mr B brings this complaint on behalf of him and his wife. Ill therefore refer to him throughout.
Mr B has a buildings insurance  policy with Ageas.  He says a storm in September  2018  
caused damage to the roof of his garage and this led to some  internal damage too. So he 
made a claim on his policy.
Ageas said that the wind in the area of Mr Bs house wasnt  strong enough on the night in 
question to be considered a storm.  Also,  the level of rainfall recorded in the area wasnt  
sufficient to have  caused damage  to the roof. So it declined the claim. Mr B wasnt happy  
with this response and so he brought his complaint to this service
Our investigator said, in summary, that while she accepted there had been  bad weather on 
the night, this wasnt sufficiently bad to qualify as a storm.  She also wasnt persuaded by 
Mr Bs builders  invoice that suggested the damage had been caused by a storm. So she 
didnt uphold  the complaint. 
Mr B asked an ombudsman to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so. Ive reached the 
same conclusion as the investigator and for the same reasons. Ill explain why.
Ageas is free to decide what it will and wont cover under  the policy and the terms and 
conditions of the policy will define what those things are. So what I need to decide here is 
whether Ageas acted within these terms, and what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances
When a consumer makes a claim, the onus is on them  to show that, on the balance  of 
probabilities, an insured  event caused  the damage. But, when an insurer  wants to apply an 
exclusion or say a condition has not been met and so decline a claim, the onus is on it to 
show, on the balance  of probabilities, that the exclusion  or condition applies.
When looking at complaint about  a declined claim relating to storm damage, there are a 
number of things  I need to consider. Ill deal with each of these in turn
was there  damage?
The photographs Mr B has provided  clearly show damage to the interior of his garage roof. 
Ageas accepts that damage has occurred and as this isnt in dispute I wont make  further 
comment on this aspect  of the complaint.
Having established  there was damage,  Ive then gone on to consider if that damage  was 
caused by an insured  event.
Ref: DRN60731892was the damage  caused by an insured event?
The terms of Mr Bs policy state: 
The buildings  are insured  against  loss or damage  caused by 
4. Storm or flood
So Ive gone  on to consider if the damage was caused by a storm. Mr Bs policy doesnt 
define what a storm is and thats not uncommon in insurance policies. But generally a storm 
involves violent winds, usually accompanied by rain, thunder, lightning  or snow.
Ageas checked  weather records in Mr Bs area on and around the night in question  and 
found peak gusts reached  46 mph with some  slight rain. I have independently checked this 
and Ive found the same data. Ageas says it will class winds of 55 mph and above as a 
storm. 
Having carefully considered this, Im satisfied that while there  may have been  bad weather  
and strong  winds  on the night, these didnt amount to a storm. 
Mr B says that as there isnt an anemometer at the exact location of his property its not 
possible to be sure of the weather conditions. Its accepted  industry practice to rely on 
anemometers as a method of judging storm conditions. While these may not be in the exact 
location of a property they are normally close by  in this case  just four miles away  and so 
represent the most accurate tool for providing accurate, empirical data about weather 
conditions on specific dates. I think its reasonable for Ageas to rely on this source of data.
To back up his claim, Mr B provided a copy of his builders invoice for the repair work. This 
detailed the reason for the work  being  Fixing  the damage caused by the storm.
Theres no analysis or explanation  of why the builder considers the damage  was caused by 
a storm. And I interpret this document  more as an invoice detailing the work undertaken 
rather than a report designed to provide an explanation about the cause of the damage.  
Mr B was offered the opportunity to provide further comments or evidence  from his builder, 
but none has been forthcoming.
Having thought about what  Mr B has said, Im not persuaded the poor weather in question 
amounted to a storm. For this reason  Im satisfied the weather didnt amount to an insured 
event and Ageas has declined  this claim fairly.
accidental damage
For the sake of completeness Ive then gone  on to consider if the damage  might be covered  
under the accidental damage part of Mr Bs policy. The policy defines accidental damage  as 
Sudden, unintentional and unexpected physical damage caused by an identifiable 
external means
Ref: DRN60731893As Ive explained above, Im not satisfied the damage to the garage was as a result  of a 
storm. Ive reviewed the photos of the roof and I cant safely conclude that the damage was 
sudden and unexpected. Ive also not been  given  any persuasive evidence to support this 
possibility. On the balance of probabilities, it seems  to me more  likely than not the poor 
weather has merely highlighted  an existing problem with the roof.
In summary  and for the reasons Ive explained,  Im satisfied that Ageas hasnt acted unfairly 
in declining Mr Bs claim. So I wont be asking it to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6073189