K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) turned down  a claim he made on the travel  
insurance section  of his home insurance policy.  
Mr J is represented by his niece, Ms M. 
background
Mr J has an annual travel  insurance  policy with UKI (part of his home insurance) which  also 
covers his wife, Mrs J. In September 2018 Mrs J saw her doctor as she had a lump affecting 
her breast. Her GP says this didnt feel sinister in nature but referred her to a breast clinic  at 
a local hospital.  She says thats the recommended  practice for a GP in that situation. The 
following day Mr J booked a holiday for his wife and himself. 
At the end of September  Mrs J attended her appointment and a mammogram was carried 
out. Following this the lump was diagnosed as cancerous.  As a result Mr J had to cancel 
their holiday  as Mrs J was unable to travel because she was undergoing chemotherapy. Mr J 
made a claim under  the cancellation section of his travel insurance policy. 
UKI turned this down because it said Mrs J had a medical condition which was under 
investigation at the time she booked her trip. And the policy  didnt provide cover  where  that 
was the case.  But it did accept there had been  customer service failings in how it dealt with 
the claim.  It offered to reimburse costs Mr J had incurred as a result and pay £100  for the 
distress hed been caused. 
Our investigator didnt  think UKI had done anything wrong in turning down the claim.  And he 
thought the compensation  UKI offered did enough to recognise the impact  its service failings 
had. 
Ms M didnt agree. She said Mrs J was referred  to the clinic as part of recommended 
practice and there was nothing at that point to indicate a serious medical  condition.  She 
didnt agree that was an investigation  and said there was nothing to investigate at that point. 
That was only the case once the mammogram  had taken place. She said having a routine 
screening for a condition  such  as cervical cancer wouldnt engage the policy  terms and said 
the situation here was similar. And she highlighted the impact of the customer  service 
failings on Mr J at what was already a very difficult time. So I need to reach  a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know this must have been a really difficult time for both Mr and Mrs J and I can understand 
why having their claim turned down will have been particularly distressing for them. And 
under the relevant rules  and industry guidelines  appropriate industry rules, UKI was required 
to consider Mr Js claim promptly and fairly and shouldnt decline it unreasonably. Ive 
thought about how that applies here.  
Ive looked first at what the policy terms say. The policy does provide cancellation cover but 
it also says: 
Ref: DRN65855802No cover is provided for any existing serious medical condition  for any insured person  
which was known about on the start date of your  policy  or when you booked  your trip 
(whichever is later). 
And the policy defines serious medical  condition  as:
Any medical condition for which you:
have had advice  or treatment or been prescribed medication (whether you are taking
it or not) from a doctor during the 12 months leading  up to the start or renewal date of 
this insurance (shown on your schedule),  or the date when you booked your trip, 
whichever is later, 
have any circulatory problems or heart problems or cancer-related condition
are under investigation or awaiting diagnosis
are on a waiting list for inpatient  treatment or are aware of the need for inpatient  
treatment, or
have had a terminal prognosis.
In this case I appreciate  at the point Mrs J was referred to the breast  clinic she wasnt aware 
of the much  more serious nature of the condition she was later diagnosed with. But the 
policy doesnt require  shes aware of that  but that shes  under investigation or awaiting 
diagnosis for a condition. 
Mrs J visited her doctor and following that visit she was referred  on for this to be looked  into 
at a local hospital. I accept that may be a routine  response  to the condition she presented  
with and both she and her doctor may not have thought there was any particular  cause for 
concern. But I dont think that changes the fact that further investigation  (and treatment) was 
to take place. And I dont agree with Ms M that there was nothing  to investigate  at that point. 
The investigation of the problem may have been  a routine response but it was nevertheless 
required. 
I dont think theres a parallel with the example shes given of routine screening  for cervical 
cancer either. Screening  of that nature is carried out as a general health check. It isnt a 
response to an already  identified medical  issue. In this case Mrs J visited  her doctor  
because of a specific issue that was affecting  her. As a result of that she was referred for 
further treatment and investigation.  And thats  something she and Mr J were aware of at the 
point they booked their trip. So I think this is caught by the policy terms and I dont think UKI 
has treated Mr J unfairly in turning down the claim he made. 
I do agree  that UKIs handling  of the claim should  have  been better. It says it gave Mr J 
incorrect advice about who would need  to obtain medical evidence and should have been 
more empathetic  in a call it had with him. Ive listened to that call and Id agree with that. I 
know this will have been an extremely difficult time for Mr J and Ive taken  that into account. 
But I think UKIs offer to reimburse the additional  costs Mr J incurred and pay him £100 does 
enough to put things  right here.    
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because  I think U K Insurance Limited has already 
done enough to put things right. 
Ref: DRN65855803Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020.  
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6585580