K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about the service from TSB Bank plc (TSB) when she raised a Chargeback 
Request. She would  like compensation for the inconvenience and for her time. 
background
Mrs C says she called TSB on 13 August 2018 as a payment for £79.31 had debited  her 
account .She says she didnt recognise the payment. And hadnt  made  it herself.
She says TSB said someone would call her back the next day but didnt.  Mrs C says she 
called back herself  and was told to send  an email. As a result of this she says TSB told her 
she had to return the goods  for a Chargeback request to be processed. Mrs C says she 
couldnt do this. She says she made  a payment of £2.99 in July 2018  for some supplements 
to the same  company. But she had used these  and couldnt return them.  She says she 
hadnt received  anything  to the value of £79.31. 
Mrs C says TSB responded in the same way, that is, asking her again to return  the goods. 
She says at this point  she became  frustrated  and decided to close her account with TSB 
despite having been a customer  for many  years.
She says she has now received a refund for the £79.31 but she isnt happy  with how TSB 
has dealt with her complaint. She added that she did get three  automated emails from TSB 
acknowledging her complaint but she never got a final response  letter  (FRL).
TSB apologised  for not issuing FRL. It said its responses had been affected by a new IT 
system introduced in April 2018.  It didnt feel it had taken undue time to deal with Mrs Cs 
Chargeback request.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He explained that complaint  handling  isnt a 
regulated activity that we can consider in isolation.  He found that Mrs C had signed up, 
without realising, for a continuous payment authority (CPA) which was why the £79.31 had 
been debited from her account. He found it reasonable that TSB sought information from 
Mrs C prior to putting in a Chargeback request.  He explained the Chargeback  process and 
that banks dont have to raise a Chargeback if they think  it likely consumers dont have a 
strong case. He didnt  feel there  were any grounds for compensation.
TSB accepted this view but Mrs C didnt. She said she wasnt happy it had taken nine 
months for her complaint  to be looked  at. She felt our service  should be working for 
consumers not for businesses.
Our investigator considered these points but didnt change his view.  He apologised he hadnt  
been able to deal with Mrs Cs complaint sooner and thanked her for her patience. He 
explained how our service operates in that our role is to resolve  individual  disputes. We dont 
take sides with either  party. When a business has done something wrong we have the power  
to put that right but in this case he didnt find the business had done anything  wrong.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN66323302Mrs C feels strongly  about this and I do understand why. So I appreciate  she is going to be 
disappointed as Ive reached  the same view as our investigator.
I am not going  to go into detail over all the contact Mrs C had with TSB,  I think our 
investigator comprehensively covered that in his view. I would however like to reassure Mrs 
C that I have had access to, and considered  all, of the information  both sides have given me.
Mrs C contacted TSB on 13 August 2018 about a payment  she didnt recognise that had 
been debited from her account. On 30 August 2018  TSB issued a refund for the full amount 
pending the merchants response. It later confirmed that as the merchant hadnt defended 
the claim,  within the time it had to do so, that the matter was now closed and the refund 
wouldnt be taken back. 
Our investigator has explained  in detail the Chargeback process - I think  the key point is that 
this is a voluntary  scheme and banks dont  have to put in a Chargeback request if they dont 
feel there are strong grounds to do so. I appreciate  it was frustrating for Mrs C to have to 
provide information  but TSB had to have this information firstly to judge if a Chargeback  
request was likely  to succeed and secondly  to give the merchant sufficient information to 
consider the request.
It took TSB 17 days from Mrs C alerting the bank  to the problem to making  a refund. I dont 
feel this was an unreasonable  timescale. So I dont feel the time taken, or the effort  Mrs C 
had to put in in order for the Chargeback  request to be made  are grounds for compensation.
Mrs C has raised  some  other issues. She has said that TSB has never  sent her a FRL. TSB 
has apologised and confirmed that it hasnt done so. We would normally  expect FRLs to be 
issued within  eight  weeks of a complaint being made. TSB has explained a new computer 
system installed  a few months  before Mrs Cs complaint  has led to delays. Mrs C has 
however told us she did get three  automated emails from TSB confirming  it had a high 
volume of complaints and was still looking into hers. So she did have some contact from the 
bank but I appreciate this didnt move her complaint forward at the time
At the point at which our service got involved TSB said it would make its comments direct to 
us. I think its unfortunate that TSB didnt send a FRL when it should. But that doesnt  
automatically mean that we would say this was grounds for compensation. It did make some  
effort to explain there were delays, has explained why there  was an overall delay and has 
apologised and in this case I think that is sufficient.
I appreciate Mrs C is also not happy  at the time she feels it has taken  our service to deal 
with her complaint.  We do try and deal with complaints as quickly as possible but it does 
take some  time to collect  all the information  that we need in order  for us to make  a fair 
decision.
Finally Mrs C has said she was forced to move banks as a result of TSBs service despite 
having been a TSB customer for many  years.  Its a shame Mrs C felt she felt she had to do 
that. But that was Mrs Cs choice and not something forced  on her by TSB. So I dont think  
that is something I can reasonably expect TSB to compensate her for.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN66323303Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6632330