K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc gave it misleading information 
about the time it would  take to return a payment. C is represented by its director, who Ill call 
Mr V. Mr V says C has financial losses and its reputation has been damaged. He asks that 
HSBC pays compensation.
background
A third party  (who Ill refer to as T) made  a payment from overseas to C in early 2018. Mr V 
says the money  was for a deposit relating to the purchase of business assets. The payment 
was paid to a closed business account.  HSBC returned the payment. HSBC offered a 
temporary overdraft to C while the payment  was returned and re-sent to the correct  account.
Mr V says HSBC misled him about  the time it would take to return  the money to T. He says T 
was going to fund the balance of the cost of the business assets, but lost confidence  and 
withdrew from the transaction due to the delays. Mr V says he wasnt  able to secure finance 
elsewhere and C lost the deposit it had paid and its reputation was damaged. Mr V says he 
wouldnt have taken  the temporary  overdraft  if HSBC  had told him how long the payment 
return would  take.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He said the time 
taken by HSBC  to return the funds wasnt excessive.  There  was no evidence HSBC  told 
Mr V the payment would arrive back with T within 1 to 3 days. HSBC wasnt to blame for T 
losing confidence  and deciding not to support Cs transaction.  It wasnt  wrong for HSBC to 
offer an overdraft facility,  which was agreed  by C. 
C didnt agree. Mr V said hed been  misled by HSBC when  it said the funds would  be 
returned to T within three days.
Mr V had hoped  to sort this matter out directly with HSBC. This hasnt been  possible, so the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
what happened?
Mr V gave written instructions in February 2017  for HSBC to close  Cs US dollar account. 
Mr V had intended to close  a different  account, but gave the wrong account details in his 
letter. HSBC  couldnt re-open the account.  It opened a new US dollar account for C.
Mr V gave the account details for the closed account  to T in February 2018. HSBC  says it 
received the funds but couldnt  transfer  them to the correct account.  It said it had to return 
the funds. 
Ref: DRN68074922HSBC returned  the payment. The funds left HSBC on 26 February  2018.  HSBC sent an 
email to C on 1 March 2018 saying that the funds could be held by intermediary banks but 
had definitely  left HSBC. T received  the funds on 6 March 2018.
HSBC approved a temporary overdraft on 2 March  2018 so that C could  pay a deposit  for 
the business assets pending the payment from T being re-sent. It was agreed  the overdraft 
would be in place  until the end of April 2018.  A payment of about £22,000 left Cs account on 
2 March 2018.
T withdrew its funding for Cs transaction. Mr V says C was unable  to find finance  elsewhere 
and couldnt complete the transaction.
Cs account was temporarily frozen in June 2018  and HSBC  sent letters  of concern.  HSBC 
extended the overdraft until October  2018. In October 2018 HSBC  asked  that C reduce the 
overdraft by £1,000 each  month. It confirmed the interest, fees and other terms that would 
apply.
did HSBC make an error?
I dont think HSBC was at fault for closing Cs US dollar account in February 2017. It acted 
on Mr Vs instructions. I dont think its reasonable to say that HSBC  should have known hed 
made an error. Mr V was aware  that the account was closed and a new account opened with 
a different account  number. 
HSBC wasnt responsible for T having the wrong account details for the payment. Because 
the payment was sent to a closed account, HSBC  returned the payment. 
HSBC confirmed the funds would be returned  in an email to Mr V on 26 February 2018. It 
provided a reference  number  for Mr V to contact its payments team if he needed an update. 
Theres no evidence of any delay  by HSBC returning the funds.
Mr V says HSBC told him it would take 1 to 3 days to return the funds. HSBC says it didnt 
tell him this. I dont  think, based on the available evidence, I can reasonably find that HSBC  
misled Mr V about the time it would  take for the payment to be returned. And I dont think  
matters would have  been different if Mr V had known from the outset how long it would take. 
Mr V says if hed known it would take more than three days  hed have had the option  to 
decline the bridge finance  from HSBC or re-negotiate with T. But HSBCs email  on 1 March 
2018 said there could be delays with the payment. A £22,000 payment (presumably the 
deposit) was made on 2 March 2018   after Mr V was told about  the possibility of delays.  So 
Mr V did have an opportunity to consider  whether or not to go ahead with the payment which 
resulted in the overdraft debt.
There are emails about a temporary overdraft on 28 February and 1 March  2018. While the 
parties dispute whether C asked for an overdraft or whether HSBC first suggested it, I dont 
think this changes the outcome. C agreed  to the overdraft and made use of the funds. I dont 
think it was wrong for HSBC to offer the overdraft  or for it to apply interest to the debt. 
Its unfortunate that T decided not to proceed. I dont think  HSBC is responsible for this. 
Although the overdraft  was intended  to be temporary, C was unable  to repay the debt at the 
end of April 2018.  The overdraft was renewed  several times  for short  periods as Mr V told 
HSBC he hoped C would be in a position  to repay  it. HSBC sent letters  of concern and 
Ref: DRN68074923suspended Cs account for about two weeks  in mid 2018. It asked  for information about Cs 
trading and financial position.  I understand  this was inconvenient. But I think  HSBC  is 
entitled to ask for information to support its decision to lend or continue  to lend to C.
In October  2018 HSBC  sent a letter confirming the terms on which it would continue to offer 
an overdraft facility. Mr V spotted some  inconsistencies, such as whether the overdraft would  
be reviewed in September or October 2019  and whether C needed to continue  to reduce it 
each month  from February  to October  2019.  He said he needed, but couldnt afford, legal 
advice on the terms. HSBC agreed  to meet with Mr V to discuss  the terms. I think this was a 
fair response. I dont think HSBC had to pay for Mr V to take legal advice. Mr V says he was 
waiting for HSBC to contact him with a date. HSBC suggested meeting during the second 
week of November. I see no reason why Mr V couldnt have replied agreeing to this, 
specifying what day he was available or suggesting  a different date, if he did need to discuss 
the terms.
Overall, I dont  think HSBC made  an error here or acted unreasonably. It follows  that I wont 
be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6807492