K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Civil Service Healthcare Society  Limited (CSHSL) acted unfairly and 
unreasonably in dealing with his claim under a private health insurance policy. He wants 
matters put right.
background
Mr H had a private health insurance policy with CSHSL. He had a pacemaker and 
historically his monitoring  consultations (and related echocardiograms)  werent  covered by 
the policy. Mr H said that he understood this and continued to pay his premiums. Mr H was 
told that his pacemaker box needed to be changed as the battery was low, CSHSL  agreed to 
cover the costs of this procedure and other elements, but not the ongoing monitoring.  
Mr H didnt understand why only some  of his healthcare needs relating to the pacemaker  
were covered. Mr H felt everything  should be covered  by the policy, including  the 
consultation in February  2019 where the possible upgrade of the pacemaker  was discussed 
and the related tests to see if it was necessary, and complained. He also felt that CSHSL 
had misled him in telephone conversations about his position.
CSHSL said the policy didnt cover monitoring, but did cover post-operative consultations 
and treatment. It said that its staff told Mr H on the phone prior to the consultation about the 
renewal of the pacemaker that unless his claim was accepted by it, hed be liable for any 
private medical costs  and that routine monitoring wouldnt be accepted. CSHSL said it had 
agreed to pay for consultations and tests to ensure that the upgrade to the pacemaker 
wasnt yet required,  but further  consultations  to check if the upgrade was now needed  was 
viewed as routine  monitoring  and not covered by the terms and conditions  of the policy. It 
made the point  that the upgrade discussion was different to the issue about  the battery (or 
box) change; the box change was covered.
Mr H complained to us. CSHSL confirmed that it had paid for a consultation and pacing 
assessment in July 2018 (carried out after treatment so covered as a post-operative matter), 
but the later consultation in 2019 was routine as Mr H didnt have  any symptoms; it was a 
review. The investigators  view was that the complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  He said that the 
policy didnt cover routine  monitoring and it was reasonable to rely on the evidence from the 
treating doctors.  The investigator said that from the information provided, the February  2019  
consultation was one to monitor whether the changes made meant Mr H may still need  his 
pacemaker upgraded (and it was decided  that it wasnt necessary; only the box needed to 
be changed). He thought it was fair and reasonable for CSHSL  to view this as monitoring  
and decline  the claim.  The investigator  also didnt think  that CSHSL had misled Mr H, having 
listened to the calls  Mr H wasnt promised that his claim would be paid.
Mr H disagreed. He asked for an ombudsmans decision  as he felt the view taken of the 
work monitoring  was too narrow. Mr H also felt his medical history had been  overlooked.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that CSHSL has a responsibility to handle  
claims promptly and fairly.  And it shouldnt reject a claim unreasonably.
Ref: DRN61839472The policy says that it doesnt cover chronic  or long term illness following the initial  
diagnosis and treatment  including  routine and/or  long term monitoring of any medical  
condition or routine  and/or long term monitoring of any medical conditions. Mr H accepts 
that he was aware  of this but continued  with the policy.
The core of this complaint  is about the definition of the word  monitoring. In relation to the 
consultation in February  2019 as to whether it would be necessary to upgrade  the 
pacemaker entirely, as opposed to just changing  the box, the evidence from the treating 
doctors was that this was a review meeting. The detail provided by the doctor in my view 
means that it was fair and reasonable for CSHSL to decide it was a monitoring session and 
excluded under the terms and conditions of the policy.
Mr H also complained about being  misled  by CSHSL. The policy is clear about the treatment 
of routine monitoring. And having  listened to the calls, I agree with the investigators view. 
Mr H wasnt promised that his claim would be paid. Mr H was warned  about the terms and 
conditions of the policy, including the term about  monitoring, and that he would have to pay 
the cost himself if the policy  didnt cover the consultation cost.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6183947