K821x#15complaint
Miss L has complained  that a broker, Ingenie Services Limited gave  her incorrect 
information. Miss L was unhappy that she owed the yearly premium under her car insurance 
policy as the insurer wouldnt cover her new address.
background
Miss L bought a car insurance policy through a broker, Ingenie  in May 2018.  Miss L was 
paying for her policy by way of monthly instalments under a credit agreement. Later  that 
month she was unfortunately involved in an incident with another vehicle.  She reported the 
claim to Ingenie. 
In July 2018 Miss L called  Ingenie to tell it she was moving. Ingenie said her current  insurer  
wouldnt provide  cover for the new address. So it told Miss L her policy  would have to 
cancel. Ingenie said Miss L would have to pay a pro rata sum for the time she was insured 
and that it wouldnt  charge  a cancellation fee. But this wasnt  correct. 
When Ingenie cancelled  Miss Ls policy as week later, it said she owed  a balance of over 
£1,600. As there had been  a claim under her policy, Miss L correctly owed the rest of the 
yearly premium on cancellation. 
Miss L complained. She was very upset that Ingenie had misled her. Ingenie paid Miss L £50 
compensation and apologised for the incorrect information  it initially  gave her. But it said it 
had correctly followed the insurers cancellation  process. 
Our adjudicator thought Ingenie should pay a further  £100 for failing to manage  Miss Ls 
expectations when  she first called it to change her address. 
Ingenie didnt agree.  It accepts it initially  provided Miss L with incorrect  information. But 
otherwise, it correctly cancelled Miss Ls policy and passed the balance  to a debt recovery 
agent as it would for any other customer.  Miss L was allowed extra time to pay the balance - 
which she was able to do in full. 
Miss L believes  the additional amount doesnt reflect the stress  and upset Ingenie  caused 
her.
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I intend  to uphold it in 
part. 
I think Ingenie made  a mistake in failing to properly explain what Miss L owed  on 
cancellation on 16 July 2018. This only became clear  a week  later  when her policy was 
cancelled and Ingenie  provided a breakdown of what she owed. It then gave Miss L seven 
days to make the payment. I think this was unfair  to Miss L. She made her payments for her 
policy in monthly instalments. Ingenie should  have told Miss K the correct  information a 
week before  so that she had at least two weeks to address the issue of the final balance.  
Ref: DRN62710812Although Ingenie says Miss L was given more  than the seven days to pay the balance, this 
isnt what it told her when it requested the payment. I understand that it was a shock to 
Miss L to find out she owed a lump sum when she didnt expect to  at a time when she was 
moving to start a new job as part of her degree  course. 
However, the underwriter  of the policy decides what risks its prepared to insure. Ingenie 
provided proof from the underwriter that it wouldnt  insure Miss Ls car at the new address. 
As the broker, Ingenie  isnt responsible  for the circumstances  that led to the cancellation of 
Miss Ls policy. These were outside of its control. It asked the insurer if it would allow 
Miss L to pay a pro rata balance for the days it insured her. But they didnt agree due to the 
open claim. 
Miss Ls contract with the insurer is for a year. And as the insurer is dealing with a claim, its 
met its obligations under the policy. This means that Miss L owed the yearly premium in any 
event. And so because  Miss Ls policy cancelled, this meant she correctly owed the balance. 
I know Miss L feels the outcome has been harsh. I think the fact that she had a claim against 
her policy had a significant  impact. 
But I think Ingenie failed  to manage Miss Ls expectations in the first call on 16 July 2018.  If 
it had, it wouldnt have  done anything wrong and Miss L would have had longer than seven 
days  as she was led to believe by Ingenies letter a week  later - to find a substantial sum of 
money to pay what she owed. 
I think a fair outcome  is for Ingenie  to paid Miss L an additional  £100  compensation for failing 
to manage her expectations.  The correct information was significantly different to the 
information it first gave her. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I think Ingenie  should pay Miss L 
£100 compensation in addition to the £50 its already paid her for the distress  and 
inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 November  2019.
Ingenie Services Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Miss L accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate of 
8% a year.
If Ingenie considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Miss L how much  its taken off. It should  also give Miss L a 
tax deduction  certificate  if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6271081