K820x#14complaint
Mr P has complained about how NRAM Limited  (NRAM) intends to use compensation from 
the mis-sale of a payment  protection (PPI)  policy he took with a personal  loan.  
background 
I issued my provisional decision on 15 March 2019.  A copy of my provisional  decision is 
attached and forms part of my financial  decision.  
My provisional decision sets out the background to this complaint. It explains why I didnt 
think I could uphold the complaint and gave my proposed summary outcome. 
NRAM didn't respond. 
Mr P did reply. He agreed that PPI compensation was only due for the six months he paid for 
it. But overall, he wasnt happy with the outcome of my provisional decision and raised 
several points he would like addressed.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr P says that when  the individual voluntary arrangement (IVA)  ended  in 2008 the debt 
legally ceased  to exist. He has said I havent  taken into account how UK laws work on debt. 
And he referred to the statute of limitations. 
But I disagree with Mr P. Ill explain why.
When making a decision  I must  take account of the relevant law when deciding what  I think  
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the case. Im not bound to follow it  but if I 
decide to depart from it, I must say so and explain why. 
In this case, I dont  think Im departing  from the law. I say this because the Court  of Appeal 
has, relatively recently, clarified the effect  of a certificate of completion on a PPI claim made  
following completion. In Green v Wright [2017] EWCA Civ 111  the  court concluded that the 
debts werent extinguished   and that the creditors had a right to claim any assets that were 
included in the IVA. As the PPI claims were an asset  in the arrangement   even if the parties 
didnt know about  the claims when the IVA was entered into  then it didnt matter that the 
claim was made post-completion, the IVA supervisor was entitled to the PPI compensation.
So Mr Ps debts werent, as he is thinks,  extinguished upon completion of his IVA.
But even if the facts of the case are different from Mr Ps, I must apply an over-arching test 
of whats fair and reasonable in the particular circumstances of Mr Ps complaint. 
And I do not think it would  be fair to tell NRAM to pay Mr P his PPI compensation when Mr P 
borrowed a significant  sum of money from NRAM and now wont ever repay it.
As background, Mr P borrowed £25,000 from NRAM just under a year before he entered into 
his IVA. During that time he paid six PPI repayment  instalments  totalling  £816.78. The 
amount written off by NRAM was £35,712.90.  
Ref: DRN67547062Mr P paid just over £7,300 to the IVA. Its not clear how much of this NRAM received. 
But what  is clear is that Mr P borrowed and did not repay many thousands of pounds. That a 
certificate of completion has been issued does not, in my opinion, make  a difference  to what  
is fair.
Put simply, I think it would be fundamentally unfair  to tell NRAM to pay back  the extra 
£816.78 Mr P paid for PPI when he doesnt  now have to pay back  the many  thousands  of 
pounds he borrowed.  I cant  see how that is fair. 
Mr P referred to the statute of limitations,  which is legislation that provides timescales within 
which a claim  by the creditor, NRAM, should have  been made. But this relates  to the time 
limits which would apply  if NRAM was to chase Mr P for the debt. To be clear, NRAM is not 
chasing Mr P for the debt.  It is owed  that debt by Mr P but is not chasing him for it.
Mr P says I have also exercised moral  judgement by saying he had taken advantage of an 
IVA. But I dont agree. Mr P was able to take advantage of an IVA as it meant  the parties to 
the IVA could not pursue  him for any debts. This wasnt a personal comment  about  Mr P or a 
comment on how Mr P came to enter into an IVA  that was not part of my decision. But 
clearly, it is unfortunate  that he found himself  in the position  where he needed to enter into 
an IVA. 
Finally, as I explained in my provisional decision, I dont think Mr P would benefit  from NRAM 
amending its records  to reflect the revised  balance after the value of the PPI compensation 
has been deducted, so Im not going  to tell it to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont think NRAM plc needs to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Services,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67547063copy  of my provisional  decision
background
Ill summarise the background  to Mr Ps complaint  
In July 2004 Mr P took a personal  loan with NRAM. He borrowed £25,000 to be repaid over 
five years.
Added to the personal loan was a PPI policy. Mr P borrowed more  upfront from the business 
to pay for the policy.
In April 2005 Mr P was in financial difficulties and entered into an individual voluntary 
arrangement (IVA). An insolvency practitioner (IP) was appointed. 
At the time, the balance on Mr Ps account  was £35,712.90. This included the personal loan 
amount, the additional  amount borrowed  to pay for the PPI and the interest due on both. 
NRAM sold Mr Ps debt to a debt recovery agency (Business A) in May 2005.
The IVA was completed  in June  2008  and during  the time it was in place Mr P paid £7,340.71  
to the IVA. 
In 2018 Mr P complained to NRAM  that the PPI had been mis-sold to him.
NRAM agreed and calculated the PPI compensation to be £1,532.14 including  interest.
But NRAM said that as it had written  off £35,712.90 of the debt then nothing  was due to either  
Mr P or his IP.
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint. In summary, she said the following  
She confirmed that Mr P could bring  a complaint to this service.
As NRAM  had written  off considerably  more than the cost of the PPI to Mr P then it wouldnt 
be fair for the redress to be paid to him. 
As Mr P had borrowed  to finance the cost of the PPI, and that his outstanding balance was 
higher as a result, NRAMs records  should be reduced to reflect  what  he would owe if PPI 
(and associated interest) had never been added to his account.  
NRAM didn't  agree with the adjudicator. It said that it hadnt received anything from the IP to confirm it 
didn't have any further interest  in the IVA so couldnt  do what the adjudicator had recommended.  
Mr P said that as the IVA was completed in 2008 then an historic IVA should  not impact the redress 
payable in 2018.
The adjudicator spoke with the IP and the IP said that under the terms of the IVA Arrangement that 
once the IVA was completed all arrangement  trusts  would  cease.  Therefore any funds due from the 
mis-sale should be payable to Mr P. 
As the complaint remains  unresolved it has been passed to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
As NRAM has already made an offer to Mr P, I wont be looking  at how the policy  was sold to him. I 
will only be considering how NRAM has treated  the compensation and if that is fair. 
If we find that a business has mis-sold  a policy we expect it to  as far as is possible   put the policy 
holder in the financial  position  they should be in but for the PPI. 
In July 2004  Mr P borrowed £25,000 from NRAM and a further £6,478.50 to pay for the PPI. Including 
interest, he was to pay back a total of £39,681.00  over 60 months.
Ref: DRN67547064But we know this didn't happen. It looks like Mr P only made six repayment instalments  totalling 
£816.78 for the PPI  nowhere near the full amount that was payable  before  he defaulted on his 
loan. He didn't  ever pay for the total cost of the PPI so would only be entitled to compensation limited 
to how much he had actually paid. After he defaulted on the repayments he entered  an IVA.
An IVA is set up based  on what the debtor can pay rather  than how much they owe,  and in Mr Ps 
case he paid £7,340.71 to his IP and the IVA was completed  nothing  further is due from Mr P to the 
IP.
Mr P says the IVA and the NRAM compensation arent connected and the redress should be paid to 
him. Mr Ps argument is that the IVA was completed in 2008, well before any compensation became 
payable. But the debt didn't cease to exist when  the IVA was successfully  completed.  
Mr P had a significant debt left with NRAM which it sold on to Business A. NRAM wrote off the rest of 
the debt. But that doesnt mean Mr P doesnt owe anything  he does  the IVA prevents NRAM from 
chasing him for the debt but it doesnt  mean  it doesnt  exist. 
I think  what was suggested  by the adjudicator  was right. Mr P had taken advantage  of the IVA to 
protect him from NRAM seeking to recover the debt he owed. Once the IVA ended, debts that formed  
part of the arrangement  could not be actively pursued, although, and crucially, they still existed. 
Put simply Mr P still has a debt with NRAM. It now owes him compensation for the mis-sale of the 
PPI. But it wouldnt be fair to pay Mr P that compensation  when he still owes money  to NRAM. Mr P is 
now in the position  to reduce  some of that debt by off setting the PPI compensation. 
And in this provisional decision I think there is an additional  and pragmatic  point for consideration.  
What the adjudicator suggested would  mean that Mr Ps debt would be restructured with NRAM. So 
his outstanding balance  would be in the position it would be in had the PPI not been added. But the 
IVA was completed in 2008 which is more than six years ago. After six years any information about 
the IVA falls away and is not reflected in Mr Ps credit rating as recorded by credit agencies.  
But by restructuring the debt Mr P still has with NRAM I also have to bear in mind this would cause a 
movement on his current  dormant account and debt, and which would be recorded by credit agencies. 
This would therefore have  a negative impact on Mr Ps credit rating which  he would no doubt find 
unattractive and not helpful for his future finances. So Im not recommending that this be done. 
summary
Im satisfied that compensation  is due for the limited number of PPI premiums Mr P paid, plus 
interest.
The IP has told us that it has no further interest in the IVA so compensation  should  be paid to 
Mr P.
But there  is still an outstanding debt with NRAM, albeit Mr P isnt being pursued for it.
So compensation  is due but - put simply  - it wouldnt be fair for it to be paid to Mr P 
considering the substantial debt he has with NRAM. 
So, I think  it is fair that it should be off set against the debt Mr P still owes NRAM.
In this particular case, I think the most pragmatic  outcome is that nothing  further should  be 
done with the compensation. If Mr Ps debt was to be restructured it would have detrimental  
effect on his future finances. 
Ref: DRN67547065my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that the approach NRAM  plc has taken  to resolve Mr Ps complaint is fair. 
I wont be recommending that Mr Ps debt with NRAM  plc is restructured to set off the PPI 
compensation. 
I now invite  Mr P and NRAM plc to send in any other arguments or comments they want to give me 
before I make my final decision. 
Ref: DRN6754706