K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Society of Lloyds  settled another  drivers claim on his motor insurance 
policy without telling  him. He wants compensation for the resulting increase in his premiums  
and his loss of income. Mr H is represented in this matter by his wife.
background
Mr H was involved in an incident when his car touched the rear of another drivers. Mr H said 
the other driver wanted £300 to pay for his repairs, which Mr H refused. The other driver 
later made a claim for damage and personal injuries. Lloyds initially disputed liability but it 
then settled the claim. Lloyds didnt tell Mr H that it had done this. Mr H was unhappy with 
this as he said there was no damage  to either car. He said Lloyds hadnt obtained a 
statement from him as it said it would.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Lloyds 
was entitled by the policy terms  and conditions to settle the claim as it saw fit. And she 
thought it had reasonably investigated the claim before doing this. 
Mr H replied that the damage inspection report was made too long after the accident. He asked 
for his complaint  to be reviewed by an ombudsman,  so its come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand that the outcome of the claim has had a financial impact on Mr H due to the 
increase in his premiums  and this has also affected  his family. But Im not able to uphold his 
complaint. Ill now explain  why I think this. 
Mr H described  the accident circumstances. He said the other driver braked suddenly  and 
his car just touched the back of the other car. Mr H thought the other  drivers  claim was 
fraudulent as Mr H wouldnt pay for his repairs. But I havent seen any evidence  to show this. 
And when  the other driver made  a claim,  I think Lloyds had to look into it. 
The investigator has already explained that it isnt our role to decide  who was responsible for 
causing the accident. This is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints  of this 
nature is simply to investigate how the insurer made  the decision to settle the claim. Did it 
act fairly and reasonably and in line with the terms and conditions of the policy?
Lloyds is entitled  under the terms and conditions of its policy  with Mr H to take over, defend,  
or settle  a claim as it sees  fit. Mr H has to follow its advice in connection with the settlement 
of a claim, whether  he agrees with the outcome or not. This is a common term in motor 
insurance policies and I do not find it unusual. Also, insurers are entitled to take a commercial 
decision about whether its reasonable to contest a third party claim or better  to compromise.
That said,  we expect  an insurer  to reasonably  investigate a claim and consider the evidence 
before making  its decision.
Ref: DRN65008832Mr H told Lloyds that hed touched  the back of the other car. Lloyds  said it had no evidence  to 
dispute liability. Mr H said Lloyds initially told him that it would defend  his claim. Mr H also 
thought CCTV  footage  could have been  obtained if Lloyds had told him it wasnt  defending the 
claim. But I cant see that the availability  of CCTV footage was previously raised with Lloyds.  
Mr H thought it should have taken the other driver  to court. But I think  its for Lloyds to 
decide, on the basis of its experience, how likely it would  be able to successfully defend a 
claim in court. And, where it thinks this would be unlikely to succeed, I think  the policy terms 
and conditions allow it to decide to settle  a claim to avoid further costs. 
I can see that Lloyds  received  a damage  report for the other  drivers  car. This was dated  five 
months after the accident. It then sent its own engineer to inspect the car four months  later 
He found the claimed for damage consistent with the accident circumstances and with the 
make and model of Mr Hs car. The repairs estimates were for similar amounts. So I think  
Lloyds reasonably investigated  the damage  claim. 
Lloyds also received a medical  report on the other drivers personal injuries. I think  its 
reasonable for Lloyds to consider an expert medical  opinion.  This was provided  some time 
after the accident and Lloyds challenged and reduced the amount claimed for. So I think 
Lloyds reasonably investigated  this claim.  
Mr H thought Lloyds  should have asked  for his statement. But I think  it already had sufficient 
information about the accident circumstances which werent in dispute. I can see that Mr H 
said he could provide photographs,  but I cant see that these were sent to Lloyds to consider. 
So I think Lloyds reasonably investigated  the claim and considered the evidence  before 
settling it, as its entitled to do under the policy terms and conditions. So I cant say its done  
anything wrong  or that it needs  to offer Mr H any compensation. 
Mr H said Lloyds didnt tell him that it had settled the claim. I agree that it would have been 
good customer service to do this. But I cant see that this affected the outcome of the claim 
or caused Mr H any losses. So I dont require Lloyds to compensate  him for this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6500883