K820x#14complaint
Ms P complains  that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI) when she took out a credit card over the internet in 2002.
background
This policy initially cost £0.73 per £100  of Ms Ps monthly outstanding balance on her credit 
card. The cost later increased to £0.79  per £100 of the outstanding balance  in 2003.  It would  
have covered Ms P if she couldnt  work  because of an accident or illness  or if she lost her 
job. On a successful  claim  it would have paid 10% of the outstanding balance on her credit 
card for up to 12 months.
Ms P says she never would have ticked any boxes for the PPI when  she applied for her 
credit card. Shes told us she had adequate cover and she thinks  she would have applied by 
post not online.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Unhappy with this view Ms P 
asked that her matter  be referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Ms P says she wasnt  aware of the PPI. So the first thing  Ive considered  was whether Ms P 
was given a fair choice  about buying  the policy. Although Ms P cant quite  remember taking 
out PPI, I think she took it out over the internet. As the sale took place so long ago its 
understandable Ms P cant  remember the exact  details now.
Capital One has provided an internal screenshot to show that that Ms P applied for her 
policy on line. Capital One isnt able to provide me with the actual screen of the application 
Ms P would  have seen  and completed when  she was applying for her credit  card and the 
PPI but from what we know about these types  of sales at that time,  I think  Ms P would have 
had to actively choose to take out the policy. If she didnt  want  the cover she would have had 
to leave this part of the screen blank.
I can also see the cost of the policy  would have appeared on Ms Ps credit card statements - 
so if she was unsure  about it or didnt  know she had it I think  it would have been reasonable 
to question this with Capital One at the time.  Overall, I think its more  likely Ms P knew  that 
she was applying for the PPI and could have declined  it if she didnt want it.
As the application  was completed  in Ms Ps own time and at her own pace, I dont think  its 
likely advice  was given  by Capital One.  That meant Capital One didnt have to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was suitable  for Ms P but it still had to give her enough 
clear information so that she could make an informed decision about whether or not she 
wanted it.
Ref: DRN65418392Its possible not all the information was clear  as it could have been. But thats  not enough for 
me to uphold this complaint. I next need  to think about whether having clearer  or better  
information would have changed her mind about taking it out. 
I dont think Ms P would have been  put off buying the policy. I say this because:
I can see Ms P was eligible for the PPI. And looking  at her circumstances, more 
information would have shown Ms P that she could likely have made a successful 
claim if she had needed to as I dont think  she would have been caught by any of the 
main limitations and exclusions which might have made it more  difficult  to make a 
successful claim.
Ms P confirmed that she would have received a full six months  sick pay from her 
employer followed by six months half pay if she couldnt work. So she says she didnt 
need the PPI. As Capital One didnt advise Ms P to take it out it didnt need to check 
it was the right fit for her circumstances. But Ive thought about  what  shes  told me. 
This policy would  have paid out in addition to any sick pay she got and it would have 
likely lasted longer  than her full sick pay. So I still think the policy could have been 
useful if things went wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think the PPI was unaffordable.
Overall, I think its likely Ms P chose the policy at the time. I think  the PPI could have been 
useful if things went wrong and I dont think having  better information  would have changed 
her mind  about buying the policy. All in all, I dont think Ms P lost out financially because of 
anything Capital One did wrong  and I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6541839