K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Santander UK Plc (Santander)  mis-sold them a regular payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when they took out a mortgage.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 7 December 2018, a copy  extract  of which  is attached 
and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. 
Both Santander and Mr and Mrs B have confirmed they have each received my decision and 
neither Santander,  or Mr and Mrs B have  added anything further.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Santander UK Plc and I 
direct it to pay the fair compensation as outlined in my provisional decision attached.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
In 2002 Mr and Mrs B moved  their mortgage to Santander and took out a further advance.  At 
the same  time they were  sold a PPI policy. 
Ref: DRN69185172The policy wouldve covered  Mr and Mrs Bs mortgage repayments in the event of accident  
and sickness and redundancy  for up to 12 months  per claim. The policy  benefit was split 
70/30 in Mr Bs favour. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Mr and Mrs Bs complaint should  be upheld  as he thought it 
was clear from the sales paperwork they wanted to take out the policy  and it wouldve 
provided a useful benefit.  
Mr and Mrs B dont  disagree the policy had some benefit, but they dispute the fact they 
needed the policy. 
So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  this sort of insurance  on our website and Ive taken this into account when 
deciding Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Having done so, Im considering upholding this complaint.
Santander says it advised Mr and Mrs B to take the policy. I think  this is also backed  up by 
the fact the policy  seems  to have been tailored  to their needs - covering them both with a 
benefit split based on the proportion of their respective earnings.
What this means is that the sales advisor had to make sure that when recommending  the 
PPI that the policy  was suitable to Mr and Mrs Bs needs and circumstances at the time of 
the sale. 
If there were shortcomings  in the advice given  by about the policy,  I then need to consider 
whether Mr and Mrs B are worse off as a result. Meaning, would they have  still taken the 
policy if it hadnt been recommended to them.
I dont think the policy  was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B. Ive set out the policys benefits above. 
Mr and Mrs B say at the time the policy was sold they had significant savings worth around 
12 months of Mr Bs salary  and that Mr B was entitled to 12 months  full sick pay from his 
employer. Having considered Mr Bs employer I think  its likely at the time the policy  was sold 
he wouldve been  entitled to a good level of sick pay, though  I accept it might  not have been 
at the level suggested.
Ive also considered the information provided  on their mortgage application. The mortgage 
application shows they were taking out a mortgage  of roughly 50% of the propertys value 
and had no other significant  debt.  So I think it is plausible  that they would have a generous 
amount of savings.
To make sure the policy was a suitable recommendation the sales  advisor had a duty to 
check what cover Mr and Mrs B already  had. I dont think they did this because if they had 
checked what cover they had in place they wouldve  seen it was likely Mr and Mrs B already 
had enough cover in place in the form of savings alone. So Mr and Mrs B didnt need the 
policy and it shouldnt have been recommended to them.
Ref: DRN69185173As a consequence Mr and Mrs B lost out as a result of the advisors failings in this case. If 
Mr and Mrs B had been advised  properly they wouldve  understood they were buying  a 
policy that gave  them cover they didnt  need. So I dont think Mr and Mrs B wouldve taken 
the policy because  I dont think they wouldve thought  the benefit they got from the policy  
was worth the money.
what the Santander should do to put things  right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs B in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Santander 
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Santander can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my provisional decision
I currently intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint against Santander UK Plc. If my 
decision becomes  final I direct Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B the fair compensation 
outlined above.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6918517