K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Mr L says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr L has said he was told he had to take out PPI to get the card.  But I think  Halifax made  it 
clear that Mr L didnt have  to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out. I say this 
because Ive seen  a copy of the credit card application form which was completed during the 
meeting he had in branch and a printed  cross has been placed  in the box next to the credit 
card repayment insurance  the name used by Halifax  for PPI. Mr L has signed and dated 
the form. Whilst the cross has been  pre-printed  on the form,  I think  its likely this answer 
would have reflected  the conversation he had with Halifax  in the meeting.
Ive noted that there were other products listed on the form and these have not been  taken.  
This would suggest  that Mr L had a choice  about  which products he took out. So, on 
balance, I think Halifax made Mr L aware that the policy was optional  and he chose to take it, 
knowing he could refuse it if he didnt want it.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr L so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  and 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time,  I think that it was. For example he 
wasnt affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and he seems  to have 
had a need for the cover. Mr L has told us he would be entitled  to at least  six months sick 
pay from his employer but this policy would have  paid out for up to 12 months if he was 
unable to work due to accident or sickness which would  be in addition to, and potentially  for 
longer than, his sick pay. And the policy would pay out for up to 10 months  if he was to lose 
his job  as Mr L has said he had no other  means with which to meet his repayments if he 
was to become  unemployed, I think this policy could have provided him with a useful benefit.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr L about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means Halifax doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Halifax  will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr L because: 
Halifax got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr L about  that. Because  Halifax didnt tell Mr L, that 
was unfair. 
Ref: DRN69016062To put that right, Halifax  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Halifax has to pay back to Mr L any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Halifax should  also pay back to Mr L any extra  interest he paid 
because of that.
Halifax should re-work the credit card account  and pay back to Mr L the difference between 
what Mr L owes and what he wouldve owed if the commission and profit share  it got hadnt 
been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Halifax should also pay Mr L 8%* simple interest if he 
paid off his credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr L can claim  back  the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  Plc does  not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr L.
But Bank of Scotland Plc does have to pay back to Mr L any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6901606