K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that a car he obtained through a hire purchase agreement  with 
BMW Financial Services (GB) Limited  is not of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject  the car 
and cancel the agreement.
background
Mr H obtained a second hand  car on 19 October 2018. It was around five years  old and had 
done around 25,000  miles.  On the same  day he collected the car - as he drove  home on the 
motorway - the car went into limp mode. He pulled over and phoned the supplying garage. 
It told him to switch the engine off and then re-start.  He did this and was able to complete his 
journey home.
Around three days later, the same  thing happened  again and he arranged for the supplying  
dealer to collect the car to investigate what was causing the fault.  
On 30 October, Mr H wrote  to the supplying dealer saying he wanted to reject  the car 
because it was faulty when it was supplied.  Shortly afterwards  he complained to 
BMW Financial Services, repeating that he wanted to reject  the car. 
BMW Financial Services didnt accept Mr Hs rejection of the car. It said the supplying dealer  
had found that a fuel filter cap needed to be re-fitted. It had completed the work so the car 
was fault-free and fit for purpose. But Mr H didnt agree to collect  the car. He recalled the 
deposit hed paid and cancelled his direct debit.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld,  concluding that there 
was a fault with the car when it was supplied and that Mr H had lost confidence in it. He 
concluded Mr H didnt  have to accept the repairs and that BMW Financial Services  should  
accept his rejection  of the car and refund all payments made, plus interest.
BMW Financial Services didnt agree. It said, in summary, that:
The car is fit for purpose  and no repairs have been completed or are required. 
The car had one minor  defect;  this doesnt mean  the car isnt of satisfactory quality.
Before the car was supplied, a new fuel filter had been accidently fitted on top of the fuel 
filter seal.  This caused air to get in and this was why the car went into limp mode.  There  
was no defective  part that needed  replacing and no fault with the car itself  the problem 
has been rectified  by removing the original seal and refitting  the fuel filter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61908762BMW Financial Services supplied the car to Mr H under  the terms of a hire purchase 
agreement. It would share liability  under the Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 1973 if the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. I take account of the law when  
deciding what is fair and reasonable. So if I think the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality,  Id 
conclude it was fair and reasonable for BMW Financial  Services  to take responsibility.
The car was second hand,  but I think Mr H would reasonably have expected to have been 
able to drive it home without any problems. As I understand  it, a cars limp mode indicates 
there is a problem with the car that needs  fixing and the purpose  of the limp mode  is 
designed to limit any damage  to the car. I think,  on the first occasion this happened,  Mr H 
should probably have been  advised to return the car to the supplying garage so that the 
problem could be investigated.
He continued  to drive  the car  as advised  but then the same problem occurred a couple of 
days later.  On this occasion the supplying  garage  did collect the car to investigate.  
BMW Financial Services says there was no fault or defect with the car. I do not agree. The 
car wouldnt have  gone  into limp mode if there  wasnt a problem. And the supplying  garage 
did find a fault.  It had to remove a fuel filter seal and re-fit the fuel filter. So I dont think  the 
car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  It follows that BMW Financial Services  
should take responsibility for this.
Under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015,  a consumer has the right to reject  goods that arent of 
satisfactory quality within 30 days.
Mr H contacted the supplying garage  and BMW Financial Services  within  30 days of the car 
being supplied  to him and said that he wanted to reject the car. I havent seen evidence to 
show that hed agreed to accept a repair. In the circumstances,  and taking into account the 
absolute right under the Consumer Rights Act to reject goods that arent of satisfactory 
quality within  the first 30 days, I consider  Mr H had a right to choose to reject  the car.
Whilst I accept  the underlying problem seems to have been relatively minor, and easily  fixed, 
I can see why Mr H has lost all faith in the car and why he doesnt want to risk travel in it with 
his young family  the episode on the motorway mustve been  very worrying  for him.
So I find that it would be fair and reasonable  for BMW Financial Services  to cancel the hire 
purchase agreement  and to refund to Mr H all payments that hes made under the 
agreement (with interest). He was only able to drive  the car, fault free, for a couple of days,  
so I dont find BMW Financial Services  should retain any payments to reflect  his use of the 
car.
Ref: DRN61908763my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. BMW Financial  Services  (GB) Limited  
should:
1. Cancel the hire purchase agreement.
2. I understand Mr H has recalled the deposit of £500 that he paid for the car. If he 
hasnt received this, it should  be refunded to him.
3. Refund to Mr H all of the monthly payments  and any other  payments that hes made  
under the agreement.
4. Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.  
5. Remove all reference to this hire purchase  agreement from Mr Hs credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires BMW  Financial  Services to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 4 above. BMW Financial Services must give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6190876