K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Be Wiser Insurance  Services Ltd (Be Wiser) cancelled the 
wrong policy leaving them without  insurance on a car they were continuing to use. They also 
say it failed to refund  to them the correct  amount  for the policy  it shouldve  cancelled.
background
Mr and Mrs A had multiple vehicles insured with policies theyd bought through the broker Be 
Wiser. The policies were not provided  by the same underwriter. 
policy A
Mr and Mrs A bought insurance to cover their van. This policy began on 7 May 2017, and 
they paid for the policy, in full, at a cost of £233  (I will refer to this as policy A in this 
decision). This price was based  on them having  nine years  no claims discount  (NCD)  from 
their previous insurer. For the purposes of this decision, Ill refer to the underwriter of this 
policy as U1. 
Be Wiser had to reissue the policy documents more than once as there  was some confusion 
around the spelling of the name  of one of the named drivers on the policy.
When checks were  carried out, it transpired that Mr and Mrs A only had four years NCD that 
could be applied to policy A. This generated a premium increase of £37.35, which  Mr and 
Mrs A paid.
On 6 June 2017, Mr and Mrs A contacted  Be Wiser  to enquire about changing the vehicle  on 
policy A. Be Wiser advised  this would result in a premium increase, they said the increase 
was too much and so asked for policy A to be cancelled. Be Wiser told Mr and Mrs A that 
they would  be due a refund of £21.11. They felt this was very low considering the short  time 
the policy had been in place and asked for a complaint to be raised about this.
Be Wiser agreed to waive its £75 cancellation fee bringing the refund up to £96.11.  Mr and 
Mrs A still didnt  think this was enough so Be Wiser offered to ask U1 if it was willing to 
cancel its cancellation  fee. U1 said it wasnt. Be Wiser wrote  to Mr and Mrs A on 23 June 
2017 letting them know this. The letter explained  that Mr and Mrs A could  choose  to cancel 
and accept the £96.11  refund.  Or they could continue with the policy and Be Wiser would 
refund the £37.35 premium increase theyd paid for the increased cost charged as a result of 
the reduction in the NCD. The letter was clear that policy A was still running. 
Mr and Mrs A said they never  received this letter  and only realised policy  A had not been 
cancelled when they received a renewal invitation.  They then raised this with Be Wiser 
saying they had sold the van when  they asked for the cancellation on 6 June 2017  and so 
had paid for insurance that they could never  have  used or benefitted from. Be Wiser  said if 
Mr and Mrs A could  provide proof of either the sale of the van or show there  was alternative 
cover in place, it would retrospectively cancel  the policy and issue them with a refund based 
on the time on cover.
Mr and Mrs A provided a copy of the V5 document for van which showed the change of 
ownership date as 26 September 2017.  Be Wiser  backdated the cancellation  of policy  A to 
this date and issued Mr and Mrs A a refund  of £52.80 for time on cover.  It also refunded  the 
addition premium it had charged for the change  in NCD of £37.35.
Ref: DRN62567072Mr and Mrs A were  unhappy, as they thought they should get a full refund. They  say that 
policy A was never taken  up as the spelling mistakes on the documents as the start of the 
policy meant they couldnt use the car. So they brought their complaint to this service.
While the Adjudicator was looking into their complaint they mentioned a problem they had 
with a second policy theyd also bought through Be Wiser. The adjudicator spoke  to Be 
Wiser and agreed to look at this under the same  complaint.
policy B
Mr and Mrs As second insurance policy covered their car (I will refer to this as policy B in 
this decision), for the purposes of this decision Ill refer to the underwriter of as U2. The cost 
of policy  B was £354. Mr and Mrs A say Be Wiser cancelled policy B in error, instead  of 
cancelling policy A. This had left them uninsured on their car which  they had been continuing 
to use. They  also explained theyd been involved in an incident where the car had suffered 
damage as the result  of a pot hole and wanted to claim for this under policy B.
The policy started  on 7 May 2017 and was cancelled with effect from 6 June 2017. Mr and 
Mrs A were  issued a refund of £296.18;  this was processed on 17 June  2017.  Be Wiser 
could not find any requests  to cancel policy B from Mr and Mrs A so it accepted that it had 
cancelled the policy in error  and offered £200  in compensation for its error. It also offered to 
assist with the claim that Mr and Mrs A want to make for the pot-hole damage,  they spoke to 
U2 about this. U2 has said that if Mr and Mrs A would like to make a claim against the policy  
they will need to return the refund they have had. It will then reinstate the policy,  and deal 
with the claim. It also said that any claim will be subject to the £500 excess which  was 
agreed on the policy.
 
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She felt Be Wiser had acted  fairly  in resolving 
Mr and Mrs As complaints about  both policy A and policy B and so it didnt need to do 
anything more to put things right. Mr and Mrs A disagreed and so the matter  has been 
passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered all the available  evidence  
and arguments  to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Where theres a dispute about what happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most 
likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues 
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
I will now explain my findings in relation to each policy.
policy A
Mr and Mrs A argue  that the policy was never in use as one of the named drivers name was 
misspelt on the documents and so they were unable to use the car. Ive considered this point 
and while  I understand that it wouldve been  inconvenient for Mr and Mrs A to have to 
Ref: DRN62567073contact Be Wiser to correct the details, I dont think this wouldve prevented them from using  
the van. I also think that when they agreed to pay the premium increase for the reduced 
NCD, they accepted the policy was in force. So I dont uphold  this part of Mr and Mrs As 
complaint.
Moving to the cancellation and refund due on policy A. There  is no dispute that Mr and Mrs A 
wanted policy A to be cancelled  on 6 June 2017.  Be Wiser didnt cancel  the policy at that 
point as Mr and Mrs A were unhappy  with the amount of refund they would be entitled  to, 
and so Be Wiser  was speaking with U1 to see if anything could be done to increase  this, I 
dont think this was unreasonable.  
The letter Be Wiser sent, and Mr and Mrs A didnt receive, on 23 June 2017 made it clear 
the policy was still live. Because it didnt receive a reply it left policy A in force. Be Wiser has 
shown us that the letter was sent and  I can see no reason for Be Wiser  to suspect that the 
letter hadnt  been received as there had been  no previous problems with post being 
received, and so I dont  think  it acted unfairly  when  leaving the policy in force.
Even so, Be Wiser has since back dated the cancellation in line with the evidence Mr and 
Mrs A have been able to provide about  the sale of the van.
Even though  I dont  think Be Wiser  has acted unfairly in dealing with policy A, I do think  its 
been quite confusing to Mr and Mrs A what  was going on at certain points. I would normally  
award compensation for this. However, Be Wiser waived its £75 cancellation fee and 
refunded the additional  premium for the NCD change, so Im satisfied that its already 
compensated Mr and Mrs A for this.
policy B
Be Wiser accepts that policy B was cancelled in error. To put this right I would expect  it to 
put Mr and Mrs A back in the position they wouldve been in if the mistake hadnt  happened.  
Be Wiser has already offered to do this by:
reinstating policy B as if it had never  been cancelled.  (Be Wiser has agreement  from 
U2 for this); and
compensating Mr and Mrs A £200  for the inconvenience it caused them by cancelling 
the policy.
For this to happen Mr and Mrs A would  need to repay the premium refund theyve had which 
relates to policy  B. This is fair as Mr and Mrs A cant reasonably expect to have the benefit of 
policy B without having paid for it. If Mr and Mrs A decide they want  to go ahead and do this, 
U2 has said it will deal with their claim under the policy subject to the excess. This is an 
option that is still open to them and they should contact Be Wiser if they want  to go ahead  
with it.
Mr and Mrs A have  said that the cancellation couldve resulted in all sorts of problems and 
complications if theyd  been  involved in a serious accident while policy  B wasnt in force, and 
while I do take on board their point, I cant consider what  might have happened. Instead,  Ive 
focused on what did happen and the impact of this on Mr and Mrs A. Based on this Im 
satisfied that Be Wiser has compensated Mr and Mrs A adequately for its error and I wont 
be asking it to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN62567074my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6256707