K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Virgin Money  plc hasnt refunded a payment she made  using her 
credit card.
background
The background to this complaint, and my provisional findings,  were set out in my 
provisional decision dated 30 March 2019.  A copy of this is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. In my provisional decision  I invited both parties to let me have any further 
comments and evidence.
Mrs H didnt agree with my provisional decision.  Shes made some comments  which  Ill 
consider, below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done this Im not going to change 
my decision.
Mrs H says the airline cancelled the flights on the basis that Virgin  said she was disputing 
the flights for fraud reasons. But I havent seen any evidence to support this. Virgin  raised a 
chargeback with the airline at Mrs Hs request. Ive seen the documents  the airline  sent to 
Virgin to show why she wasnt entitled to a refund. These documents  relate to the contract 
and theres nothing to suggest Virgin told the airline Mrs H was disputing  the payment 
because of fraud.
Ive also seen a copy of the form Mrs H completed  saying why she thought she was entitled 
to a refund.  She said I am pregnant and do not feel safe to travel.  The documents  the 
airline sent to Virgin show  that she wasnt contractually entitled to receive a refund for this 
reason. Im therefore  satisfied Virgin dealt with Mrs Hs chargeback request fairly and 
reasonably.
Mrs H says she used the correct booking reference when she tried to check in online. She 
also says she didnt  decide to go on holiday but wanted to check  why she was still receiving 
communications about the flight as she had queried the payment.
Ive now seen evidence  to show that the booking reference Mrs H used when she tried to 
check in was correct.  But the fact the booking couldnt be found doesnt  mean  the airline was 
in breach of contract. Mrs H had told the airline she didnt  want to fly and she now says she 
wasnt going to fly even though she tried to check in for the flight.  Im satisfied Virgin was 
reasonably entitled to ask for additional  evidence to show the airline  had broken its contract 
with Mrs H.
Im aware Mrs H is still trying to obtain further evidence from the airline. As I said in my 
provisional decision, I expect Virgin to reconsider Mrs Hs claim in the light of any additional 
evidence she can provide. But Im satisfied Virgin is reasonably entitled to conclude on the 
basis of the evidence Mrs H has submitted that she hasnt shown she could make a claim 
under s75.
Ref: DRN66237492my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  and in my provisional decision my final decision is I dont 
uphold this complaint.  I make no award  against  Virgin Money plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Charles Bacon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66237493Copy of provisional  decision
background
In March 2017  Mrs H booked a holiday for herself and her husband, to go in August 2017. She used 
her Virgin Money credit card to pay for the flights.
Mrs H then discovered she was expecting a baby  and she says her doctor advised her not to fly. She 
contacted the airline on which shed  booked  her flights to cancel them. The airline told her it didnt 
accept her pregnancy  as a valid reason  to cancel  her booking and get a refund.
Mrs H contacted Virgin Money to say she disputed the payment shed made to the airline.  It applied 
an in dispute status  to the payment and removed  it from the credit card account while  it investigated 
the claim.
Mrs H says she then decided to go on the holiday, after all. But when  she tried to check in on the 
airlines website she was told her booking couldnt  be found. She says she contacted  the airline and it 
told her it had cancelled the booking because she was disputing the credit card payment. She says 
she understood from this that the payment  would be refunded.
Virgin Money then removed the in-dispute status in respect of the payment and put it back  on her 
account. She disputed the transaction  again and Virgin Money  re-applied the in-dispute  status in 
March 2018. In May 2018, it wrote to Mrs H saying  it couldnt take her claim  any further and had 
removed the in dispute status from the flights payment.
Mrs H complained to Virgin Money and it upheld her complaint in part. It didnt  agree it had acted  
incorrectly by closing the dispute claim. But it said it had given Mrs H some misleading  information 
and offered her £100  compensation for this.
our initial conclusions
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. She thought  Mrs H was entitled to 
claim under  section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974 (s75) and Virgin Money  was responsible for 
the airline not fulfilling its contract with her. So she thought  it should refund the payment  Mrs H had 
made to the airline  using  her credit card.
Virgin Money didnt agree with our investigators  recommendation.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
The effect  of s75 is to make  Virgin Money liable to compensate Mrs H for any breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by the airline. Consequently, to bring a claim under  s75, Mrs H needs to show that 
the airline was in breach  of its contract with her or made a misrepresentation.
I find it difficult to understand why Mrs H tried to check-in for the flight  after shed told the airline she 
wanted to cancel it, and told Virgin Money she disputed the payment. Especially  if her doctor had 
advised her not to fly on medical  grounds. Shes provided a screenshot  of the message she received 
when she tried to complete  the online  check-in, which she would  have done by entering her booking  
reference. The message  she received back says the airline couldnt  find the booking.
Im not persuaded  the evidence Ive seen  is sufficient to show the airline was in breach  of contract. 
The message Mrs H received was not that her booking  had been cancelled, or didnt exist.  But I can 
see it couldnt be found using the reference shed entered. We dont know if the reference she entered 
was correct. 
Ref: DRN66237494Further, if Mrs H told the airline she wanted to cancel  the booking during her first telephone call, we 
can expect that it would have made the cancellation. But she may not have been entitled to a refund 
under the airlines  terms and conditions.
Virgin Money has asked Mrs H to provide  further evidence to demonstrate there had been a breach  of 
contract by the airline. Im satisfied this was a reasonable request in the circumstances. Im also 
satisfied that, in the absence of any additional evidence, Virgin Money  was reasonably entitled to say 
it couldnt take the claim any further.  I say this because all shes  provided so far is the screenshot Ive 
referred to. And this itself doesnt prove a breach of contract.
Im aware Mrs H has asked  the airline  to provide documents  relating to her booking  and it hasnt 
complied with her request.  But I cant reasonably hold Virgin Money  responsible for this. I think  Mrs H 
should be able to give Virgin Money her own evidence  of her booking (the booking reference 
number), and consider the airlines terms and conditions  which  are available  on its website. She could 
then tell Virgin  Money why she thinks the airline  hasnt complied with its terms and conditions or any 
other reason why she thinks its in breach of contract.
If Mrs H provides Virgin Money  with additional evidence  to establish, on the face of it, a breach of 
contract, I would expect  it to investigate her section 75 claim further. But Im currently satisfied  its 
dealt with the claim  fairly and reasonably on the information its been given to date.
Virgin Money has accepted the customer service it gave Mrs H while it was considering  her dispute 
with the airline  fell below the standard  she was entitled to expect and its offered her £100 
compensation for this. I agree the level of service  would have caused Mrs H unnecessary trouble  and 
upset. But I currently think the sum of £100 is fair and reasonable and I dont think  I could reasonably 
require it to pay a larger amount. I would  leave it to Mrs H to decide  whether or not to accept  this 
offer.
my provisional  decision
Subject to any additional comments and evidence I get from the parties, my provisional decision is I 
wont uphold this complaint  and I wont make  any award  against Virgin Money  plc.
Ref: DRN6623749