K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Canada Square  Operations Limited, trading as Egg, mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 2001 Mr O applied  for a credit card with Egg. At the same time, it sold him PPI that helped  
protect his card repayments  if he couldnt  work due to disability or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr O disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Os case.
Having done so, Im not upholding the complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr O says he applied for the credit  card and PPI in the post. Eggs  provided  evidence  that 
indicates to me he applied  online. Either way, when it sold the PPI, Egg had to make  it clear 
to Mr O that it was optional and get his agreement before adding it. 
Ive considered the screens Mr Os likely to have seen during the online application process. 
These included  a section on PPI. That section  included a box to click on if he wanted  PPI, 
and an equally prominent one to click on if he didnt. Eggs internal records  of the application 
indicate he chose  to have PPI. So I think Egg made it clear that it was selling PPI, that it was 
optional and that Mr O agreed to have it, knowing he had a choice. 
I dont think Egg recommended the PPI to Mr O. This means Egg didnt have to look into 
whether the PPI was right for Mr O. But it should  have provided  enough  information  about 
the PPI for Mr O to be able to decide  for himself if it was suitable.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think Egg made  all the information  Mr O needed clear to him: as 
Mr O points out, Egg accepts there were flaws in its sales  process.  But, importantly, thats 
not enough in itself for me to ask Egg to give him his premiums  back. I must also go on to 
consider whether Mr O lost out because of those failings. 
Overall, I dont  think better information  would have stopped Mr O from buying the PPI 
anyway. Thats because, from what I know of Mr Os circumstances at the time: 
He was eligible  for the PPI. And I cant see that hed have been  affected by any of 
the main exclusions  to, or limits  on, the PPI. 
Mr O says he was entitled to enhanced redundancy and sick pay from his employer. 
But the PPI benefits  would have  paid out on top of that and for up to 12 months per 
claim. Mr O says he held a substantial amount in shares but the PPI benefits  meant  
he could have retained them or used  them to cover  his other  living costs if he wasnt 
Ref: DRN66767772working. Overall, I think Mr O would have valued the extra security  the PPI provided.
Theres nothing to suggest hed have considered the monthly  premium  to be 
unaffordable. And the PPI was flexible enough that Mr O could  have cancelled  it at 
any time, and at no extra cost, if he no longer wanted it.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr Os said, including his response to the 
adjudicators assessment.  But, taking all the circumstances into account,  I dont think  hes 
lost out because of how Egg sold him the PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6676777