K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading as Halifax) cancelled  his credit card 
without warning whilst he was abroad.  
background
Mr T used  his credit to make  a payment to a business on 31 August 2018. It later came to 
light that the business Mr T paid was the subject of a data breach which meant  his card 
details were potentially  compromised.  
Mr T contacted Halifax on 19 October  2018  to say he was due to visit family  members 
abroad over the coming weeks. He wanted to make Halifax  aware so his card wouldnt be 
unnecessarily blocked.  But Halifax said it didnt need that information.  The call handler  
checked Mr Ts mobile phone number  and said its fraud team  would get in touch if there 
were concerns about fraud on his account  or if it was blocked. Mr T says he went on to visit 
his local branch to let them know about his travel plans  and thought  the person he notified  
was rude.  
Whilst abroad Mr T was initially able to use his credit card but it was blocked  on 
26 October 2018. Mr T says he found this out when he tried to make  a payment in a shop. 
Mr T contacted Halifax to ask why his card had been  blocked but the call handler  he spoke 
to wasnt certain. They  mentioned  that some cards  had been blocked  because of data 
breaches with two third party businesses but didnt confirm the specific reason Mr Ts card 
wasnt working. Halifax said it would  cover Mr Ts costs as a result of the card being out of 
use. Mr T also explained that the numbers hed initially called wouldnt connect which meant 
he had to find alternative contact details. 
Mr T was asked  to call back  the following day. It was then confirmed that his credit  card had 
been blocked because of a data breach following the payment  he made on 31 August 2018. 
Mr T explained that he had a debit card with him for his bank account but complained that he 
hadnt been contacted  by the fraud department about the decision to cancel his credit  card 
as hed been promised in an earlier call. 
Halifax later responded  to Mr Ts complaint and paid him £52.51  to cover call costs  and the 
additional interest and charges he paid as a result of using his debit  card. But Halifax  didnt 
offer any compensation for the service Mr T received or for cancelling  his card without 
warning. Mr T went on to refer his complaint to our service. 
An investigator looked at what had happened and asked Halifax  to pay £100.  They  said 
Halifax should have  told Mr T why his card was blocked when he first called  and that the 
service he received wasnt good  enough.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61410882Ive thought very carefully about all the issues Mr T has raised. I know  he was surprised  that 
Halifax didnt need details of his future travel plans.  But Halifaxs  call handler  and branch 
staff both explained that its fraud  prevention systems didnt need to know  that information in 
advance of his trip. Halifax has confirmed the information Mr T was given is correct. I 
appreciate other businesses operate differently, but Halifax is free to decide  how to monitor 
accounts for fraud  so Im unable to agree an error  has been  made  here. 
Mr T has confirmed that he had an alternative  method to make payments  while  abroad and 
Halifax has refunded  the additional costs he paid as a result.  Its also covered the additional  
phone costs Mr T had. As a result, theres no financial  loss in this case.  Ive focused on the 
service Mr T received  when  he called  after his card was cancelled. 
Halifax wrote  to its customers  in advance of its decision to cancel the credit card. Its letter  
doesnt contain a specific date so, like Mr T, I dont know  exactly  when it was sent. And the 
letter appears to have been  sent after Mr T went abroad so he didnt receive  it before his 
card was cancelled.  Im satisfied the letter was sent before the card was cancelled. During 
Mr Ts call on 26 October 2018 the call handler  was clearly aware of some  data breaches 
that had occurred. There was a brief discussion over the third party  he had paid but no firm 
information was provided and Mr T, who was clearly distressed  by the situation, was asked 
to call back the following  day. 
I think Halifax should have been  in a position  to tell Mr T what happened when he first called 
rather than extending  the time he was uncertain and concerned about the security of his 
credit card. By this time,  Halifax had already contacted affected customers  by post so I see 
no reason why the information wasnt available to the call handler when he contacted  them 
on 26 October 2018. Instead, Mr T was asked to call Halifax  back  the following day. 
Mr T was abroad at the time and Im satisfied the additional time he had to wait to get an 
answer about what had happened did impact him and caused him unnecessary stress. As 
Ive said above,  I think Halifax should  have been  able to give Mr T the information he needed 
when he first made contact. He would then have been able to have moved on with his trip, 
albeit using different  payment methods. I think its fair for Halifax to compensate  Mr T for the 
unnecessary upset that caused. 
Mr Ts told us the numbers he called werent working. Halifax has confirmed the numbers 
were operating on the days  he called. I note from Mr Ts letters that he used the prefix 44 
before dialling the rest of the numbers. I tried calling those numbers using the same prefix 
and got an error message. But when I used  0044 as a prefix  the call went through  without  
issue. I cant say why Mr Ts calls didnt  connect  but Im satisfied from what Halifax  has told 
us the numbers were  working on 26 October 2018. 
Halifax has explained that it wasnt responsible for the data breach  and it took the decision to 
cancel credit cards in order to protect  its customers. I agree that I wouldnt expect Halifax to 
contact its customers in the same way it would have done if it was concerned  about a 
specific transaction. 
Ref: DRN61410883Overall, I agree  with the investigator  that the service provided to Mr T wasnt  good enough. I 
think it should have  been possible to give him a clear answer  about  what had happened 
when he called on 26 October 2018.  By asking Mr T to call back the following day Halifax  
caused additional, unnecessary upset. I think its fair to tell Halifax to pay some  
compensation to reflect  the impact on Mr T. As a result, I agree with the investigators view 
that Halifax should pay Mr T £100  (in addition to the costs its already covered) to resolve 
this complaint.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  Bank  of Scotland  Plc (trading as 
Halifax) to pay Mr T £100 in addition  to the costs  it has already refunded.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6141088