K822xcomplaint
Miss S complains  that her agreement with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  
(VWFS) was terminated because VWFS  didnt update her bank details. Shes  also 
unhappy that she didnt receive  any letters advising  her of arrears,  which  led to her car being 
repossessed and her credit file being affected.
background 
In August  2015  Miss S was supplied with a car and entered into a hire purchase agreement  
with VWFS.
In June 2017 Miss S contacted VWFS to change  her payment date and update  her bank 
account details.  Although  the payment date was changed, her bank account details werent 
updated. Between June and October  2017 VWFS  continued  to attempt to debit payments 
from Miss Ss old previous account, which led to the agreement falling into arrears.
Miss S contacted VWFS  about  the arrears  in October 2017. She didnt have time to speak to 
the Collections  Department and asked them to call her back. This didnt happen. Because 
the arrears werent  brought up to date, VWFS issued a default notice in November  2017.  
The agreement was terminated in December 2017.
Miss S says that when the car was repossessed, she wasnt  given any advance  notice and 
as a result  some of her personal  belongings were  left in the car when it was taken.  She 
wants these returned  to her.
In its final response,  VWFS upheld the aspect  of Miss Ss complaint that her bank details  
hadnt been updated and that she didnt receive a call back when she should  have done. 
VWFS didnt  uphold the rest of the complaint and said that Miss Ss direct  debits were 
returned after her bank details had been updated.
During the investigation by this service, VWFS  made an offer to settle the complaint. It said it 
would offer the sum of £250 for the distress  and inconvenience caused  to Miss S when it 
passed her details to the police. The investigator  said that the offer was fair.
Miss S didnt agree. She remained  upset at the loss of her personal belongings when the car 
was repossessed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Bank account details  and termination of the agreement
Ive looked at the history of payments made to Miss Ss agreement and I can see that there  
have been several  occasions when she hasnt managed to make  the monthly payment.
VWFSs system notes  show  that Miss S asked to update her bank details in June 2017.  
VWFS made an error and failed to update these until October 2017. Because VWFS 
Ref: DRN63332442continued to try and take payments from Miss Ss old bank account up until then, arrears  
accrued on the account.
I can see that VWFS updated  Miss Ss account  details in October 2017. But even after this, 
no payments were made to the agreement.  Miss S says that this was because  of errors 
made by VWFS. VWFS  says that payments requested from Miss Ss bank account were 
returned unpaid  in November and December 2017.
Ive looked at Miss Ss bank statements for this period and these show that she had 
insufficient funds  to make the monthly  payments. I cant be certain whether the payments 
were claimed or not but even if the payments had been claimed,  Im satisfied based on what 
Ive seen that the direct debit would have  been returned due to insufficient funds in the 
account.
VWFS issued  a default notice in November 2017 asking  Miss S to bring the account  up to 
date. Miss S says she didnt receive  this. The default notice  was addressed  to Miss S at her 
registered address  and Im satisfied that it was sent. I cant  be certain  why Miss S didnt 
receive it but I cant hold VWFS responsible for failings in the postal service.
Because Miss S didnt  bring her account  up to date, Im unable  to say that VWFS acted 
unfairly by terminating  the agreement. The terms and conditions  of the account say that 
VWFS can terminate  the agreement if the arrears arent paid.
Repossession and personal belongings
The car was repossessed in May 2018.  Miss S says she wasnt  given advance notice of this. 
At the time the agreement  was terminated, Miss S had paid less than one third of the total 
sum payable  under  the agreement. Because of this Im satisfied that VWFS  didnt need  to 
obtain a court order or otherwise give notice to Miss S before it repossessed  the car.
I appreciate that Miss S is upset  about  the loss of her personal belongings which she 
believes were left in the car when it was repossessed.  Ive reviewed VWFSs system notes 
and I can see that it made enquiries  of the agents who collected  the car. The agents have 
stated that there were  no personal belongings left in the car. Miss S has been  asked to 
provide evidence that the belongings were left in the car but she hasnt provided anything. 
Because of this, Im unable to safely conclude  that there were any belongings left in the car.
Police involvement
After the car was repossessed in May 2018, Miss S received a notice  of intended 
prosecution from the police relating  to a dangerous driving offence in June 2018.  The 
information shows that the police  contacted  VWFS  and VWFS provided Miss Ss details. I 
dont think VWFS acted reasonably in providing  those details because it was aware that the 
car had already been repossessed. I think VWFS should have  told the police that the car 
had been repossessed and that it was no longer  in the possession  of Miss S. If VWFS had 
done this, Miss S wouldnt  have been sent the notice of intended  prosecution, which  caused  
her distress.
In the circumstances and whilst Im unable to uphold the aspect of the complaint which  
relates to Miss Ss personal  belongings, Im of the view that VWFS should not have provided 
Miss Ss details to the police. I also think that VWFS were  right to offer compensation for the 
delay in updating Miss Ss bank details.
Ref: DRN63332443my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint.  Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited 
should:
pay Miss S compensation of £350 for distress  and inconvenience  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 May 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6333244