K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax) hasnt acted fairly or 
reasonably when dealing with her mortgage. She wants Halifax to admit what  its done, 
review its practices and pay compensation.
background
Ms H had a mortgage  with Halifax. She said that it had behaved in an aggressive and 
bullying way towards  her. Halifax had a possession order and several eviction dates were 
set up to September 2017. In March  2019, Ms H said that she told Halifax  she was placing 
her property on the market; a week or so later, she received  a letter  telling her Halifax  was 
going to seek  possession again. Ms H contacted  Halifax and said it admitted that it shouldve 
given her 90 days to sell the property and that the possession order had expired. Ms H said 
Halifax hadnt taken  into account her mental  health  issues and was bullying her relying on 
courts orders that no longer had any force.
Ms H complained to Halifax.  It apologised  and said that it would give Ms H an opportunity to 
sell the property without  taking action itself and paid £200 compensation for any trouble and 
upset caused.  Halifax also explained that the possession order  in place mayve needed 
leave from the court  to enforce.
Ms H complained to us, and sold the property  in the meantime. The investigators view was 
that Halifax wasnt at fault. He noted  that the possession order was from July 2014, so less 
than six years had passed,  but it wasnt for this service to make a decision about whether it 
was legally enforceable  that was a matter for the courts. 
The investigator said that Ms H did tell Halifax  about  her plan to sell the property in March  
2019, and she was told that it wasnt guaranteed  that enforcement  action wouldnt be taken 
in the meantime. He pointed out that later in March, Ms H called Halifax back to update it 
and was told for any enforcement action to be stopped,  she needed to pay the arrears  or 
send evidence of sale. Once the property was on the market,  Ms H received offers and it 
was only then Halifax accepted that it shouldve sent her forms about the sale and given  her 
time to sell the property  previously  the investigator  thought  that this shouldve  been done 
much earlier.  But he thought £200 compensation was fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances.
Ms H disagreed. She said £200 was an insult and that shed been told by Halifax  that the 
appropriate possession  order  wasnt  in place. The investigator said that Halifax  had dealt 
with the complaint using a summary  resolution system, so it had been  dealt  with. He said 
that it was possible  Ms H was given  incorrect  information but the court order was valid, so if 
incorrect information had been given about the order, it didnt make  a real difference. Ms H 
felt that she couldve  lost everything, but the investigator pointed  out that she was given time 
to sell the property  shortly after Halifax said that it was going to enforce the order, so this 
wasnt correct. Ms H said shed suffered mental anguish, but didnt provide independent 
evidence.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Complaints handling  isnt a regulated 
Ref: DRN68734542activity within the jurisdiction of this service, but I can look at whether Halifaxs  actions 
generally were fair and reasonable.
Lenders are required to treat customers in financial difficulties fairly;  a borrower in mortgage 
arrears clearly is facing financial difficulties. But treating a borrower fairly needs  to take into 
account the size and age of the mortgage  arrears as just allowing the matter  to drift mightnt 
be in the best interests of the customer. Their equity  in the property is being reduced,  while  
the costs for which theyre liable increase. And when taking out a mortgage, the borrower 
promises to repay the money as agreed.
Ms Hs complaint could  be split into two parts  she isnt happy  that Halifax was going  to rely 
on a possession order which she says is unenforceable as a matter  of law; Ms H also 
complains about  how she was treated after she told Halifax she planned to sell the property.
The investigator is correct  to say that court orders and their enforceability isnt a matter  for 
this service. On the face of it though, an order from 2014 is enforceable in 2019, but 
permission from the court may be needed  first. The real question  is whether it was fair and 
reasonable for Halifax to threaten enforcement action after Ms H first called in March  2019 to 
tell it her plans to sell the property.
Ms H was known to Halifax to have  mental health issues and to be vulnerable. Particular 
care is required when  dealing with such customers.  And as the investigator and Halifax  have 
said, Halifax got it wrong when dealing with Ms H. While in the first call, Ms H was only 
telling Halifax her plan,  having considered the evidence available  to me, including  Ms Hs 
health and the history  of her being co-operative generally and updating Halifax, I think  
Halifax when reviewing  the case shouldnt have decided to enforce in March 2019.  It wasnt 
fair or reasonable  and there was an alternative  Ms H had said she was willing  to sell. And I 
think Halifax couldve sent the sale of property forms earlier, as itself accepted.
But I note when Ms H complained, Halifax  swiftly  realised its error. It sent the forms, gave 
Ms H time to sell and paid £200  compensation. With the exception  of the amount of 
compensation paid,  I dont see what  else Halifax reasonably  couldve done  to put things 
right.
Money never  truly compensates for trouble and upset suffered. Ms H said that her mental  
health was seriously  affected by Halifaxs failings. While I have  listened  very carefully to 
what Ms H has said, she hasnt  provided any objective evidence; it appears that she was 
able to carry on and sell the property. I have no doubt at all that Ms H was upset and 
troubled by Halifaxs  failure, but awards  for trouble and upset are generally modest. Taking  
all the circumstances  into account, as well as this services guidance, I think  £200  is fair and 
reasonable and reflects  the trouble and upset caused by Halifax threatening enforcement 
action, and it failing to send the sale of property forms when Ms H told it that the property 
was with estate  agents.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Ms H to accept or reject my decision before 30 
April 2020.
Claire Sharp
Ref: DRN68734543ombudsman
Ref: DRN6873454