K820x#14complaint
Mrs B has complained that she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy 
by Santander  UK Plc (Santander) in 2003.
background
Mrs B took out a PPI policy to cover  her mortgage repayments. The policy  covered her 
against accident, sickness and unemployment  for up to 12 months in any one claim. The 
cost of PPI was £21.62 a month and paid out a benefit of £358 a month. Mrs B thinks PPI 
had been mis-sold as she said it was added without her agreement.
 
Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and didnt think  it should be upheld.  Mrs B 
disagreed, so the complaint was passed  to me for a decision.
Having considered the complaint I agreed  with the adjudicator that the complaint wasnt  one 
I thought should be upheld, but for different  reasons. So I issued a provisional decision and 
asked Mrs B and Santander  to let me have  anything further  theyd like me to think about.
I said this was a difficult  complaint  to decide as there wasnt  a lot of information about the 
PPI policy. Santander  hadnt been able to provide a signed agreement  to take out PPI. But I 
didnt think that alone meant Mrs B didnt want PPI or agree to take it out. The sale took 
place several years  ago and, as theres no requirement for documents  to be kept indefinitely, 
I couldnt say it followed  Santander had done  anything wrong.
Santander said Mrs B took out a mortgage in 1998 and the PPI was taken out in 2003 when 
there was a transfer in equity. So I thought Mrs B would have known she could  have had a 
mortgage without  a PPI policy in place,  as that had been the situation between 1998  and 
2003.
From what  I know about how Santander  sold PPI, Mrs B would have had to complete a 
separate application for PPI and set up a separate direct debit from her mortgage payment. 
So if Santander followed  its normal process,  and I hadnt seen anything to suggest  it didnt, 
Mrs B would have known she was taking out a PPI policy. So although I thought  it was 
possible PPI was added without her agreement, on balance, there wasnt enough for me to 
say it wasnt made clear PPI was an optional product.
Santander said it was likely to have recommended PPI to Mrs B. So it had to make sure the 
recommendation was suitable for her needs.  Our adjudicator thought that Santanders  
recommendation seems  to have been right for Mrs B considering her circumstances.
Mrs B disagreed. She said she received 12 months  full sick pay from her employer followed 
by 6 months half pay if she was unable to work  because of an accident or sickness. And that 
meant she didnt need  the PPI as her employee  benefits provided her more  cover than the 
PPI.
I carefully considered  whether I thought that the PPI policy  was suitable for Mrs B. Having 
done so, I thought it was  but for different reasons to our adjudicator.  
If Mrs B received  12 months full sick pay followed by 6 months  half pay, I didnt think  she 
would have needed the policy or thought it was good value for money. But after careful 
consideration, I thought it was unlikely that Mrs B would have received the level of sick pay 
Ref: DRN66816072she said she received.  From what I know and had seen of employee  benefits across a 
variety of industries,  and given the length  of time that Mrs B had been employed, I thought it 
was unlikely that she would have received the level of sick pay she said she did.  
So I thought  that it was more likely,  based on what I had seen at the time, that the policy  
would have been of use to Mrs B given that it potentially covered her mortgage repayments 
for up to 12 months per claim for accident, sickness or unemployment.  I also had to bear in 
mind that Mrs B was solely responsible for meeting the mortgage  repayments. And 
considering a mortgage is a long term financial commitment with serious consequences if 
repayments arent met, I couldnt  fairly say that the advisers recommendation was wrong or 
unreasonable. 
But I said If Mrs B was able to provide details about  her sick pay and/or evidence that she 
received the level of sick pay she said she did at the time she was sold the PPI policy,  then I 
would reconsider my provisional conclusions before issuing a final decision.
I noted Santander also had to give Mrs B enough information so she could decide whether 
or not to take the policy out. I couldnt  be sure she was given all the information she should 
have been. But I thought  she would  have bought the policy anyway even if she was given all 
the information. That was because I thought the policy was suitable for Mrs Bs 
circumstances and would have protected the mortgage payments if she wasnt  able to work.  
So I didnt think that Mrs B was worse  off as a result  of anything Santander possibly did 
wrong as she would have still taken the policy out.
Neither Mrs B nor Santander responded to my provisional decision with anything  further.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs complaint.
As neither party gave  me anything further to consider,  Ive decided not to change  my 
provisional conclusions.
Ref: DRN66816073my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Bs complaint against  Santander  UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6681607