K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Nationwide Building Society has failed to agree to their 
claim for a chargeback. 
background
Mr and Mrs B are claiming back money  they paid from 2013 onwards  for a holiday club 
membership. Some of the money  was paid by a Nationwide debit card.  Some  of it was paid 
by bank transfers. 
Mr and Mrs B made the last payments in November 2015. They  complained to Nationwide in 
late 2018. Nationwide said it was too late for Mr and Mrs B to make  a chargeback  claim.  
Our adjudicator agreed. She said the bank transfers didnt fall under the chargeback 
scheme. She said the payments  by debit card potentially did, but under the terms of the Visa 
chargeback scheme,  which was the relevant scheme, it was too late for Mr and Mrs B to 
make a claim. 
Mr and Mrs B were  disappointed by the adjudicators conclusions. They sought to explain 
why theyd delayed  making their claim.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mr and Mrs B but 
Ive reached the same  conclusions as the adjudicator.
Im sorry  Mr and Mrs B became unhappy with the benefits the club membership  gave them. 
That alone  doesnt of course mean  Nationwide has to reimburse them.  
Mr and Mrs B have  made a chargeback claim. This is different from a claim under section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974, which might  have been relevant if Mr and Mrs B had paid 
via a credit  card. I say this because Mr and Mrs B have made references to breach of 
contract and misrepresentation, which would have been relevant to a section 75 claim.
Under the Visa chargeback scheme, there  are indeed  time limits. These  are strict,  not in the 
sense of being short  the time limits  are 120 days or sometimes  540 days  - but in the sense 
of being strictly adhered to. 
Mr and Mrs B made their last payments  in November 2015. They brought  their chargeback  
claim to Nationwide  in late 2018. This is well outside  the permitted time limits. Nationwide  
acted within  its rights to reject the claim.  I dont  think Nationwide  has treated Mr and Mrs B 
unfairly as a result.
The reasons  Mr and Mrs B delayed making their claim  are, Im afraid,  irrelevant in this case. 
The time limits apply nonetheless. 
Ref: DRN66295712my final decision
Im unable to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6629571