K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about the way Assurant General Insurance Limited dealt with a claim on his 
mobile phone insurance  policy.
background
Mr K had some problems with his mobile  phone, so he made a claim on his policy.  Assurant 
considered his claim and offered to replace his phone with a refurbished one. But given that 
Mr Ks phone was new, he didnt want a refurbished phone,  and felt that Assurant should  
cover the cost of repairing  his phone,  as it had done  this in the past.
Assurant explained  to Mr K that due to changes  in their processes they now didnt repair 
phones by his manufacturer.  They pointed out that the policy  terms said they would  either 
repair or replace  a damaged phone, and that by offering  to replace the phone they had met 
their obligations  to him.
Mr K remained unhappy;  he felt that Assurants policy terms should make it clear  that they 
will only repair certain phones. Mr K says if this had been made clear to him then he wouldnt 
have continued  with the policy.
Our investigator didnt  think Assurant  had done anything wrong. Mr K disagreed  and asked 
for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
The policy terms explain  that when considering  a claim  Assurant will choose  to either repair  
or replace a phone. And where  a phone is to be replaced it could  be a refurbished  handset.  
This isnt unusual in mobile phone insurance  policies,  and I think  this term is clearly  and 
plainly set out in both the policy summary  and the policy document. 
And theres  no obligation on Assurant to set out in the policy  terms whether its likely to 
repair or replace  a phone  depending on what make  it is. Particularly as Assurants decision 
to repair  or replace a phone under any specific claim could change depending  on a number  
of factors outside  of Assurants control. I appreciate that under  an earlier claim Mr K did have 
a phone repaired, but I dont think that means  that Assurant had to do the same thing with 
this claim or any subsequent claims.
Taking everything into account,  I think Assurant offered to deal with the claim in line with the 
policy terms. As those policy terms represented the scope  of cover agreed by Mr K and 
Assurant when Mr K took out the policy. So I dont  think Assurant acted unfairly here,  and it 
follows that I dont  think it needs to do any more.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Ref: DRN63746102Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6374610