K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a number of packaged  
bank accounts.  Mr H paid a monthly  fee for the accounts which  provided several benefits in 
return.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  December  
2018. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision, so I will not repeat 
that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  
Both parties  confirmed receipt of my provisional  decision but neither added  any further 
comments.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive received  nothing to change my mind I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I 
reached in my provisional decision. 
It follows that I uphold  this complaint.
putting things right
Lloyds should  put Mr H in the position hed be in now if it hadnt mis-sold  him the Premier 
account. So Lloyds  needs to: 
Pay Mr H the amount he paid each month for the Premier account
Add simple interest to each payment from when he paid it until he gets it back. The rate 
of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr H has saved money  because of a better rate on his overdraft, loan or savings 
account by having  the Premier account and Lloyds can show  exactly  how much Mr H 
saved, it may deduct these savings from the amount it pays him. Lloyds  must  explain 
clearly and simply to Mr H how it has worked out any deductions.
Lloyds can deduct the difference between the Premier and Platinum account fees (and 
interest) that it has already paid to Mr H from the total amount it pays him.
Lloyds should  refund any over limit or unauthorised borrowing fees that it hasnt already 
refunded, that were  caused as a direct result of the packaged account fees
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Lloyds  to take off tax from this interest.  Lloyds  must give Mr H a 
certificate showing  how much tax it has taken off, if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN63719312my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  I uphold this complaint and require Lloyds 
Bank PLC to put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63719313EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED DECEMBER 2018
complaint
Mr H has complained that Lloyds  Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a number of packaged bank 
accounts. Mr H paid a monthly fee for the accounts which provided several  benefits  in return.
background
Mr H has held three packaged bank accounts with Lloyds. He held a Gold  Service account from at 
least 2001, a Platinum account  from June 2006, and a Premier account  from November 2006. His 
account was downgraded to a fee-free account in February 2016.
Lloyds upheld  Mr Hs complaint in relation to the Gold and Platinum accounts,  and it refunded the 
fees Mr H had paid for them, plus interest.
Lloyds partially refunded  the fees that Mr H paid for the Premier account. Lloyds  said that whilst it 
didnt think the Premier account was right for Mr H, it did think  the cheaper Platinum account  wouldve 
been  so it refunded the difference  between  the cost of those two accounts.
One of our adjudicators  thought that Lloyds had resolved the complaint fairly, so she didnt 
recommend that Lloyds  should pay Mr H any more compensation.  Mr H didnt agree so he asked for 
an ombudsman to look at the complaint and make a final decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve explained how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website. Ive used 
this approach to help decide  what  to do about Mr Hs complaint. 
Where evidence  is incomplete and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision based 
on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping in mind  everything Ive seen and been told.
After giving  Mr Hs complaint a lot of thought,  I dont think the way Lloyds has resolved it is fair. Ill 
explain why.
Lloyds says that the Premier account that it sold Mr H in November 2006 exceeded  his needs. The 
main benefits  of that account  were car breakdown cover, mobile phone  insurance, worldwide travel 
insurance, home emergency cover, and identity theft protection.
Mr H hasnt made much use of the benefits of the Premier account. Although I note that he did use 
the car breakdown  cover  in 2007 and 2010.
Lloyds says that Mr H used  the Relay feature of the car breakdown cover. This is an enhanced 
feature thats  not available with all of Lloyds packaged accounts, and the cheapest account its 
included with is the Platinum  account.  So Lloyds says that even if Mr H didnt  need all of the benefits 
of the Premier  account, he still needed  the Platinum  account because of the car breakdown covers  
Relay feature.
Whilst I dont  dispute that Lloyds record suggest that Mr H did use the relay feature of the car 
breakdown cover, I dont think  its fair for Lloyds  to effectively  recommend the Platinum account  with 
hindsight  based on the features that it thinks Mr H mightve used or wanted. Lloyds accepts that it 
shouldnt have sold the Premier account to Mr H, and Im also mindful that before  that Mr H had a 
Platinum account  which Lloyds  had previously  accepted it mis-sold. 
Ref: DRN63719314Theres no clear evidence from the point of sale of the Premier account  that Lloyds shouldve sold Mr 
H the Platinum account  instead. And in those circumstances, its fair and reasonable to say that Mr H 
wouldnt have chosen  to take any packaged account  rather than assuming Mr H mightve  taken a 
different account.
With this in mind  I dont think its fair for Lloyds to only refund the difference  in account fees between 
the Platinum and the Premier accounts. Lloyds  should refund  the full account  fees that Mr H paid for 
the Premier  account, plus interest.
It follows that I intend to uphold the part of Mr Hs complaint about the sale of his Premier account.
Ive noted that Mr H has also complained that the packaged  account fees he was charged for all three 
of his accounts caused  him extra financial difficulties.  In the circumstances, and given  that Lloyds  
agrees it shouldnt  have sold the first two accounts, and I dont think it shouldve sold the Premier 
account, Lloyds should also make sure that it has refunded any over limit or unarranged  borrowing 
fees that resulted directly from the packaged account fees being  charged.
I want  to reassure everyone that Ive looked  at all the information I have about  this complaint.  And 
although I havent listed every point  individually, Ive thought about  everything Mr H and Lloyds have 
said. 
Having done so, I intend to say that Lloyds  needs to further put things right by doing  what  Ive 
explained below.
Ref: DRN6371931