K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that they did not agree to pay for the packaged bank  account  which  
they held in different forms with Barclays Bank UK plc (Barclays) from April 2005 to the 
present.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a current  account with Barclays in November 2002.
The account  was upgraded to an Additions  Account (AA) with a monthly fee in April 2005.
It was then further upgraded to a Premier  Life Account  (PLA)  with a monthly  fee in June 
2009.
It then changed  to a current account with tech,  travel  and home packs which  incurred a fee 
in January 2017.
Mr and Mrs B say they never agreed  to pay any fees at any time and were  never  offered  a 
fee free alternative at any time.
Our adjudicator investigated Mr and Mrs Bs complaint and did not uphold  it. Mr and Mrs B 
disagree and so the case has come to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. Weve  explained  how we handle  
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used the approach  to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
For clarity this decision is only about  the actions of Barclays in relation to the upgrade to the 
AA, the subsequent upgrade to the PLA,  and then the change  to the current account with 
tech, travel  and home packs. Mr and Mrs B have raised a number of other issues during this 
complaint and I will explain later how they should  progress  them.
In my view Mr and Mrs B have been very clear about what their main  complaint is. They  say 
they did not agree to pay for the AA in April 2005. They believe Barclays told them  they 
would get it for free due to the substantial business account they had with Barclays at the 
time.
Mr and Mrs B say that although the account was upgraded  twice, they never  at any time 
agreed to pay fees, and would not have  used the account if they had known they had to pay 
as it wasnt suitable  for them.
Barclays says the fees have  always  appeared on Mr and Mrs Bs statements and they 
regularly communicated  with them  about  the fees, benefits and upgrades. Barclays also 
says that Mr and Mrs B used some  of the benefits.
Ref: DRN67397112The upgrade  to the AA in April 2005
Its not possible for me to know what was said when the AA was opened nearly  fifteen years 
ago, so I can only consider what each party says now and the evidence available.
Firstly Ive considered whether or not Mr and Mrs B were told they had to pay fees for the AA 
in April 2005, and whether  or not they chose to take it out and pay the fees.
Whilst I dont doubt  their honest  recollections, I think their memory is mistaken and its more 
likely than not that Mr and Mrs B were  aware they had to pay fees for the AA. I say this 
because the AA had substantial benefits which I think its unlikely Mr and Mrs B wouldve 
expected to get for nothing. I think it wouldve been  highly unusual  for any bank or financial 
institution to offer free personal packaged  bank accounts to business  customers at the time. 
And the fees appeared on Mr and Mrs Bs statement from the first month  and I think its likely 
they would  have noticed them and challenged them if they werent happy. So I dont think its 
reasonable for me to conclude, as I would have to in order to uphold Mr and Mrs Bs 
complaint on this point,  that its more likely than not Mr and Mrs B were told they didnt have  
to pay fees for the AA and didnt  know they were paying them.
Mr and Mrs B had had a fee free account with an overdraft facility from Barclays for several 
years before the sale of the AA. So they were  aware  fee free accounts with overdrafts were  
available in April 2005. 
So I think Mr and Mrs B knew they had a choice about whether to take out the AA in April 
2005 and they chose  to take it out and to pay the fees for it.
Barclays says that it wasnt an advised sale, and Ive not seen any evidence such  as an 
assessment of Mr and Mrs Bs needs to show that it was. So, I think its more likely  than not 
that it was a non advised  sale and Barclays only needed to provide Mr and Mrs B with 
sufficient information  about the AA to make  an informed  choice.
The AA contained  a range  of benefits including  car breakdown cover, cardholder protection,  
home emergency cover, extended  warranty and a £250 interest free overdraft  facility.  I dont 
know what Barclays said or what information it gave Mr and Mrs B but Barclays was trying to 
sell the AA to Mr and Mrs B so I think its likely it gave them  a full description of the benefits.  
I also think that Mr and Mrs B wouldve been  interested in some  of the benefits. I say this 
because they had a car, they qualified  for the home  emergency cover in their permanent 
place of residence, and they had run an overdraft  for many months prior to the sale. 
And there was nothing  Mr and Mrs B have raised about them personal circumstances at the 
time that would have  prevented them from using  the benefits.  
As this was an information  only sale, it was for Mr and Mrs B to decide if they wanted the 
benefits and then arrange to use them if they wished.
So in my view I can see why Mr and Mrs B mightve  been interested in the AA and there was 
no information that they didnt receive from Barclays that would likely have put them  off 
taking it out.
Ref: DRN67397113The upgrade  to the Premier Life Account in June  2009.
My finding  above  is that I think its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs B knew they were 
paying for the AA. So I think its also more likely than not that they were aware of the 
upgrade to the PLA and the step up in cost and benefits. 
I say this because  Barclays  has provided  evidence that it sent them information about the 
account; the costs  appeared  on their statements; and they were actively using the benefits  of 
the account. As examples,  Mr and Mrs B registered for VIP lounge  use in February  2010;  
used the car breakdown on two occasions  after 2009 and made use of the increased £1000 
overdraft limit.
Again Barclays says that it wasnt an advised sale, and Ive not seen any evidence such  as 
an assessment of Mr and Mrs Bs needs  to show that it was. So, I think  its more likely than 
not that it was a non advised  sale and Barclays only needed to provide Mr and Mrs B with 
sufficient information  about the AA to make  an informed  choice.  
As before Barclays was trying to sell the PLA to Mr and Mrs B, so I think  its likely that it gave 
Mr and Mrs B a full description  of the benefits.  The fact that they the used the benefits  shows 
they were useful to them. And again, as this was an information only sale, it was for Mr and 
Mrs B to decide if they wanted the benefits  and then arrange to use them if they wished.
I note that Mrs B may have needed  special travel insurance, but I think  its likely this would 
have been available on the accounts insurance  for a small additional premium at a 
competitive rate.
So I think its more likely  than not that Mr and Mrs B knew  they were  paying for the PLA, they 
chose to take it out and it was useful for them. And there was no information that they didnt  
receive from Barclays that would likely have put them off taking  it out.
the change to the current account with tech, travel and home packs in 2017
In 2016 Barclays  wrote to Mr and Mrs B to tell them the PLA would no longer be available  
and it was being replaced by a current account  with a tech, travel and home pack that 
offered similar  benefits for a similar fee. Barclays asked  Mr and Mrs B to reply  if they didnt 
want the replacement  account. Mr and Mrs B didnt reply so Barclays wrote  to them again in 
January 2017  to say the change to the account  had been made.  
Ive seen copies  of the letters and they are both correctly addressed, so I think  its more  
likely than not that Mr and Mrs B received at least one of them and could have closed the 
account if they had wished  to. So I dont think Barclays  did anything  wrong  in changing  the 
account in this way.
summary
So, while I know Mr and Mrs B will be disappointed by this, I dont think Barclays  did 
anything wrong  when it upgraded their account  to the AA, upgraded the account to a PLA or 
to a current account with tech, travel and home  pack.
Ref: DRN67397114other issues
Mr and Mrs B have  raised a number  a number of other issues  about this account. They  have 
questioned other charges made to their account  beyond the monthly  fees. Theyre  not happy  
with the speed with which the account  is being  closed down; how the outstanding debt on 
the account has been handled; the impact  on their credit rating;  and they say they have not 
been allowed  to enter a payment plan until the outcome of the decision about the sale and 
upgrades to their account is known. Barclays has responded on some but not all of these 
issues.
To be clear this decision is only about the actions of Barclays in relation to the upgrade to 
the AA, the subsequent upgrade to the PLA,  and then the change to the current  account with 
tech, travel  and home packs. It is not about  any of the issues  listed  in the previous 
paragraph. If Mr and Mrs B wish to complain about  these  issues they should send a specific  
complaint to Barclays about them,  and Barclays should consider  them.  If the issues are 
unresolved they can be brought to this service as a separate complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint about the upgrade  of their 
Barclays account to the AA, the subsequent upgrade to the PLA and then the change to the 
current account with tech, travel  and home  packs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 February  2020.
Richard Hill 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6739711