K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Capital One (Europe) plc didnt inform him that it had assigned  a debt 
he owed on a credit card agreement to another business.
background
Mr C tells us he first took out a credit card agreement  with Capital One in 2008. At various 
times over the following  years he says hes experienced financial difficulties. Mr C has raised 
a number of concerns regarding the credit  card debt hes had with Capital One. The specific  
complaint Ill be addressing in this decision is where  he says he didnt receive notice that 
Capital One had sold its debt to a company Ill call CA. And the first he became  aware  of 
this was when  he found out that CA had instigated court proceedings against him to recover  
the money owed.
Capital One told us the debt had been  sold to CA on 16 March  2017. It said a notice had 
been sent to Mr C advising of this. It explained  that under  the terms and conditions of the 
agreement it was permitted to sell (assign) the debt. And it said that CA would also have 
notified Mr C that it had acquired  the debt and would be dealing with it in future.
Our investigator didnt  recommend this complaint should be upheld. He said under the terms 
and conditions of the agreement Capital  One was able to transfer the debt to another  
business. And he felt it had acted in accordance with the regulatory requirements in doing 
so.
Mr C didnt agree with this outcome. As its not been  possible to resolve the complaint  an 
ombudsmans been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I should explain that Mr Cs complaint  involved other elements  related to this credit  card 
agreement. But those were dealt with in a decision made by another  ombudsman. My 
decision relates only to the issue of whether  Capital  One gave Mr C adequate  notice that it 
had sold (assigned) his debt to another business (CA).
Mr C has experienced  financial difficulties over a number of years and I understand that this 
is never an easy situation to handle. And I accept hed be concerned  to learn  that he was 
being pursued for a debt by a company of which he said he had no knowledge.  Its 
understandable hed be wary about  the possibility of fraud  and I can see why hed attach  
importance to the correct  notification of any changes in the way his debt was administered.
Where evidence is unclear or contradictory  - as some of it is here - Im required  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. 
Ive seen a copy  of a letter dated  13 April 2017  which was sent to Mr C at the address 
Capital One held on file. This letter notified  him that the debt on his credit card account  had 
been sold to CA and that all future  dealings  would need to be with that business.  Ive also 
seen a letter, dated 30 May 2017, from CA which confirmed  it had acquired  the debt.
Ref: DRN66315852I accept that Mr C may not have necessarily been staying at this address to which these 
letters were sent as hes made mention  of moving  between addresses.  But as Im satisfied 
that Capital One arranged  for letters advising of the debt sale to be sent to the address it had 
on file I cant say its done anything wrong.
The terms and conditions  of the agreement, and specifically clause 22 (d), permitted Capital 
One to transfer  any debt owed under the agreement. Our investigator included a copy  of the 
relevant paragraphs when  he issued  his view, so I neednt repeat them  in full here. In these 
circumstances I consider that Capital One has taken  reasonable steps  to make Mr C aware  
that the debt had been transferred. 
I appreciate that Mr C feels hes been unfairly treated during the process which  followed the 
sale of the debt. But as Im limited to dealing only with the issue of the notification of that 
assignment, I dont  think Capital One did anything wrong in that respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 April 2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6631585