K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1999. Mrs R says Lloyds  Bank PLC mis-sold  her the PPI.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mrs Rs postal credit card application had a section for optional  features, one of which 
was PPI. It briefly explained what the policy was for and had two boxes to choose from: 
one if she wanted PPI and one if she didnt.  Both boxes were equally prominent. The box 
to buy PPI was ticked and Mrs R signed and returned the form. So I think that Lloyds  
made it clear Mrs R didnt have to take out PPI and that she chose to take it  though 
I can understand if she no longer remembers doing  so after so long.
Lloyds didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs R, so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
her. It did have to make  sure Mrs R got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mrs R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take out the policy - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI. And she didnt have 
any other protection in place in case she was off sick or lost her job. I understand Mrs R 
may have had some savings, but she couldnt  remember how much these were or 
whether they were  appropriately accessible, and it sounds like in any case  they were 
needed for other things. So the policy could have really been  useful for Mrs R in case  
something went wrong. And so I dont think better information  about the PPI would have 
put her off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs R because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs R about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell her, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ref: DRN63353062What the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should  also pay back to Mrs R any extra  interest she paid 
because of that.
That means Lloyds  should re-work the credit card account and pay back to Mrs R the 
difference between  what  she owes and what she wouldve  owed if the commission and profit 
share it got hadnt  been over 50% of the cost of the PPI. Lloyds should also pay Mrs R 8%* 
simple interest if she paid off the credit card at some point.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs R can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mrs R.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mrs R any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. If it has already done  this, then I dont award 
any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs R to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 August 2019..
Adam Charles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6335306