K822xComplaint
Mr M complains that Landmark  Mortgages  Limited  reported information to credit  reference  
agencies (CRAs) incorrectly, resulting in him being  unable to remortgage.
Background 
Mr M has a mortgage with Landmark. The mortgage started in 2006 and was scheduled  to 
run for 30 years on a capital and interest  repayment basis.  The initial amount of the 
mortgage was approximately £96,000. But Mr M also borrowed approximately £7,000  on an 
unsecured basis, repayable on similar terms to the mortgage. 
In January 2018, he called Landmark  to say hed struggle to make  his next payment 
because he was off work  and only receiving half pay. Mr M says he asked for a payment 
holiday and when Landmark agreed  he wouldnt have to make the February payment, it 
didnt tell him about the impact on his credit file.
As Mr M was unable to return  to work  as quickly as hed hoped, he contacted Landmark 
again in February  about the March  payment.  Rather  than agreeing to Mr M missing another 
payment during that call, Landmark suggested  a change of payment  date.  Mr M agreed that 
it may be of help to change his payment date from the beginning of each month to the 
middle  just after the date hed usually get paid. So, Landmark changed the date  allowing 
Mr M to get paid again before Marchs mortgage payment was due.
Before Marchs payment was due, Mr M called  Landmark again to say he hadnt  returned to 
full pay, so he couldnt afford to make  Marchs  payment. Landmark agreed that it wouldnt 
expect a payment  for March.
Mr M made a full payment in April,  in time for the April due date. Mr M made  an additional 
manual payment equal to approximately one half of one months payment in April 2018. 
Then, in May, he made an additional manual payment of £50 and agreed a payment 
arrangement of an additional  £50 per month to repay the arrears from June onwards. He 
adhered to that arrangement until he made an additional payment in December 2018 to clear  
the arrears.
Landmark responded to Mr Ms complaint in February 2019. It said it had found 
discrepancies between what its transaction records show and what  it had reported  to CRAs. 
It also confirmed it had told Mr M that it would make  amendments  to his credit  file when he 
had called to query  it in November 2018,  but it had failed to do so. 
Landmark also acknowledged that it had failed to properly inform Mr M that a zero-payment 
arrangement would affect his credit file during a telephone conversation of January 2018. 
But it hadnt led Mr M to believe the zero-payment arrangement was a payment  holiday. It 
said it did make Mr M aware that a zero-payment arrangement  would affect his credit  file 
during a call in February.
To compensate Mr M for its errors, Landmark offered to correct  his credit file and pay him 
£100 for its reporting  inaccuracies and £50 for it giving Mr M inaccurate information  about 
how his credit file might  be affected  and not explaining how long it may take to update  it.
Mr M didnt  accept Landmarks  findings  and brought his complaint to this Service.  Our 
investigator found that Landmarks  offer was fair. He said,  from call recordings supplied  by 
Ref: DRN64157062Landmark, its clear Mr M didnt qualify for a payment  holiday and Landmarks letter 
confirming the zero-payment arrangement does say the credit  file may be impacted. So, 
while Mr M wasnt informed of the impact in the call, our investigator was satisfied that Mr M 
would have been aware from the letter that followed the call. 
Our investigator also found that, while Landmark  did make  errors in its credit file reporting, 
the errors  have now been corrected and its offer in respect of the trouble and upset caused 
is fair.
Mr M didnt  agree. Hes told us he thinks his credit  file shouldnt show any arrears from that 
time. So, his complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
investigator that Landmarks offer is fair and will explain why.
To reach my decision Ive considered whether  Landmark has now corrected Mr Ms credit  
file and what the impact  of its errors  were  on Mr M.
The credit file now
Mr M sent us a copy of his credit file from July 2019  and Landmark  has sent us its 
transaction records covering the period in question   February 2018 to December 2018  
inclusive. Landmark  has also sent us its contact  notes and call recordings.
From the transaction records I can see that both the secured loan and the unsecured loan 
went unpaid in February and March. In April and May both loans were paid but an additional 
card payment of £250 was allocated to the secured loan in April and another of £50 in May.  
The transaction records also show that, from June  to November  an amount above the 
contractual monthly payments  on both loans was paid. In December additional card 
payments were made  on each account followed by amounts equal  to the contractual monthly 
payment.
Landmarks contact notes  and phone calls show  that zero-payment  arrangements  were  
made in respect  of the payments due in February and March, but none arranged  for April 
and May.  They  also show that an arrangement to pay  including a plan to repay the arrears  
 was made for June onwards.
Mr Ms credit file is mostly  as I would expect given what Ive seen above. For April the 
unsecured and secured loans show two and one month arrears respectively. I think there  is 
a difference because the manual payment made  in April was applied to the secured loan 
preventing that from going two months  into arrears. I also think its correct that both accounts  
do show as being  in arrears as arrangements were  not made. 
In May the unsecured loan shows two months  arrears, but the secured loan shows an 
arrangement to pay. The secured loan entry  for May is an amendment and previously 
showed arrears. I think the amendments been  made because  Mr M did make a manual 
overpayment of £50 and that was in line with an arrangement to pay that was discussed 
around that time but didnt  actually  start until June.
Ref: DRN64157063The additional payments in December  cleared  the arrears so I think  its correct that the credit 
file on both accounts is clear from December. The credit file for February,  October and 
November is clear  in respect  of the secured loan. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest 
thats correct, but that isnt to Mr Ms detriment.
Given that the inaccuracies Ive seen arent to Mr Ms detriment, I wont be asking Landmark 
to amend his credit  file and I dont uphold  this part of his complaint.
The impact  of Landmarks errors
Mr M says, from his phone conversations with Landmark in January 2018,  he understood he 
was agreeing a payment holiday.  And he says Landmark didnt  warn  of the impact on his 
credit file. Having listened  to the call recordings,  I found that Mr M did ask for a payment 
holiday, but Landmark told him he didnt qualify for one, but it could agree a zero-payment  
arrangement. I didnt hear Landmark  making him aware during the calls of the impact to his 
credit file, but it did do so in its letter  of 15 January 2018, confirming the arrangement. So, I 
think he should have  known the arrangement would impact his credit file before the payment 
in February was due. And, if he could have afforded to make the payment, he would have 
had time to do so after receiving Landmarks  letter.
There was no arrangement to pay agreed before the April and May due dates, so Mr Ms 
credit file correctly shows arrears  though, as mentioned above, the May entry on the 
secured loan has been amended in Mr Ms favour. I understand that Mr M is concerned that 
this has affected  his ability to obtain  a remortgage and may do for a period of six years.  
While I can see that he was in a very difficult position at that time, I think Landmarks 
reporting to CRAs was reasonable because it does have a duty to report  arrears  and 
payment arrangements.  So, I dont think Landmark has caused  any difficulties Mr M has now 
in relation to obtaining credit.
So, I think Landmarks offer of redress is fair in respect of its failure to tell Mr M during the 
January calls and the initial errors in reporting to CRAs. I say that because the impact of 
those errors  is relatively low given that Mr Ms credit file correctly shows arrears and he was 
informed a missed payment would affect  his credit record   albeit in a letter  rather than on 
the phone.
Ref: DRN64157064My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint about Landmark Mortgages  Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2021.
Gavin Cook
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6415706