K820x#14Complaint
Ms C complains about the advice she was given by Fish Financial Ltd (FFL) in 2016  to 
contribute to a Self-Invested Personal Pension  (SIPP)  in order to reduce her tax liabilities.
Background
In late March 2016 Ms C met with an adviser from FFL to discuss  reducing her income  tax 
bill for the financial  year 2015-16.
She was a senior ranking  officer in HM armed forces and was a higher-rate tax payer. She 
was a member of the non-contributory Armed Forces Pension Scheme (AFPS).
As a result of the meeting, FFL advised  Ms C to make a pension  contribution  (£28,000 
gross) into a SIPP. This would reduce her income tax bill for the financial year 2015-16  by 
£5,600.
Given the close proximity to the end of the tax year, FFL was only able to produce a Vision  
Report which was in effect  a shortened recommendation document.  Ms C accepted the 
advice contained  in the Vision Report to open the SIPP and her payment into it was 
completed prior to the end of the tax year 2015-16. As a result, she was able to reduce the 
level of higher rate tax due in her 2015-16 tax return. But, when the gross  contribution  of 
£28,000 was combined with her employer contributions into her occupational  pension 
scheme for 2015-16, she had exceeded  her annual allowance (£40,000) of pension 
contributions. So, to ensure there  was no tax charge applied to her account, she used nearly 
£6,000 of the previously unused annual allowance from 2012-13  for the excess.
In 2018 Ms C received a tax charge  from HMRC  as she had exceeded the £40,000 
allowance for 2016/17.  This was because she had been promoted in 2015 (this was not 
known by FFL at the time of the advice)  and her employer pension  contributions  were  
increased in 2016-17 to cover her backdated new higher level of final salary pension.  This 
was a one-off  payment by her employer of £103,041.61, an excess of £63,041.61  over the 
annual allowance. And because there was insufficient unused  annual allowance  from the 
previous three years, she was subject to a tax charge.
She complained to FFL. She said she shouldve been made aware  of the potential that she 
could lose the tax relief she obtained as a result of her contribution  to her SIPP  in 2015-16,  
and that had she known the tax relief was not guaranteed, she would not have made the 
investment.
FFL didnt uphold her complaint. It said that based on the information  she had provided:
There was sufficient  unused allowance for the SIPP contribution, by using carry 
forward, for there to be no charge on the contribution for 2015/16. 
They provided a breakdown of previous years contributions by her DB scheme which  
showed she hadnt exceeded her allowance for the previous tax years and the 
accrual in the 2016/17 year could not have been  predicted.
 She had a net benefit of £14,549 from the recommendation to open the SIPP given 
the subsequent investment growth,  taken with the higher-rate tax relief  she had 
received.
The money in her SIPP could be taken as income, or left as a lump-sum to benefit 
her husband or daughter without inheritance tax implications,  unlike the AFPS.
Ref: DRN62168862It disputed the level of tax charge, which Ms C said was £8,800.  It said the figure  
should be £6,785.87 (this figure  has subsequently  been accepted  by Ms C and no 
longer forms part of the complaint).
Ms C didnt agree so brought  the complaint to our service. But our investigator  didnt  uphold  
the complaint.  He thought:
It made no difference that the Vision Report  was provided, rather  than a full suitability 
report, as Ms Cs position would have been  the same. He also thought most of the 
rationale for the advice was included in the Vision  Report  anyway.
FFL had correctly based their advice  on the assumption that there was sufficient 
annual allowance  available  to allow the contribution to the SIPP  without an 
associated tax charge.
It wasnt necessary for FFL to give a general warning to Ms C that tax relief  was only 
available on contributions up to £40,000 given the risk of exceeding that limit in future  
years was perceived as remote.
There wasnt any basis at the time of the advice for believing future DB scheme 
inputs might exceed the annual allowance by so much,  as happened in 2016-17.
The SIPP contribution  hadnt caused the tax liability in 2016-17. He thought this had 
been caused by the DB scheme  benefit increase, and he didnt think  this was 
reasonably foreseeable when the advice was given.
So he didnt think the tax liability arising in 2016-17  was a consequence of the advice to use 
available tax relief  in 2015-16.
Ms C responded that she had been promoted  in 2015, which was some nine months before 
the advice meeting in March 2016.  But she said FFL had only asked her about her current  
income and didnt ask if shed  had a recent pay rise, or if one was expected.  She didnt know 
the significance  of the promotion, or the delayed spiking effect  this would have on her 
pension input in 2016-17.  But she thought that FFL should have asked about recent 
promotions, and had it done  so it would have put it on the path to discovering the future  DB 
pension spike, and the potential tax liability.
FFL responded by saying;
Even if it had had advance knowledge  of the potential future pension increase, it 
wouldve still advised Ms C to make the SIPP contribution, as the tax charge for 
exceeding the annual allowance in 2016-17 was equal to the tax relief  gained on the 
SIPP contribution.  So there would have  been  a potential lost opportunity  if the DB 
pension increase had not occurred or had been  smaller than expected.
It thought Ms C had gained financially  from following its advice. She had gained  from 
the growth on the tax-free cash within the SIPP since inception.
Ms C hadnt made them aware she had been  recently promoted,  with all of its 
paperwork showing her current rank and salary.
Our investigator reviewed  the case in the light of the additional information but maintained 
his view that the complaint shouldnt be upheld. He thought  that had FFL been aware of Ms 
Cs recent promotion, then the 2016-17 DB pension spike  was foreseeable in principle, but 
FFL hadnt asked  Ms C and she hadnt  volunteered this information. And although he 
thought it would probably be good  practice for businesses to ask about recent pay rises or 
similar, it wasnt common practice so it wouldnt be fair to say FFL had erred by not asking 
the question. But he also thought it was unreasonable to suggest Ms C should have 
Ref: DRN62168863volunteered the information as it was unlikely she would have known its significance over 
future years.
And he thought  the bottom  line was that he couldnt  see how Ms C had suffered a financial 
loss anyway. The tax charge was HMRC recovering the earlier tax relief, which meant Ms C 
had paid £28,000 for a pension worth £28,000.  And the only loss that could occur would be 
when Ms C took money out from her pension, which she couldnt do for several  years, and it 
was impossible to say what,  if any, tax implications  there would be then. And even if FFL 
had known about the future pension increase it would still have been reasonable advice to 
contribute to the SIPP given it was a very effective investment vehicle and in the future  in 
terms of inheritance tax.
Ms C didnt agree  she thought the advice she was given was inadequate and inaccurate  
and believed  FFL should be responsible for the whole  loss incurred. Because of the advice 
she now held a SIPP which she was unable to access, and would be unable to until she was 
57, and 75% of it would  be taxed at her highest level,  which applied to any growth as well. 
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
Ms C has provided details of a previous  ombudsmans decision which  she says supports her 
assertion that the adviser shouldve asked about changes to her employment circumstances. 
Ms C, along  with her husband, also have another complaint against  FFL with our service  
regarding the investment  advice they were  given. This complaint is being  considered  
separately and will not be addressed in my decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  assessed everything,  Im 
afraid Im not going to uphold this complaint.  I know  this will come  as a disappointment  to 
Ms C, but I will explain my reasoning.
A regulated financial business has to perform its role in line with its professional obligations.  
This is stipulated in the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) handbook, the relevant part being 
COBS 9.2.1 which states:
(1)A firm must:
(a)take reasonable steps to ensure that a personal recommendation, or a 
decision to trade,  is suitable  for its client; and
(b)
(2)When making the personal recommendation or managing his investments, the 
firm must obtain the necessary information regarding  the clients:
(a)knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific  
type of designated investment or service;
(b)financial situation; and
(c)investment objectives;
So as to enable  the firm to make the recommendation, or take the decision, which is 
suitable for the client.
Ref: DRN62168864I agree  that had FFL asked Ms C if she had been recently promoted or if there had been any 
significant changes  to her employment, this may have led to the discovery  that she could 
expect a larger contribution into her DB scheme from her employer in 2016-17.  However, I 
dont think it would be fair or reasonable to expect advisers to ask questions that cover every  
possible permutation of a customers  situation, when there was nothing to indicate there was 
a need for it. Indeed, FFL asked Ms C for her annual income, which  she gave as her current  
salary, despite only taking this enhanced salary for part of that year.  So Im satisfied  there 
was nothing to indicate to FFL that further questions about her career history were 
necessary. And Im not aware that asking  customers if they have been promoted in the last 
12 months is common practice in the industry. 
But even if FFL had asked the question, or if Ms C had volunteered the information, I cant 
be sure it wouldve made  a difference and FFL or Ms C wouldve done  anything different  
there were only two weeks left of the financial year, so time was of the essence to achieve 
Ms Cs objective of reducing  her higher-rate tax burden for that year.  And to get the 
information about future scheme contributions would have meant FFL having to contact the 
AFPS administrators, and I think its unlikely  there  would have been time to do this, obtain 
the required information, relay this to Ms C, and to then complete the contribution  to the 
SIPP before the end of the tax year.
I now turn to the Vision report  and whether this was enough to allow Ms C to make an 
informed decision.  I have looked  at it closely, and although it includes a lot of detail about 
other investments which werent linked to her tax-mitigation advice, Im satisfied  that it was 
comprehensive enough for Ms Cs needs. Its detailed in its background, specifies  her aims 
and objectives  and indicates  what she could  do in order  to claim 40% tax relief, which was 
her objective  for 2015-16. It goes  on to say that FFLs investment report  would provide 
recommendations, but given how close they are to the end of the financial year,  she might 
need to decide what she wanted to do prior to this being completed. 
I also dont think,  given that Ms Cs annual allowance  had not been exceeded for any of the 
previous years, and there was no obvious  reason to expect that this was likely to change,  it 
would be fair or reasonable to expect FFL to have  included  a generic warning within the 
Vision Report which would cover  the specifics of this case, e.g. making  Ms C aware that by 
using her annual  allowance for the year, there would be no carry forward  allowance  available 
to her, should  a future years contributions exceed  £40,000. And in any case, as her specific  
objective was to reduce her tax burden for that year, I think  its most likely that she would  
have followed FFLs advice to open  a SIPP, even  if the generic warning was included.
Because of all of the above,  I am satisfied that FFL did take reasonable steps to ensure  the 
recommendation was suitable.
I also agree  with the investigator in that Ms C hasnt  actually  suffered a quantifiable financial 
loss. The tax-charge  she incurred was as a direct result of the spike  in her DB pension 
contribution by her employer in 2016-17, which Im satisfied wasnt reasonably foreseeable 
by FFL, and not by the contribution she made  to the SIPP in 2015-16.  But the tax charge 
was equivalent  to the tax relief she achieved from the SIPP  contribution, and that the 
£28,000 invested in the SIPP  cost her £28,000. 
The only loss is the loss of access to the funds which have been invested in the SIPP, which 
cannot be withdrawn  until Ms C is 55 at the earliest  and possibly 57 if the age is increased 
as intended. But Ms C was willing to forgo access to this money  in order  to obtain tax relief  
at the time of the advice,  and most  likely wouldve been aware that if she eventually 
Ref: DRN62168865withdrew it, some tax would likely be payable at that point. But there is no way of knowing 
what that charge  may be, as Ms C has the ability to manage her finances in such  a way that 
she may not have to pay any tax when she withdraws her pension. It is also possible that 
Ms C may not wish to access the pension within the SIPP at all, and so not be liable for any 
tax on it. As such it wouldnt be reasonable to require FFL to compensate  Ms C for a charge 
which may never occur.
Lastly, I will address the previous ombudsmans decision referred to above. When assessing 
any complaint, the role of an ombudsman is to assess the evidence, to come  to a fair and 
reasonable outcome on the merits of the specifics of that complaint. Whilst trying to be 
consistent with previous  decisions, the outcome  will always be specific to the individual 
complaint as all circumstances are different. 
And this is the case with this complaint, compared  to the decision that Ms C has cited.  In that 
case, there was information which was directly pertinent to the advice being given by the 
adviser, which, had he known about it, would  almost certainly have changed  his advice as it 
meant the consumer would certainly have been penalised by HMRC. And the ombudsman 
decided that the adviser  should have asked  the consumer specific  questions during the fact 
find, as this information was necessary for them to give informed advice. Now, Ms Cs 
complaint is different, in that the question of whether there had been  any recent changes to 
her employment wasnt  directly linked to the advice she was asking FFL to give her  how 
she could reduce her higher-rate tax liability in 2015-16. So, whilst  I acknowledge the 
previous decision  is similar, there  is an important difference, and Im satisfied it has little 
bearing on this complaint.
As a result of all of the above,  I dont uphold this complaint.
My final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2021.
Chris Riggs
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6216886