K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains about the settlement amount  offered by U K Insurance Limited (UKI)  
following a claim she made for a damaged  sofa under her contents insurance policy. 
background
In April 2019 Mrs Es sofa was damaged,  so she made a claim under her contents insurance 
policy. UKI accepted  the claim and arranged for the sofa to be inspected by an independent 
engineer.  
The inspection took place in May 2019.  Unfortunately, the damaged  sofa could not be 
repaired, and so the engineer was required  to provide a valuation.  The engineer said the 
sofa was part of a suite made up of the sofa, two single arm chairs  and a footstool. They 
valued it at £2,926, which was in line with what they considered to be a like-for-like 
replacement from UKIs  supplier. Mrs Es policy excess was £100. 
UKI used  the independent report along  with what the engineer considered to be a suitable  
replacement suite and offered to cash  settle  the claim for £2,826. It deducted Mrs Es excess  
from the settlement  amount. 
Mrs E was unhappy with this amount.  She had found other  suites online which  she said were  
to a more similar specification to her damaged suite.  She provided UKI with these examples 
for its consideration. 
UKI agreed  the examples  Mrs E provided  were  also to a similar specification. However, it 
maintained that it had found a suitable replacement suite and had provided Mrs E with a fair 
settlement to meet the claim. 
Mrs E remained unhappy.  She said she would be prepared to accept  £3,500 in order  to 
settle the claim. But UKI disagreed. It remained of the view that £2,826 was a reasonable 
offer and referred  Mrs E to the terms and conditions of the policy. So Mrs E brought  a 
complaint to this service.  
Our investigator looked into everything  but didnt agree UKI had acted unfairly. She was 
more persuaded  by the report from the independent  engineer that said £2,826 was a fair 
offer to settle the claim.  So she thought  UKI had settled the claim fairly and reasonably 
under the policy.  
Mrs E disagreed with our investigators  view.  She provided a further report  from an 
independent engineer that gave a figure of £5,202.60  to replace the entire  suite from Mrs Es 
preferred supplier. 
Our investigator put this to UKI for its comments. But UKI maintained  its position  that it had 
provided a fair settlement  offer in line with the policy. Our investigator thought about whether 
this changed her opinion, but it didnt, and so the case was passed  to me for final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN60109972Mrs Es suite  is no longer available to be purchased  from the original  supplier.  This means  
UKI need to provide her with a suitable replacement  or the cash  equivalent  of the 
damaged item with a like-for-like replacement with similar specifications, as new.  
The terms and conditions  of the policy state that in the event a claim is made for damaged 
contents, UKI wont pay more than the amount it would have cost us to replace or repair  
using our own suppliers. This can be found on page 18 in the policy documents. 
Mrs E wasnt  happy with the investigators view and so she provided her own independent 
report from an engineer. Ive considered this report and appreciate there is another suite  
available from Mrs Es preferred supplier  at a cost of £5,202.60. 
I understand why Mrs Es expectations were that UKI should pay her a higher settlement 
amount to replace her suite  with this specific example. However,  the report  shes provided 
doesnt in my view demonstrate that the suite UKI used to provide a cash  settlement is an 
unreasonable or unfair like-for-like comparison either. The report doesnt provide an 
independent view on whether the suite UKI found is of an unreasonable  quality to the suite  
she had. 
Under the terms and conditions  cited  above,  UKI wont pay more than the amount it would 
cost it to replace  the suite using its own suppliers. And UKI has shown what  it would have 
paid to replace  the sofa and the matching items within the suite. So I think it has applied  the 
policy term fairly here. As above, Mrs Es own independent report doesnt  dispute the 
specifications, or the quality of the suite used  by UKI. So Mrs Es report  doesnt persuade 
me to agree with her that UKI has acted unfairly.  
I appreciate Mrs E feels strongly  that the suite used by UKI is not to the same specification  
as her original one. However, I havent  been  persuaded  to agree with her. Im satisfied that 
UKI can rely on an independent  opinion here to determine whether a replacement item is of 
similar specification  to a damaged item. And I havent seen any compelling reasons in this 
case to discredit or dispute UKIs independent report. 
Both independent reports  do agree that Mrs Es sofa could not be repaired or replaced to 
match the rest of the suite.  Mrs Es policy has a benefit of matching items cover  and UKI 
offered to cover 100% of the costs of the matching items within  the suite. So I wont be 
needing to comment  on this any further. 
I appreciate the information Mrs E provided  to us and anticipate  that my decision will come 
as a disappointment  to her. But overall, I am not in agreement that her own independent 
report demonstrates UKI acted unfairly by offering her £2,826  to settle  the claim. Im not 
persuaded that UKIs like-for-like replacement comparison  is unreasonable.  And so I wont  
be asking it to do anything  else here.  
Ref: DRN60109973my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Liam Hickey
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN6010997