K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains The Society of Lloyds  unfairly refused to pay his claim for the theft of his 
bike.
background
In December 2018 Mr A made a claim on his Lloyds  bicycle insurance policy. But it relied on 
unexplained theft and security exclusions to refuse  it. 
An Investigator at this service said Lloyds decision to refuse the claim was unfair.  It didnt 
accept that - so an Ombudsman looked at the complaint. He issued a provisional decision 
explaining why he disagreed with the Investigator. He said Lloyds could fairly rely on the 
security exclusion to refuse the claim.  He also asked  Mr A and Lloyds if they had any further 
comments to make  before a final decision was issued.
Lloyds said it accepted the findings in the provisional decision.  Mr A said he didnt.  The 
original Ombudsmans  no longer with this service. So hes unable to consider the responses  
to the provisional  decision. Because of that the complaint has been  passed to me.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the previous 
ombudsman opinion that Lloyds can fairly rely on the security exclusion to refuse claim. 
The previous  Ombudsman provided a detailed explanation of why he felt Lloyds could fairly  
rely on the security  exclusion to refuse  the claim.  As I broadly agree with his explanation for 
that I havent explained why in detail here. Mr A and Lloyds have already had a chance to 
respond.  
Mr A doesnt  know what happened  to the bike. Hes said various  things about  where  it may 
have been stolen from. Its also been said he may have lost or mislaid  it. For the same 
reasons as given  by the previous Ombudsman, I think  it was probably stolen  not lost. And 
it seems the theft was from either  a hire van or Mr As home. 
The provisional decision outlined  the security exclusion. It applies to theft from both a vehicle 
and home.  With either event cover will only be provided if access  to the bike for theft 
required forcible and violent entry or exit. But theres nothing to show  that was required or 
happened. If it had there  would probably be some sign or evidence of it. Mr A accepts he 
cant show there was any forced  entry - he doesnt  know if the bike was stolen  or mislaid. So 
Lloyds can fairly rely on the exclusion to refuse the claim.
In response to the provisional decision Mr As said he can show he bought a lock. He also 
said the bike cant be locked to an object and the policy doesnt require it to be. None of that 
changes my decision as Lloyds can fairly refuse  the claim due to the lack of force and 
violence.   
Ref: DRN62940222my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not making The Society  of Lloyds pay Mr As claim or do 
anything differently.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Daniel Martin
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6294022