K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Bank of Scotland Plc (trading at the time of sale as Halifax) mis-sold 
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy.
background
Mr T bought  a regular  premium PPI policy in July 1999 alongside  a secured loan. The policy 
and loan ended in 2000.
Mr T thinks Halifax mis-sold the policy to him. He says it was added to his loan 
automatically.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ts complaint. As Mr T doesnt agree  with the adjudicators  
opinion, the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided to not uphold  Mr Ts complaint  for the following reasons:
I cant be sure how the policy was presented to Mr T in the meeting when he met with a 
representative from Halifax.  So Ive needed to rely on his recollections  of what  happened 
and also consider the sales documentation that was used at the time of sale,  to give me 
a better  understanding as to what more  likely  than not happened.
Mr Ts recollections are not detailed but this is understandable as the sale took place 
many years ago. So I have looked  at the sales documentation  and in particular the loan 
agreement to see how the PPI was presented to him. I am persuaded Halifax made 
Mr T aware that the PPI was optional and he chose to take it. I say this because I can 
see that Mr T signed the application form with information  about the PPI on it. Although 
I do acknowledge the point made  regarding  an electronic cross not being something    
Mr T did, I am persuaded when looking at this form and what  I know  of sales that took 
place at that time that a conversation  was most  likely had between  the parties  regarding  
Mr T having  PPI and he agreed to it by signing the application form with PPI selected on 
it.
So I think it is most likely that there  was some discussion  about the PPI policy  in the 
meeting and Mr T agreed  to have it, by signing  the loan application form.
Moving on, Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr T during the meeting. So as it did 
recommend the policy to him, it had additional  responsibilities during the sale to make 
sure the policy  was suitable for Mr Ts needs. But it doesnt  look as if it was unsuitable 
for him based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. Mr T would have 
needed the benefit the cover provided in a difficult time  if he was made  unemployed or 
was sick. I cant  see that he had enough  provisions that it would have put him off from 
obtaining the cover. 
Ref: DRN62714542I can see no other issues  that would have made the policy  unsuitable for Mr T such  as a 
limitation or significant term that would have  affected his ability to claim benefit. Mr T 
says he had a pre-existing medical condition but that he hadnt  had a long period of time 
off work for it. On balance, although  I do acknowledge what  Mr T has said about this, I 
dont think this condition would have made the benefits offered by the policy  unsuitable 
for him based  on what I have  already concluded.
Halifax has provided some information about the costs relating to the PPI policy  that     
Mr T took out. On the loan agreement form I can see that it clearly shows  the monthly  
premium amount, the monthly amount for the loan and then the overall amount to be 
paid per month. So I think the costs of the policy were most likely disclosed in a clear 
way in the meeting. The policy seemed affordable and could have been cancelled  at any 
time by Mr T.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover  or give clear  
information on the significant terms. But its unlikely Mr T wouldve been affected by any 
of these due to his circumstances at the time.
I understand this will come as a disappointment  but in conclusion  I do not uphold Mr Ts 
complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6271454