K821x#15complaint
Miss R complains about the quality of a kitchen  she partly financed through an agreement  
with Hitachi Capital (UK) Plc (Hitachi). 
background
In July 2018 Miss R ordered a new kitchen from a supplier Ill call W. She financed  the 
kitchen, in part, through a fixed sum loan with Hitachi. 
Miss R was disappointed with the kitchen she received as it became  evident during fitting 
that the edging strips  for the worktop  were not long enough and a joint would need to be 
created. W didnt supply edging in longer lengths  and Miss R thought theyd therefore made 
a mistake when designing  the kitchen as she hadnt been informed a joint would be 
necessary.
She contacted Hitachi with whom she said section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
(section 75) allowed her a like claim, as the provider of credit, as she would have against 
the supplier.
Hitachi said it was clear  a joint would always be necessary as there were two rolls of edging 
listed on the sales order form. They said they would give Miss R £100 so she could source 
an alternative longer  edging and they suggested  a supplier who produced edging in the 
required length. But they explained  that they couldnt guarantee a colour match.
So Miss R referred her complaint to this service and our investigator provided her opinion. 
She didnt  think it had been  made  clear to Miss R that there would need to be a join in the 
edging but she didnt think it was unusual to have a join in the edging  of a worktop and she 
wasnt persuaded this suggested thered been a breach  of contract. She noted  that W didnt 
supply edging in the length  required to complete the job. So she suggested that Hitachi  
arrange for the supply of two rolls of edging tape from W; cover the cost of edging tape from 
an alternative supplier if a suitable colour match could be found and pay Miss R £200  to 
compensate her for the distress and inconvenience  shed experienced.
Miss R didnt agree with the investigators view and she therefore asked for a final decision 
by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view of this complaint. I know  that will disappoint Miss R so 
please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Ref: DRN65620492When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Miss R made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a fixed  sum 
loan, as is the case here, it might be possible to recover the money  paid through  a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier.
I can understand that Miss R is upset that she wasnt  told a joint would be required  on her 
worktop edging. As the edge  was a curved  one I can understand that a joint may be a little 
more prominent.  
I dont think theres been sufficient evidence to demonstrate Miss R had been  told thered be 
a joint either.  
But I think it would be disproportionate to suggest  that the worktop should be replaced  or 
that a significant portion of the cost of the kitchen was refunded. I say that because I dont 
think its unusual to have  joints  in kitchen worktops  and because I think the actions that have 
been proposed  have  been reasonable.
It may be that a good colour match  can be found  from an alternative supplier and, if thats 
the case, I think it would  be fair for Hitachi  to cover the cost of that material  and arrange to 
have it fitted to Miss Rs worktops. 
But, if thats not possible, I think it is reasonable for them  to arrange to supply and fit the 
original tape with the requisite joint and, of course,  only with Miss Rs permission.
Miss R has clearly been inconvenienced  by matters and shes explained how important this 
work was to her and the distress  the issue has caused. So I think Hitachi  should compensate 
her for the distress and inconvenience shes experienced and I think  £200 would be a 
reasonable level of compensation.
Ref: DRN65620493my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint in part and tell Hitachi Capital (UK) 
Plc to:
cover  the cost of an alternative edging strip from an alternative supplier if a colour 
match can be found and arrange to have  it fitted to Miss Rs worktops;
pay Miss R £200 to compensate her for the distress and inconvenience shes  
experienced;
arrange to supply and fit the original edging tape if an alternative cant be found and 
Miss R requests this solution.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6562049