K822xcomplaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr and Mrs S hold with Bank  of 
Scotland plc. Theyre unhappy with how Halifax behaved when a problem arose with the title 
registration of the mortgaged  property.  They say Halifaxs responses caused  them  undue  
stress and caused  them  to incur extra legal costs.
background 
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplication and repetition of arguments.  In what follows, I 
have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been  presented,  using 
my own words to do so. 
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying the consumers when my 
decision is published. 
The property Mr and Mrs S were  buying  with the mortgage from Halifax  was hitherto 
unregistered. The legal work in connection  with the purchase was placed  in the hands of a 
firm Ill call M. A problem  arose with the first registration of the property title with HM Land 
Registry, prompting Mr and Mrs S to dis-instruct M and instead  instruct  a firm Ill call C. 
However, M continued to try and register the title and the mortgage (legal charge);  the initial 
application was rejected  by HM Land  Registry, but registration was eventually  completed in 
late March 2019.
Meanwhile Mr and Mrs S were unhappy  with M continuing to work after having been 
dis-instructed. They wanted Halifax to provide documents  to assist in the registration  by C, 
but found Halifaxs response unsatisfactory.  It did provide some documents but these were  
of poor quality, and each  time they contacted  the bank, found themselves talking to different  
people and having to explain everything all over again. 
Halifax offered Mr and Mrs S £300 compensation for the time, trouble and upset they 
experienced. When Mr and Mrs S referred  their complaint to us, our investigator considered 
that £450 was a more appropriate level of compensation for the shortcomings in Halifaxs 
response to the situation. Mr and Mrs S have asked  for the complaint to be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ill start with some  general  observations. Were  not the regulator  of financial businesses, and 
we dont police their internal  processes  or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. We deal with individual  disputes between businesses  and their 
customers. In doing  that, we dont replicate the work  of the courts. 
Ref: DRN69211592Wed only refer something to the FCA ourselves if wed received a large  number of individual  
complaints against  the same business  about the same issue,  indicative of a systemic 
problem or potential regulatory failing.  Thats not the case here.
Were impartial, and we dont take either  sides instructions on how we investigate  a 
complaint. We conduct our investigations  and reach our conclusions  without interference 
from anyone else. But in doing so, we have  to work  within the rules of the ombudsman 
service, and the remit those rules  give us.
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As I said earlier, if I dont comment  on any 
specific point its not because Ive failed to consider  it but because I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider  context.  
I dont have to answer every question posed of me; my remit is to take an overview and 
decide whats fair in the round. Im also constrained by what  the rules  of the ombudsman 
service allow  me to consider in a complaint  against  Halifax. 
I can only consider this complaint in relation to Halifaxs regulated activity of lending  money  
secured on land, and activities ancillary  to that, including registration of the legal charge. 
Unless and until Halifax terminated  its retainer, M was entitled to continue  to act for Halifax,  
but it was Mr and Mrs Ss decision to dis-instruct C in relation to registration of the title. 
Unlike registration of the legal charge, the conveyancing work involved in registration  of title 
isnt a regulated  activity  and therefore not something which  falls within  our remit.
The other thing  I have to keep  in mind is that, although Mr and Mrs S were perfectly entitled 
to terminate Ms retainer, M had two clients, and Halifax had not terminated its retainer. 
Unless and until it did, M was still acting for Halifax and was under  an obligation to Halifax to 
ensure the legal charge  was properly registered  against the title. But I accept that here the 
waters were  muddied by this being a first registration, and also by Ms difficulties in 
completing the task (these being  what prompted Mr and Mrs S to dispense with their 
services).
Nonetheless, it might reasonably be argued  that M couldnt fulfil its obligations  to Halifax to 
register the legal charge  without also registering the title. I appreciate  the difficulties created 
by M with Mr and Mrs S in this respect,  because  theyd  terminated their retainer, but 
ultimately that was between Mr and Mrs S and M and nothing  to do with Halifax.
The dispute  between C and M over the registration  of title didnt help either,  but is of no 
relevance to this complaint. M was certainly under no obligation  to take instructions  from C 
about how to deal with a client  (Halifax) which has no connection with C.
This is the situation  that Halifax was drawn  into. I can appreciate  Mr and Mrs S feeling 
frustrated that Halifax  wasnt  as helpful  as they wanted it to be, but it wasnt really Halifaxs  
dispute to resolve;  its legitimate primary concern was the perfection  of its security.  Overall, 
though, I do agree that compensation for trouble and upset is appropriate here (Ill come  
back to the amount shortly) but thats  all thats  warranted. 
Mr and Mrs S have  already complained to the Solicitors  Regulation  Authority about M. But 
they are also free to complain to the Legal  Ombudsman about M if they believe theyve 
incurred costs in relation  to having  to instruct  C to act for them on registration  of the title. 
Ref: DRN69211593Because thats not an activity covered under our rules, we cant  comment  further on that. 
Even if we could, Mr and Mrs S havent  provided any evidence  of the costs they incurred.
I said Id return the amount of compensation that is due. Ive no doubt Mr and Mrs S have  
found the entire episode a distressing one. But its important to keep in mind that there  were  
several parties involved in this situation,  and I can only award compensation for 
shortcomings on Halifaxs part in relation  to activities covered under our rules. Mr and Mrs S 
say this is a matter of unfair treatment; thats their prerogative of course, but Im afraid I dont 
agree. This was, in essence,  a customer service issue and in all the circumstances, I agree 
with the investigator  that £450  is fair.
Mr and Mrs S dont  have to accept my final decision, and if they dont,  neither  they nor 
Halifax will be bound by it. Subject to any time limits or other  restrictions a court might 
impose, Mr and Mrs Ss right to take legal action  against  Halifax   in respect of the matters  
covered in this complaint wont have been  prejudiced by our consideration of it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part only.  In full and final settlement, I 
direct Bank of Scotland  plc to pay Mrs and Mr S £450 compensation. I make no other order  
or award.
My final decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill 
not be engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it. Under  the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to accept or reject my 
decision before  20 February 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6921159