K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about poor service from Bank of Scotland plc following the death  of her 
husband. She says the bank failed to properly acknowledge  her circumstances when she 
tried repay the overdraft  on their joint account.
background
Following the death of her husband  Mrs R switched their Bank of Scotland joint account to a 
different bank. There was an overdraft  on the joint account which Mrs R had to repay  in full 
to complete the switch. Mrs R wasnt in a position  to make the full payment, and the account 
was eventually passed to a third party debt collection agency. A repayment plan was agreed 
and the details were  recorded on Mrs Rs credit  file.
Bank of Scotland accepted that its service  couldve been  when  Mrs R first told them her 
husband had died. It offered £75 and gave Mrs R two months to clear  the overdraft balance.  
It later extended this time period  and gave Mrs R under the end of June 2018 to pay what 
was owed.
But the bank then closed the account in May 2018, and passed it to its recoveries 
department. Bank of Scotland offered £30 for closing the account sooner than it shouldve  
done.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He accepted that the 
banks service couldve been better and it couldve done more  to help Mrs R when she told it 
about her changed circumstances.  But the adjudicator considered the compensation offered  
by Bank  of Scotland was fair and reasonable in light of the mistakes  that had been  made.  He 
also considered  the bank  had treated Mrs R fairly by giving her time to repay  the overdraft.
Mrs R didnt agree with the adjudicators  conclusions and remained unhappy  with the 
amount of compensation offered. The complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The issues  Mrs R experienced  were a result  of action taken following the death of her 
husband, and a period  of her own ill health.  I am obviously sympathetic to the position Mrs R 
was in, and appreciate that banking difficulties must have contributed to what was already a 
stressful time. 
Taking account of Mrs Rs circumstances, I can understand  why she might  consider the 
treatment she received from Bank of Scotland was poor and that the compensation its 
offered isnt enough.
Ive noted that Bank of Scotland has already paid £100 on a related  but separate  complaint. 
I wont make  any findings about that complaint or the compensation paid,  as its a separate 
matter to this complaint.  
Mrs R says that when she first told Bank of Scotland about the death of her husband and her 
own ill health it didnt  do enough to help her. The banks contact notes suggest that when 
Ref: DRN67615382Mrs R tried to switch  her account,  she was told by Bank of Scotland  in January 2018 that 
she would  be able to repay the overdraft using a long term repayment plan. The notes also 
indicate that the bank  explained  the impact of the repayment plan on Mrs Rs credit file and 
that she accepted this.
About a week later Mrs R received a letter about the account and contacted Bank  of 
Scotland to find out what was going on. At that point  the bank told her it wasnt  possible to 
repay the overdraft  using  a repayment plan,  and that the amount had to be repaid in full. 
Bank of Scotland offered £75 for the incorrect information Mrs R had been given, and I 
understand this was used to reduce the overdraft  balance. Bank of Scotland  also gave Mrs 
R two months to try to repay  what she owed.  
I understand that in March 2018  Bank  of Scotland  agreed to give Mrs R until the end of June 
2018 to clear the balance. But it closed the account  in May 2018 and transferred it to its debt 
recovery agent. Bank of Scotland  paid £30 in recognition that it had closed the account  
before the end of June deadline.
As Ive already  said, I have considerable sympathy  for the position Mrs R was in. But the 
bank has accepted that mistakes were made and its paid compensation in recognition of 
those errors.  And when  I take account  of awards  by this service  in complaints of a similar 
nature, I think the compensation  is fair and reasonable.
I also think Bank of Scotland treated Mrs R fairly  when it delayed  closing the account,  to give 
her the opportunity to repay what she owed. 
Mrs R wasnt able to clear  the balance in full until early  2019.  So even though Bank of 
Scotland closed  the account  in May 2018 (which was before the June 2018 deadline it had 
agreed), I dont  think I can safely say that this would have made any difference to the 
position on Mrs Rs account.
Overall, from what Ive seen, I dont consider there are any reasonable grounds on which I 
can uphold Mrs Rs complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6761538