K820x#14Complaint
Mr O complains that MBNA limited  wont  refund  disputed transactions  made from his 
account. 
Background
Mr O says that fraudulent  card transactions were made from his account  between 
December 2018  and January 2019.  
Mr O went to India in between November 2018  and January 2019.  And says on returning to 
the UK he noticed  fraudulent transactions  on his bank  statement so he contacted MBNA. He 
believed he lost his card whilst in India  MBNA however say that he advised that his card 
was still on him at the time he called the bank. Unfortunately this call isnt available  so I 
havent been able to confirm exactly what Mr O said during  the call. 
Mr O explained that his card was in ihs 
MBNA also explained that on the 29 December 2018, after two of the disputed  transactions  
were authorised, they declined two further attempted transactions and contacted Mr O. But 
they didnt receive  any response from Mr O so following a review  they unrestricted a card.
After these blocks further disputed transactions were carried  on the 16 January 2019 and the 
19 January 2019.  
On the 19 January 2019 MBNA placed  a second block on the account  and sent text 
messages to Mr O. After a further  text message on the 29 January 2019 Mr O made  contact 
with MBNA  to report the disputed transactions. 
MBNA investigated and decided  not to refund the disputed  transactions. They said that the 
transactions were  carried out using Mr Os card and PIN and there was no explanation  for 
how this was happened. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Os complaint and initially they upheld  it. They  said 
they thought on balance  Mr O hadnt authorised  the transactions in particular because  
MBNA hadnt provided evidence of the signatures  taken for the transactions.  MBNA 
responded to say that couldnt  see how Mr Os PIN was known by the fraudster and his 
middle name  was used  for one of the invoices in India  how did the fraudster know this? 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Os case again  and came to a different conclusion. They 
couldnt explain how Mr Os card and PIN were  compromised, felt it wasnt  a usual  
fraudsters pattern of spending including returning to the same shop so didnt uphold  his 
complaint. 
Mr O didnt accept our investigators opinion. And said 
-The bank  should have stopped his card.
-In India if you put the card in an old machine you dont  have to enter  the PIN 
correctly.
-The bank  could  have  notified him by email about  the transactions.  
As Mr O didnt  agree its been passed  to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN60337202My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Os genuine card, PIN and signature 
were used to make  the disputed transactions. But the regulations  relevant to this case say 
that is not, on its own, enough  to enable MBNA to hold him liable. So I also need to think  
about whether  the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr O consented to 
the withdrawals being  made.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for MBNA to conclude  that Mr O 
authorised the transactions. This is because:
-The disputed transactions were made  using Mr Os genuine card and signature.  And 
one was made using  Mr Os PIN. Mr Os provided me a copy of his signature  and this 
doesnt match one of the receipts  Ive been provided  with by MBNA  which  suggests 
the purchase could  have  been carried out by a fraudster. However theres  no 
convincing explanation for how a third party could  have known Mr Os PIN. Mr O 
didnt use his card when he was in India,  said he didnt write his PIN down and its 
not easily guessable. Mr Os argued that its possible  the PIN was entered  incorrectly 
but the transaction was authorised  despite this. But Im satisfied from looking at the 
banks technical  evidence this isnt the case. 
-On the invoices for some of the disputed transactions Mr Os full name, including his 
middle name, is recorded. Ive asked Mr O about how he thinks the fraudster could 
have known these  details. He explained  that he also lost his Indian  driving licence, 
which had his full name on. When our investigator first asked Mr O whether hed lost 
any other items he described losing cards and cash but didnt  mention his driving 
licence. I find it surprising  that Mr O initially failed to mention  this. 
-The pattern of spending doesnt fit that of a usual fraudster - It seems unlikely that a 
fraudster would  stop trying to use the card whilst there were funds still available  and 
Id expect a fraudster to spend funds as quickly as possible. But this wasnt  the case.   
-Mr O explained that on arriving in India he used a different phone  number and 
therefore didnt  receive the text messages. I accept that its possible Mr O did change 
his phone number  in India and therefore didnt receive the text messages. But Mr O 
informs me he didnt receive  the text messages at any point  which I find surprising. 
Mr O responded to our investigators view by questioning why MBNA didnt block his card.  I 
think hes got a valid point here.  MBNA  have explained that they sent text messages to Mr O 
on the 29 December  2018 to confirm  whether  the transaction was genuine and after Mr O 
didnt respond  they completed a review  at which point they removed the block. Ive not 
seen full details  of what MBNA looked  at during the review but Im not completely convinced  
by the banks explanation  for why the block was removed. However, this doesnt  change my 
overall conclusions  on Mr Os complaint. I realise this will be frustrating to Mr O but because  
I think its more likely than not he authorised  the transactions MBNAs decision to remove  the 
block doesnt change  my conclusions. 
Ref: DRN60337203Mr Os also raised  why didnt the bank contact him via email   but Im satisfied that MBNA 
tried to contact him by his registered mobile  number. And I wouldnt expect them to also 
contact him via email.  
For the reasons  Ive explained above on balance  I think  that Mr O authorised the 
transactions. It follows that MBNA  can hold him liable for them.  
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 November  2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6033720