K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained about Haven Insurance Company Limiteds  decision to settle  a third 
party claim for personal injury (PI) made  against his taxi insurance policy.  
background
Mr S was involved  in a low speed  low impact collision with another vehicle in August 2018. 
In September  2018 his insurer Haven received a PI claim  from the third party.  
Haven settled the third party claim. In November 2018 Mr S complained to Haven. He didnt 
think it had properly investigated the claim from the third party.  He didnt agree with its 
decision as he said there couldnt have been  any injury. Mr S said the vehicles were  
travelling slowly and there  was minimal damage  to the vehicles. 
Haven said it had properly  considered  the medical  information and circumstances of the 
case before  reaching  its decision. As the third party had recently  been  in a car accident and 
was recovering from her injuries, Haven was told this incident had exacerbated those 
injuries. So it decided  to settle the claim on the best terms possible.
Mr S asked us to look at his complaint.  Our investigator explained that Haven had applied  a 
common term in its policy which allows it to take over and defend  a claim. She thought  
Haven had reached its decision in a fair way.
Mr S didnt agree. He said the vehicles literally  touched and there was no damage caused. 
He doesnt believe  Haven has done  enough to obtain evidence to support the PI claim. 
So the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Haven has a very common term which Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance  policies. 
This term allows Haven to take over the defence and settlement of a claim in Mr Ss name. 
We dont disagree with this term in principle provided an insurer  can show  it treated its 
customer fairly when applying it. 
The fact that an incident happened  isnt in dispute.  So it was for Haven to decide whether 
the third partys claim  for PI was reasonable. In this case, Haven  told Mr S that the third 
party had suffered injury  from a car accident  a few months before this incident. The timing  of 
this incident was within the recovery time given to the third party to recover from her 
previous injuries.  Haven  found minimal damage  to Mr Ss car. It accepted  that the incident 
was a low impact low speed  event. 
Haven made  the decision  to settle  the third partys claim for PI as it was for a low amount 
(although I appreciate it may not seem so for Mr S) and to avoid significant escalating costs  
if it were to dispute the claim. As Haven had accepted  liability for the incident, it was for 
Haven to decide whether to meet a reasonable claim for PI. 
Ref: DRN63246912As the insurer, it has claims experience and can make a decision to settle a claim  to avoid 
escalating costs and prolonging  the outcome - where it believes its not likely to succeed.  
I understand Mr Ss strength of feeling  about  the impact the claim  has had on his premium 
and his No Claims Bonus.  But I cant say that Haven  acted unreasonably. It was obliged to 
consider the third party claim. The claims handler  sought a second  opinion and  given the 
recent injury  the third party had suffered  decided it was best to settle the claim.  Haven  can 
do this under the policy even if Mr S disagrees.  
So I think Haven settled  the claim reasonably and in line with the policy. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6324691