K820x#14complaint
Mrs G has complained that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited unfairly  refused to increase the 
benefit payable  under her employers group critical illness policy.  
background
Mrs G joined  her employers group critical illness scheme, provided by Aviva (formerly 
Friends Life), on 1 April 2014.  
In October  2014 Mrs G was referred to a haematologist as a series  of blood tests  had shown 
persistent raised  platelet levels. In November 2014 she was diagnosed with a type of blood 
cancer, polycythemia vera.
In April 2015 Mrs G reduced  her level of benefit under the policy  from £150,000  to £100,000. 
Mrs G submitted a claim for benefit  under the group scheme in July 2015. Her claim was 
accepted and she was paid £100,000 in November  2015. Mrs G later queried the claim 
payment. She said as shed been diagnosed in 2014, before shed reduced her benefit, and 
so was entitled to £150,000. 
Aviva reconsidered  her claim. It accepted  that the correct benefit at the point of claim was 
£150,000. But it explained having reviewed  its earlier decision her claim  for benefit wasnt 
actually valid. It said that although she wasnt diagnosed until 2014, shed had an 
associated condition before joining the scheme so the claim shouldve  been excluded from 
benefit. It explained it wouldnt seek to reclaim the money already paid, but it wouldnt be 
prepared to pay the additional £50,000  Mrs G felt she was owed. 
Mrs G complained about Avivas decision in 2017.  She didnt agree she had an associated 
condition before joining the scheme. Aviva  reviewed the claim but maintained its decision 
not to increase the benefit payment. It referred to her GPs report and a haematology referral 
which said shed had persistent mild raised  platelets  since  2008. It said in the opinion of its 
chief medical officer (CMO), her raised  platelets  was directly linked to her later diagnosis,  
and was therefore excluded under the associated conditions exclusion.
Mrs G remained  unhappy so referred  her complaint to this service for consideration.
Our investigator considered the case  but didnt uphold it. He accepted  Mrs Gs argument that 
there could  have been a different underlying  cause  to her increased  platelets. But he said in 
the absence of evidence to show that another cause was more  likely than not the reason for 
her raised platelets, Aviva  wasnt unreasonable to conclude that it was an associated 
condition and therefore  excluded. 
Mrs G disagreed. She said Aviva had acted unfairly conducting a full claims review when 
she asked it to pay the additional benefit. She said as the claim had already been  accepted  it 
shouldve just agreed to pay the additional  benefit  without  further  review.  
Mrs G maintained there was no evidence  that her raised platelets in 2008 and 2011 were 
linked to her later diagnosis. She provided  information to show  that polycythemia vera is 
extremely rare, and only 50% of individuals with it had raised platelets. She also provided 
evidence to show that raised  platelets could be secondary to other causes, such  as 
infections or anaemia. So she suggested  it was more likely that her raised platelets were  
Ref: DRN66083362caused by something  other than her diagnosis.  She also explained that her referral  to 
haematology was triggered by increased potassium  levels, and that this led to her diagnosis.  
She said it should be for Aviva to prove that there was a connection between her raised 
platelets and her eventual diagnosis. 
As no agreement could be reached  the case has been referred  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im sorry  to hear of Mrs Gs ill-health.  Its clear from her correspondence  with us and Aviva  
that shes been through a very difficult time, and has found it particularly stressful pursuing  
this complaint. And I understand it must  have  been  very disappointing to learn she wouldnt 
receive the full benefit she expected from the policy.  
This complaint is finely balanced. But having  considered all the medical evidence alongside 
the policy wording,  I believe  Aviva  was entitled  to refuse to make a further payment to 
Mrs G. I realise  this will come as a serious disappointment to Mrs G so Id like to explain how 
Ive reached this conclusion. 
associated condition exclusion
As a member of a group  scheme, Mrs G didnt go through any medical underwriting when  
she joined  the scheme  in other  words Aviva  didnt ask her any questions  about her health 
and lifestyle to decide what cover it could offer. Instead Aviva excludes claims if the 
condition claimed  for, or an associated  condition , existed before the policy started. As the 
insurer, Aviva is entitled to set the basis on which it will cover medical conditions. And 
ultimately Mrs Gs employer, the policyholder, agreed to enter into the contract with Aviva  on 
this basis.
Aviva says Mrs Gs claim is excluded  under  the following policy  wording:
Friends Life will not be liable for any claimfor any critical illness in respect of which any 
associated condition existed (whether diagnosed  or not) at any time prior to the qualification 
date.
This exclusion will not apply if:
(a) at least two consecutive years have passed since  the members  qualification date 
without the membersuffering a critical illness
The policy defines  an associated condition  as:
Any medical condition, which is either;
In the reasonable opinion of Friends Lifes chief medical officer  directly  or indirectly 
linked with, or is likely  to have led to the occurrence of a critical illness or operation; or
listed  in clause 12 of this policy
Ref: DRN66083363Mrs G submitted a claim within the first two years of becoming a member of the scheme. So 
Im satisfied Aviva was entitled  to consider if the associated condition clause applied.  
Mrs G didnt have any of the conditions listed within clause 12. So the issue  in dispute  is 
whether or not Mrs G had a medical  condition before she joined the scheme, which was 
directly or indirectly linked with her diagnosis of polycythemia vera.  
Mrs Gs medical  records show  that she underwent a number  of blood tests in the years 
before she joined the scheme. These  tests  showed  she had mildly raised  platelets  in 2008 
and 2011. 
Avivas CMO  has said that abnormal results would  have been due to a myeloproliferative 
disorder (a disorder that affects how the body produces red blood cells,  white  blood  cells, 
and platelets). Avivas  reassurers CMO also commented that whilst the raised platelets 
wouldnt have been enough in themselves to make  a diagnosis,  they were directly linked to 
her diagnosis and were therefore an associated condition. 
Ive given very careful consideration to the reasons  Mrs G has given for saying  she didnt 
have an associated  condition. But I dont consider her evidence outweighs  the opinions  
expressed by Avivas CMOs.  
I accept Mrs G hadnt received a diagnosis before she joined the scheme. And she may well 
have believed her raised  platelets were connected  with infections and nothing  to worry 
about. But the exclusion is clear that it applies whether the condition  is diagnosed or not. So 
for the purposes  of the policy, it doesnt matter if the link wasnt known or understood at the 
time. The key question is whether the link between the association  condition and the 
condition claimed  for can be established at the point of claim.  
I understand Mrs G feels strongly that her earlier raised platelets were  not connected to her 
later diagnosis, and that shes had support from her treating practitioners  on this point. But 
Ive not seen enough persuasive medical  evidence to support this position. 
Mrs G provided  us with email exchanges  between her and her treating specialist. In these 
email exchanges  Mrs G set out why she felt her claim shouldve  been accepted and why she 
felt there  was doubt over whether her raised platelets were  connected to her later diagnosis. 
While the specialist has shown himself to be supportive of Mrs G, I dont  consider  his 
responses to amount  to clear medical evidence that Mrs Gs raised platelets werent linked,  
either directly or directly, to her later diagnosis. 
While Mrs G said her referral to the haematologist was triggered  by increased potassium 
levels, the referral letter  only refers to persistent raised platelet levels over the past few 
years.  This referral resulted in Mrs Gs eventual diagnosis. I think  its also significant that 
Mrs Gs GP referred to the earlier raised platelets twice when asked about  the history  of the 
condition as part of the medical report. So it would seem to me that that earlier  raised 
platelets were clinically  significant. If there hadnt  been a link, I wouldnt have expected the 
GP to have referred  to the earlier  test results when requesting a referral,  or indeed when 
discussing Mrs Gs diagnosis. 
Ref: DRN66083364In view of the evidence thats currently available,  I consider Aviva fairly and reasonably 
concluded that Mrs G had an associated condition when she joined the scheme. So it was 
under no obligation to pay Mrs Gs claim. 
Its clear that Aviva  made  a mistake when  it first accepted the claim and paid Mrs G 
£100,000. And in the circumstances I think its fair that it hasnt asked Mrs G to return  this 
sum. But I dont think it would be reasonable to ask it to make a further payment as the claim 
isnt valid, purely because it made an earlier  mistake. 
 
was Aviva entitled to reconsider  the whole claim?
I understand Mrs G feels Aviva acted unfairly by reconsidering her claim and re-examining  
the evidence,  when shed just asked  it to review the benefit that was due to her. But 
Im afraid I dont agree. 
Aviva initially  accepted the claim on the basis that Mrs G was diagnosed in June 2015. This 
was the date of diagnosis  given on the claim form, and was after shed opted to reduce her 
benefits under the policy. Mrs G then asked Aviva to consider if an earlier diagnosis from 
November 2014  met the policy definition of cancer. In these circumstances I think  Aviva was 
entitled to reconsider  the medical evidence to satisfy itself that Mrs G met the definition at an 
earlier date and was therefore eligible for an increased benefit payment. 
I appreciate it must have  been hugely disappointing  to learn at this stage that the claim 
wasnt valid, after being told that it was. But as Ive outlined above I consider Avivas  
decision not to reclaim  the benefits  already paid was fair in the circumstances. The claim 
payment also far exceeds any amount of compensation I would have considered  awarding  
for the trouble and upset  Mrs G suffered because of Avivas  mistake.    
new medical evidence
I can see Mrs G has been in discussions with our investigator about whether new medical  
could be obtained  to support her claim. 
I agree  with the investigators conclusions that Mrs G is free to obtain any additional 
information she thinks will support her claim. This can then be presented  to Aviva for 
consideration. But, like the investigator, I dont  consider Aviva needs to obtain additional 
evidence to support  its decision. I also dont agree that it needs  to provide more definitive  
evidence that theres  a connection between her raised platelets  and her subsequent 
diagnosis. 
As Ive set out above, I consider Aviva fairly concluded that its more likely  than not that her 
raised platelets were  an associated condition . If Mrs G feels  she can provide evidence  to 
disprove this she can ask Aviva to reconsider the claim. 
I appreciate Mrs G will be very disappointed with my decision, but I cant  say that Aviva has 
been unfair or unreasonable  in refusing to pay her any additional benefit under the policy.  
So I wont  be asking it to do anything  more. 
Ref: DRN66083365my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Lisa De Noronha  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6608336