K822xcomplaint
Mr J is unhappy that at how SGS Business Process Services (UK) Limited (SGS) dealt with 
the repairs to his van following a road traffic  accident.
Mr K is representing Mr J in this complaint. But, for ease  of reference, Ill refer to both of 
them as Mr J.
background 
Mr J was involved in a non-fault road traffic accident. SGS  were instructed to deal with the 
repairs to his van and to provide him with a hire vehicle while his was being repaired.
Mr Js van was taken to the repairers on 17 September  2018. It was broken into on 23 
September and some  of Mr Js tools were stolen. But Mr J wasnt told about this until 2 
October. Mr J says the repairers initially told him that another  vehicle had reversed  into his 
van, and the doors needed replacing, and it wasnt until he inspected the van that he 
suspected itd been broken into. But the repairers dispute this and say Mr J was always told 
thered been a break-in.
The repairers replaced the stolen tools and, as a gesture  of goodwill, also refurbished  the 
alloy wheels  on the van. But the need to repair the damage caused by the break-in meant Mr 
Js van took longer  to repair  than originally expected. The repairers initially told Mr J he could 
view the CCTV footage showing the break-in,  but they changed  their position on this after 
being advised by the police not to  they say because  the CCTV contained details that could 
identify the owners  of other vehicles, it would  be a breach of Data  Protection Regulations to 
show it to  Mr J.
Mr J has complained that:
His van was broken into while at the repairers. He wasnt  told about  this until a week  
later, and the repairers initially lied to him about how the damage occurred.
The repairer wont let him see the CCTV footage, even though they said they would.
The repairer claimed for the costs for the break-in from the third-party insurer (TPI), 
even though this didnt relate to the original accident.
The check sheet has been  altered  and he isnt happy with the quality of the repairs 
(and didnt sign to say he was).
Our investigator didnt  think it was reasonable that the repairers  delayed  in telling Mr J about 
the break-in. And she didnt think  the refurbishment of the alloy wheels went far enough to 
acknowledge the trouble  and upset Mr J experienced. The investigator said that the CCTV 
footage belongs to the repairer, not SGS, so she cant  tell them  to show  this to Mr J. But she 
recognised this would be disappointing  to Mr J and wouldve added to the trouble and upset 
hed been caused.
Because SGS  had instructed the repairer, the investigator felt they had some responsibility  
for the repairers  actions. So she thought SGS should pay Mr J £150 for the trouble and 
upset hed been caused.
But the investigator said the billing of the repair costs was something between SGS  and the 
TPI, and the TPI would only pay for accident related damage. She also felt SGS had acted 
reasonably by offering Mr J cash-in-lieu of the replacement number plates, because Mr J 
didnt want number plates  with the repairers branding on them.
Ref: DRN60558412The investigator also said she couldnt  say who signed the completion  sheet or if comments 
were added afterwards  or not. But, because Mr J didnt tell SGS  he was unhappy  with the 
repairs until a number  of months after the van had been returned  to him, she thought  they 
hadnt been given the opportunity to rectify  any issues  within a reasonable timescale. So she 
didnt think SGS should do anything more about  this.
SGS agreed with the investigator but Mr J didnt.  He believes that the actions of the repairers 
and SGS border on illegality or the condoning of it and he wants  an ombudsman to look 
into the instances  of deception that have happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr J is looking  for someone to consider the actions of SGS  and the repairers and say what, 
if anything, illegal occurred. This isnt my role. My role is to consider whether  SGS have 
provided a reasonable service to Mr J and, if they havent, to say what  they should do to put 
things right. If Mr J wants matters of potential  illegality to be considered, this is best done by 
the courts and he should take independent  legal advice on this.
Having considered the evidence and arguments, Ive reached the same overall conclusions  
as the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons. Ive focused my comments on what  I 
think is relevant and, if I havent  commented on any specific  point,  its because  I dont 
believe its affected what I think is the right outcome.
Ive seen SGSs case  notes for Mr Js claim. On 24 September  2018  these  say called 
garage to obtain  [estimated completion date] // Was told they have had an incident on site 
and they are not allowed  to touch anything yet. The notes also show  Mr J called on 3 
October, saying he thought his van had been broken into, and asking for copies of the CCTV 
footage.
The case  notes also show Mr J told SGS the following day that he thought the repairers 
were trying to cover up what  had happened. But, when SGS  called  the repairers on 8 
October they noted the repairers were unable  to comment on how the additional damage 
had been caused. The following day SGS  note the repairers have agreed to rectify  the 
damage however  I am struggling  to get any answers from them as to what was the cause. It 
wasnt until 10 October that the repairers  told SGS Mr Js van had been  broken into.
Its clear from the case notes that there  was a delay in the repairers  telling SGS  or Mr J 
thered been an incident  with his van, and it was sometime after this that they confirmed the 
cause was a break-in. So I can see why Mr J is suspicious of what  happened. The repairers 
were clearly being evasive and, while  they couldve told Mr J the additional damage to his 
van was caused  by a reason other than a break-in, I cant  conclusively say this was the 
case. So, while I cant say SGS lied to Mr J, like the investigator, I do hold them responsible  
for the actions of the repairer.
Ref: DRN60558413The repairer fixed the additional  damage  to the van, and paid for the tools  which  were stolen. 
This is the minimum Id have expected  them to do. Mr J was inconvenienced by the 
additional delay  caused by this, but SGS had provided him with a hire vehicle. Mr J has 
subsequently said the hire vehicle  wasnt suitable  for his needs, but Ive not seen that he 
raised this with SGS  when he first had the hire vehicle. So I cant  say that SGS did anything 
wrong  I cant expect them to take action on something they were  unaware of at the time.
Mr J was clearly  stressed about  whatd  happened, and the repairers evasiveness didnt help 
this situation.  So I agree with the investigator  that SGS should pay Mr J £150 for the trouble 
and upset hes been caused.
Mr J also wants  to view the repairers  CCTV footage  showing the break-in. Data protection  
legislation allows him to ask to see this. But it also allows for certain things  not to be shown. 
The repairers are relying on an exemption  not to show Mr J the CCTV. I cant say whether 
the CCTV footage  is exempt and whether or not is should be shown. So I cant  tell SGS to 
get a copy and show it to Mr J. If Mr J thinks that the repairers  should  be showing him the 
CCTV but arent, this is something best dealt  with by the Information Commissioners Office  
they deal with data protection matters.
Mr J also believes  SGS and the repairers are trying to put through  the costs of the break-in 
repairs as accident  damage,  and claim this back from the TPI. As Ive not seen the claim put 
into the TPI, I dont know whats been  claimed for. But the TPI will have sight  of the details of 
the original accident and the repairs that have  been carried  out to Mr Js van. Its for the TPI 
to approve the repair costs, or not. And if the TPI think there are repairs being fraudulently  
claimed, this is a matter  for the TPI to raise, not Mr J.
Ive also seen the check sheet which has two signatures on it  one saying all of the 
valuables had been removed, the other  confirming the details  on the check  sheet are 
correct. The check sheet  also has light  scratches  all over written on it. But the engineers 
report says the condition of Mr Js van was excellent both inside and out. Mr J believes the 
engineers report  proves the comment about  light scratches was written on the check sheet 
afterwards.
Ive seen that the signatures on the completion  sheet credit  repair  agreement  are the same.  
But these  dont match with Mr Js signature on his passport and drivers licence. But the 
signatures on the rental car agreement do. So it is possible that the signatures on the 
completion sheet and credit repair agreement arent Mr Js. If thats  the case, I dont know  
who signed them. The comment about  the scratches may have been written  on afterwards, 
and it may not. Again, I cant  determine  this from the evidence.
But I agree  with the investigator that the crux of these documents is the quality of repairs,  
and Mr J didnt raise  this with SGS until almost  four months later.  By which  point it was too 
late for SGS  to reasonably do something about it. So I dont  think  they did anything  wrong  by 
not dealing with the repair issue at that point.
Ref: DRN60558414my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Js complaint. SGS Business Process  Services 
(UK) Limited must pay Mr J £150 to recognise  the additional trouble and upset he was 
caused by the poor communication about the break-in and the damage caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2020.
Andrew Burford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6055841