K820x#14complaint
Miss R complains she was mis-sold a monthly premium payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
Although Marks and Spencer (M&S) sold her the actual policy, we couldnt look at the 
complaint against  them  because they werent in our jurisdiction at the time of the sale.  But 
the insurers, Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) have taken responsibility for the sale and so the 
complaint has been set up against them. 
background
Allianz says Miss R completed an application  form for an M&S store card in 1997. The PPI 
was sold at the same time in connection  with this card. The policy  cost 64p per £100 of the 
monthly outstanding  balance.  It wouldve  paid 15% of the monthly outstanding balance if 
Miss R was off work sick or lost her job. And it wouldve continued to pay while  she was off 
work until the outstanding balance (at the start of the claim) had been paid off.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Miss Rs complaint. Miss R didnt agree with our adjudicator so 
the complaint  comes  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Miss Rs case. Having done  that, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Rs complaint because:
Im satisfied  Miss R was eligible for the policy.
Allianz says it never made it compulsory to take PPI in order  to get credit.  And that 
taking PPI wouldnt improve a consumers chances  of obtaining credit.  It says the 
policy was optional  and Miss R chose to take it. 
Ive looked to the documents from the time of the sale to help me decide how the 
policy was presented. Ive seen a copy of Miss Rs signed application form. This has 
a separate section for PPI. The consumer  is asked to tick the box if they want  cover. I 
can see the box has been ticked to select PPI. And her name and date of birth have 
also been added in this section to confirm who Miss R wanted to be covered by the 
policy. She then signed  the application form.
So while I appreciate Miss R says the policy wasnt optional, based on the application  
form Ive seen, I think its most likely that Miss R had a choice about the PPI and that 
she decided to take it. 
Whilst I note Miss Rs comments about  the application form stating it strongly 
recommended the PPI was taken out, I dont think Allianz advised Miss R to take the policy. 
I think this was a generic  statement and not Allianz making a tailored recommendation for 
Miss R.  So Allianz didnt need to take account  of Miss Rs circumstances  this was 
something that she needed  to do herself.
Ref: DRN62861392But Allianz still had to give Miss R information in a clear, fair and non-misleading way so that 
she could make a proper choice about whether or not to take the policy.  I cant  say that   
Miss R was given all of the information  as she shouldve been. But I dont think  better 
information wouldve  put Miss R off taking the policy. I say this because:
Miss R wasnt  affected by the terms in the policy which wouldve prevented  her from 
making a claim or made it more difficult for her to make a claim  for example, the 
terms relating to pre-existing medical conditions or unusual employment  situations.  
She told us she was employed  and in good health.  So if Allianz didnt mention these 
terms and conditions  properly, it didnt really matter  they werent relevant to Miss R.
The cost of the policy was relatively  low and the amount  of benefit was relatively 
high. The policy wouldve continued to pay out if Miss R was off work sick or lost her 
job until the outstanding balance had been  paid off. And the policy wouldve paid out 
in addition to any sick and redundancy pay Miss R mightve been entitled to from her 
employer.
As the policy was paid for on a monthly  basis, Miss R couldve cancelled it any time 
without losing out financially.
So overall, I dont  think Miss R has lost out by anything Allianz might have done wrong.
I know Miss R feels strongly and will be disappointed by this outcome. Shes put time and 
effort into her complaint. And Ive thought carefully about all the points shes raised, including 
that she says she was working only 16 hours  a week at the time the policy  was sold.  Ive 
looked at the policy  and people were eligible if they were working  at least 16 hours  a week  
so Miss R would have been able to claim if she had needed to. So this point doesnt change 
my decision.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss R to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 November  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6286139