K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  attached to a store card Mr C took out in 1996.  Its been 
agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should  take responsibility for the complaint. To 
keep things simple, Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaint was passed to me. I issued my provisional decision in October  2019,  explaining  
why I wasnt thinking  of upholding the complaint  (Ive attached a copy  of that decision to the 
end of this document) and I invited  everyone to provide me with any further evidence  or 
comments before I issued my final decision. 
Both parties  responded to say they had received  my provisional decision, but no one had 
anything further  to add. 
my findings
Ive now reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Cs case
As there wasnt anything  further to consider, my decision remains the same. I dont uphold 
this complaint. I dont  think Mr C has lost out by anything FICL might have done  wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above and in my provisional decision, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN63031472Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63031473my provisional  findings
FICL says the policy  was sold during a telephone call around  a year after Mr C took out the store 
card. Looking  at a copy of Mr Cs application  form for the store card,  I can see that he didnt opt for 
the PPI at that time, so I think the policy  was sold during a telephone call at a later date. 
During that telephone call, FICL should have taken reasonable steps to make it clear to Mr C that the 
policy was optional. Mr C says he was not aware he had taken PPI. 
Unfortunately, FICL  hasnt been able to provide any further information - such as a recording of that 
telephone call or a copy of the call script used at the time. So its not possible for me to know  exactly 
what was said at the time this policy was taken out. But based on what I do know of the sales process 
at the time and given the fact the PPI was added some time after he applied for the store card,  I think  
Mr C would have understood the policy  was optional when he chose to take it.
So, on balance I think FICL made it clear that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although I understand why he cant remember this.
FICL didnt recommend the PPI to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if it was suitable  for him. But it did 
have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been. Mr C 
says he had a medical condition  at the time of sale and our adjudicator thought this condition was 
something that wouldve made it difficult for Mr C to make a claim  on the policy, so they upheld his 
complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about  the information Mr C has told us about his condition. Having done this, I 
dont have enough evidence that Mr C would have thought this would be the main reasons he might  
have needed to claim  on the policy in the future.  And the policy wouldve covered  him for other things. 
And based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by 
any of the other exclusions  or limits on the PPI cover. 
Mr C says he had sick pay benefits from his employer. But the PPI wouldve paid out alongside his 
employee benefits. It also wouldve covered  him if he became unemployed. And it doesnt look like Mr 
C had any other means  such as savings  to make his repayments. So I think  the PP would have 
been useful for him if something went wrong. 
Overall, I dont think Mr C has lost out by anything FICL might have done wrong.  
Ref: DRN6303147