K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Eurochange Limited  has failed  to properly investigate a missing 
payment transfer  and obtain a refund of the money.
background
Mr B arranged with Eurochange  for a payment transfer to be made to a garage  in France, 
which he says was to purchase a car. A few days later Mr B said the money had not arrived  
with the recipient. Mr B wants a refund of the money he sent.
Eurochange said it contacted the receiving bank who confirmed it had received the funds but 
it wouldnt be releasing the money to the garage. This matched the information Eurochange 
was told by a person  at the garage. It also confirmed the intermediary bank it uses  to make 
these payments had tried to recall the payment three times  without  success. As the payment 
had been received by the beneficiarys bank, Eurochange refused to refund any money  to 
Mr B.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said Eurochange had shown it had sent the 
money correctly which had been received by the receiving bank. And she told Mr B it had 
followed its processes  by making reasonable efforts to try to get the money  returned.  So, 
she didnt think it had to do anything further.
Mr B didnt agree. He said Eurochange  had not attempted to resolve this issue  and, as it 
hasnt sent any official letters  to the receiving  bank, he didnt  think  Eurochange had acted 
reasonably. He also referred to the Principles  for Businesses set out by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA)  who regulate  this type of business and said Eurochange had failed 
to comply with those principles. Mr B requested an ombudsmans decision, so the complaint 
has been passed to me for review.
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree with the 
investigators view for similar reasons. I appreciate that Mr B feels  strongly about this issue 
and this outcome  is likely to be disappointing  for him  Ill explain my reasons for reaching 
this decision.
The transfer is governed by the Payment Services Regulations 2017 (PSRs). Ive looked  at 
the relevant provisions of the PSRs   particularly Regulation 91, which  deals with liability  for 
non-execution or defective execution of a transaction initiated by the payer.  And Ive also 
reviewed the terms and conditions relating to the transfer, on which Eurochange has sought 
to rely.
Regulation 91(2) has the effect  that Eurochange would only be liable to Mr B if it couldnt 
show the payment  was received by the payees bank. This is reflected in the terms and 
conditions, which clearly  state that no refund  will be made if the money was received by the 
other persons bank.  From the details provided  I have seen that the receiving  bank has 
confirmed it has the money and the contact at the garage appears to have also been aware 
of this. Based on the PSRs and Eurochanges  terms and conditions,  it doesnt have to 
provide a refund. 
Ref: DRN65638592Eurochanges obligation under Regulation 91(8) is to make efforts to trace the payment and 
notify the payer of the outcome. In the terms, Eurochange says it will make reasonable 
efforts to recover the funds and notify  the sender of the outcome - I think it has done  this. 
Eurochange has provided system notes showing it has attempted to retrieve  the funds  and I 
have no reason to doubt that this has happened. And by making several telephone calls to 
both the receiving bank and the beneficiary to try to resolve this issue,  it would suggest 
Eurochange has done more than what I would consider to be reasonable efforts  to try to get 
the money back for Mr B. So, Im satisfied  Eurochange has done what it said it would, based 
on its terms and conditions. Im aware  of what Mr B has told us he would consider as 
reasonable efforts but I dont believe sending an official letter  would achieve anything  more 
in this case.
Ive also noted  Mr Bs comments about  the Principles for Businesses as set out by the FCA 
and I can see that he has referred to several  points he believes Eurochange has failed  to 
meet. These principles detail how an organisation should conduct  its business, including  
how it should treat its customers. Ive thought about  what he has said but I dont agree there 
has been any failing here. Eurochange has followed its terms and conditions  appropriately 
and I havent seen anything which shows to me that Mr B has been treated unfairly or that 
Eurochange hasnt acted in accordance with those  principles.  
I can understand Mr Bs frustration about  this situation  he has told us the transfer was a 
payment for a car and as a result of this issue he now doesnt have the money or the car. 
But as the payment was successfully transferred to the receiving bank, Eurochange has 
fulfilled its obligations.  I wont be asking it to do anything more. I realise that this leaves Mr B 
out of pocket, but it remains open  to him to try to resolve this directly with the receiving bank. 
Unfortunately, Im unable  to help with this, as that bank isnt subject to my jurisdiction.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6563859