K820x#14complaint
C, a limited company,  complains that it was mis-sold  a merchant services agreement  with 
First Merchant Processing (Ireland)  Limited (trading as AIB Merchant Services). C is 
represented in this complaint by Mr D, one of its directors.
background
In July 2018 C entered into a merchant  services agreement with AIB (replacing a previous 
agreement C had with someone else).  This agreement was arranged  by a third party  which 
I will call X. C also hired its new payment terminal from X. In October 2018, some card  not 
present transactions  that were made in September were charged back  on the ground that 
they were fraudulent. Mr D complained that he had not been warned this could happen, 
because AIBs terms and conditions had not been properly provided to him. He said he had 
not even been aware  that AIB had even been  involved at all, until hed received its first 
invoice. He said hed thought he had only had a contract with X.
As a gesture  of good will, AIB offered Mr D £380  because of some  customer service  issues 
during its handling of the complaint. It later increased this offer to £1,000,  because  in a 
phone call in September, about  the same  transactions, AIBs  call handler had not reminded 
Mr D that just because  the payments were authorised did not mean that they were  
guaranteed. But AIB did not agree that its agreement had been mis-sold. It said it had sent 
Mr D an email with a link to the full terms and conditions on its website. It said it had 
subsequently sent a welcome pack containing  a copy of the agreement  and a user guide  
which had included a section about  chargebacks. Mr D denies that he received this. He 
brought this complaint to our Service, on behalf of his company. He argued that C should not 
be liable  for any debts to AIB arising  from chargebacks on any transactions made before he 
had complained to AIB.
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. He said that it had been clear  that C had had 
two contracts, with AIB and with X, as he had signed  them both. One of these also included  
a declaration, just above where  hed signed,  in which  the signer acknowledges that 
transactions may be charged back, and that an authorisation code is not a guarantee that a 
payment wont be charged  back later. Mr D had also signed  two direct debit mandates, one 
for AIB and one for X, so it should  have  been  clear that hed had a contract  with AIB. The 
investigator said that sending Mr D an email with the link to the terms and conditions was 
enough to inform him about them, even if Mr D hadnt received the welcome pack. He 
thought £1,000 was fair compensation for the matters it had been offered for.
Mr D did not accept that decision. He said he could not understand why the investigator had 
only addressed  what  AIB had done and not what X had done.  The investigator said that if X 
had been a respondent in this complaint,  his conclusions would still have been the same.  
Mr D asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Before I do that, I will say that this complaint is only against AIB, not against  X. This was 
explained to Mr D by the investigator in a phone call on 30 July 2019, and Mr D accepted  
this at the time. Its not possible  to extend the scope  of this complaint to a third party.  But 
Ref: DRN67125052I would like to reassure  Mr D that this has not prevented my colleague  and I from 
considering Xs actions  when it sold the agreement  with AIB, on AIBs  behalf. Our Service 
does not have rules  of evidence, and so nothing is inadmissible. I have  therefore  considered  
all of the available evidence about  what happened when the agreements were  sold, to 
decide whether  they (or either  of them) were mis-sold, and whether Mr D was told enough 
about chargebacks  at the time. That includes what X did, and the outcome of this complaint 
would have been the same if it had been  made against X instead.
I have seen both agreements, and both direct debit mandates. I think  the fact that Mr D 
signed two direct debit  mandates,  authorising payments to two different companies, ought to 
have made  him realise that two companies were  involved, even if he didnt read the 
agreements. 
Immediately above  Mr Ds signature on the agreement with AIB, it says in bold type and a 
large font: Signatures   PLEASE READ THE DECLARATIONS BEFORE  SIGNING. And 
immediately above  that is some  text headed  Declarations. There  is a list of nine 
declarations, which  are introduced by the words By signing  this Application, you are: (and 
so each declaration  should be read as if it began with those words).  I will refer to three of 
them. The second  and fourth declarations read as follows:
2. Acknowledging that in certain circumstances Transactions may be charged back 
to you, and that you accept the risk of any such Chargebacks.
4. Confirming that you understand  that an Authorisation  Code  is not a guarantee of 
payment, particularly where the Cardholder  or Card was not present when the 
Transaction was undertaken.
So even before reading AIBs terms and conditions, the risk of chargebacks is brought  to the 
attention of a person signing this document.
In the sixth declaration, the signer  agrees to AIBs terms  and conditions,  and there is a link to 
them on AIBs website.  I have followed the link and seen the terms and conditions, which  
say (at paragraph 13):
13. Invalid Card Transactions/Chargebacks
(a) If a Card Issuer exercises its rights not to settle or to undertake a Chargeback, 
we will immediately,  and without notice, be entitled, and you will allow us, to debit 
your Nominated  Bank  Account, or to recover from you by any other means, the 
amount paid by us to you in respect  of that Transaction.  
(b) We are not obliged to notify you of any defect in any Transaction  Data, or other 
liability to Chargeback  except  where a Chargeback is in fact made  or to procure, or 
assist you in procuring, payment from a Cardholder where the relevant Transaction 
has been charged back  to you.
I think that sending  a link to the terms and conditions  is an adequate substitute for including 
them in full (whether  the link was a hyperlink  or not). So for the above reasons, I think that X 
 and therefore AIB  did enough to bring  the terms and conditions  to Mr Ds attention,  and 
also specifically mentioned chargebacks to him as well, independently  of the terms and 
conditions. (It follows that I dont need  to comment about the welcome pack.)
I therefore do not find that the merchant services  agreement was mis-sold.  It follows  that 
I wont order AIB to refund the transactions which were charged back.
Ref: DRN67125053Finally, I think  £1,000 is fair compensation for the issues to which that relates.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D, on behalf  of 
C, to accept or reject my decision before 21 March 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6712505