K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about Rock Insurance Services Limiteds service in providing a gift card in 
connection with his travel insurance purchase. My references to Rock include its agents.
background
Mr H took out travel  insurance  branded  by a store which Ill call D. D Travel  Insurance  sold 
the policy and is an appointed representative  of Rock. As Mr H bought the policy  he was 
sent a £20 gift card to spend  at D.
Mr H tried to use the gift card at D on 11 January 2019. He says he spent considerable time 
choosing items but when  he went  to pay he was told the card was invalid. The problem was 
raised with D Travel Insurance at the store and he was told to wait around and hopefully a 
new gift card could be issued but that couldnt  happen. He then received an email which said 
there were problems with the replacement application and a replacement card would be sent 
as soon as Rock was able to.
Mr H says he didnt hear further so he called Rock on 16 January. He was told the gift card 
would take between one to four weeks to replace.  He complained about the delay, having a 
defective card, his wasted time on 11 January and making the chasing call.
Rocks final response letter of 27 February said D Retail was responsible for removing the 
funds from Mr Hs card in error. The delay in providing the new gift card was due to a 
technical error in adding  funds to the gift card. It apologised for the delay and gave Mr H a 
new gift card.
Mr H complained to us. He wants compensation for his inconvenience  due to the delays and 
his wasted time.
Our investigator thought Rock had inconvenienced Mr H by not updating him on the potential 
delays with the replacement card. Rock should  pay Mr H £50 compensation for his 
inconvenience.
Rock disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision. It said Mr H only contacted Rock 
once about not having received  a new gift card, on 15 January 2019. It thought Mr H was 
only slightly inconvenienced.
Before I made my decision I asked Rock  to provide evidence  that it wasnt  responsible  for 
removing the funds from Mr Hs gift card in error.  Rock provided evidence which I referred to 
in my provisional decision below.
my provisional decision
I made  a provisional decision  explaining  why I was intending to not uphold this complaint. 
I said:
Rock has now sent us evidence that it wasnt responsible for the funds having  been 
incorrectly removed from Mr Hs gift card when he went to buy items on 11 January. So Im 
satisfied that Rock isnt responsible for the error causing Mr Hs gift card not to work or the 
time Mr H says he wasted in choosing the items  that day.
Ref: DRN62933212Mr H said Rocks appointed representative told him on 11 January to wait to see if it could 
resolve the problem  with the card. I think that was a reasonable suggestion to see if the 
matter could be quickly resolved.
Rock is responsible for:
Mr H phoning it on 15 or 16 January to say he hadnt got a replacement card 
following its email to him saying it would  replace  the gift card as soon as it was able 
to, and
sending Mr H the replacement £20 gift card about six week after it spoke to him 
rather than the one to four weeks it estimated to him.
There's no record of Mr H making  other calls to chase  Rock during that period.
I make  a compensation  award if I think the impact of a businesss actions has been more  
than just a minor inconvenience or upset  to a consumer. I accept the above  two matters 
were annoying  for Mr H. But there was minimal impact on him and I dont think they were 
any more than a minor  inconvenience.
There's no basis for me to say that Rock should pay any compensation for Mr Hs
inconvenience.
responses to my provisional  decision
Rock agreed but Mr H didnt agree with my provisional decision.  In summary he said:
his policy  was with D Travel Insurance which was underwritten  by Rock.  He thought if 
one provided a defective card both businesses should be jointly liable as both 
benefited from the commercial agreement
it wasnt a minor  inconvenience  that he wasted several hours while  he tried to use 
the card at D
D said it would keep  the chosen  items for him for seven days  so if he got the new gift 
card he could collect them. He logged on every day to see if he had received the 
card
he initially complained  on 15 January.  Rock  replied it would investigate and if he 
hadnt received  an outcome within the four weeks it would  write to explain why. Rock  
didnt write within four weeks  
it wasnt true he had only contacted Rock once; he had also emailed it on 
13 February chasing the replacement gift card 
when he took out the policy Rock said it would send him a gift card within 60 working 
days but a working card arrived  nearly six months  later.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Hs response  hasnt  changed my mind  and I still dont uphold  the complaint. Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN62933213The business that removed the funds from Mr Hs gift card in error wasn't Rock or its 
appointed representative, D Travel Insurance. The business that made the error was D 
Retail and Rock isnt responsible for that business error or any wasted time Mr H spent in D.
I detailed above  the issues that I think Rock is responsible for. Mr H has now given some 
further information about how he was inconvenienced. Im not persuaded it was necessary 
for Mr H to log on for each  of the seven  days  to see if he had received the replacement card. 
But even if I was persuaded, the logging on and his chasing email in addition to his call to 
Rock isnt sufficient  for me to make  a compensation award.
If Rock said it would write to Mr H within the 4 weeks it should have done  so. But I dont 
award compensation as a fine or punishment just for a business error. 
Although Mr H says it took six months for Rock to provide a working card, it only knew  his 
card didnt work in mid-January so the delay  was about six weeks.
Mr H has been inconvenienced but ultimately  the relevant  issue Rock is responsible for is 
that he had to chase Rock  to get a £20 gift card which  it took six weeks  to send. I consider 
Mr H had minor inconvenience.
For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional  findings and these findings Rock doesnt need  to 
pay any compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6293321