K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that a motorhome that was supplied  to him under a hire purchase 
agreement with Black Horse Limited wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
A new motorhome  was supplied to Mr C under a hire purchase  agreement with Black  Horse 
thats dated in November  2017. He says that there were issues  with the motorhome so it 
was returned to the dealer  a number of times for repairs. And he says that there  were  
significant issues with the motorhome when he was using it overseas in the summer of 2018  
so he complained to Black Horse.
It arranged for the motorhome to be inspected  by an independent  expert in November 2018 
and upheld Mr Cs complaint in part. It said that it was liable  for the outstanding  faults  
identified in the inspection report and that the supplier had said that it would repair  some  of 
the faults and would provide Mr C with a loan motorhome or pay him £1,500  compensation. 
And Black Horse  offered to pay him as £125 for his trouble and upset and £56.51 for six 
days loss of use and interest. He wasnt satisfied with its response  so complained to this 
service and arranged  for the motorhome to be inspected by another  independent  expert in 
December 2018.  He then traded in the motorhome and he says that hes lost more than 
£20,000 and should be properly compensated for that by Black Horse.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He said that Black 
Horse shouldve been given the opportunity  to rectify the issues identified in the first 
independent report  and that it didnt  refuse  to assist  with the issues and offered to carry out a 
another report to see whether there were further  issues. But Mr C decided  to part-exchange 
the motorhome  instead. The investigator said that neither report showed significant faults to 
the motorhome  and seemed to indicate  some snagging  issues.  And he didnt feel that Black  
Horse was given a fair chance to inspect  the motorhome  to see whether the previous repairs  
had failed or was given  the opportunity to rectify the issues following the second report. And 
he didnt feel that Black Horse needed to do anything further and that it had adequately 
compensated Mr C for the loss of use whilst the motorhome was in for repairs, taking into 
consideration that the supplier had offered  a courtesy motorhome during  that period.
Mr C has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He has responded in 
detail and says,  in summary,  that:
in the first six months  the motorhome was returned to the supplier on a regular basis 
for issues that were  generally minor but were  frustrating and inconvenient due to their 
number and he feels very confidently were  caused by poor build quality;
the catastrophic defect that started  his complaint was during August 2018  when he 
experienced water pouring down the inside wall towards the rear of the motorhome;
the bathroom wall was coming  away  from the side of the van and a bulge had 
appeared on the rear side of the external  wall of the vehicle;
he was told that he wouldnt  be getting  the motorhome back so assumed the supplier 
would accept rejection of it and financially compensate him so he could replace it;
the supplier then said that the motorhome would be returned to its factory overseas 
for repairs and it did a temporary fix to the roof sealant to prevent  further  water  
ingress;
the supplier didnt offer to loan him a motorhome until about  four weeks after hed 
returned the motorhome to it;
Ref: DRN66901712because of defects,  the significant  water leak and the way he was treated by the 
supplier hed lost confidence in the supplier and the manufacturer;
he complained  to Black Horse  which arranged the inspection but it was flawed 
because it missed  several key defects  and misrepresented others, the inspection 
took place after the temporary  fix to the sealant and his evidence  was totally  ignored 
by Black Horse;
the motorhome  was then shipped to the factory without his agreement  or approval;
while the motorhome  was overseas  he found  a replacement; 
when the motorhome  came back the defects  had either been poorly repaired or not 
repaired which was ignored by Black Horse  which insisted that it would only take 
guidance from another independent inspection which would take several weeks  to 
organise;
he commissioned an independent report but it wasnt  accepted  by Black Horse so he 
traded-in the motorhome for £20,864 less than his initial investment;
the only reason  that he traded-in the motorhome was due to a loss of confidence in 
the supplier and the manufacturer  and a strong belief  that it wasnt  fit for purpose and 
would continue to let him down; and
it had only been driven for 6,300 miles and he should be fairly compensated for the 
significant distress and inconvenience and other  losses that hes experienced.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Black Horse,  as the supplier of the motorhome,  was responsible for ensuring that it was of 
satisfactory quality. The motorhome  that was supplied to Mr C was a new motorhome so it 
was reasonable  for him to expect that it would be free from even minor defects. Satisfactory  
quality also covers durability which means that the components within  the motorhome must 
be durable and last a reasonable  amount of time  but exactly  how long that time is will 
depend on a number of factors. 
There have clearly been issues with the motorhome that was supplied to Mr C. Hes 
provided detailed  evidence both in support of his complaint and in response  to the 
investigators recommendation. But the supplier has responded to each of those issues and 
has made a number of repairs  to the motorhome. 
Mr C refers to a significant issue in the summer of 2018 when he was overseas and water  
was entering motorhome.  He returned  the motorhome to the supplier and it said that it would 
arrange for it to be repaired   and a temporary  fix to the roof was made.  Mr C then 
complained to Black Horse.
It arranged for the motorhome to be inspected  by an independent  expert in November 2018. 
The experts report identified a number of issues with the motorhome  and Black  Horse 
agreed to arrange  for them to be repaired.  But the report  said:
The issues that are present will cause  minor  inconvenience only and do not affect 
the intended use of the goods ; and concluded that:
The majority of the issues present are characteristic of a leisure accommodation 
vehicle. The nature of its use lends itself to fixtures loosening or becoming detached. 
Noises during motion are common to all motorhomes and can be expected  due to 
Ref: DRN66901713percussive vibration from road surfaces.  A number of the items are synonymous with 
teething issues and should be easily rectifiable by a competent  engineer;  and the 
damp report said that there were: No areas  of concern.
And Black Horse  also offered to pay him £125  for his trouble and upset and £56.51  for six 
days loss of use and interest (which  was in addition to the compensation offered by the 
supplier).
The supplier  then arranged for the motorhome to be repaired overseas and when  it was 
returned to the UK Mr C arranged for it to be inspected by a second independent expert.  
That experts report identified some issues with the motorhome but said:  there appears to 
be no evidence of water  ingress [towards  the rear of the van] . And it concluded that the 
issues above are not insurmountable and can be rectified. 
So although  the second independent report identified issues  with the motorhome, it said that 
the issues werent insurmountable and could  be rectified. And there  were  significant 
differences between  the conclusions in the first independent report and those in the second 
independent report. Black Horse had said that it would arrange to repair  any outstanding 
faults identified  in the second independent report and had offered  to have the motorhome 
inspected after the repairs. But Mr C didnt give Black Horse an opportunity to respond to the 
second independent report because he decided to trade-in the motorhome a few days  later. 
I dont consider that to have been fair or reasonable in these circumstances.
Its clear that there were a number of faults  with the motorhome. But the supplier and Black 
Horse had repaired some of those issues and I consider that it wouldve been fair and 
reasonable for it to have been  given an opportunity to respond to the second  independent  
report and to arrange for any further  repairs that it accepted were  necessary. But that didnt 
happen.
Mr Cs decision  to trade-in the motorhome  has prevented any further attempt to repair the 
motorhome and hes suffered a significant loss on the sale. His account  balance of 
£30,940.92 was settled  in December 2018  by a payment of £22,642.90 from another  
agreement and a rebate of £8,298.02. But Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Black Horse to compensate him for that loss or to pay him the 
other additional amounts that hes claimed.  Black Horse has offered to pay him a total of 
£181.51. Whilst I can understand Mr Cs frustration and disappointment about these events, 
Im not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Black Horse to pay 
him more  compensation than its already offered him.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that Black Horse  Limited should pay to Mr C the 
compensation of £181.51 that its already offered to him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6690171