K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs D have complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs service  in connection with 
their motor insurance policy.
Mr D is a named driver on Mrs Ds policy. It was Mr D who was involved in the accident 
giving rise to this complaint and he has pursued that both with AXA and us. So for ease  Ill 
refer to Mr D alone  when referring to the complaint points from both Mr and Mrs D.
background
Mr D was involved in an accident that wasn't  his fault. AXA arranged  repairs to his car but he 
wasn't happy with its handling of the claim.  He made an initial complaint to AXA to which  it 
responded to in January  2017. But Mr D later complained again. He remained unhappy and 
brought his complaint to us.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 April 2019. For ease I've copied  my provisional  findings 
below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it.  
When Mr D brought his complaint to us, he was concerned by AXAs  service  and that it still 
hadn't manged to sort out liability for the accident.  And he complained  about  a number of 
issues including amongst others:  poor communication, unwarranted delays, not updating or 
passing on information in its file, and the significant  increase in premium  at renewal. We 
forwarded Mr Ds complaint to AXA in January 2018.
AXA sent us some limited  evidence  from its file. But we didn't think that was enough to fully 
investigate all of Mr Ds concerns so asked for some further information. AXA refused to 
provide it. It said that Mr Ds complaint was solely about a lack of communication,  so it didn't 
think it had to send  us any further  information.  But I don't think thats  right. Even if AXA 
hadn't previously  addressed all of Mr Ds complaint points, the complaint handling rules 
which its bound to follow allow it eight  weeks  to respond to new complaints. And those eight 
weeks would  have  begun when we sent Mr Ds complaint  form to it. And, by the time we 
asked for the additional information those eight  weeks had elapsed. So I think  it should  have 
sent us the information we asked for. But as it hasn't I've come to my conclusions based in 
the evidence we do hold.
From the limited information available it seems that AXA has failed to keep Mr D informed of 
progress of its handling of the claim,  or for the reasons for delays. It seems that the other 
drivers insurers  have added to those  delays. But from what  I've seen Im not convinced  that 
AXA has done all it can to follow up outstanding information promptly  or robustly.
Also, Mr D has commented on how AXA had asked him to supply information hed already 
sent. And its requests for information already held indicate that it hadn't passed  that 
information on to the other drivers solicitors in order to progress matters.  Mr D also 
commented that AXA hadnt made a promised return  call. And I can understand thats added 
to his frustration.
Mr D also complained that, despite the poor service, his premium had increased. As our 
adjudicator explained motor insurers generally  treat open claims as though  they are fault  
Ref: DRN62215192claims until theyve been settled. And that will usually  result in a higher premium for the 
policyholder. And once  the claim is eventually closed, if found in the consumers  favour, 
insurers will then recalculate the premium on a non-fault  basis and they then usually work  
out if the policyholder is due a refund. Thats standard across  the insurance  industry.  So its 
reasonable that the open claim  would have had an effect on Mrs Ds premium at the time. 
AXA didn't  provide us with information  to show how it had calculated that premium  so I can't 
say whether or not it calculated  it fairly. But Mr Ds told us that the claim his now been  settled  
and Mr D found not to be at fault.  So, unless it has already done  so, AXA should recalculate 
Mr and Mrs Ds premium for the period concerned reflecting the fact that the claim has been 
settled as non-fault. If the premium reduces  AXA should refund the amount  overcharged  and 
pay interest on that refund at a rate of 8% a year simple  from the date it charged the higher 
premium to the date it pays the refund.
Also I think  AXA has caused unwarranted delays and failed to keep Mr D advised  of why 
those delays happened or what it was doing  to address them.  And its apparent from his 
correspondence that this has been a source  of immense frustration, distress and 
inconvenience for Mr and Mrs D. So to put things  right I think  its reasonable that AXA should  
pay them  £500  compensation .
developments
Mr D responded to my provisional decision.  He pointed to a number of other concerns he 
had with AXAs service  and the manner  in which hed found  out about  the outcome  of his 
claim.
AXA didn't  provide any further comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Mr D referred  to a number of additional concerns he had with AXAs service. But those 
weren't specific points  that I was looking at as part of this complaint.  And, I said in my 
provisional decision why I felt AXAs service hadn't been good enough. So I dont intend to 
comment on Mr Ds further points here.
Neither AXA nor Mr D raised any objections to my provisional findings  so I dont intend to 
change those.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to:
recalculate Mr and Mrs Ds motor insurance premium for the cover  which  began  in 
2018 to reflect that the previously  open claim  has been  settled  as non-fault;
if the above recalculation results in a reduced premium AXA should refund the 
difference and add simple interest  to that refund at a rate of 8% a year from the date 
it charged the higher premium to the date it pays the refund1; and 
1 If AXA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that 
Ref: DRN62215193pay Mr and Mrs D £500 to address their distress and inconvenience resulting from 
AXAs poor service.
It should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr and Mrs D have  
accepted my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% 
simple a year. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 June 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs D how much its taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs D a 
certificate showing  this if the ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6221519