K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a claim for a stolen mobile phone made under a mobile  phone  
insurance policy from Assurant General Insurance Limited (AGI). Mr A says the claim has 
been incorrectly declined.
background
In August  2018,  Mr A took out a mobile phone insurance policy  to cover a phone  purchased  
a few months earlier. This policy was insured with AGI.
In October, whilst on a trip abroad, Mr As mobile  phone was stolen. Mr A told AGI he was 
getting his car cleaned  and his phone had been placed in a compartment by the handbrake 
as it was charging. During this time he said he was no more than two to three  metres  away 
from the car in a waiting area provided  for customers. It was after his car had been cleaned, 
which he said took approximately  30 to 40 minutes, he realised the phone was no longer in 
the compartment where it had been  stored.  Mr A reported this matter to the police and 
subsequently made  a claim to AGI upon his return.
AGI declined  the claim as it said Mr A could have done more to prevent the theft of the 
phone by taking  the device with him when the car was being cleaned.  It said he didnt take 
reasonable care of the phone and Mr A has knowingly taken a risk with it  something that 
wasnt covered under  the policy terms and conditions. Mr A was unhappy with this outcome 
so he brought  the complaint to this service.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. She said as Mr A had placed  the phone  on charge in a 
closed compartment and was no more than three metres away  from the vehicle she didnt 
think he had knowingly taken any risk in leaving the phone. She recommended  that AGI 
should settle the claim by sending a replacement phone.
AGI disagreed with the adjudicators view. It said this was a high value device which Mr A 
had left in his car while strangers were cleaning it. It also commented that, although Mr A 
was only approximately  two to three  metres away from the car, this was for 30 to 40 minutes 
and he was unlikely  to be watching the car for every second of this time. It said he couldnt  
see the phone or what the cleaners were doing during this time. So AGI still felt Mr As claim 
had been correctly declined for not taking reasonable care of his phone.
As AGI didnt agree with the adjudicators outcome, the complaint has been  passed to me to 
review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As a result  Ive decided this complaint 
should be upheld.
When refusing the claim, AGI has referred to the policy terms and conditions,  specifically the 
exclusions relating  to taking care of the gadget and knowingly  taking a risk with it. So what I 
need to decide is whether AGI have fairly and reasonably applied those terms to the claim 
made by Mr A.
The policy states  that taking care of your gadget includes the following;
Ref: DRN61301592Not knowingly leaving  your gadget  somewhere  it is likely to be lost, stolen or 
damaged, just think would you leave your wallet or purse there?
If you need to leave your gadget somewhere then we expect you to lock it away out 
of sight  if at all possible. If you cannot lock it away then you must leave it with 
someone you trust or concealed out of sight in a safe place.
And the policy goes  on to say:
If you knowingly  leave  your gadget where others can see it but you cannot and your gadget 
is then lost or stolen  we may not pay your claim.
We will always take into account where  you are and what you are doing when we assess  
whether you have taken  care of your device. If we believe  you have not taken care of your 
gadget, and have knowingly taken a risk with it, we may decline your claim.
If you knowingly leave your gadget somewhere you cant see it but others  can, we may 
decline your claim  for not taking care of your gadget   for example:
in a cafe or pub you leave your gadget on the table when you go to the bar to pick up 
your drink instead  of taking it with you
leaving your gadget on display in your car
leaving your gadget in the care of someone you dont know  well
if you are at the gym and you leave your gadget  on a bench  in the changing  rooms  
rather than taking  it with you or locking it in a locker
Mr A has explained that the phone was charging  and so this is why it had been  placed in this 
compartment in the car. This seems like a reasonable explanation  as to why the phone  
wasnt with him. He has also explained  that the compartment couldnt be locked but was 
closed  meaning the phone wasnt on display. So it would be reasonable to say the phone 
wasnt knowingly left where  others  could  see it and he could not - thereby meeting the 
requirements within the policy terms and conditions.
Ive noted AGIs comments  about  Mr A leaving the phone  in the vehicle while  five strangers 
were cleaning it and why it thinks this amounts to Mr A not taking reasonable care.  But the 
car was in his full view and, while  he may not have been able to see everything that was 
happening when  the cleaners were inside, I dont think  Mr A would have considered that his 
phone was at risk during this time. So I dont think Mr A knowingly left his phone  somewhere 
where he believed  it was likely to have been  stolen.
So when taking  everything into consideration, I dont think  that AGI have applied  the terms 
fairly and reasonably to Mr As claim. 
putting things right
AGI should settle  Mr As claim, subject to the remaining terms and conditions  of the policy. If 
this would usually  involve providing  a replacement phone  and Mr A has already purchased  
Ref: DRN61301593another device,  AGI should reimburse  him for this cost.  It should also pay 8% simple  interest  
from the date of the loss to the date of the settlement of the claim.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I uphold Mr As complaint.
Assurant General Insurance Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6130159