K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Southern Rock Insurance Company cancelled  her motor insurance 
policy from the start (voided it) as it said she had misrepresented information important to it. 
Miss S is represented in this matter by her lawyer, Mr S. 
background
Miss S was involved in a collision with a cyclist and a claim was made. Southern Rock then 
voided the policy as it said Miss S wasnt the cars  registered keeper as she had stated and 
she had no insurable  interest in the car. Southern  Rock is now pursuing Miss S for its outlay 
under the Road Traffic Act for the cyclists claim. Miss S said the misrepresentation was an 
innocent mistake and her health has been affected by the decision.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  
Southern Rock had asked  a clear question about whether Miss S was the cars  registered 
keeper and owner. He thought shed answered this incorrectly. He thought Southern  Rock  
wouldnt have offered cover if it had been  given the correct answer. So he thought it had 
fairly voided the policy and declined Miss Ss claim. 
Mr S replied  that Miss S didnt have  the means  to repay Southern  Rock.  He said shed  been  
99% accurate in her application.  He said shed not registered the car in her name  due to 
family stress at the time. He said Southern Rock didnt tell Miss S that it had voided  the 
policy, but that it invited her to renew  her policy which he thought showed that it accepted  
Miss S as the cars legal owner. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Miss Ss ill health. I can understand  that this matter has had a 
serious impact on her. I can see that she says she didnt intend to make a 
misrepresentation. 
Where a complaint  arises  from misrepresentation of information important to an insurer  we 
consider the relevant legislation. We look to see that the insurer asked a clear question  
when the policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect whether a 
policy was offered. And we check whether the informant has acted carelessly  or deliberately  
in making the misrepresentation. 
Southern Rock said Miss Ss brother bought the car on 13 July 2013.  Miss S took out 
insurance through a comparison site the following  day to start on 15 July 2013. She was 
asked by the comparison site if she was the cars registered keeper  and legal owner, and 
she answered yes. The pop up guidance  note said this information  could  be obtained from 
the cars  registration  document  (V5).  I think if Miss S was unsure about this she could have 
contacted Southern Rock  for further  guidance.  But I cant  see that she did this. 
I can see on the policy schedules for 2013  and 2014 that Miss S is recorded as the cars 
registered keeper.  She was also asked to check and correct any errors,  but I cant see that 
she did this when she first took out her policy or at its renewal.  
Ref: DRN61012192Miss S was involved in the collision with the cyclist on 11 July 2014. The policy  renewed on 
15 July 2014.  Southern  Rocks investigator met her 30 July 2014 and Miss S said her 
brother was the cars registered keeper. Miss S stated this on an accident form dated the 
following day. The cars V5 wasnt changed  to her name until September 2014. 
So I think Miss S answered  the question about  the cars registered owner and keeper  
incorrectly. I think Miss S was aware that she wasnt the cars registered keeper. And I think  
she didnt take sufficient care in answering the question about this. I cant  see that Southern 
Rock accepted Miss S as the cars  legal  owner, as Mr S stated. 
Southern Rock said that if Miss S had given the correct information when she took out her 
policy, it would have  declined cover.  Its provided  an extract  from its underwriting  guidelines 
to show this. So Im satisfied that Southern  Rock  wouldnt have offered cover  if Miss S had 
answered the question correctly. 
Southern Rock voided the policy from its start on 15 July 2013 and declined  the claim.  It 
retained the premiums  as it said Miss S hadnt  taken reasonable care to answer the question  
about the cars keeper  and owner correctly.  I think it was entitled to do this under the 
relevant legislation. I can see that the retained premium  was deducted from the outlay 
Southern Rock is seeking from Miss S. I think  thats  fair and reasonable. 
So I think that under the relevant legislation Miss S made a misrepresentation of information 
important to Southern Rock. I think  she didnt  take sufficient care when answering its 
question about  the cars  registered keeper. I think Southern Rock has justified its decision to 
void the policy, decline the claim and retain the premiums. So I cant  say its done anything 
wrong or require it to change its decision.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 June 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6101219