K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1998 when Mr and Mrs W were applying for 
a mortgage. The policy provided cover for Mr W if he couldnt work  because of accident,  
sickness or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr and Mrs W disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory (as some of it is here),  I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
It seems  to me that the relevant considerations in this case  are materially the same  as those 
set out on our website.  And the main  questions I need to consider are:
- If Halifax gave any advice or recommendation, did it make  sure the product it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Ws needs?
- Did Halifax  give Mr and Mrs W the information they needed  to decide whether to take 
out the policy?
If there was a problem  with the way the policy was sold then I need to consider  whether Mr 
and Mrs W are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have done  something different  
such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr and Mrs W say they were told they had to take the PPI to get the mortgage  they wanted,  
and that Halifax  didnt give them a proper choice. Ive noted everything theyve said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr and Mrs W and 
Halifax when the policy was sold. But Ive looked at the copy  documents available from the 
time that Mr and Mrs W have helpfully provided.
It seems  Mr W completed the PPI application  in November 1998  before a mortgage 
application meeting with Halifax that took place in December that year. The documentation  
doesnt suggest that buying the PPI was a condition of getting the mortgage. And the PPI 
application was separate to the main mortgage  application.
Ref: DRN67845052From what  Ive seen, and without anything else to support what Mr and Mrs W have told me, 
I havent been able to safely  conclude  that they werent made aware  that the PPI was 
optional. 
Halifax advised Mr and Mrs W to take out the policy and it doesnt look like it was unsuitable 
for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. I say this because:
- Mr W was eligible  for the policy given his circumstances  and the PPI terms and 
conditions.
- Mr W says he was entitled to sick pay from his employer if he couldnt  work because 
of sickness or accident. Mr and Mrs W have also mentioned other money  and family  
support that they had. I note from the financial questionnaire completed when they 
applied for their mortgage, however,  that it seems their readily  available  savings may 
not have been  as much as they remember.
The policy wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Ws employer benefits and wouldve 
meant Mr and Mrs W couldve used those benefits  to pay for other  expenses. And it 
wouldve meant they didnt have to rely on their family. So I think Mr and Mrs W 
wouldve had some use for the policy, despite  their existing arrangements. 
- Mr W wasnt affected by any of the conditions limiting  the policys  main benefits,  such  
as those affecting self-employed people or people with pre-existing medical 
conditions. As he could have benefited from the full extent of the cover I think  it 
unlikely he and Mrs W needed  better advice or information about  the policys  
exclusions and limitations.
- The cost of the policy was set out in Halifaxs quotation for the overall  mortgage.  So it 
seems Mr and Mrs W knew how much they would be paying for the PPI and found it 
acceptable. The policy was competitively  priced and apparently affordable.  So I think 
it unlikely Mr and Mrs W would  have made a different decision about the policy  if 
better information about the cost had been  provided.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
should have been. But as Ive already  said, Mr W wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or 
limitations and the policy  seems to have been  affordable. So I think it unlikely Mr and Mrs W 
would have made a different decision if better information had been provided  overall,  I 
think they would still have taken out the policy.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Mr and Mrs W some  of the 
commission they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and new rules and guidance dont 
apply to certain types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and 
Mrs Ws mortgage became a regulated mortgage before 6 April 2008  they dont apply. So 
Halifax doesnt need to refund any of the commission  Mr and Mrs W paid for the PPI they 
had with that mortgage.
I realise Mr and Mrs W have strong feelings  about  how the PPI was sold.  They want  to 
understand the circumstances  in which Halifax wouldnt have sold the PPI to them.  But that 
is not our approach to deciding the outcome  of PPI complaints. We are required to look at 
the circumstances of each complaint, and assess whether  or not the cover was mis-sold. 
Having done so in this case, Im not persuaded that the PPI was mis-sold on this occasion.
Ref: DRN67845053my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6784505