K820x#14complaint
Mr J is unhappy that Zurich Insurance PLC hasnt  completed a repair  of his roof after he 
made a claim under  his home insurance  policy for storm damage.
background
Mr J made  a claim for storm damage after roof tiles had slipped following  high winds in 
October 2018.
Zurich sent a surveyor to inspect  the damage. Mr J says the surveyor told him the damage 
would be covered by his policy. Zurich  sent a contractor to carry out the repair.
Mr J says the contractor carried out a temporary repair  on about a square metre of the roof 
and then stopped work.  It said it needed to check with the insurer  before proceeding any 
further. About a week later Zurich offered Mr J £1,500 to complete the repair. Mr J didnt 
accept that. He said hed prefer Zurich to finish the job.
He didnt hear any more  until December 2018  when Zurich said the repair wasnt  covered by 
his insurance policy  after all and so it was withdrawing the cash  settlement offer. It said the 
timber battens  under  the tiles were  rotten  and this had caused the roof tiles to become loose. 
It apologised  for the lack of communication and disappointment it had caused by previously  
accepting the claim.  It offered him £250 compensation for that.
Mr J brought his complaint to this service.  He said he was selling his house and had had to 
reduce the price by £15,000  to allow for the roof repairs. Our investigator  didnt  uphold  his 
complaint. She didnt  think Zurich had acted unfairly as in her view the storm wasnt the main  
cause of the damage to Mr Js roof. She also thought the compensation Zurich  had offered 
for its poor service was reasonable.
As Mr J didnt  agree, the matter has been  referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  a storm complaint, I generally take into consideration the following 
questions:
were there storm conditions on or around the date the problem occurred?
is the nature of the damage claimed  for consistent with the storm damage?
were the prevailing storm  conditions the main  cause of the problem?
If the answer  to any of these is no, the complaint is likely to fail.
Zurich hasnt disputed  that there were storm conditions around the time that the damage  
occurred. 
Regarding the second question,  the winds caused some of the roof tiles to become  
dislodged. High winds do typically cause this sort of damage.
Ref: DRN61347272What I have to decide is whether the storm was the main cause of the damage to the roof. In 
deciding this, I usually  rely on expert evidence. 
Zurichs contractor noted that there was a dormer window in the roof which it thought had 
been poorly constructed. It said the side cladding to the dormer had no flashing  or material  
on it to prevent rainwater  from getting onto the roofing felt and the timber battens. This had 
caused the timber battens to decay and rot. They had then been  unable to bear the weight 
of the heavy roof tiles which had become dislodged. Ive looked at photos taken by the 
contractor which support this description and clearly show some rotten battens.
I havent seen  any evidence from Mr J to the contrary. Zurich was entitled  to rely on its 
contractors opinion to decline  Mr Js claim and I dont think  that it was unreasonable for it to 
do so. I dont think Mr J has thrown sufficient doubt on these conclusions to make  me think 
that Zurich should change  its position. In my opinion Zurich has shown  its more  likely than 
not that there were existing problems with the roof and/or that a storm wasnt the main  cause 
of the damage. My conclusion  is that Zurichs decision not to settle Mr Js claim for storm 
damage was fair and reasonable.
Ive also looked  at how Zurich handled Mr Js claim. Because the damage initially appeared 
consistent with storm damage, I think it was reasonable for Zurich to send its contractor to 
carry out a repair.  But it shouldnt have offered Mr J a cash settlement of £1,500 when it had 
already been told by its contractor that there were serious rot issues  with the roof timbers. 
Doing so caused much disappointment later for Mr J. It also should have told Mr J sooner 
that his claim was in fact being declined. But for the trouble  and upset caused by these 
factors I think that £250 compensation is fair and reasonable. 
Im sorry  that Mr J had to reduce the selling price of his house so much because  of the roof. 
But because I think Zurich  acted  fairly  in declining  his claim, I cant see that this is Zurichs  
fault.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6134727