1complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mrs O said she didnt 
think Nationwide treated her fairly, because the amount of commission  she paid on the PPI 
she had with her mortgage was too high.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
To be clear, my decision  only deals with Mrs Os complaint  about  commission. Thats because she 
previously complained about  how the PPI was sold to her and we didnt think  shed referred that 
complaint to us within the time limits  we have to apply.
Im not upholding Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain why.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), issued some 
rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure of commission 
where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI policy  
more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could  create an unfair  
relationship between the parties. So to put that right,  the FCA said that businesses should pay back 
the amount of commission and profit share that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
But Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mrs Os PPI was less than 50% of what she paid 
for each  premium. Weve  looked at how Nationwide has been working this out and based on what 
weve seen it looks like its right  Mrs Os commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As thats 
the case, I dont  think it needed to tell her about the commission  so I dont think Nationwide  treated 
her unfairly. This means it doesnt need  to pay Mrs O back  any of the commission she paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs O to accept or reject  
my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6580643