K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs Rs complaint  is about  the delayed transfers of their portfolios from Standard Life 
Savings Limiteds  platform  to a new platform provider in 2018.
background 
Standard Life Savings  Limited (Standard Life) accepts some  responsibility for the delays. 
For its role in the matter,  it offered and appears to have paid a total of £250 in compensation. 
This payment appears to have been made to compensate Mr and Mrs R for the trouble and 
upset caused  by the delayed transfers  and by an issue in which incorrect  information was 
given to him about a cash holding. 
Mr R says the new platform provider  was forthcoming in conceding  its responsibility  within  
the delays and that a satisfactory  settlement was concluded  with that firm in this respect. He 
does not consider that Standard Lifes payment is enough to reflect  its role in the matter. 
Mr R is also concerned about what he considers to be an unreasonable  amount of cash 
withheld by Standard Life for the purpose  of servicing illiquid  assets that could not be 
transferred. He says the amount withheld (a total of around £300) unreasonably represents  
over 20 future years  worth of charges. Standard  Lifes initial  position  was that the timing  for 
resolution of the assets is unknown and unpredictable so it is reasonable to ensure charges 
are covered  for the long term.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  clarified matters between  the parties and 
issued views on the complaint. In the main, he said:
The relevant  assets were mainly transferred in specie. They were of a high total 
value and the transfer process appears to have been complex.  
Standard Life was responsible for a delay, at the outset of the process,  of around five 
weeks. However, by May 2018 the majority of the transfers [which began  in March 
2018] were completed. Transfer of the remaining  assets  took longer but they were 
completed  as was the entire  process   before January 2019 when Mr R had 
planned to restructure his portfolios  on the new platform. 
The trouble  and distress faced  by Mr R during  the process  is noted,  as is evidence 
that the process was not easy  for him. However, it is also noted  that the assets were 
transferred in specie  so the delays did not put them out of the market and a financial 
loss did not arise in this respect.  The suggestion  that the financial consequences  
arising from the illiquid assets could have  been avoided, but for the delays, is not 
supported by evidence that says they became  illiquid as the transfer was initiated  
so the consequences would have  arisen even without the delays.
Standard Life made  an error in liquidating  part of an asset that was not supposed to 
be liquidated, but Mr R followed  that by instructing the liquidation  of the remainder  of 
that asset in September   which was done by October.
Overall, given the defined extent  of Standard Lifes contribution  to the delays and 
given the absence of a financial loss, the payment of £250  is fair compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused to Mr R (and his wife) by the delayed  transfers.
There is evidence of internal emails  within  Standard Life in which  it concedes  that 
retention of cash to meet  current  and future  charges for the illiquid assets should 
cater for five years   not over 20 years  as represented in the cash that was withheld. 
Standard Life should refund, to Mr R, 70% of the cash it has withheld.
Ref: DRN62619042Standard Life accepted  the above findings and appears to have  remitted  the cash refund 
proposed by the investigator. Mr R said he would  like a second  opinion  from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusions presented by the investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons he gave.
The full picture  is that transfers initiated  in March 2018 were  not fully completed  with the 
exception of the illiquid assets which could not be transferred  until around 
October/November 2018. This is a significant  period  of time. However, as the investigator 
identified, the main period of delay caused by Standard Life appears to have been at the 
outset. After around five weeks  of that delay, and by May, many or most of the assets  had 
been transferred.
Transfer of the remaining  assets (and/or settlement of the assets) was thereafter  hindered  in 
some respects but available evidence suggests that the new platform provider played  a 
significant role in that  for example, having  a problem(s) in matching assets and trade  and 
settlement dates in order to complete  transfers. 
It is noteworthy that a satisfactory settlement  has been reached with the new provider and 
that it was prompt in accepting its responsibility  in the delays. The terms of this settlement do 
not appear to have  been disclosed and appear  to be confidential,  but it is confirmed that the 
settlement addresses  the same transfer delay issue within this complaint.
Our awards  for trouble  and upset are not intended to be a punitive measure. Our focus is 
mainly on quantifying   in compensatory terms  the effects of trouble, upset, distress and/or 
inconvenience faced  by a complainant arising  from a complaint. It is not on punishing the 
firm for those  effects. Standard Life and the new platform provider share responsibility for the 
experience Mr and Mrs R faced in the delayed transfers. That experience was the same and 
singular (in a composite sense). It was not duplicated by virtue  of responsibility being  shared 
between two firms. The same experience gave rise to the trouble, upset, distress and 
inconvenience Mr and Mrs R faced, so there  does not appear to be grounds to duplicate 
compensation in this respect. 
The result is that the existence of the satisfactory  settlement  with the new provider becomes 
relevant to my consideration of an award for trouble and upset in the present complaint. In 
this context and in light of evidence of Standard  Lifes defined  contribution  to the delays, I 
agree with the investigator that it should  not have to pay any more  than the £250  it appears 
to have paid for the trouble and upset caused by that contribution.
I also agree  with the investigators finding on the cash refund. There  are copies of internal 
emails in which Standard Life debated its rationale  behind the retained cash and it was 
confirmed within those  emails that it would normally seek  to retain  cash (to meet charges) for 
five future  years, in circumstances where  illiquid  assets have to remain on its platform. As 
such, its attempt  to retain cash for over 20 years worth of charges was wrong  and, to its 
credit, it agreed to the proposed refund and appears  to have remitted it.
I am not persuaded that a case for financial loss has been established. There  does not 
appear to be evidence of trading and/or reinvestment plans  to be executed during the 
delayed transfers   which were declared  to Standard Life. As the investigator said, evidence 
Ref: DRN62619043suggests that Mr Rs plan to restructure  his portfolios was set for around January 2019,  by 
which time the transfers had been  completed. Assets were  transferred in specie so the 
notion of lost potential growth, during the transfer  process, does not arise.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Rs complaint. As stated above, the 
payment of £250  already  appears to have been  made and the refund of 70% of the cash 
withheld by Standard Life Savings Limited  also appears to have been  remitted.  
For the avoidance of doubt  if neither payment has been made  I order  Standard Life 
Savings Limited  to make both payments to Mr and Mrs R. If, as it appears,  both payments 
have been made, no further payment is required.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 March  2020.
Roy Kuku
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6261904