K820x#14complaint
Mr A says Nottingham Building  Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr A bought the policy in 1996  around  the same  time as taking out a mortgage. Due to the 
time that has passed, its not entirely clear how Mr A applied for the PPI policy  although Mr 
A remembers he completed a leaflet.  But in any event, the precise  sales channel (the 
method by which Mr A took out PPI) is not important to the overall outcome of this complaint.
The policy provided  cover  for Mr A for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £400 a month towards Mr As mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £21.73  a month.  
At the time,  Mr A was employed as a chemical process technician. He has told us he was 
entitled to at least six months sick pay and some redundancy pay. He also said he had less 
than £2,000 in savings  he couldve used  to make the repayments on his mortgage should he 
be unable to work. Mr A has said he suffered an injury some time before the time of the sale. 
Nottingham B/Soc has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage  account closed in 2002.
Mr As representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr As representative says:
 
Nottingham B/Soc failed to meet  the sales standards  which applied at the time. In 
those circumstances,  applying the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr A wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr As representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Nottingham B/Soc 
should have told Mr A about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Nottingham B/Soc should 
have explained  the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr A and 
the impact they would have had on his chances  of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr A received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN65027202Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr A disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr As complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2002. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN65027203The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Nottingham  B/Soc  at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code 
and these other publications  into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion, fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr As case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Nottingham B/Soc was required  to take into account the provisions in DISP  App 3 as if they 
were guidance  when considering Mr As complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Nottingham B/Soc gave advice,  whether  it advised Mr A with reasonable care and 
skill  in particular,  whether  the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, given his 
needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Nottingham B/Soc  gave Mr A sufficient,  appropriate and timely information 
to enable him to make  an informed choice about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr A, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr A suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Ref: DRN65027204Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr A and 
Nottingham B/Soc, Ive decided not to uphold  Mr As complaint. Ive set out my reasoning 
below. 
did Mr A know  he had a choice?
Nottingham B/Soc had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional. 
Its been quite  some time since Mr A took out his mortgage and PPI and the account has 
been closed since  2002. So unsurprisingly Nottingham B/Soc has very little of the paperwork 
from the time of the sale  only a couple of pages  or so from Mr As mortgage application 
and nothing in relation  to the PPI.
So taking everything into account, including the limited evidence about  an event which took 
place over 20 years ago, I cant now fairly say that its more  likely that Nottingham B/Soc  
misrepresented the policy  as not being  optional or that Mr A didnt agree to take it out.
did Nottingham B/Soc  provide advice?
Nottingham B/Soc says it didnt provide  advice  during this sale.  Mr A hasnt said either way.   
Given the limited evidence, Ive not seen enough to say that Nottingham B/Soc likely 
provided advice.
This means  Nottingham B/Soc didnt  have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr A. Instead, 
it had to give him sufficient, appropriate  and timely information to enable  him to make  an 
informed choice about whether to take out the policy, including  drawing to his attention and 
highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main provisions of the policy and 
significant limitations and exclusions. 
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr A was given a broad description  of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if he was unable  to 
work through  accident, sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate  costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because however Mr A took out PPI, I think its unlikely he would 
have taken out the policy without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how much the 
premium might be.
But the available evidence from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether Nottingham B/Soc 
gave sufficient information about  the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr A agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think its likely  Nottingham  B/Soc gave Mr A sufficient, appropriate  and timely 
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy, 
including drawing his attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN65027205In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr As representative has raised a number  
of general points about the requirements  on a business when providing information in PPI 
sales. It suggests these  points apply to all PPI complaints,  like Mr As. Ive considered  these 
carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr As representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr A about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr As representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr A has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Nottingham B/Soc ought  to have done either. 
what effect did Nottingham B/Socs  shortcomings have on Mr A? To what extent did 
Mr A suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that Nottingham B/Soc  didnt  do all it should have done when it sold this policy to 
Mr A. So Ive gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude he 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Mr A 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Nottingham B/Soc done things properly. 
Mr A says he would  not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr A had to weigh  up in his own mind the cost of the policy 
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of him being  unable to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr A chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr A thought  he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr A has suffered any loss or detriment. 
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr A knew he would have to pay something 
for the policy, the available  evidence doesnt  show that Nottingham B/Soc  told him the exact 
premium at the point  he applied  for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely Mr A would 
have been told the cost before the policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of 
years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds  with his expectations at the point of sale, its 
possible he might  have  raised that with Nottingham B/Soc at the time or reconsidered his 
decision.
Ref: DRN65027206Overall, I am not persuaded Mr A would have found the cost unacceptable if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Nottingham  B/Soc made clear exactly  what  Mr A would get 
back in return in the event he made a successful claim. But I think  its unlikely Mr As 
expectations about what the policy would  pay in the event of a claim (an amount sufficient to 
meet his mortgage  payment) were significantly different to what  the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr A thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any medical condition,  injury or disease that Mr 
A knew about or ought to have  known about, or for which hed seen  a doctor about, 
during the 24 months before the start date of the policy and which caused disability 
during the 12 months immediately after the start date; 
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr A 
wasnt a permanent employee; and
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  and exclusions above  might well have 
caused Mr A pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the policy 
wasnt as good  as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on 
the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might have dissuaded 
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr A from taking out the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mr As circumstances  at the time of sale shows  that the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved useful to him should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. Mr A says he suffered an injury around three years prior 
to the sale. But because hes not said or implied  that he suffered  ongoing  problems or 
consulted a doctor about it during  the 24 months prior to the sale, it doesnt appear his injury  
was caught by the policy exclusion. And I havent  seen any evidence to suggest he wouldve 
been caught by any of the significant exclusions. So I still think  he had some  good reasons 
to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mr A would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
To make a disability claim, Mr A needed  to be totally unable to do his normal job and not be 
doing any other work. I dont think this is likely to be too different to what he would have  
expected to make a claim - it seems unlikely  he would have thought hed been able to make 
a successful claim if he was still working, whether that be in his normal job or any other  job. 
Nottingham B/Soc may not have told Mr A that any claim he made would be limited to a 12-
month period.  This may have differed from what he expected and might have hoped for  but 
12 months was a longer period than Mr A would  have  received full sick pay for and his 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also likely  significantly less than 12 months income.
Ref: DRN65027207In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr A would still have thought a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr A be unable to work in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure his home  was not placed at risk and might 
potentially help preserve  Mr As sick pay or redundancy money  for other  use such  as 
ongoing household expenditure.
So having  considered all of the evidence and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr A would  still have taken out the policy. The policy  was sufficiently  close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if he was made redundant, or unable to work through  accident  or disability. In 
the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr A would have taken out the policy  
in any event notwithstanding the limitations  on cover.
Mr As representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr A would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr As 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr A 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr A believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr A in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
Ref: DRN65027208That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. 
So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable  in those circumstances, to conclude 
Nottingham B/Soc should pay Mr A compensation, as that would put him in a better position 
than he would have  been in if everything had happened as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr A thinks Nottingham  B/Soc misrepresented the terms of the policy in 
how it described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court might conclude some  of 
Nottingham B/Socs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion  the reason why 
Nottingham B/Soc failed  to act fairly  and reasonably  was not because  of what  it did or didnt 
say in the information it provided  but because the overall information Nottingham B/Soc 
gave Mr A, in the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1996  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr As representative says a court might take if it were 
to find Nottingham B/Soc negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr A and about the 
remedy a court might award if it were to find that Nottingham B/Soc  had been  in breach of its 
duty of utmost  good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what 
is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including what  I think  is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Mr A in a better  position  than if everything  had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6502720