K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax asked him to prove his identity 
when he applied for a credit  card,  even  though  he was already a customer.
background
Mr W is represented by a relative in bringing his complaint but, for ease of reading, Ill refer 
to all submissions as having been  made by him directly.
In 2019, Mr W applied  online for a Halifax credit  card. He was already a Halifax  customer, 
having held an account with them for several years. His credit  card application was approved 
and when he received the card, he activated  it online. But when he tried to use the card,  it 
was declined. He called  Halifax and was told he would need to take identification into his 
branch. Mr W did this and his account  was unblocked.
But Mr W wasnt happy about having to prove his identity so he complained to Halifax. He 
said they didnt  tell him when he applied for the card that hed need  to produce his 
identification. He said his wife (who was also an existing Halifax  customer) had recently 
applied for a credit card and she hadnt  been  asked to do so. 
Halifax didnt uphold  the complaint. They said that, when a customer  makes  an application 
online, they are asked  to tick a box to confirm  they agree to a credit search and further  fraud 
checks being carried out. And they said they wrote to Mr W after hed applied  for the card, 
asking him to call them  about the application and telling him to have his identification  
available.
Mr W wasnt happy with Halifaxs response, so he brought his complaint to this service. He 
said he felt discriminated against.  And he questioned why he needed to prove his identity 
when, as an existing  customer, Halifax already knew who he was and were allowing him to 
operate his other account. He wanted  Halifax to apologise and pay him compensation.
 
Our adjudicator thought that Halifax had acted fairly and didnt  ask them  to do anything. 
But Mr W didnt  agree and asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He 
queries where  it says that Halifax can ask existing  customers to go through a further 
identification check. And he says that, if Halifax had any doubts about his identity, they 
shouldnt have allowed  transactions to take place on his other  account.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting point  is that its right for Halifax to have  security measures and procedures  in 
place to safeguard  customers  accounts  and prevent fraud  so far as possible. As to exactly 
what those procedures are and how theyre  carried  out, thats  a matter for Halifax to decide. 
What I need to decide here is whether they followed their procedures  correctly and fairly.
Halifax say that, as part of Mr Ws online application, he was asked to tick a box to confirm  
his agreement to them carrying out a credit  search  and fraud checks and telling him that they 
may ask for physical  forms  of identity verification. From the information  available to me, Im 
satisfied that Mr W would have had to tick this box in order  to complete his application.
Ref: DRN65160752In addition, Halifax have  explained their procedures  for dealing with applications. They say 
that some  applications require  the customer to provide  identification before the account can 
be used, even if that customer already holds another Halifax account.  If an application is 
selected as needing identification, Halifax say a block is placed on the account, but this 
doesnt prevent  the card being  issued and activated.  I think thats a reasonable explanation. 
If Halifaxs systems  identify an application as requiring  further checks, its reasonable for 
Halifax to carry out those checks. And, even if a card has been issued and activated, if it 
cant be used until the further checks have been  concluded, the customer  is protected.
Halifax said that these  procedures are standard practice and have been  put in place for the 
protection of customers. They say they are particularly necessary  for online applications, 
where the risk of fraud or impersonation  is potentially higher. Again, I think  thats a 
reasonable explanation.  And I dont  think its inconsistent  with Halifax  allowing Mr W to 
continue using his other account  which was already up and running. 
I understand that Mr W didnt receive  the letter from Halifax  in February  2019  asking him to 
call them about his application. From the information available to me, Im satisfied it was sent 
to the correct address. So I cant conclude it was Halifaxs fault that Mr W didnt receive  it.
Mr W has queried why his wife wasnt asked for identification but he was. Hes suggested 
that Halifax discriminated against him. I cant  comment on Mr Ws wifes application  here as 
its not part of this complaint. But, from the information available  to me, Im satisfied that 
Mr Ws application was identified as needing further  checks. And, that being the case, I think  
it was reasonable  for Halifax to carry out those checks and satisfy  themselves of Mr Ws 
identity before allowing the credit  card to be used.  I havent seen any evidence of 
discrimination here. And, once Mr W had provided  his identification, the account was 
unblocked and he was able to use the card.
I realise Mr W feels strongly about  his complaint and that it was inconvenient for him to have 
to go into the branch.  So I know  he will find my decision disappointing. But Im satisfied  that 
Halifax followed their procedures here, and I dont think  they acted unreasonably. So Im not 
going to ask them to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2020.
Katy Kidd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6516075