K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that The Co-operative  Bank  Plc (Co-op) mis-sold  a 
Privilege Premier packaged bank  account to them in 2006.  Mr and Mrs B have said that they 
were told they needed  to get this account in order to get a savings account  with a higher 
interest rate, in addition they have  said that they should not have been sold the account as 
they were not eligible for it.
background
One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr and Mrs Bs complaint already. She didnt  think  
that Co-op mis-sold the packaged account.  Mr and Mrs B didnt accept  this and asked for an 
ombudsman to look at the complaint and make  a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. Ive used this approach  to help 
me decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Having looked  at all the information  provided, I dont think  that Co-op mis-sold the packaged  
account to Mr and Mrs B. Let me explain why.
The first thing that I have  thought about  is whether  Mr and Mrs B were given a fair choice to 
take out this account. I can see that Mr and Mrs B had held a free account with Co-op for a 
number of years before  the sale of the Privilege Premier account. So I think  that they 
wouldve been aware that free accounts  were available  to them  and an option for them. 
Mr and Mrs B say they were told that their account  would be closed if they didnt agree to the 
Privilege Premier account.  But I am also mindful  that this is not the original complaint they 
brought to Co-op which related solely to having  to take out the account in order to get a 
higher interest  rate on their savings. I cant see why Mr and Mrs B would not have mentioned 
this during their original  complaint and follow up correspondence with Co-op, if this is the 
main reason  they think that this account was mis-sold. With this in mind  and having looked 
at all the documents, I am not persuaded that this is likely what  they were told at the time of 
the sale. I think its more  likely  that they were given a fair choice  in taking out the account 
and they chose to do so for the reasons  they set out in their original complaint.
So Mr and Mrs B said that they took out the account  in order  to get a savings account with a 
greater interest. But if they were  told this then this was correct as one of the benefits  of 
having the Privilege Premier account  was that it allowed  an account holder to have a 
Privilege Premier savings account which  had a higher interest rate then that available on a 
free account. So I dont  think  Co-op  has done anything  wrong  in relation to this.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that they were recommended the account. But from what  they have 
said, it does not seem as if they were told the insurance benefits  were suitable for them 
based on their circumstances at the time.  Rather it seems that the benefits were explained to 
Mr and Mrs B and they were then invited to upgrade their account  based on those benefits.  
This would not constitute as Co-op giving a personal  recommendation. Therefore Co-op  did 
not need to have to check  if the account benefits  were suitable for Mr and Mrs B. But Co-op 
Ref: DRN64025152was still required to give Mr and Mrs B enough  information about the account, to let them  
make this decision for themselves.
Mr and Mrs B have  said that the other  benefits that were available  on the account were not 
of interest to them. But they seem to have been told about these benefits and were aware 
that they did not want them, yet they still agreed to the account. So overall it seems as if Mr 
and Mrs B took out an account knowing they did not have to have it, after being told what 
benefits it came with.
I accept that Mr and Mrs B may not have  been told everything about the rest of the benefits 
that the Privilege Premier account came  with. But I cannot see anything specific that they 
were not told that I think wouldve altered their decision  to agree to the account.
Mr and Mrs B have  also argued that they should  not have been  sold this account  as they are 
not UK residents. But Co-op  has provided proof that they were still eligible  for the benefits  
that the account came with. So even if it were  Co-ops policy  that they would not generally 
offer this account  to non-UK residents, I cannot  see how Mr and Mrs B were negatively  
affected by this. As ultimately Mr and Mrs B seem to have wanted this account  specifically 
for the savings account it came with and appear to have agreed to it knowing that they didnt 
need the other benefits it provided  and they received the better interest  rate when they 
opened a Privilege Premier savings account.
I understand that Mr and Mrs B may, with hindsight, believe that they would have been  
better off by not having agreed  to the account. But I cant see that this account was mis-sold 
and therefore  I do not think Co-op  needs to refund  Mr and Mrs B any account fees.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 May 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6402515