K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) changed the type of account he 
held with them, which affected the overdraft  facility and interest rate charged.
background
Mr S has explained that when he originally opened his account  with RBS some  years ago, 
that account came with an automatic  overdraft  facility.  
In February 2018  Mr S says he was advised  by RBS that his automatic  overdraft  was 
changing to a temporary facility with higher interest rates.  Unhappy  with the situation Mr S 
complained to RBS.
RBS didnt uphold  the complaint. They say they originally advised Mr S of the changes  to his 
account back in 2016. They claim theyve acted  in accordance with the account terms and 
conditions. RBS say they gave Mr S fair notice  that his account was changing to a tailored 
account and what  these changes would mean.
As Mr S remained dissatisfied,  this case was referred to our service. An investigator has 
already looked  at this matter. He also didnt  uphold the complaint, for reasons in line with 
those already expressed by RBS.
Mr S has now asked  that his complaint be looked  at by an ombudsman. Mr S thinks RBS 
has breached their contract with him and that he never explicitly  agreed to the changes  to 
his overdraft facility.  Mr S has explained  that the specific overdraft facility was part of the 
contractual arrangement he had with RBS.  And that RBS has attempted  to change  the 
contractual terms without  his agreement.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr S has provided our service with a lot of 
evidence in support  of his complaint. Whilst Ive carefully reviewed everything that has been 
sent to our service by both Mr S and RBS, this decision will focus on what I think  are the key 
issues in dispute.
I think RBS was entitled to take the action  they did in respect of changing Mr Ss account. I 
think theyve acted  in line with the account  terms and conditions  and so I cant  say theyve 
behaved unfairly. I think RBS was able to change Mr Ss current  account from one type to 
another provided there was a valid reason and they gave sufficient notice. I think commercial  
discretion to simplify their range of current accounts is one such  valid reason.
Having carefully considered the evidence RBS has provided  to our service,  I think  they did 
give sufficient notice  to Mr S about  the impending changes. RBS has demonstrated  they 
gave Mr S reasonable notice of what was going to happen. And I note in February 2018 Mr 
S was notified of what interest rate would be applied and when this would be from. So I think 
Mr S had enough notice  to decide what to do under these circumstances and make 
alternative arrangements should he have wished. 
Ref: DRN60194702Ive considered the nature of the correspondence Mr S received from RBS surrounding this 
issue. Having done so I simply dont think theyve acted inappropriately in terms of the letters  
sent. 
Overall I consider the actions of RBS to be reasonable. So I wont  be asking them to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020.
Robyn McNamee
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6019470