K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains as director  of a limited company B, that HSBC  UK Bank Plc (HSBC) didnt 
respond to his complaints and the instructions  he sent to them regarding Bs business bank 
account.
background
B had a business  bank account with HSBC. HSBC completed safeguarding checks  on the 
account and sent Mr H information about how to complete the checks  online.  
Mr H was living abroad so HSBC recorded the UK business address as well as an overseas  
correspondence address for Mr H. 
Throughout 2019 Mr H made several complaints to HSBC about Bs account.  Mr H was 
unhappy that HSBC had to complete safeguarding  checks, as he said he was unable  to give 
HSBC the answers  it wanted. This led to HSBC eventually closing the account.
Mr H felt that HSBC didnt respond to his complaints or his requests promptly.  He had asked 
HSBC to remove the overdraft from the account as well as later asking HSBC to close the 
account. As HSBC had sent letters to Bs UK Business address Mr H felt that HSBC had 
changed his address on its system.  He was also unhappy that HSBC sent daily text 
messages to his mobile phone regarding the safeguarding checks, as he had asked on 
several occasions to have  his telephone  number  removed  from the account.
Mr H said he received  a response  from HSBC  which referenced  several  letters that he said 
didnt exist.  
In response to Mr Hs complaints, HSBC sent several  final response letters (FRLs). It said 
that the safeguarding checks were a regulatory requirement and so it had to close  Bs 
account if the checks werent completed. HSBC initially told Mr H that it couldnt  remove  his 
contact number from Bs account however  it later did remove  the number.
HSBC acknowledged  that it sent one of the FRLs  to Bs UK business address and not to 
Mr Hs correspondence address. It deposited £50 into Bs account  as an apology  however 
Mr H asked for it to be removed. HSBC said that they hadnt changed Mr Hs address  
without his permission.
HSBC also acknowledged  that one of the FRLs contained incorrect information  which  didnt 
relate to Mr H or B. It asked Mr H to ignore the letter  it had sent in error and offered to send 
a gift to Mr H to apologise.
Mr H remained  unhappy with HSBCs responses to his complaints and so brought his 
complaint to us. I sent Mr H and HSBC my provisional decision  on 11 March 2020. 
I explained that I thought  HSBC could have done  better in some areas which  had led to 
inconvenience to B, and so, I said HSBC should  compensate B. Ive copied  my findings  from 
my provisional decision below. 
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings, I said:
Ref: DRN65348262Mr H has raised  a number of issues in support of his complaint. If I dont mention all of them  
its not because  I havent considered them, its because Ive focussed  on what  I believe to be 
the main points of Mr Hs complaint before arriving at my decision.
For ease, I have broken  down the various aspects of Mr Hs complaint into several  headings.
Closure of the account
I understand that Mr H is unhappy about  being  asked  to provide information to HSBC under 
their safeguarding checks. Whilst I can appreciate  that Mr H was unwilling or unable  to 
provide answers  to these questions, HSBC are bound by UK regulations and legislation to 
ensure they know  the nature and intentions of their business customers. HSBC  are entitled 
to decide what  information they require and how they obtain that information. As its a 
regulatory requirement, I cant say HSBC  were wrong to ask Mr H for this information. 
Mr H chose not to complete the required checks so, HSBC decided to close  the account 
which they are entitled to do.
HSBC wrote to B in March 2019,  giving over two months notice  that the account was to be 
closed. This is in line with the terms and conditions of the account.  Therefore, I think  HSBC  
acted fairly  and gave  a reasonable notice period before closing the account. 
Responses to complaints
I have looked  at the time taken by HSBC to respond  to Mr Hs complaints. The financial 
conduct authority  (FCA) sets out rules on how long businesses have to respond to 
complaints. This is set out in a document called dispute resolution (DISP) and it says that 
businesses should  give a final response  to complaints within  eight weeks.
I understand that Mr H may not be happy with that timescale however these rules are set by 
the FCA. 
From HSBCs contact  records  I can see that it has complied with these timescales.  Mr H 
made a number of complaints over several  months. However, each new complaint received 
by HSBC starts a new eight-week time limit in order to issue their final response letter  (FRL) 
to that complaint. Once an FRL has been  issued HSBC have complied  with their obligations. 
So, when Mr H originally complained in January 2018 and HSBC  addressed  his complaint in 
an FRL sent in February, the eight-week  timeframe was complied with. I can see that HSBC  
have sent FRLs to each of Mr Hs complaints within eight  weeks. Mr H said that he hadnt  
received all the letters posted to him. However, I am satisfied that HSBC have shown that 
most of their letters were  sent to the correct correspondence address. One letter was sent to 
the UK business  address,  but Ive considered that later in this decision. If the letters  werent 
received by Mr H thats something outside  of HSBCs control and so I cant  hold them 
responsible. 
Length of time it took to action Mr Hs instructions 
Mr H says that he asked  for his overdraft to be removed from the account, but it took several  
days for the overdraft to be removed. I have seen from HSBCs contact notes that they acted 
on a letter received from Mr H asking to cancel the overdraft within  a few days  and issued  
another FRL. I dont think this is an unreasonable timeframe or led to any financial loss to B. 
Mr H asked for confirmation that the overdraft had been closed. This confirmation was 
Ref: DRN65348263included in the FRL however the letter was sent to the businesses  UK address and not Bs 
correspondence address which I address later in this decision.
HSBC said that they received Mr Hs request to close the account in a letter  received in May 
and I can see that, the account was closed 11 days later.  This was the date that the account 
was due to close  anyway following the notice  sent to Mr H two months before. Given  that, I 
dont think it was unreasonable  for HSBC to close the account  on the date they had already  
indicated to Mr H. And I dont think it led to any loss to B.
Telephone contact
Mr H asked HSBC to remove his telephone  number  from its records on several occasions. 
But HSBC  said that they were  unable to stop the safeguarding team  from contacting him. 
Text messages were sent to Mr H asking  him to answer  the safeguarding questions  
otherwise Bs account would be closed. However,  I think Mr H had made  it clear  that he was 
aware of what he needed  to do and that he didnt want  this daily contact. 
HSBC did eventually remove Mr Hs contact number  form its file, but it took several requests 
from Mr H. I can see that receiving text messages everyday caused great annoyance to 
Mr H personally,  but I must  consider if this had a material impact on B. Mr H had to write to 
and email HSBC on several occasions to have his telephone number removed. I can see 
that this would have been time consuming  for Mr H, taking him away from being able to run 
the business. So, I do think there  was a level of inconvenience caused to B above what  
could be considered reasonable. For this reason, HSBC should pay B £100 for the 
inconvenience caused.
Change of address
I can appreciate why Mr H felt that HSBC had changed his address, in that two letters were 
sent to Bs UK Business address in February  2019. HSBC had two addresses recorded on 
the account, one for the registered business  address  and one for correspondence.  
Mr H believes  that HSBC  changed the address on the account, but HSBC have said the 
letters were sent to the business address due to human  error.  I havent seen any evidence  
that HSBC had changed Mr Hs address on its system and the remaining letters  from March  
onwards were sent to the correct address. So, I think its more likely that this was a mistake 
made by HSBCs staff rather than them having changed the correspondence  address on the 
account. 
HSBC admitted their error and deposited  £50 into Bs account by way of an apology.  I am 
aware Mr H was unhappy with this and returned  the money to HSBC.  Mr H hadnt received  
the FRL and read the response to his complaint  before  he returned the compensation. So I 
can see why he returned it. However, I think HSBCs offer of £50 was fair in the 
circumstances as this was an administrative error  and the letter was still sent to Bs 
registered business address.
Stopping incoming payments
Before the account closed  Mr H asked HSBC  to stop any incoming payments. HSBC  told 
Mr H that they were unable to do what hed asked and asked him to speak to the sender to 
stop any transactions. I think this was a reasonable request  as sending payments to the 
account was something  outside of HSBCs control  and would need to be stopped by the 
sender. 
Ref: DRN65348264FRL sent with incorrect information 
HSBC have acknowledged that one of the FRLs they sent contained information which 
didnt relate  to Mr H or Bs business. Its quite clear that this caused Mr H some  frustration as 
he didnt believe the letters referred  to in the FRL had ever been  sent to him. HSBC have 
offered to send Mr H a gift as a way of apology. But I can see that sending the incorrect FRL 
lead to further inconvenience  for B as Mr H had to again write to HSBC before they 
recognised their error. So, HSBC should  pay B £50 for this inconvenience  caused.
the response to my provisional  decision
HSBC have accepted my provisional findings and havent made any further  comments  for 
me to consider.
Mr H remains  unhappy for several reasons. He maintains  that HSBC have said that he sent 
them letters asking HSBC to change Bs address. Mr H says this is untrue and no letters 
were sent.  Mr H also says that the information  HSBC asked for would have caused him to 
disclose information  that he couldnt,  so he didnt think it was reasonable for them to ask B 
for this information. 
Mr H feels that HSBC  continued to contact him by telephone when he asked them not to and 
that HSBC didnt action his request to remove Bs overdraft for eight weeks.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings and Mr Hs further comments.
HSBC have acknowledged that an FRL they sent in June 2019 was sent in error  and it 
contained the wrong information. It was in this letter that HSBC suggested that Mr H had 
updated his correspondence address in December 2018. HSBC acknowledged  that this 
wasnt the case, apologised for their error and offered to send Mr H a gift. And as I said in 
my provisional decision, HSBC should pay B £50 for the inconvenience  this caused.  
Although Mr H maintains  that he was unable to disclose  the information  requested  by HSBC. 
Its for HSBC to decide exactly  how they comply with regulatory requirements and what  
information they request from a customer in order to do so. I dont think  that HSBC  were 
unreasonable in asking  for information about  Bs business under its safeguarding checks.
In my provisional decision Ive agreed with Mr H that HSBC continued to contact him by 
telephone when he asked them not to, so I wont comment  on that further.  
Mr H feels that HSBC  didnt act on an instruction he sent to them to cancel the overdraft in 
January 2019.  I have  read Mr Hs complaint from January 2019. I dont agree that it included 
a clear instruction  to cancel Bs overdraft, but Mr H does clearly  ask for this in a letter dated 
1 February 2019.  HSBC  said they received this letter 13 February 2019 and Ive seen that 
the overdraft was cancelled 19 February  2019. As Ive said, I dont find this timeframe 
unreasonable and I dont  think it led to a financial loss to B. 
Ref: DRN65348265For all these reasons, and the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  findings, Im not persuaded 
to change my mind about the decision Ive reached. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I partly uphold  this complaint. I direct  
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay B, if they havent  done  so already;
£200 for the inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H on behalf  of 
B to accept  or reject  my decision before 27 May 2020.
Tim Wilkes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6534826