K821x#15complaint
Mr N, whos  represented by his wife Mrs N, complains  about his mortgage with 
Landmark Mortgages Limited. He complains that the interest rate applied  to his mortgage  is 
too high, and that this has caused  him financial difficulty. He also complains about how 
Landmark and its predecessor owner  of the mortgage has treated him during  his financial 
difficulties and that it has wrongly  recorded that he is in arrears on his credit record.
background
Mr N took out his mortgage  in 2006  with the former Northern  Rock bank. He took what  was 
known as a together mortgage  which involved borrowing both a mortgage and a linked 
unsecured loan. He borrowed around £110,000  on the mortgage element, on an interest 
only basis, and around £15,000 on the unsecured  element. The unsecured loan would be 
repaid over the same 25 year term as the mortgage.
As a result of the financial crisis around ten years  ago and the collapse of Northern Rock, 
Mr Ns mortgage was transferred to a government-owned lender which  took over parts of 
Northern Rocks mortgage  book.  More recently,  the government-owned  lender sold parts of 
its mortgage book  to Landmark  including Mr Ns mortgage. Landmark  is therefore now 
responsible for Mr Ns mortgage.
Mr Ns mortgage was originally taken out with a five year fixed interest  rate. Since 2011, 
interest has been charged at a discount  to the standard variable rate (SVR) applicable  from 
time to time. The SVR has remained roughly  the same since  then, though  between  2016 and 
2018 it first fell then rose again broadly in line with changes to the Bank  of England  base 
rate.
Mr N experienced a period of financial difficulties around ten years  ago when  his wife 
became seriously  ill, and arrears built up on both the secured and unsecured elements. With 
support for mortgage interest (SMI  a government benefit) and payments hes made  
himself, Mr N has been able to make the contractual monthly payments in recent  years, and 
has also gradually reduced the arrears. By March this year, the arrears on the main  
mortgage element  had reduced to around £500   the equivalent of approximately  one 
monthly payment   from around £8,000 in 2012.
However, the arrears  on the unsecured element have  increased over the same period, as for 
long periods Landmark and its predecessor accepted nominal payments to allow Mr N to 
focus on the secured mortgage.  The arrears  on the unsecured element are now over £2,000.
Mr N has made various complaints about Landmark and its predecessor over the years.  
Theyve covered  different  points, but all are broadly about the same issues   that Mr N is 
unhappy about the amounts he was being asked to pay, and the way hes been treated 
during the period of his financial  difficulties and in the years since as hes tried to get things 
back on track.
This complaint is about the same  broad issues. Mr N, and Mrs N on his behalf, say that 
payments theyve made havent always been  recorded in the right month. They say Mr N 
has been charged arrears  fees incorrectly, and Landmark has been  wrongly  recording 
missed payments on his credit file rather than recording that hes in a payment  arrangement.  
Mr Ns credit file is of particular concern to him as hes a self-employed sole trader and they 
Ref: DRN63593922say he cant get finance needed to buy equipment and materials  for his business, which  
restricts his income.
Mr and Mrs N also complain about the interest Landmark has charged, in particular the level 
of its SVR and that no new fixed interest  rates have been available  to them.
Landmark refunded  two arrears fees of £40 charged in 2018. It said it had amended  Mr Ns 
credit file to correct instances  where  an arrangement had been  reported as broken. It 
accepted it hadnt communicated with Mr and Mrs N as well as it could. As well as the fees 
refund, it offered  £500  compensation. It later offered a further £50 for not sending Mrs N all 
the call recordings it had when she made  a subject  access  request.
Mr N didnt accept that. He and Mrs N said the impact of the credit file errors  was severe. 
They said that it meant that he couldnt move his mortgage elsewhere, which meant  he and 
his family  were stuck  in a property that wasnt suitable for their needs. They explained the 
impact of that on them. 
While the complaint was with us, Landmark  made a further offer. It offered to capitalise the 
arrears on the mortgage account (at that time they were around £800)  and arrange  for Mr N 
to receive mortgage  advice to see if he could re-mortgage elsewhere, contributing up to 
£300 to the cost. It also said it would record the unsecured  loan as having defaulted in 2008 
 which  would benefit Mr N because the effect  would be removing it from Mr Ns credit  file 
altogether because of the passage of time.
Our adjudicator thought Landmark  had made  a reasonable offer.  But Mr N didnt agree, and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint. I issued a provisional decision, and Ive 
appended my findings  to this final decision. My provisional findings form part of this decision.
In short,  I said:
After careful consideration, I didnt think the interest rate Mr N had been charged was 
unfair or that it had operated outside  the terms of the mortgage;
As Mr N hadnt provided  a copy of his credit  file, I couldnt be sure what it said. But 
what I thought  it should  show was that Mr N had been in an agreed arrangement to 
reduce his secured mortgage arrears  throughout the last six years;
Landmark should have defaulted the unsecured loan in 2008, and if it had done so 
that loan would have dropped off Mr Ns credit file in 2014. But he would still owe the 
defaulted debt  though  the balance would  need to be re-worked to reflect  a 2008 
default;
But in the absence of further evidence, I didnt think Mr N had shown that the 
inclusion of the unsecured loan on his credit file after 2014 had caused financial loss;
For the future, once the remaining secured mortgage arrears are cleared, whether 
through repayment or capitalisation,  Landmark should make  arrangements  for Mr N 
to receive, at no cost to him, regulated whole of market mortgage advice to explore 
whether he could move his mortgage  to another lender  that could offer lower interest 
rates;
Landmark should increase the compensation offered  to Mr N for the trouble and 
upset caused  by the failure to default  the unsecured loan in 2008 and the resulting 
impact on his credit file.
Ref: DRN63593923the responses to my provisional  decision
On Mr Ns behalf, Mrs N didnt  accept  my provisional decision. In summary,  she said:
My decision was generic, not specific, and she didnt consider I had sufficient 
understanding of mortgages and the mortgage market, so she wanted  another 
ombudsman to consider the complaint in my place;
The main point  of their complaint was that Mr Ns credit  file had stopped his 
mortgage being moved to a high street lender, or stopped them being able to move  
home;
It was wrong to say the mortgage was being  charged at a rate discounted from the 
SVR;
Mr and Mrs N no longer  want  an interest  only mortgage. But I was wrong to say it 
would be difficult to obtain one  their current loan to value is 75%, and they named a 
building society which they said would accept interest only mortgages up to 75% with 
no repayment strategy in place;
In any case, they want a repayment  mortgage, and Mr N is young  enough  to be able 
to take a 25 year repayment mortgage that finishes before he retires;
If they were to take a two year fixed rate on a repayment basis  at around  1.5%,  the 
monthly payment  would  be around  £500,  compared to around  £560 now  which  
shows that a repayment mortgage wouldnt necessarily be more expensive;
The unsecured  loan element could also be included in any new re-mortgage, so the 
change in interest rate on that element wouldnt apply;
Landmark has reported the unsecured loan on their credit file as if it was secured;
The nominal payments of £5 per month  should  have  been applied to the mortgage,  
not the unsecured loan  which  would have  reduced the mortgage arrears more  
quickly. And this is even more the case if the loan had been defaulted. If this had 
happened, the arrears would have been  paid off more than four years earlier;
Had that happened, Mr N could have  re-mortgaged  to an active  lender then or since,  
rather than being trapped with Landmark;
The amount  of compensation I awarded wasnt enough. It took no account of the time 
Mrs N has spent dealing with Mr Ns mortgage  and complaint, which  she estimates  
as being 20-30 hours per month,  and in some months making  upwards  of 70 phone  
calls. She estimates the cost of her time as being around £19,500,  assuming 
payment at national  minimum wage.  She hasnt been able to earn an income 
because shes dedicated herself  to dealing  with Landmark and its predecessor;
If Mr Ns credit file had been  correct, and he had been able to re-mortgage, he would 
have been able to expand his business  and increase  his income;
I should require  Landmark to pay 1% of the mortgage balance to cover the cost of 
Mr N getting mortgage advice.
Landmark said it considered the additional compensation Id proposed was too high. It didnt 
think there was any evidence that any problems  with the credit file caused  any actual impact 
or financial loss to Mr N, bearing in mind that he was in arrears on the mortgage throughout 
anyway  and at times was acting as Mrs Ns carer rather than working.
And it said that it thought its previous offer of £300 towards the cost of mortgage advice was 
enough, as its research had shown that was a typical fee charged for such advice. But it said 
that whatever  sum I directed, it should  be paid direct to a mortgage adviser  not to 
Mr and Mrs N. 
Ref: DRN63593924my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ill start by clearing up any confusion about the interest rate applicable to this mortgage  I 
said it operated at a discount to the SVR, but Mrs N said it didnt. The mortgage offer sets 
out that once the initial  rate expired  in 2011, the applicable rate would be an interest rate 
guaranteed to be less than the SVR. In practice,  Landmark has set the rate as 0.01%  below 
the SVR  which is a discount rate, albeit not a substantial  one. Im satisfied this is the rate 
that has been applied.
Im grateful  that Mr and Mrs N have now provided  a copy of Mr Ns credit  file. Its a recent 
copy, so it doesnt  include  the unsecured  loan element, as Landmark has already backdated 
the default to 2008  which has had the effect  of removing  it from Mr Ns credit  file now,  
since a 2008 default would have  dropped  off in 2014.
However, I can see from the credit file that issues with the Landmark mortgage and 
unsecured loan arent the only credit problems  Mr N has had over the years.  There  are 
arrears on various utility accounts. And, most importantly from the point of view of Mr Ns 
ability to re-mortgage  elsewhere, there are two County Court judgments (CCJs). One is from 
2014 and one is from 2016,  and neither  is marked as satisfied.
I asked Mr and Mrs N about  the CCJs. Mrs N told us that one was in relation to a utility bill 
they were unable to pay in 2012. She said this was because Landmark  was demanding 
higher payments from them  at the time to reduce the arrears, so they fell behind with other  
household bills. And she said that the second CCJ was in relation to Mr Ns business, 
relating to money Mr N owed a sub-contractor which he couldnt pay.
Im aware from my knowledge of the mortgage  market that the presence  of CCJs on a credit 
file will significantly  restrict the range of mortgages  and lenders open to a borrower.  And, in 
combination with existing arrears,  its likely  to make it very difficult  to obtain a mortgage. 
I understand why Mrs N believes the CCJs  are, ultimately, only there  because  of the position 
Landmark and its predecessors  placed them in. So any problems they caused  with moving 
elsewhere are Landmarks fault.  But as I said in my provisional decision, I dont think 
Landmark or its predecessors treated them unfairly in the interest it charged  and so I dont 
think I can fairly say that their monthly  payments would or should  have been lower. It follows 
that the arrears  on the mortgage  result  from payments Landmark was legitimately entitled to, 
and Mr N couldnt make. And the consequences that flow from that arent the result  of 
something Landmark did wrong.  
Ive considered what Mrs N has said about  the payments to the unsecured loan. Shes said 
that if the default had been applied earlier, all the payments Mr N has made could have  been  
applied to the main  mortgage. And, if that had been  done, the arrears would have been 
cleared by 2014 or 2015, which  would in turn have made it easier for them to move their 
mortgage elsewhere.
Having considered this carefully,  Im not persuaded that its more likely than not that this 
would have been the case. Even if Landmark  had issued a default earlier, rather  than doing 
so  backdated  more  recently, I think its likely Mr N would still have had to make  nominal  
payments to the defaulted unsecured loan, as in fact he was doing.  
Ref: DRN63593925A default doesnt  take the loan away altogether, or remove Mr Ns liability  to pay it. Instead, it 
brings the loan agreement  to an end. But this doesnt write the debt off, it makes it 
immediately payable in full  and in such cases debt collection procedures often follow. If 
that had happened at the time, given Mr Ns circumstances, I would have expected 
Landmark to show forbearance rather than trying  to collect  the whole debt at once, for 
example by taking  Mr N to court. I say that especially bearing in mind the main mortgage 
would have continued to exist, and secured  debt should generally  be prioritised over 
unsecured debt. But I think it would also have been reasonable for Landmark  to have 
expected Mr N to have continued  to acknowledge the debt and make nominal payments 
rather than seek repayment in full. 
As a result, if Landmark had applied the default  sooner, I think its likely the amount Mr N 
would have been able to pay to the mortgage would have been much  the same  over the 
years since,  and so the arrears position  would have  been  much  the same.  And, in turn, his 
credit file would  still have shown that he was in arrears on the main mortgage.  
And even  if Im wrong  about  that, the amounts Mr N was paying over to the unsecured  loan 
over most of this time were nominal, around £5 per month, and Im not persuaded that 
paying that amount to the mortgage instead  would have resulted  in the arrears being cleared 
several years more quickly.
And so I still dont think that it was likely Mr N would  have been able to move his mortgage  to 
another lender. I think its more likely than not that he would still  until recently  have been 
in arrears. His credit file would still have  shown an arrangement to pay arrears on his 
mortgage for the last six years, along  with the other debts and CCJs Ive referred to above   
even if the unsecured loan had been  removed.  I think  its likely that this would have meant  
Mr N would still have struggled  to find a mortgage with a mainstream lender that could offer 
him a lower  interest rate.
Mrs N says that there are other lenders available now who will consider Mr N. Thats not 
directly relevant to what would have been  available in the past. And in any case, according 
to its published  lending criteria, the specific building society Mrs N refers to doesnt offer 
75% loan to value  interest only mortgages   it only goes up to 60%. And it doesnt  accept 
interest only mortgages with no repayment  strategy; I think its unlikely any lender  would  do 
that, as it would be a breach of the rules of mortgage regulation, as set out in MCOB rule 
11.6.41. The regulator is consulting on whether to allow  that rule to be dis-applied where an 
existing interest only borrower moves  lender  without increasing their borrowing  but thats 
not in force  yet.
Mrs N says Mr N could switch to a repayment mortgage over 25 years which would still finish  
before his retirement. The current rules on affordability assessments require a full 
assessment to be carried out  the regulator  is consulting on allowing that to be dis-applied  
as well, but again thats not yet in force.  Mrs N makes the point that a repayment mortgage 
on a low rate would be cheaper than this interest only mortgage, though an affordability 
assessment, under  current  rules, would also consider payments  at the reversion rate and 
under stress testing.  
All this is to say that Mr Ns position is complex.  There are a range of options  that may be 
open to him. But there are some  considerable difficulties  in his path as well. If its possible 
for him to do so, it might  potentially be in his best interests to move  his mortgage to another 
Ref: DRN63593926lender. Thats why I think its important that he gets specialist regulated mortgage advice so 
that he can assess his options. 
Landmark doesnt think its reasonable that regulated  advice would cost more than £300. 
And Mrs N says I should direct Landmark  to pay 1% of the mortgage balance  in respect of 
the cost. But I dont intend to prescribe a particular cost. There are a range of brokers  in the 
market, with a range  of charging models   some  free to borrower funded  by commission, 
some that charge  a flat fee and some that charge a percentage. 
I intend to require Landmark to make arrangements for Mr N to receive regulated mortgage 
advice from an independent regulated mortgage broker  specialising  in borrowers like Mr N. 
Its not for me to recommend one regulated firm over another. So I dont intend to direct  
which one, or to restrict the options by directing a particular payment model.  But I agree with 
Landmark that it would be fair for it to pay any costs incurred direct  to the broker, or for it to 
refund Mr N on production  of an invoice, rather than pay an upfront sum to Mr N. I will leave 
it to Landmark  to make the arrangements  as long as the broker  it selects is an 
independent regulated whole of market mortgage adviser  and it will then be for Mr N to 
decide whether  to take up the offer of advice.
Ive reconsidered  the compensation I proposed to direct in my provisional  decision. But I 
havent changed my mind  about  whats fair in all the circumstances of this case. 
Mrs N says I should make an award of compensation for the time she has spent 
representing her husband  in his complaint. Ive carefully considered  whats fair given my 
findings and my powers to make awards.
I accept that Mrs N has spent a considerable time representing her husband and feels very 
strongly about his complaint and what has happened to him. I do think  Landmark should  
have done more, and Ive found that it should issue a backdated default on the unsecured 
loan and arrange for Mr N to receive mortgage advice. But equally I havent upheld a 
number of aspects  of the complaint, and in particular Ive found that I dont think the overall 
arrears position, or Mr Ns ability to move  his mortgage elsewhere  during the arrears,  would 
have been significantly  different even  if Landmark  had done  what  Ive found  it should have 
done. In addition I dont think it should  reasonably  have required such a large investment of 
time and phone calls to deal with those  parts of the complaint Ive upheld.  And in practice  
Mr or Mrs N would always have had to spend  time managing the mortgage and dealing with 
the lender while  the arrears continued.  
I can make  awards of what I consider to be fair compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience suffered by Mr N as a consequence  of Landmarks actions. I can also make 
an award in respect  of any costs Mr N has incurred bringing the complaint, although  given 
the informal nature of our scheme  such awards are not common. Mr N has not incurred any 
formal costs in this case (such as costs of legal representation). Taking everything into 
account, I think the award I make below is fair for the inconvenience given my findings about 
what Landmark should reasonably have done differently and the trouble and upset that has 
been caused.
I havent seen  any evidence that Mr N has suffered financial loss because  of Landmarks 
failure to default  the unsecured loan earlier. Mrs N has said that he hasnt been able to 
obtain credit  because of the issues with his credit  file, which in turn has impacted on his 
ability to expand his business and increase his income. Ive asked for evidence  to support 
Ref: DRN63593927this  such as records  of failed applications for credit  showing why lenders turned them 
down  but Mrs N hasnt been able to provide any.
As I said in my provisional decision,  even if Landmark had defaulted the unsecured loan 
earlier so that it no longer  showed on Mr Ns credit record,  the mortgage arrears  would still 
be there. Ive now seen the credit record, and it shows other arrears and two CCJs. So even 
if Mr N was refused credit  by other providers, I think its unlikely there  would have been  a 
different outcome if the unsecured loan hadnt  been on his credit record.  I think  its likely 
Mr N would have found it difficult to obtain credit  even without that on his record.
However, I do think that the failure to record the default earlier  has caused Mr N trouble and 
upset. It led to arrears showing on his credit record which  shouldnt  have been there  and 
which Mr N has focussed on as being the source  of his problems. Even though  I dont think  
hes right about that, I do think Landmarks failure  caused him unnecessary trouble and 
upset, and I still think a further £500  is fair compensation for that.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I think  its fair and reasonable that 
Landmark Mortgages Limited  must,  to the extent it hasnt already done  so:
Issue a default  on the unsecured loan element of Mr Ns together  mortgage, 
backdated to 2008;
Amend Mr Ns credit file so that:
oThe defaulted unsecured loan is removed  with effect from six years of the 
date of the backdated 2008 default,  in 2014;
oThe secured  mortgage loan shows arrears  with an arrangement  to pay 
throughout the last six years;
Rework the unsecured  loan account so that the balance is as if the loan had 
defaulted in 2008  and payments since have been used to reduce the outstanding 
debt;
Remove the arrears  fees charged in 2018  from the mortgage balance,  together  with 
interest charged on them;
Offer  Mr N the option of capitalising the arrears  on the secured loan element, if they 
havent been cleared through payments by the time Mr N accepts my final decision,  
if he does;
Once the arrears  are cleared,  whether  through capitalisation  or overpayment,  
Landmark should arrange for Mr N to receive  regulated mortgage  advice  from an 
independent regulated  mortgage broker without charge to him. Landmark should 
arrange a broker  and arrange  payment, if payment is required;
Ref: DRN63593928Pay Mr N £500 compensation in addition  to the £550 compensation it has already 
offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63593929COPY OF THE PROVISIONAL DECISION
my provisional  findings
Im sorry to hear about Mrs Ns health, and the difficulties  Mr N and their wider family have had. Im 
sure the last years have not been easy for them. Landmark  and its predecessors were aware of their 
situation, and the financial  difficulty they experienced  around ten years ago.
The financial  difficulty itself isnt part of this complaint, and its not something Im going to consider 
here. Suffice to say, by around ten years ago, Mr N was able to pay his mortgage payments each 
month  generally  with the assistance of SMI  and indeed was able to pay a small amount off the 
arrears each month. Thats been the case ever since, and the arrears have gradually reduced over 
time from around £8,000 in 2012 to a few hundred pounds today.
the interest rate
The lending  environment in which Mr N took his mortgage out was very different to the present day. 
Now, its much harder to get an interest only mortgage. In addition, as Ive explained, Mr N has been 
in arrears  albeit reducing arrears  for most of the last ten years.  As a result,  its not been possible 
for him to move his mortgage elsewhere,  and so hes had to pay the interest rate Landmark  and its 
predecessor charged.
When Landmark  took over the mortgage it was on the government-owned lenders SVR,  and in 
practice much the same  rate continues  to be applied. The government- owned lender was prevented 
from offering new interest rate products  by the terms of its government  bailout  because of legal 
restrictions on government bodies competing against the market. That doesnt apply to Landmark, 
which is a private company.  Theres  no legal or government policy  bar to Landmark offering new 
interest rate products  as there was with the government-owned lender. Nor is there anything  in its 
regulatory permissions  which would  prevent it doing so.
Landmark could offer new interest rate products  to its customers. But its chosen not to do so. It says 
that its not an active lender, and isnt trying to attract new customers  through offering  low rates. It 
says its taken a commercial decision in the interests of the financial management of its business to 
maintain all its customers on the SVR once  their previous interest rate products  expire.  To that extent, 
its not treating  Mr N any differently to any of its other customers.
Landmark is a closed lender  in that its not taking on new business, but its still regulated by the 
Financial Conduct Authority and has to follow its rules.  But theres nothing in the FCAs  rules  that says 
a lender has to offer new interest rates  to its customers once  their old ones expire. The rules  say that 
a lender has to treat its customers fairly taking account of their best interests;  it has to communicate  
with them in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way; it has to notify them of changes to their monthly  
payments; and it mustnt  take advantage of customers  who cant  move their mortgages elsewhere  by 
treating them differently  to other  customers with similar  characteristics.
In this case, Landmark  has notified Mr N of changes to his payments from time to time  most  recently 
in September 2018 when it increased the SVR. It isnt treating Mr N differently to its other customers   
all customers  must stay on the SVR once their products expire, just like Mr N. So I dont think 
Landmark is in breach  of any of the regulators rules in not offering Mr N a new rate.
I dont think Landmark is acting in breach of the terms of the mortgage agreement either. Mr Ns 
mortgage offer sets out that they would  pay a fixed rate until 2011,  and thereafter  the SVR. Nothing in 
the mortgage offer or the mortgage terms say that Mr N would be entitled to another  fixed  interest rate 
after that one expires.
Im aware, of course, from my knowledge of the mortgage  market that its common for borrowers  to 
take a fixed or tracker  rate product  and then,  at or shortly before its expiry, take another rate rather  
than revert to the SVR. Sometimes thats with their existing lender, sometimes its with another lender.  
Ref: DRN635939210But as I say, theres nothing in Mr Ns mortgage agreement that says hes entitled to a new rate  and 
thats also true of most other lenders mortgage agreements too. 
Ive set out that theres nothing in the regulators rules, and nothing  in the mortgage contract, that 
requires Landmark  to offer new interest rates. Nor is it under any other legal obligation  to do so.
Thats not the end of the matter though  my role is to decide whats fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. I do that by taking into account the law, regulators rules and guidance,  and good 
industry practice  but ultimately Im not constrained  by them if I think fairness requires me to do 
something else. 
So the question I have to answer is whether, taking into account the rules and the mortgage terms, its 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  that Landmark has refused Mr N a new interest rate thats 
lower than the SVR.
Ive thought about this carefully. Ive taken into account everything Ive set out above.  
Its very unfortunate  that, through no fault of his own and through  a series  of events  entirely out of his 
control, Mr N has ended up with a closed  book  lender  that doesnt offer new rates. But Landmark  is 
his lender, and legitimately  so. Its decided not to offer new interest rates to any customers, including 
Mr N. Under current law and regulations, thats a decision Landmark  is entitled to take. 
Im mindful that if Landmark  were  to offer new lower rates to some customers  but not others, that 
could mean  some customers were being treated less favourably than others with similar 
characteristics  which  in turn could  potentially cause unfairness.  But that isnt currently the case. 
Mr N might, in theory, have been able to access lower rates if he moved his mortgage elsewhere. I 
think the two reasons Mr N hasnt been able to take his mortgage elsewhere are that he has an 
interest only mortgage, and that hes been in arrears on his mortgage. Its now much harder  to get an 
interest only mortgage than it was, and lending  criteria are much stricter.  So if Mr N were to move his 
mortgage elsewhere  its likely he would have to take a repayment mortgage  and the payments  
would be higher.  Given  that for most of this time hes had historic arrears and SMI has been 
contributing to the mortgage,  another lender  would have been unlikely  to have  accepted an 
application.
As a result, moving  his mortgage wasnt a practical option in Mr Ns case. But I think the main reason 
he hasnt been able to do that is because of changes in his circumstances and the wider  lending 
environment  changes which arent part of his mortgage contract, arent  within Landmarks  control, 
and couldnt have been foreseen by any party when he took the mortgage out.
It could be argued that theres  also a contractual barrier to him moving his mortgage  elsewhere. 
Although theres  no longer an early repayment charge,  its a feature of together mortgages that if the 
secured loan element is redeemed   or moves off the SVR  the interest rate on the unsecured 
element increases, in this case to 5% above the SVR. However, I dont need to decide in this case 
whether that makes the agreement, or any part of it, unfair. Thats because  of my finding  above that 
moving elsewhere wasnt in any case a practical option  so this term made no difference  to Mr N. 
And its because of my finding below that the unsecured loan should have been defaulted in 2008, 
before Mr Ns fixed rate ended  and if that had happened, the possibility of its interest  rate rising 
would have fallen away. The practical problem  of the arrears  and nature of the mortgage was what  
prevented Mr N being able to move his mortgage, not the potential problem of the unsecured interest 
rate increase. That term therefore caused Mr N no detriment  and following the default  of the 
unsecured loan wont  do so should he move his mortgage in the future either.
Mr and Mrs N believe the reason theyve been unable  to move elsewhere is because of what 
Landmark and its predecessor  has been  reporting on their credit file. Ill say more about the credit file 
below. For now, Ill say that I think its the fact of the arrears that would have made  it unlikely  they 
Ref: DRN635939211would have been able to go elsewhere. While those arrears were  recorded  on the credit  file, the credit  
file is a symptom of the problem not its cause.
Landmarks not treating Mr N any differently  to how it treats its other customers. Its business model is 
based on not offering new products  and thats a decision about its business  its entitled to take.  Mr 
N has been able to pay his contractual  payment,  and contribute to reducing the arrears  albeit with 
SMI support until last year  so its not the case that his mortgage is currently unaffordable, though of 
course I understand that hed rather his payments  were lower. 
Theres nothing in the contract, the law or the regulators rules that requires  Landmark  to offer new 
products. Landmark itself isnt standing in the way of Mr and Mrs N moving their mortgage elsewhere. 
Its treating them the same  as it treats all its other customers.  And Im also mindful that while 
Landmarks SVR is significantly higher than new interest rate products offered by other lenders,  its 
similar to other  lenders  SVR rates. 
The SVR has changed between 2016 and 2018. As the Bank  of England  base rate has gone down 
and then back  up again in that time, Landmark has changed the SVR by broadly the same  amount at 
broadly the same time. As Mr Ns mortgage rate is linked  to the SVR, his interest rate has changed at 
the same time. Its a variable rate, and doesnt automatically track the Bank of England base rate. But 
base rate is one of the factors Landmark can take into account in setting the SVR, so I dont think  the 
changes in 2016 to 2018 were unfair.
Taking the facts of this case into account, and taking into account the law, rules and my findings  
about Landmarks business model and the level of its SVR, I dont think I can fairly uphold this part of 
the complaint.
Mr Ns credit file and the impact of how Landmark has treated him
Ive looked at the history of the account,  and I can see that Mr N has been in arrears on both his 
secured and unsecured  loans for many years. 
Weve asked  Mr N to provide a full copy  of his credit file, and to explain which  of the entries it 
currently shows that hes unhappy with, but he hasnt done so. I only have a brief extract  he provided 
to Landmark when he complained, and it isnt clear what that shows.  As a result,  its difficult  for me to 
find that Landmark  has done anything wrong  here; if I havent seen the credit file, I cant say theres  
anything wrong with it.
Instead, therefore, Ill say what I think it should show. Mr N has been in arrears for many years.  A 
credit record only goes  back six years, and Mr N has been  in arrears for the whole  of that time.
However, he has been  reducing the arrears  month by month by paying his contractual payment as 
well as extra  payments on top. There have been issues around  whether a particular arrangement is or 
is not in place,  or has been  broken. The most recent instance  of this was in April 2018, when Mr N 
decided not to continue  his SMI claim after it changed from being a benefit to a loan. Landmark said 
that as a result it would need to reconsider his income  and expenditure, recorded the existing 
arrangement as broken,  and charged arrears fees in May and June 2018.
I dont think it needed to do that. Mr N continued to overpay without a break, but now did so entirely  
from his own resources. I think its fair that Landmark has now refunded the arrears  charges.
There are other instances  when payments have been allocated to different  months, but that seems to 
be for one of two reasons.  It appears that either  Landmarks  systems   which its since amended  
have recorded it this way. Or its because Mr N has made a payment by standing order or a manual 
payment at the end of a month which has been credited to the account in the following month.
Where a mortgage is in arrears, that has to be recorded to the credit  file. A credit file is supposed  to 
be an accurate record of the conduct  of the account  and its genuinely  the case  that Mr N is in 
Ref: DRN635939212arrears. However,  theres a difference between a recording of missed payments, or increasing 
arrears, and a recording  of reducing arrears and an agreed arrangement. I dont think what happened 
in April 2018  should be recorded as a broken arrangement, and nor should  instances where Mr N has 
made a payment at the end of one month which has been credited in the next month.
I think  Landmark should  ensure, if it hasnt  already  done so, that Mr Ns credit file shows that he has 
been in an agreed arrangement to reduce his arrears throughout the last six years. 
The unsecured loan has also been recorded on Mr Ns credit file. As its important that secured  loans 
are prioritised, Landmark  accepted nominal payments of £5 per month to the unsecured  loan, and the 
arrears on that loan increased   and were  recorded  as increasing  even while the arrears  on the 
secured loan were coming down.
Its right that the secured loan was prioritised. But its clear that Mr N hasnt been in a position to clear  
the arrears on the secured  loan and also pay the unsecured loan for many years. Landmark accepted 
nominal payments to the unsecured loan.  But, instead, it could have treated that loan as being  in 
default, and issued a default notice.  If it had done that, the loan agreement  would have come  to an 
end. Instead, it would have  become a debt,  with debt recovery to have been agreed. And instead of 
continuing arrears being recorded on Mr Ns credit file, a default would have been recorded at the 
time  with no further recording after that. And the defaulted loan would have fallen off the credit 
record altogether after six years.
I think  Landmark could have done that many years ago, and accepted  the nominal  payments Mr N 
has been making  towards the defaulted debt rather than the agreed loan. It has now, belatedly, 
agreed to do that  backdating it to 2008. That means that the unsecured loan would have fallen off 
Mr Ns credit record altogether in 2014, and Landmark has therefore removed it from his credit file 
with retrospective effect. I think thats fair  but its something that could and should have been done 
many years ago. Landmark  should  also rework the balance of the unsecured loan on the basis of a 
2008 default.
Mr N has said the impact  of this on him has been severe. Hes not been able to move his mortgage 
elsewhere. Hes not been able to obtain other credit, which has impacted  on his ability to run his 
business, reducing  his income  and his chances of reducing the mortgage arrears.
However, Mr N hasnt given us a full copy of his credit file, even though weve asked for it. I do know 
that, even  if the unsecured  loan wouldnt have been recorded  on it from 2014, the mortgage arrears 
and arrangement would have been.  I dont know what other  records there would have been,  and 
whether Mr N has other defaults or arrears with other credit providers. I dont have evidence  either  of 
refusals of credit  or evidence that those refusals were because of the record of the unsecured loan 
which shouldnt have been there, rather than, for example, because  of the mortgage arrears which 
should have been there. I therefore dont have any evidence that Landmarks recording of the 
unsecured arrears between 2014 and 2018,  when the default should have fallen off in 2014, has 
caused Mr N any financial loss.
If, in response to this provisional decision, Mr N is able to provide a full copy of his credit file, and 
evidence that applications  for credit were refused specifically because of the recording of the 
unsecured loan arrears, Ill reconsider this point. But without that evidence I cant make any award  for 
financial loss.
I do note,  however, that this has caused  Mr N considerable distress over the years. He believes  
even if there ends up being  no evidence  of it  that this has caused him and his family significant  
financial problems. Hes spent much time and effort complaining about it. I do think this is something I 
should take into account  in determining a fair award  for his trouble and upset. Ill revisit  this if there is 
evidence of the financial impact, but in the meantime I think an additional £500 compensation  is fair in 
all the circumstances.
Ref: DRN635939213the future of Mr Ns mortgage
The remaining arrears on the mortgage are small. Landmark has offered  to capitalise them, but even 
if that doesnt happen they will be cleared within  the next few months. Once the arrears  are gone, it 
may be possible  for Mr N to move his mortgage to another lender  which can offer lower interest rates  
 and he may even be able to move house, either with another  lender, or through  porting  his 
mortgage with Landmark.  Because he has an interest only mortgage it might  be difficult, but there are 
lenders who offer interest only mortgages  and Mr N may be able to afford a repayment mortgage. I 
dont know, but I think it should be explored.
I know from my knowledge of the mortgage market and from my experience of other cases that other 
lenders with closed books, or who have withdrawn from sections of the market, have made 
arrangements for their borrowers to consult  mortgage  advisers to see whether they can move 
elsewhere to a lender  that would offer new interest rates. The government backed lender Mr N was 
formerly with does this  but so do other banks who have closed, or closed part of, their books.  
Landmark has offered to put Mr N in touch with a debt advice charity,  or to contribute  £300 towards 
the cost of him seeing a regulated mortgage broker. 
I dont think this goes far enough. I think that where  a lender has closed  its book  and is not offering 
new interest rate products  to its customers, theres no obligation  on it to do so. But at the same time it 
has to act fairly, taking into account  the best interests of its customers. 
Theres a balance  to be struck here. It is, generally  speaking, in the best interests of borrowers to 
access lower interest rates.  But where  a lenders  business  model is closed, for the reasons Ive given 
I dont think it would  be right for me to require it to change that.
Other lenders in a similar position  having  closed their book, either  in full or to certain types of 
customer  have made arrangements to refer their customers to independent  mortgage brokers to 
help them move  their mortgage away to another lender if possible to do so. I think  that represents 
good industry practice, which is one of the factors I have to take into account in deciding whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this case.
I dont think a referral to a debt advice  charity, or the Money Advice  Service,  is adequate  in the 
context of the good  practice  offered by other lenders. Those bodies can give advice on Mr Ns wider 
finances, and advise them about the sorts of alternatives that may be open to them.  But theyre  not 
regulated mortgage advisers,  able to offer regulated  mortgage advice  about specific mortgages Mr 
and Mrs N may be able to apply  for, and not able to assist them  with an application. Nor do I think it 
fair for Landmark to limit its contribution to the costs to £300.
I think  the fair outcome in this case is to recognise  that Landmark need not offer Mr N a new interest 
rate. But because it has chosen not to do so, fairness  judged against the good practice  of the wider  
industry  in my view requires it to arrange for him to receive dedicated regulated mortgage advice  to 
assist him to identify and, if possible, apply for a mortgage  with another lender that does offer lower 
interest rates. Ive said that it might, in practice, prove difficult for Mr N to go to another  lender.  But its 
something I think should fairly  be explored. 
I therefore  intend  to require Landmark to make arrangements, should  he wish to do so, for Mr N to 
receive independent mortgage advice from a regulated mortgage adviser without charge  to him. 
Ref: DRN6359392