K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the quality of a car he financed through an agreement  with Mi Vehicle 
Finance Limited  (Mi Vehicle Finance). He says it was of unsatisfactory quality at the point 
of supply.
background
Mr B took receipt of a used car in June 2018.  He financed the deal through a three  year 
personal contract purchase agreement with Mi Vehicle Finance. At the point of supply the 
car had completed  about 75,000 miles and was four and a half years old. 
But within a month Mr B complained to Mi Vehicle  Finance. He said the car had developed a 
judder; was shaking and there  was a metallic knocking. He provided a report from a garage 
Ill call C who said that:
front brake pads  were worn, wear  sensors were  required and discs were  warped
two front link bars had slight play
front anti roll bar bushes (D) were worn
two front tie bar bushes were  split
wheels needed  de-buckling
front tyres needed replacing
C said that the total cost of this work was over £2,000 and Mr B therefore asked Mi Vehicle 
Finance to pay for it.
Mi Vehicle  Finance arranged to collect his car and deliver it back  to the dealership. They  
said the drivers didnt  notice any juddering,  shaking  or metallic noises on the 200 mile trip 
and when they sent the car to an independent  MOT  test station the garage  couldnt replicate 
the problems Mr B complained of and the car passed its MOT. They noted that:
brake pads were perfectly  serviceable and sensors  didnt require replacement.  
there was no fluctuation in braking during  the MOT test which would suggest discs  
werent worn. 
the vehicle  didnt have D bushes  but had computer controlled, electrically operated 
anti roll bars
there was no play in the front suspension
front tie bar bushes werent split
there was a slight buckling of one wheel  but if placed on the rear this wouldnt be a 
problem
there was a split to a tyre sidewall  but as that hadnt  been identified by C it had 
evidently happened since the vehicle  was supplied to Mr B.
So Mi Vehicle Finance didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. They  said they could  find nothing 
wrong with the car.
Mr B referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator provided his opinion.  He didnt 
think there was evidence of a fault with the car so he didnt think  it would be fair to ask Mi 
Vehicle Finance to take any further  action. He said the car was clearly road worthy as it had 
passed an MOT and he explained that, as it wasnt a new car, he would expect some wear 
and tear on the vehicle.
Ref: DRN67230642But Mr B disagreed with the adjudicator and he asked for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
He couldnt understand why the adjudicator  would  prefer the business  inspection to the one 
hed had done by C.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B acquired his car under a personal  contract purchase agreement. This is a regulated 
consumer credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about 
it.  
The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the car should  have been of satisfactory 
quality when supplied.  If it wasnt then Mi Vehicle Finance, who are also the supplier of the 
car, are responsible. The relevant law also says the quality of goods is satisfactory if they 
meet the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account 
any description of the goods, the price  and all the other relevant circumstances. 
In a case like this which involves a car the other relevant circumstances would likely include 
things like the age, mileage and price at the time the car was supplied  to Mr B. The car here 
was around four and a half years old and had travelled 75,000  miles. So I wouldnt expect it 
to be in immaculate  condition as I would expect  a brand new car to be but I would think it 
reasonable to suggest it shouldnt have significant mechanical or electrical  faults.
I take account of relevant law when deciding what is fair and reasonable. On this basis  if I 
thought the car was faulty when supplied and this fault made the car not of satisfactory  
quality, Id think it fair and reasonable to ask Mi Vehicle  Finance  to put this right. 
Mr B returned his car to the dealership  within the first month. The report he had from C 
suggested there were  significant faults but the dealerships MOT garage have disputed this. I 
prefer their findings. I say that because:
I think its unlikely the car wouldve passed  an MOT if all of the faults C reported were 
present
Mr B has been able to cover  7,000  miles in the car since it was supplied to him. I 
dont think that would  be likely if the car had the problems he complained  of. I 
understand this mileage is disputed by Mr B and he thinks its closer to 5,000  miles. 
But I dont think 5,000 miles would have been possible if the car required £2,000 of 
repairs to the brakes and suspension
Mr B hasnt  had any repairs done to the car. If there were faults with the car as 
identified by C I think he wouldve had to have some work  done. But thats not 
Ref: DRN67230643happened and Mr B appears to have been  able to drive the car about  as much as 
hed intended  to do when he took out a finance agreement with a mileage limit of 
8,000 per year
the dealership  didnt  identify any problems with the car on a 200 mile journey. Whilst I 
understand they cant be considered independent here I do think  their testimony adds 
to the overall picture that theres insufficient evidence  of faults with this vehicle
So, on the evidence  Ive been provided I am not persuaded that there  were  faults  with this 
car at the point  of supply and I dont  think Mi Vehicle Finance need to take any further  action.
I note that in the course of this investigation Mr B has also raised  concerns  that:
the mileage was not as advertised
the dealership  had agreed to provide a warranty and service plan but didnt
there was no deposit recorded on the agreement although he did pay one
Mi Vehicle  Finance havent  allowed  us to look at these issues as they say they need to be 
given a chance to consider them before we get involved. I agree. Mr B will therefore need to 
refer those complaints  to Mi Vehicle Finance if he still wants to pursue them. If hes 
dissatisfied with their response he will, of course, then be able to refer his complaint to this 
service.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6723064