K820x#14complaint
Mrs I complains about British Gas Insurance Limited  (Ill refer to as BG)  she says that BG 
failed to carry out an annual service over several  years and as a result  the boiler needs to be 
replaced. She thinks BG has failed to comply  with the terms of her HomeCare 200 policy.
Mrs I is represented by Mr I in this complaint and so from here on Ill just refer to Mr I.
background
Mr I has told us theres been a policy with BG since around 1999 and BG has never serviced  
the boiler as it should have done. Apparently,  BG has attended  the boiler every year but 
didnt service it in line with the manufacturers  requirements, and as a result  the boiler has 
suffered unnecessary wear and tear thats shortened its serviceable life. 
There is a lengthy  and detailed background which the parties  are aware  of and which  Ill not 
rehearse here. But its worthy of note that there have been  court  proceedings and Mr I isnt 
happy with the way BG participated. He says this has caused him significant inconvenience 
and time-wasting such that he feels BG should  pay him an hourly  rate of £300.  Hed also like 
the premiums refunded  in full, the cost of a new boiler  and compensation for the distress  
caused.
BG said the boiler  had been  serviced correctly in accordance  with Gas Safe regulations  and 
the manufacturers requirements. Corrosion was due to a seal that failed within a year of an 
inspection, but an engineer incorrectly diagnosed the heat exchanger  required replacing. It 
could have been repaired at the time and it agreed  to reimburse the third-party repair costs 
of £761.00. As the boiler had been serviced  BG refused to refund the premiums paid for the 
HomeCare policy since 2012, when the heat exchanger became obsolete. To recognise the 
inconvenience caused for being without heating and more  generally the service provided, 
BG offered a total of £700.
One of our investigators  investigated the complaint  and initially said Mr I had failed to bring 
the complaint  to us within six months of BGs  final response. And as there were no 
exceptional circumstances  that prevented him bringing the complaint within that time, we 
couldnt look at the complaint. Later however,  BG consented to us looking into the merits of 
Mr Is complaint.
Our investigator explained that BG had offered to refund  repair costs Mr I incurred when the 
boiler broke  down, pay £500 as a gesture of goodwill  for being  without heating for a month  
and £200 for the inconvenience  caused.  He thought it likely a seal had failed  in between 
services but BG had offered  to refund the repair costs.
He acknowledged  that another engineer thought that steam  had escaped  because of a failed 
seal but he wasnt persuaded  that meant the boiler had a lower  life expectancy. One part, a 
heat exchanger, was obsolete  from around  2012  and its worn state had been conveyed to 
Mr I previously. And considering other engineering  evidence, the investigator couldnt say 
that steam and carbon  monoxide were a primary reason for any future issues.
The investigator concluded that it wouldnt be fair to require BG to refund the premiums paid 
as BG had continued  to attend to the boiler  and carry  out repairs.  He also said BGs service  
wasnt very good as incorrect diagnoses  were made and this caused inconvenience.  But 
BGs offers of £500 and £200 were enough  to fairly recognise the inconvenience were  fair.
Ref: DRN60961492Mr I disagreed, which Ill summarise the main  points as follows;
BG hadnt provided the service  hed paid for 10 years.
BG claimed twice  he needed to buy a new boiler because of the obsolete part.
The investigator has ignored the inconvenience  caused by BGs conduct  in court 
proceedings.
The amount  of compensation wasnt enough  for the circumstances his family  
suffered.
The boiler manufacturers service requirements werent followed such  as replacing 
gaskets and flanges every  three years even though BG claimed they were.
BG inspected the boiler rather than service it.
An independent engineer has confirmed that the boiler has suffered damage 
because it hadnt been serviced  and its life expectancy shortened.
As the heat exchanger was obsolete  from 2012  Mr I was paying  for cover BG could 
not fulfil and so there was no risk to BG and so should refund the premiums paid.
The heat exchanger should  have  been  cleaned out every few years  to remove sludge 
build-up, which in turn would  prevent corrosion.
Mr Is complaint has now been referred  for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited has been  regulated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA) 
from August 2009. This means that for events prior to that period were  not able to consider 
and so the limit of what I can consider  only goes  back as far as when their regulation by the 
FCA came  into being.
The main  issue in this case  is whether  BG serviced  the boiler in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy.
The policy mainly covered the central heating system, which  includes the boiler, and it 
defines annual  service as follows;
a check each year to ensure your gas boiler, appliance or central heating is safe 
and working properly. See page  27 for more details.
At page  27 of the policy BG sets out more  detail about the annual  service explaining that 
once a year an engineer will check the appliance,  boiler, or central heating system  and 
ventilation is working  safely  and in line with the relevant laws and regulations.  And it gives  
more information  about tests that would be carried out. The policy though  says nothing about 
working within the manufacturers requirements.  There is information from BG that suggests 
they do this but the document Mr I has provided about this (Recommended  Routine Service  
 hereafter referred  to as RRS) doesnt set out that the service would routinely cover the 
issues that have  been raised with his boiler.  And the RRS uses  phrases such  as if 
necessary and this is particularly relevant to the gasket/seal issue Mr I raises.
There is a history of appointments carried out and brief notes about what, if any, issues were 
identified and repaired. In terms of what the policy and the RRS documents say I am not 
persuaded that BG has failed to carry out the annual service. I have carefully  considered all 
Ref: DRN60961493the information Mr I has sent us from other  heating engineers that have attended  his boiler  to 
carry out repairs. While they point to some  issues that Mr I was understandably  concerned 
about these are neither covered by the terms of the annual service  or mandatory by the 
RRS.
As the investigator  has addressed,  and which I agree with, BG has accepted  some  customer  
service issues  and offered  a total of £700  compensation and to refund the repair  costs Mr I 
incurred. I am satisfied that, in all the circumstances, BG has made  a fair offer to put things 
right.
There are some matters that are, or at least have been, subject to legal proceedings. Its not 
clear whether these  involve BG specifically or other related businesses  who have 
responsibility for matters  outside the insurance contract, such as supply and payment for 
supply and usage. From what  Mr I has told us in his communications  the matters  before the 
court do involve British  Gas Insurance Limited and are not related to the insurance contract. 
So, it wouldnt be appropriate for me to comment about other firms and or the court  
proceedings in this decision. 
my final decision
I am aware  that British Gas Insurance Limited  has made an offer to pay £700 compensation 
and refund repair costs  of £761. I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances. My decision is that British Gas Insurance Limited  should  pay Mrs I these 
amounts.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6096149