K821x#15complaint
Ms G complains that the vehicle she acquired through a hire agreement financed  by 
Santander Consumer  (UK) Plc trading  as Volvo  Car Financial Services wasnt of satisfactory 
quality. She wants to end the agreement.
background
Ms G tells us she acquired  this new vehicle in May 2018. In August 2018  she says the 
vehicle broke down with electrical  faults  which were  repaired. On 10 November 2018  she 
states the vehicle again  broke down  and was recovered to one of the manufacturers 
dealerships which Ill refer to as DV. Ms G explains that various  repairs were carried  out 
and the vehicle was returned to her on or around 24 November. On 27 November she 
reports the vehicle  again failed and was recovered to another  of the manufacturers 
dealerships which Ill refer to as VT. At this stage Ms G says she notified Volvo that she 
wanted to reject the vehicle. Subsequently she explains that the vehicle has been  inspected 
and shes been  told the fuel was contaminated and that this is what  caused  the breakdowns. 
She says Volvo is now demanding  she pays for the vehicle to be repaired. Ms G points out 
that she had to pay for hire charges for a replacement  vehicle  from 20 December 2018 to 4 
February 2019 as she had to return the courtesy vehicle which  had been  supplied after the 
latest breakdown.
Volvo told us it had originally made an offer to Ms G in January 2019 to terminate the 
agreement and refund  a proportion of Ms Gs initial deposit. It said Ms G had declined  this 
offer. Subsequently,  Volvo told us it had arranged for the vehicle to be inspected  by a 
company Ill refer to as A. As a result of As inspection it had arranged for a fuel sample 
taken by A to be analysed. It said this had shown the fuel taken  from the vehicle had been 
contaminated. As there  wasnt  a manufacturing  fault it felt it was for Ms G to pay for repairs. 
The cost of these  was put at £5,619  by VT. But it said if Ms G agreed  to pay this sum it 
would waive payment arrears of £3,433.20  and the early termination  fee of £9,697.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 June 2020.  I said I intended to uphold  
the complaint.  I didnt  think the vehicle was of satisfactory quality when supplied and I felt 
that Volvo shouldve accepted Ms Gs rejection of the vehicle.
Since my provisional decision Ms G has replied accepting my provisional decision.  Volvo  
hasnt responded.  As no new information  has been supplied  I see no reason to change my 
provisional view which is largely  repeated in my final decision set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this has been a long drawn out and upsetting  process for Ms G. And Im sorry 
shes had to go through this. I cant think that when  she acquired this new vehicle she was 
anticipating the problems that shes subsequently faced.
Ms Gs hire agreement is a regulated consumer credit agreement and our service  is able to 
consider complaints relating to it. Volvo  supplied  the vehicle and its therefore  responsible  for 
a complaint about the quality of the vehicle.
Ref: DRN62459642Where information is unclear, contradictory or facts are in dispute - as is the case  here  I 
reach my conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
I dont apply the law - directly  but I do take it into account. Relevant legislation here 
includes the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  (CRA). This states  that in order to conform to 
contract goods must be of satisfactory  quality at the time of supply. And the quality  of goods 
includes aspects of durability and being  free from minor defects.
I dont think theres any dispute about the timeline  which led to this complaint. Ms G acquired 
the new vehicle  in May 2018. It broke down in August 2018 and was repaired. In November 
2018 the vehicle broke  down again but this time due to more  serious  issues.
Ive seen a job sheet dated  10 November  2018 prepared by DV which  records that Ms G 
reported that the vehicle  hesitated and cut out. The job sheet describes in detail the 
examination of the vehicle and findings. And the subsequent repairs  carried  out. Amongst 
the more salient information  was that DV checked for fuel contamination.  A smell test was 
conducted and some fuel was drained and placed  in a container.  It was reported that no 
smell or separation of the fuel sample was noted.  Various  replacement parts were fitted 
including a cylinder head, fuel pump and timing  belt. And its reported the vehicle was road 
tested several times over the following days before being returned to Ms G. These repairs 
were carried  out under  the vehicle warranty at no cost to Ms G.
Ms G collected the car but within  three  days it had broken  down again.  This time the vehicle 
was recovered  to VT. The invoice prepared by VT and dated 6 December 2018 reported that 
contaminated fuel had been found. And that repairs including a fuel pump and fuel injectors 
would cost £5,619.
Ive seen a number of emails  which  were  sent whilst Volvo was trying to establish the cause 
of the vehicles problems. Of particular note is an email  dated 3 December 2018 sent from its 
customer service  section.  This email details  the timeline of the vehicles history. But it reports 
that VT had found  contaminated fuel which resulted in a milky  liquid being extracted. It 
went on to record that VT had said it doesnt  look like a mis-fuel.  And had confirmed that it 
(VT) had drained the fuel in the vehicle and replaced this with clean fuel. But this had 
resulted in the same milky fluid.
A inspected  the vehicle  on 5 February and took a fuel sample which was later analysed.  The 
report found:
The fuel shows signs of free-floating dirt and debris  present. The fuels  general condition 
was poor and appears to be the source  of the reported defect.
The report  went on to conclude:
no manufacturing defect was noted  to account for the issues  as such it does  appear  likely 
that fuel replenishment has led to the defect and contamination. As such  the condition  has 
likely been  a recent occurrence within one of the vehicles last journeys and would  have not 
been presence at the point of hire commencement.
Ignoring what appears to be an unrelated fault which was resolved in August 2018, Ms Gs 
problems with this vehicle started on 10 November  2018.
Ref: DRN62459643Ive noted that in a reply to our investigator, Volvo  confirmed that where faults  were  
discovered it would recommend  drivers  to take the vehicle to a main dealer for review.  And 
Ive noted the hire agreement welcome pack letter included the following advice about 
vehicle maintenance:
In order to keep  the vehicle  in the best condition, the vehicle must be serviced in accordance 
with the manufacturers  recommended service intervals, using genuine parts,  at an 
authorised Volvo dealership.
And the agreement itself at 6.1 states:
When servicing or any other work  needs to be carried  out on the vehicle you will, at your 
cost, take the vehicle  to a franchised  dealer.
By having the vehicle recovered  to DV and VT Ms G has acted as Volvo recommended or 
required. Its fair and reasonable  for her to rely on the services offered by these businesses.
DV repaired the vehicle and road tested it. Whilst it didnt analyse the fuel it did drain a 
sample and place it in a container.  It seems probable that if contamination had been 
apparent it wouldve observed this. And the vehicle was repaired under warranty. Its 
improbable that if DV had thought Ms G was at fault it wouldve upheld  the warranty.
The vehicle was then returned to Ms G who had every reason to believe it had been  fully 
repaired.
Ms G has stated  she didnt refuel  the vehicle in the period between  leaving DVs premises  
and the next breakdown. Certainly  the vehicles odometer only records  an additional 185 
miles. And thats  consistent with the journey description given by Ms G and with the location  
of the later breakdown. As no information has been supplied which contradicts what Ms G 
has said in this respect, Ive no hesitation in accepting  her account.
Upon the breakdown on 27 November  Ms G sought to reject the vehicle. And when VT first 
examined the vehicle it didnt  identify  what it described as mis-fuel as a cause.  At that point 
there was no suggestion  that Ms G would be held responsible for any repairs  which might 
prove necessary. Indeed, Volvo offered to end the agreement  and partially refund her 
deposit. 
Volvos change  of mind  came as result of As inspection and the subsequent  analysis  of the 
fuel sample taken from the vehicle.  But as Ive already mentioned VT had stated  it had 
drained the fuel that had been  in the vehicle when it was recovered and replaced it with 
clean fuel. So the sample  taken  by A was not from the fuel that was in the vehicle when 
last used by Ms G. It was a sample of fuel inserted  into the vehicle by VT which couldnt 
have been the cause  of the breakdown.
Ref: DRN62459644Im required  to make my decision  based  on whats fair and reasonable. Ms G acted  
responsibly in having  the vehicle repaired by DV. She was entitled to expect the vehicle had 
been repaired with reasonable  care and skill. DV identified  those repairs  it diagnosed as 
being required and it didnt identify fuel contamination as a cause of the faults. Whilst the 
vehicle was repaired under warranty, I dont think this directly affects my decision. The 
vehicle was new when  supplied to Ms G and it shouldnt  ordinarily  have required such major 
repairs within such a short time. It seems that - based on DVs diagnosis  of the faults with 
the vehicle  it lacked durability. As such it wouldnt have  been of satisfactory quality when 
supplied to Ms G.
When the vehicle  again broke down within three  days  of these repairs it was reasonable for 
Ms G to infer this was due to a failure  of those repairs. And she wouldve been entitled to 
reject the vehicle. This is what  she sought  to do.
Its the cost of repairs for this later breakdown that Volvo is seeking from Ms G. But I dont 
think thats fair. When the vehicle failed within three days of DVs repairs  its a reasonable 
inference that this was a direct result  of these having failed. Or alternatively, a failure  to 
identify some other underlying cause including fuel contamination. Either  way its not fair and 
reasonable to hold Ms G responsible for what then happened.
From what  I can see from As report its inspection of the vehicle  was limited to taking  a fuel 
sample and running  a diagnostic test. The latter didnt identify any other faults relating to the 
fuel system.  But it doesnt appear  that A even considered if the failure of recent repairs  
mightve been the cause of the latest  breakdown. It had taken a fuel sample  - which we now 
know wasnt fuel put in the vehicle by Ms G -.and based its conclusion  on this.
In summary,  Ive not seen any information  which persuades  me that DVs  assessment of the 
repairs required when it inspected the vehicle on or around 10 November 2018 was 
incorrect. As this didnt identify fuel contamination as a cause of those faults I find, on a 
balance of probabilities, that the repairs were  needed  due to the vehicle not being sufficiently 
durable so as to conform to contract at the point of supply.
When the vehicle  broke  down  on 27 November  2018, I find on a balance  of probabilities that 
it was due to a failure of the earlier repairs made by DV. Im not finding that there  was fuel 
contamination when the vehicle was repaired by DV. But if that was the case, then Id still 
find that the repairs had failed as DV ought reasonably to have identified this issue  if it was 
present.
Ive concluded  that when  Ms G sought to reject the vehicle on or around 27 November 2018  
that Volvo shouldve accepted this. And I uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I now require Santander Consumer (UK) Plc trading as Volvo  Car Financial Services
to take the following action:
1.End the agreement with Ms G incurring no further liability  for payments for any period 
after 20 December 2018 (the last day a courtesy  vehicle  was supplied); Any 
payments made for a period after this date should be refunded, together with 8% 
interest from date of payment to date of settlement;
Ref: DRN624596452.Refund £2,203.20 to Ms G from her initial advance payment. This is based on the 
proportion of fair use obtained  as 6/42 months. Simple interest  at the rate of 8% per 
year should be added from date of payment to date of settlement;
3.Arrange to have  any adverse entries  arising  from this agreement removed from Ms 
Gs credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6245964