K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mr D (the complainants)  say problems with the trading platform  used in their 
account with ICM Capital  Limited (ICM) caused a financial loss.
background
The account  was opened in November 2017.  The complainants  say the trading platform was 
initially without problems,  and then they experienced the following problems between 
December 2017  and February 2018:
Between December  2017 and January 2018 connection to the platform  was broken 
several times, which caused  losses.
They were part of a collective of around  40 traders  who had ICM accounts and all 
used the trading platforms copy  trade  facility. This facility meant that trades 
(including hedging trades) made  in a master account within  the collective were 
automatically replicated in all of the other  accounts, in proportion  to the equity in 
those accounts.  Initially this facility worked, then it stopped working  and problems 
were caused to trades in the subordinate accounts  including theirs  which were 
supposed to follow  the master account but did not.
ICM unreasonably increased the spread in a trade by 60 pips in December 2017 and 
adversely affected some  of the accounts in the collective. ICM thereafter rectified this 
problem. However, on 6 February 2018  a similar  occurrence resulted in an increase 
of the spread by 30 pips, led to closure of relevant  positions in the trade and caused 
severe losses.
ICM disputes the complaint. It says there  is evidence of an audit report  on trading activity  in 
the complainants account  which it shared with this service   showing that their trades did 
not encounter  any rejections or time outs during the relevant period. As such, it says, even if 
there were small connection issues they did not cause the complainants a financial loss or 
restrict their trading. 
ICM says there  is no evidence of the copy trade facility not working; it highlights the 
complainants concession that the matter related to the 60 pips spread increase was 
resolved; it says the positions automatically  closed on 6 February 2018 were  legitimate 
closures caused by the total losses in those positions exceeding the total equity in the 
account; and it has referred to evidence of the bid/ask prices for the relevant trade at the 
time of the closures which it says shows that the spread had not been increased by 30 pips 
but instead was floating between 0.3 and 0.5 pips.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint, clarified account events with ICM and 
then concluded  that the complaint  should  not be upheld  for broadly the same reasons as 
those given by ICM. The complainants disagreed with this outcome  and retained  their 
allegations. They suggested that this service should look into events in the other accounts 
within the collective,  where they believe there  is evidence to support what  they say 
happened in their account.  They said this would also show that the copy  trade  facility  was 
faulty. The matter  was referred  to an ombudsman.
Ref: DRN61440832my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold the 
complaint.
The alleged broken platform connections  and failed copy  trade  facility  both relate  to the 
functioning of the trading platform used by the complainants. 
In terms of alleged  trading  losses directly caused  by the alleged  broken connections, 
account activity  evidence supports ICMs position. There does not appear  to be record of the 
complainants trades or orders being  rejected or timed out during the relevant  period, so the 
implication is that any alleged broken platform connections did not directly  result in either 
consequence.
I have also considered the suggestion  that management of trades was affected  by the 
alleged broken platform connections. In this case,  the absence of rejected or timed out 
trades is arguably less relevant, given that if any of the alleged broken connections 
happened as described it/they  could have affected  measures  short  of opening or closing a 
trade that the complainants might  have wanted  to take to manage a trade (or trades). 
However, the lack of evidence of such broken connections defeats  this complaint issue.  
Furthermore, and quite importantly, there is evidence of a particular provision in the terms 
and conditions for the account which has the effect of excluding  ICMs liability  for system 
failures (including within the trading  platform)  and for any losses  to clients arising  from such 
failures. In this context  and even if there  was evidence  of the alleged broken connections, 
there appears to be a contractual  basis upon  which ICM would bear no responsibility for 
them. The same applies to the copy trade  facility  within the platform. Even if its failure is 
established  which has not been the case,  given the lack of evidence showing  such  failure 
 ICMs contractual  exclusion  of liability would remain relevant. I understand the 
complainants invitation  to essentially  audit  events in other accounts within the collective  in 
order to finding  supporting  evidence  for the complaint  but such an exercise would be 
arguably redundant in the face of ICMs  contractual exclusion of liability.
Both parties  appear to agree that the matter related to the 60 pips spread increase has been 
adequately resolved, so I do not address it further.  The allegation related to 6 February is 
that a spread increase  (by 30 pips) led the platform to close the complainants positions  that 
day. Available evidence shows the bid/ask prices for the relevant trade shows  a spread,  at 
the time when the positions were  closed, between 0.3 to 0.5 pips. This does not support the 
assertion about  a 30 pips spread increase. ICM was contractually entitled  to apply automatic 
closures to positions  where there  were  running  losses that exceeded  the accounts equity. 
This appears  to have  been the cause of the automatic closures  on 6 February.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I do not uphold Mr Ms and Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mr D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 January  2020.
Ref: DRN61440833Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6144083