K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited (Shawbrook), has rejected the 
claim they made under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (the Act) in relation to 
a solar panel system  they say were  misrepresented to them  by the supplier.
Mr and Mrs W is represented by a claims  management company (the CMC).
background
In or around August  2015, Mr and Mrs W were  contacted by a representative  of a company 
Ill call P to talk about purchasing a solar panel  system (the system) to be installed at their 
home. After  being visited by a representative  of P, Mr and Mrs W decided to purchase  the 
system and finance  it through a 15-year fixed sum loan agreement with Shawbrook.  The 
system was subsequently installed.
In March 2017 the CMC made  a claim on Mr and Mrs Ws behalf under section 75 of the Act 
to Shawbrook. The CMC  said that, following a cold call, P had made  a number of 
representations about the system that had turned out not to be true, and it was these 
misrepresentations that had induced Mr and Mrs W to enter into the contract with P. The 
CMC said the following  misrepresentations had been made:
the total cost of the system including VAT had been documented as £7,894.95 to 
mislead Mr and Mrs W  this figure  did not include any interest  associated  with the 
loan, so the true cost was £15,184.80;  
Mr and Mrs W were not told that there  would  be an annual deficit  of £599.96; 
the credit  agreement would be self-funded by the FIT payments  alone; 
the system would  not cost them a penny; and,
they would make savings on their electricity bills.
The CMC also raised  concerns under  section  140A of the Act. It said there was an unfair 
relationship between Mr and Mrs W and Shawbrook due to the misleading representations 
made about the systems expected performance.
On making the section  75 claim to Shawbrook, the CMC  provided; a copy of a non-
compliance hearing from the Renewable Energy Consumer Code (RECC)  dated 
December 2013,  copies of marketing material used  by P, a job advert for P, Mr and Mrs Ws 
loan agreement with Shawbrook and some of Mr and Mrs Ws electricity  bills and FIT 
statements.
In its final response letter  Shawbrook said, having reviewed the information  it held on file, as 
well as information provided by P, that it didnt  agree  the system had been misrepresented  to 
Mr and Mrs W or that there were  any other  reasons for the claim to be upheld. In summary, it 
said:
the contract P had provided  Mr and Mrs W set out the expected total returns from the 
system and this, alongside the finance agreement, made it clear that the system  was 
not self-funding  immediately  and that there would  be a cost involved; 
the contract with P showed  that the expected  annual return  in year one and made  
this clear; 
Ref: DRN61294412the performance of the system and any deterioration were  set out in the contract;
the system wouldnt increase Mr and Mrs Ws electricity consumption, and any 
increase in their electricity bills would  be due to a change  in lifestyle;  and
Shawbrook didnt  pay any commission to P for introducing Mr and Mrs W to it.
Unhappy with this response,  the CMC  referred the complaint to this service.  One of our 
investigators looked into what had happened. Having considered  all the information  and 
evidence provided  our investigator didnt think that P had misrepresented the system to Mr 
and Mrs W and found no reason to uphold the complaint.
The CMC didnt agree with the investigators  view. In summary,  it said:
the self-consumption used when predicting  the benefits should be at a rate of 37% 
and P have exaggerated  the savings by using  a higher rate; 
the repayments section does not make it clear  that Mr and Mrs W would need to 
make a contribution  each month; 
the table on page 13 of the quotation does  not compare the benefits to the loan 
repayments; 
othe graph on page 6 of the quotation is hard to understand; 
the sales representative verbally told Mr and Mrs W numerous times that the system 
would be self-funding; 
the quotation is generated post-purchase  and Mr and Mrs W did not possess the 
relevant expertise to understand its contents;  and
an OWL device is not guaranteed to save any money and they dont believe its 
reasonable to use this in the benefit  calculation.
It also suggested that we speak to Mr and Mrs W for their recollections. Our investigator  was 
unable to speak  to Mr and Mrs W on the phone, but they provided their testimony  in an 
email. They  explained  the following;
the sales representative told them that the system would be self-funding and it would 
be free if they used  their appliances during the day; and
they were told theyd have to pay £85 a month but they would receive  an income of 
£60 from the FIT meaning theyd only have to pay £25 a month.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the case has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant considerations
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, Im required  to take into account; relevant law 
and regulations, relevant regulatory rules,  guidance and standards and codes of practice; 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice at the relevant 
time.
Ref: DRN61294413In this case the relevant law includes  section  56 and section  75 of the Act. Section 75 
provides protection for consumers for goods or services  bought  using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  
or (c) has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement,  any claim against 
the supplier in the respect of a misrepresentation or breach  of contract, he shall have 
a like claim against the creditor, who, with the supplier, shall accordingly be jointly 
and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mr and Mrs W paid for the system  with a fixed sum loan agreement, Shawbrook agrees 
that section 75 applies to this transaction. This means that Mr and Mrs W could claim 
against Shawbrook,  the creditor, for any misrepresentation or breach of contract by P in the 
same way they could  have claimed against P, the supplier. So, Ive taken section 75 into 
account when  deciding what is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Section 56 is also relevant. This is because it says that any negotiations  between Mr and 
Mrs W and P, as the supplier, are deemed to have been conducted  by P as an agent of 
Shawbrook.
For the purpose of this decision  Ive used the definition of a misrepresentation as an untrue 
statement of fact or law made  by one party (or his agent) to a second party which  induces 
that second party to enter  the contract, thereby  causing them  loss.
Section 140A of the Act is also relevant. This states:
(1) The court may make  an order under section 140B in connection with a credit  
agreement if it determines that the relationship  between the creditor and the debtor 
arising out of the agreement (or the agreement taken with any related agreement) is 
unfair to the debtor  because  of one or more of the following:
(a) any of the terms of the agreement or of any related agreement;
(b) the way in which the creditor  has exercised or enforced  any of his rights 
under the agreement or any related agreement;
(c) any other  thing  done (or not done)  by, or on behalf of, the creditor  (either 
before or after the making of the agreement or any related agreement).
(2) In deciding whether  to make a determination  under this section the court  shall 
have regard to all matters  it thinks relevant (including matters  relating to the creditor  
and matters relating  to the debtor).
So, Ive considered whether a court might find that there existed an unfair relationship.
Mr and Mrs Ws recollection of the sale
Ive looked at the email that Mrs W sent to our investigator and considered  this along with 
the complaint  the CMC  submitted to Shawbrook.  Ive noted that Mr and Mrs Ws 
recollections do differ in some respects  to the complaint letter  submitted  by the CMC.  As an 
example, in the complaint  letter the CMC refers to the cost being covered  by the FIT 
payments alone,  whereas Mr and Mrs W told us that they thought  there would be a £25 
deficit each month that theyd have to make up.
Ref: DRN61294414Having said that, there  are some similarities between the complaint submitted by the CMC 
and Mr and Mrs Ws recollection of the sale, for example that the system would be self-
funding.
Mr and Mrs W has decided to be represented,  by a CMC, in their complaint to Shawbrook. 
The complaint letter submitted to Shawbrook was seven pages  in length and set out in great  
detail the reasons for the section 75 claim and the alleged representations that were made 
that induced Mr and Mrs W to enter into the contract.
The complaint letter is dated March 2017, approximately  19 months after the date of sale,  
and I would expect  this to reflect Mr and Mrs Ws recollection of what  happened at the time 
the system was sold.
Whilst I appreciate Mr and Mrs W have  provided  additional information  that wasnt  included 
in the initial  complaint made on their behalf,  there is a significant time difference  between the 
date the complaint was made  and the email with our investigator.  I think  this may explain the 
inconsistencies I have  highlighted  above. I think that its reasonable to expect the CMCs 
letter to accurately reflect what Mr and Mrs W say they were told and their version of events 
at the time of sale, especially  as the CMC  has put the alleged  representations in quotation 
marks. So, in so far as there are any discrepancies that have a material impact  on my 
decision, Ive placed more  weight  on the submissions made in the original letter of complaint. 
Having said that, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs W were told that the system would be self-
financing over the term of the loan.
Key documents
There are several documents that have been provided by both the CMC and Shawbrook. 
These include the credit agreement and Mr and Mrs Ws solar quote, titled Your  Personal  
Solar Quotation.  Ive considered these in detail and whether they support the alleged 
representations made  by P.
The quote  is a detailed document that sets out key information  about the system,  the 
expected performance, financial benefits  and technical information. Im satisfied that it 
formed a central part of the sales  process  and is therefore relevant when considering  if there 
have been any untrue statements of fact, alongside  Mr and Mrs Ws recollection of the sale.
In response to the investigators assessment, CMC told us that Mr and Mrs W didnt receive 
the quote. Shawbrook have provided  detailed information explaining Ps sale processes. 
This detailed  that Ps sales practice  was for the quotation to be sent to the consumers  
shortly after the initial  meeting  via email. Based on our experience  of what we have seen  
with similar  complaints, Im satisfied that, on the balance of probabilities,  P would have sent 
this document  to Mr and Mrs W and I have  no reason to doubt thats what  happened in this 
complaint. 
The credit agreement, which was also provided by the CMC at the time the original 
complaint was made, sets out the amount being  borrowed, the interest to be charged, total 
amount payable, the term of the loan and the contractual  monthly repayments.
Ill now consider each of the alleged representations made as set out above.
The FIT payments
Ref: DRN61294415Mr and Mrs W have  alleged that they were told their monthly loan repayments  would  be 
covered, or self-funded  by their FIT payments. Ive considered  the quote that was provided 
by P and considered whether this supports what they say they were told as I consider the 
quote was central  to the sales presentation.
Page eight of the quote sets out the estimated income Mr and Mrs W could expect  to receive 
by way of FIT payments from the system.  This is split out into two tables. The first shows the 
expected FIT payments in the first year and the second shows the expected average income  
over 20 years. My understanding  is that the system  would only receive  FIT payments for 20 
years and this is why 20 years has been  used in the quote. The tables show the following:
I think that these tables, especially the first one, are clear that Mr and Mrs W could expect to 
receive a total income in year one of £443.98  from their FIT.
The quote  goes  on to look at the electricity savings Mr and Mrs W could expect from the 
system as well as any savings they would make from taking out any optional extras including 
a voltage optimiser.  The combined income  and savings in year one is shown as £706.64. 
This is shown in a table  titled Putting  it all together.
Slightly different  estimated figures  are used in a table on page 12 of the quote. But again, 
this shows the total estimated saving for year one as being £706.64. Elsewhere in the 
document, this total saving is given as £706.65.  Exactly why these numbers differed slightly  
isnt clear. But, I dont consider these difference wouldve made  the quote unclear or that Mr 
and Mrs W wouldnt  have been  aware of what the estimated total saving for year one was (to 
within a penny). Ive used  the calculated figure of £706.64 in the rest of this decision.
Theres a section titled repayments. This has three tables set out over 60 months,  120 
months and 180 months. Ive focused on the table for 180 months this is the length of the 
loan that Mr and Mrs W entered into with Shawbrook. This table sets out that there are 180 
monthly payments  of £84.36 due and compares the overall expected grand total from the 
system, averaged over a monthly basis, versus the expected loan repayments.
I think the quote clearly  sets out the income  Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive from the 
system, by way of FIT payments, as well as their expected contractual monthly loan 
repayments. Whilst I accept that the table doesnt  simply compare the FIT income to their 
monthly loan repayments, it does  clearly set out that the overall  income they could expect to 
receive by way of FIT income and any additional  savings, would not be immediately 
sufficient to cover their monthly  loan repayments. Therefore, Im not satisfied that they were 
told that their monthly loan repayments  would be covered by the FIT income alone.
Total cost of the system  and expected benefits
Mr and Mrs W has said that the cost of the system  was documented as £7,894.95. They  
have said that this was done to mislead them  as this figure  did not include  any interest 
associated with the loan so hid the true cost of the system, £15,184.80.
Ref: DRN61294416Im satisfied that the quote provided  to Mr and Mrs W makes it clear that the cost of the 
system is £7,894.95. This is supported by the credit agreement which  sets out that the total 
amount of credit is £7,894.95 and goes  on to show that the total amount payable  would be 
£15,184.80.
And as the quote provided  by P is clear  that there would  be a monthly loan repayment due, 
as set out in the table above,  Im satisfied that the two documents, the quote  and the credit  
agreement, made it clear  that although the cost of the system  was £7,894.95, it would cost 
Mr and Mrs W more  than this as they had decided to pay for it with a fixed  sum loan.
Ill now consider whether  P told Mr and Mrs W that the system would not cost them  a 
penny, and that they could expect to receive  a Tax-Free Year  1 benefit of £706.64.
Ive considered the table above that sets out the expected income from the system  versus 
the expected benefit. My view is that this table is in an easily accessible format comparing 
the two.
Im satisfied that this table  shows that in the first year Mr and Mrs W were expected to have 
made a loss of £23.12 a month and in the second year this would decrease  to a loss of 
£19.94 a month. It wouldnt  be until year eight was repaid  that the expected benefits would 
exceed their monthly  loan repayments,  and, by my calculation, it wouldnt have been until 
around year 13 that they would have sufficiently  recouped any previous annual  losses and 
the system would be paying for itself.
Im of the view that this makes it clear that the system  wouldnt  be self-funding from the start.  
I think the quote is clear  that there  would be a difference  between  their expected income and 
monthly loan repayments.
I do accept that Mr and Mrs W were  told that theyd receive a year one benefit of £706.64 as 
this was the expected combined  income from FIT payments and electricity savings on their 
energy bills. Having  said that, taking into account the available evidence,  Im not persuaded 
that Mr and Mrs W were  led to believe  that theyd receive this sum in their hand.  Im satisfied 
that the quote makes it clear that theyd have to make  loan repayments  and overall  there 
would be a deficit.
I also accept that Mr and Mrs W were  told by P that the system would pay for itself over the 
loan term. The estimated performance  over 20 years page of the quote  has a table detailing  
the performance over 20 years.
This shows that by year 16 the overall benefits  that Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive 
would have exceeded the total amount payable under their loan agreement.  This table also 
sets out the panel degradation rate so Im satisfied that P made  them aware that 
performance of the system would deteriorate over its lifetime. 
As Ive set out above, Im satisfied that P told Mr and Mrs W that the system would pay for 
itself by year 16, as supported by the table above. If that were an untrue statement of fact, 
and Im satisfied that this was what induced them to enter into the contract, and they 
subsequently suffered  a loss, that would amount to a misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN61294417Ive gone on to consider the performance  of the system and whether this is in line with the 
contract between P and Mr and Mrs W. The quote  sets out that the system is expected to 
produce 2,893.32 kWh a year and this in turn would generate  the income, by way of FIT 
payments and savings  in their energy bills, that Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive.
Ive calculated that the system should  generate  7.93 kWh of energy each  day. Mr and Mrs W 
have provided  their FIT statements which show that between  September  2015 and 
September 2016 the system generated 3,340 kWh which  equates to 8.59 kWh a day. This is 
more than the estimates provided at the point of sale.
So, based  on this, I would  expect Mr and Mrs W to be close to recouping any initial losses  
from the system and for it to be paying for itself.  Mr and Mrs W have said that this isnt the 
case so Ive gone on to consider whether P have overstated the potential income and 
savings Mr and Mrs W could expect to receive  by, for example using unreasonable  
assumptions.
The quote  P provided to Mr and Mrs W was personalised  to their specific  circumstances and 
used a number  of underlying assumptions  to calculate the income  and benefits  they could 
expect to receive over the systems lifetime. The assumptions used included  the expected 
annual generation in kWh from the system, the amount  of energy generated by the system 
that Mr and Mrs W would use rather than buying  it from their energy provider, therefore 
leading to savings  on their energy bills and the expected increase in utility  prices alongside 
the expected annual  increase in RPI inflation.  The expected increase in utility  prices and RPI 
were based  on the Office  of National Statistics (ONS) data between  2005 and 2014.
As set out above, Im satisfied that the system  is performing in line with the figure provided in 
the quote and therefore Im able to conclude, as supported by the FIT statements provided, 
that the FIT payments received are also in line with the figures provided in the quote.
The quote  sets out that Mr and Mrs W were  expected to use, or self-consume, around 47% 
of the kWh generated by the system  each  year.  This in turn would lead to a first years  
annual saving of £211.19. This amount of saving would increase each year in line with the 
ONS data Ive mentioned above.
When setting the percentage of electricity that a consumer would be paid for exporting  to the 
National Grid, the Government set a rate of 50%. This implies that a consumer would self-
consume or use the remaining 50%.  It is my view that a self-consumption rate of 50%, the 
amount Mr and Mrs W could save on their electricity bills, would  be fair basis  for calculating 
the benefits of a particular  system.
Taking the above into account, Im satisfied  that the estimates for the expected generation 
by the system and the percentage of energy  that Mr and Mrs W were expected to self-
consume were both reasonable  assumptions  for P to have made.
When estimating the future income  and electricity savings that Mr and Mrs W could expect to 
receive from the system, P estimated that both energy prices and RPI would increase in line 
with the available information from the ONS. The figure used for energy price increases  was 
8.38% and for RPI was 3.22%. Ive considered the available information from the ONS from 
2015 to 2020 to see whether both energy  prices  and RPI have increased in line with the 
estimates provided by P. The data from the ONS  suggests that energy prices have 
increased by 3.7% and RPI by 2.56%.  Both of these  figures  are lower than the assumptions 
Ref: DRN61294418used by P and in my view explain  why they arent receiving the financial returns  from the 
system that they may have expected.
The assumptions used  by P, as set out above, were based on the available information from 
the ONS  from 2005 to 2014. Therefore, I dont  think it was unreasonable for P to have used 
these assumptions to calculate  the expected financial returns  from the system.  Im of the 
view that this goes  some way to explaining why the system may not be self-funding  by year 
13. Although I appreciate Mr and Mrs W will be disappointed by the financial returns from 
their system, Im satisfied  that this isnt due to P using unreasonable assumptions  when they 
entered into the contract for the system.
S140A
Ive gone on to consider whether a court may conclude that there existed an unfair 
relationship under s140A the Act.
A sufficient  inequality of knowledge and understanding is considered a classic source of 
unfairness in a relationship between a creditor and a consumer. Shawbrook has confirmed 
that it paid no commission to P and, considering that I havent  found any misrepresentation 
and Im of the view that the underlying assumptions  used by P were reasonable, I think a 
court is unlikely to conclude that there is an unfair  relationship under  the Act.
Further considerations
In response to our investigators view, the CMC said that all the evidence it had provided 
hadnt been taken into consideration. This included the marketing literature used by P along  
with the findings of the Renewable Energy  Consumer Code (RECC) non-compliance panel  
hearing from December  2013.
Ive noted that the marketing literature the CMC has provided has been supplied on all the 
complaints it has submitted to us about  P and isnt dated. Therefore, I cant conclude that 
this was provided to Mr and Mrs W, or that it relates  to the time their panels  were sold.  
Whilst it does refer to the system paying for itself and being  self-funding, Im not persuaded 
I can place as much weight on this, especially when considered  along  with Mr and Mrs Ws 
personalised quote. And, as I have  explained above, at the time Mr and Mrs W entered into 
the contract  with P, Im satisfied that their system  would have been self-funding and pay for 
itself by year 13 from installation.
The RECC non-compliance panel findings are from December 2013,  two years before Mr 
and Mrs W entered into the contract  with P. Shawbrook has also provided information from 
Trading Standards, setting out that it had been working with P since the findings to improve  
Ps sales process. This work  included  Trading Standards helping P to enhance  their 
business paperwork and documentation to ensure compliance with the relevant legislation.  
This has ultimately led to P receiving Primary Authority Status by the Secretary of State.
So, whilst I accept the RECC  findings  found concerns with Ps sales  practices in 2013, the 
evidence discussed  above indicates that Ps sales process, practices and documentation 
had evolved prior to Mr and Mrs W entering  into the contract and I have to take account  of 
the particular circumstances  of this case, along  with the wider,  contemporaneous  evidence.
CMC responded to the view and explained  that they believe a 37% self-consumption rate is 
fair when  predicting  the electricity savings, the system would provide to Mr and Mrs W. 
Ref: DRN61294419Around the point of sale, the government set a 50% self-consumption rate when estimating 
the savings, a consumer could make. CMC  have explained that a 37% rate is fair based  on a 
report provided by an industry  expert which was provided a number  of years after the panels  
were installed. I think it was fair for P to use a 50% self-consumption rate as this was based  
on the guidance available at the point of sale.
CMC have also explained that they believe the quotation is generated post-purchase and 
was not provided  to Mr and Mrs W at the point of sale. I note that the quotation  is signed  by 
Mr and Mrs W and dated 16 August 2015.  I have seen no evidence to support the fact that 
the quotation is generated post purchase. I also note that Mr and Mrs W has signed some  of 
the pages of the quotation  which I think demonstrates that it was generated and seen by Mr 
and Mrs W at the point of sale.
The CMC has said that an OWL device is not guaranteed to save  any money so it should not 
be included  in any benefit calculation. Mr and Mrs W were  not sold an OWL device and P 
have not used any savings attributed to one of these devices in their benefit  calculation.
Summary
Having carefully considered the evidence provided  by all parties in this complaint, Im 
satisfied that there were  no untrue statements  of fact made by P that induced Mr and Mrs W 
to enter  into the contract for the system, and I have found no other  reason to uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 October  2021.
Sam Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6129441