K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading  as 118118  Money (MCF) lent to him in 
an irresponsible manner.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in the provisional decision I issued in 
September 2020. An extract from this is attached  and forms part of this final decision,  so 
I will not repeat that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. MCF has not 
provided us with anything further. Mr A provided us with some comments. Although I am 
only summarising here what Mr A has said, I have  considered his entire response carefully 
before writing this decision.
Mr A has provided us with copies  of his statements for an additional  bank account.  He says 
those statements show the extent of his gambling problems at the time he took this loan. He 
says that all three of his bank accounts were  in overdraft and showed  the extent of his 
borrowing from other lenders. He doesnt  think it was reasonable for MCF  to rely on his 
statement that he would be using the loan to consolidate his other  borrowing.  He thinks  that 
had better  checks been done it is likely  that MCF would have seen the extent  of his financial 
problems. He has provided us with evidence  that he started receiving assistance from a debt 
management charity around  three months  after he took this loan
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so I am not minded to 
change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision. But I would like to comment  on 
the additional information that Mr A has now provided to us.
When Mr A first made his complaint to us he shared bank statements  from two separate  
accounts. Those accounts didnt show any evidence of gambling transactions.  But he has 
recently sent us statements for a third account. And those  statements provide very clear 
evidence that Mr A was most likely suffering from a gambling addiction  at the time. 
But what  I need to decide here is whether I think it is reasonable that proportionate checks 
would have identified  those problems. The loan that Mr A took was repaid by direct debit. 
The account  details  that Mr A provided  to MCF were not those  from which he was paying his 
gambling expenditure. Mr A appears to have been reticent to provide the statements 
showing gambling to this Service. So I think it reasonable  to conclude that he would  have 
been even less likely to provide them to MCF had it asked for copies of his bank statements 
before agreeing the loan.  And I dont think,  from the information MCF  reasonably held from 
the credit  check and what Mr A had said, that it would have identified this additional account.  
So I cannot reasonably conclude that proportionate  checks would have made MCF  aware of 
Mr As gambling expenditure unless hed declared it to the lender.
As I said in my provisional decision,  this loan was only affordable  since Mr A said he would 
be using it to consolidate his other borrowing. I cannot agree that MCF  should  have thought  
it unlikely that this is what he would do. Had it done  so, it wouldnt have agreed to give him 
Ref: DRN61828702the loan as even its own analysis showed  that Mr A wouldnt be able to afford the 
repayments. Whilst at times  I have  seen lenders being less than thorough on the checks that 
have been performed, it is very unlikely that a lender would provide a loan that it knew 
couldnt be repaid.  That makes  very little business  sense.
Although it is true that Mr As accounts were in overdraft,  those  overdrafts werent 
escalating. Nor was Mr A showing problems  managing his money  in the form of a significant  
number of unpaid  transactions being  returned.  So I dont think  the way his bank accounts 
were being  operated should have concerned the lender.
So I still think that it would have been reasonable for MCF, had it done  what I consider to be 
proportionate checks, to have agreed  to give this loan to Mr A. So I dont think  this complaint 
should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I dont  uphold  the complaint or 
make any award against Madison CF UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 January 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61828703EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr A complains that Madison CF UK Limited trading as 118118 Money  (MCF)  lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr A took one loan from MCF. He borrowed £1,000  in March 2016 and agreed to repay  the loan in 
24 monthly instalments.  Shortly  after taking the loan Mr A found  it difficult to make his repayments 
and set up a revised repayment schedule. At the time he made the complaint  Mr A still had a balance 
outstanding on his loan and I understand that MCF has recently sold the debt to a third party.
Mr As complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She didnt think  that the checks  MCF 
had done before agreeing  the loan had been sufficient. And she thought that better  checks would 
have shown Mr A couldnt  sustainably afford the repayments. So she thought the complaint should  be 
upheld and asked MCF  to pay Mr A some compensation.
MCF didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been  resolved informally, it has 
been passed  to me, an ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our approach to unaffordable/irresponsible lending 
complaints on our website and Ive kept this in mind while  deciding Mr As complaint.
The rules and regulations at the time MCF gave this loan to Mr A required  it to carry  out a reasonable 
and proportionate assessment of whether he could  afford  to repay  what he owed in a sustainable 
manner. This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability assessment or affordability 
check.
The checks had to be borrower focused  so MCF  had to think about whether repaying  the credit 
sustainably would cause  difficulties or adverse consequences for Mr A. In practice this meant that 
MCF had to ensure that making the repayments wouldnt cause Mr A undue  difficulty or adverse 
consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for MCF to simply think about the likelihood of it 
getting its money back, it had to consider the impact of any repayments on Mr A. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate  affordability check will be dependent upon a number of factors 
including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the consumer (e.g. their financial 
history, current  situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability or financial difficulty) and the 
amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any 
repayments to credit from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet 
higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer the period  of time a borrower  will be indebted for (reflecting the fact that the 
total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the customer is required to make 
repayments for an extended  period).  
Ref: DRN61828704There may also be other factors which  could  influence  how detailed  a proportionate check shouldve 
been for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of borrower vulnerability 
and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of this in mind when thinking about 
whether MCF did what it needed to before agreeing to lend to Mr A.
MCF gathered some information from Mr A before  it agreed the loan. It asked him for details of his 
income, and his normal expenditure although this was recorded as nil. It then used some industry 
statistical data to revise Mr As declared expenditure upwards. And it checked his credit file to assess 
how much  he was repaying to other creditors.
Mr A was entering into a significant  commitment  with MCF. He would need to make monthly 
repayments for a period of two years. So I would expect that MCF would want  to gather, and 
independently check, some detailed information about  Mr As financial circumstances before it agreed 
to lend to him. I dont think that the checks it did were  enough.  I think  it would have  been 
proportionate for MCF to independently check the true state of Mr As finances before agreeing the 
loan. 
But although  I dont  think the checks MCF did before agreeing the loan were sufficient, that in itself 
doesnt mean  that Mr As complaint should succeed. Id also need to be persuaded that what 
I consider to be proportionate checks would have shown  MCF that Mr A couldnt sustainably afford  
the repayments. So Ive looked at Mr As bank statements, and what hes told us about  his financial 
situation, to see what better checks would have shown  MCF.
At this stage I want to be clear that I am not suggesting that this is the exact check that MCF should 
have carried out. I do think MCF needed  evidence to corroborate what Mr A said was happening  with 
his finances. And looking at his bank statements is one way of achieving that although  there are of 
course many other ways  that level of detail  could be established. But I think  that by looking at Mr As 
bank statements I can get a good idea of what better checks might have shown.
Mr A was borrowing from other lenders when  he asked for the loan from MCF. Considering his 
income, and his other regular expenditure,  those  repayments when taken together would have  made  
it unlikely that Mr A could afford to repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. But Ive listened to a 
recording of a call that took place between Mr A and MCF  before the loan was finally  approved. On 
that call Mr A explained  that he would  be using the loan to consolidate some of his other borrowing, 
including repaying payday loans. I think it would be reasonable  for MCF to rely on what  Mr A told it 
about his plans. And so I dont think it needed to take account  of the repayments on those  loans  when 
considering the affordability of Mr As application.
Without the other payday loan repayments I dont think the evidence from Mr As bank statements 
suggests that he would face problems repaying  the loan from MCF in a sustainable  manner. His bank 
statements dont show evidence of serious financial problems such as regular unpaid transactions  or 
escalating levels of overdraft  or other  debt. And the credit check that MCF performed suggested that 
Mr A generally managed his credit accounts  well. So I dont currently  think that what I consider to be 
proportionate checks should have led MCF to decline Mr As loan application.
I appreciate how disappointing my decision  will be for Mr A. But, in summary, although I dont  think  
the checks  MCF  did before  agreeing this loan were proportionate,  I dont think  better checks  should  
have led to the loan request  being  declined. So I dont currently think this complaint  should be upheld.
Ref: DRN6182870