K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J say Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance  
(PPI) policy.
background
In 2002, Mr and Mrs J applied to Nationwide for a loan. A few days  later it also sold them  a 
PPI policy  over the phone, paid for by a single premium that was added to the loan and 
attracted interest. The policy covered Mr J for death and if he was unable to work  due to 
disability or unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Mr and Mrs J disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to look into afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr and Mrs Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs J say Nationwide added the PPI without their knowledge.  Ive thought  carefully 
about what theyve  said although its difficult for me to know  for certain what happened 
without a recording of the sales call or a call script from the time. But Nationwide  has 
provided a copy of the loan agreement Mr and Mrs J signed two days  after the call. In the 
agreement, the PPI was clearly set out as Optional and the agreement  explained cover 
included disability, unemployment and life cover  for Mr J. 
Overall, I think its likely Mr and Mrs J were made aware of the policy,  and that it was 
optional, and chose  to go ahead with it on that basis.  I can understand that they might not 
remember that now after all this time.
I dont think Nationwide  recommended  the policy to Mr and Mrs J. I say that because  of how 
the policy was sold in this case,  and from experience of how Nationwide sold PPI at the time.  
So Nationwide didnt need to check the suitability  of the PPI for Mr and Mrs J. It still needed 
to provide information that was clear  enough for Mr and Mrs J to make an informed choice 
about whether  the PPI was right for them. 
I cant be certain what information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs J about the PPI during the 
call. But, if there were problems with the sale, I dont believe better information would have 
made a difference to Mr and Mrs Js decision to take the PPI, based  on what the policy 
terms are likely to have  said. I say that because:
It seems Mr J was eligible for the cover and wouldnt  have been affected  by the 
policys main  exclusions  and restrictions.
The loan agreement  Mr and Mrs J signed made  it clear the PPI was an extra cost and 
set out what the costs were  both with and without interest regarding  the single 
premium PPI.
Ref: DRN61495442Although  Mr J had some  sick pay from his employer its unclear how much hed have 
been paid and for how long. The PPI benefits would  potentially  have paid out until the 
end of the loan if he was off sick and for up to 12 months per claim if he became 
unemployed. So I think Mr and Mrs J would have seen the PPI as providing  useful  
protection.
Mr and Mrs J say Mrs J was working and was entitled to good employer benefits, 
although it wasnt certain that would remain the case, whereas the PPI benefits were 
guaranteed.
The PPI was flexible in that it would have allowed Mr and Mrs J to cancel the cover 
and associated loan early while offering a proportional refund of the premium.  
All of which means  Nationwide doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs J. But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr and Mrs J about that. Because Nationwide  didnt  
tell Mr and Mrs J, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Nationwides basically offered to pay back  the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium  and I think that offers fair 
in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs J any commission and profit  share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Nationwide should also pay back to Mr and Mrs J any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr and Mrs J the extra they paid each month on the loan 
because the commission  and profit share  was more than 50% of the PPI premium  
including any extra Mr and Mrs J paid if the loan was paid off early. Nationwide should also 
pay Mr and Mrs J 8%* simple interest on the extra paid each month.  
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs J can claim back  the tax if they dont pay tax.
Ref: DRN61495443my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nationwide Building Society  doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs J.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs J any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6149544