K821x#15complaint
Ms H complains that The Independent Life & Pensions Group  Limited, (TILP), mis-sold her 
a mortgage payment protection insurance,  (MPPI), policy.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision of 30 March  2019. A copy is attached  to this decision.
Following receipt of my provisional decision TILP pointed out that Ms H made changes to 
her policy two years before she made  her complaint.  And it says that she would  have 
received new policy  documents  and schedules at that time. TILP  queried why Ms H didnt 
bring up the in lieu of notice at that point.  TILP also asked  how it could be liable after the 
date when Ms H herself contacted the insurer direct and altered the terms of her contract, 
which changed the premiums without its involvement. TILP  asked for replies to these 
questions before the final decision was issued.
Following our further enquiries, Ms H told us that two years ago (sic) she reviewed her 
monthly outgoings. When she made contact about  her monthly  [MPPI]  payment, the advisor 
confirmed that it was to provide cover if she were  to be made redundant. Ms H says that the 
advisor suggested that the cover for 24 months  was probably excessive, given her salary  
and employability.  So Ms H reduced  the cover to 12 months. She says that she did not 
discuss the payment  in lieu with the advisor. Ms H has sent us bank statements showing that 
before she changed the policy the premiums  had increased over those payable at the start 
of the policy. The statements  also show  that the premiums were reduced  after the policy  
alteration.
Our adjudicator emailed  TILP to say that I had reviewed its comments. And confirmed that I 
was aware that the Ms H had requested  an adjustment to the policy  herself after it was 
initially sold.  The adjudicator explained that I hadnt mentioned this in my provisional 
decision because I didnt  think that it was material to my decision. And, for the reasons I give 
below, that I still didnt think that it affected the outcome.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection 
insurance on our website and Ive followed  this in deciding this case.
From the further information the parties have given us since  I issued my provisional  decision, 
Im satisfied that the only change Ms H made to her policy was to reduce the maximum 
period for which it would pay out following a claim, to 12 months. As this was all that the 
Ms H did, I find it most unlikely that the Ms H would have reviewed the other  terms of the 
policy at that stage. And I have seen no evidence to show that Ms H did so. And so Im 
satisfied that Ms Hs understanding, or lack of understanding, of the effect of her entitlement 
to a long notice period / payment in lieu from her employer on her right to receive benefits 
under the MPPI was unlikely  to have changed  from what she had at the time of the sale.  
Ref: DRN68863272The redress  proposed in my provisional decision is intended to put the Ms H in the position 
she would  have been in if she hadnt  taken out the policy at all - whatever she may have 
ended up paying  for it. And so my view is that, the fact that Ms H made  this change to the 
policy herself, does not curtail the period for which TILP should fairly  be told to provide 
compensation.
Nothing further provided by either  Ms H or TILP  leads  me to vary the view expressed in my 
provisional decision that, on balance, I cannot conclude  that the in lieu / notice  provisions 
in the policy  were pointed out in a clear  enough fashion, if indeed  at all, during the sale.
So, from what Ive concluded above,  I see no reason to vary my provisional decision.
putting things right
TILP should put Ms H in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out MPPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and TILP  should:
Pay Ms H the amount  she paid each month for the MPPI;
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year*;
If Ms H made a successful  claim under  the MPPI policy, TILP  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
*If TILP considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
this interest it should tell Ms H how much its taken  off. TILP must also give Ms H a tax 
deduction certificate if she asks for one so that she can reclaim tax from HM Customs & 
Excise if appropriate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  my decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I order 
The Independent Life & Pensions Group  Limited  to pay Ms H compensation in accordance  
with the above calculation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 July 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN68863273complaint
Ms H complains that The Independent Life & Pensions Group Limited, (TILP),  mis-sold her a 
mortgage payment protection  insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Ms H had a meeting with TILP in 2008 in which  ways  to protect her mortgage repayments to a third 
party lender were  discussed. TILP recommended the monthly premium MPPI policy which Ms H 
bought. After a three-month free period it initially  cost about £48 a month and covered her against 
unemployment. And, following a successful  claim,  it would have paid out £1,300 a month. Initially 
these payments would have been  made for up to 24 months. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that Ms Hs complaint should be upheld. This was because  her view 
was that TILP hadnt given Ms H clear enough  information  about  the MPPI at the time of the sale. 
As TILP disagreed with our adjudicators view, the matter has come  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of payment protection insurance  on 
our website. Ive followed  this in deciding  Ms Hs case.
Ive provisionally decided to uphold  Ms Hs complaint. This is on substantially  the same  grounds as 
those on which our adjudicator made her recommendation. But I wanted to deal with what  TILP said 
in response to the adjudicators views.  And I wanted to explain my thinking in some  detail and give the 
parties an opportunity to comment  on this before  I make my final decision.
TILP recommended the policy to Ms H. This means that it had to take reasonable steps to ensure that 
it was suitable for her needs. It also needed to give Ms H clear, fair and not-misleading information 
about the MPPI so that she could make an informed  decision.
The policy provided  that Ms H wouldnt be able to claim for the first 60 days  of her unemployment, 
(the exclusion period). It was also term of the policy  that, if Ms H received  payment in lieu of notice, 
(PILON), her unemployment  claim  would only start when she had registered as unemployed after 
the date her notice period ended. That is to say, not as soon as her employment stopped.  There was 
also a provision that generally, in order  to make  a claim,  she would have to have been registered  for a 
Job Seekers Agreement.
The policy allowed flexibility over the length of the exclusion period. Ive seen a letter from TILP to Ms 
H with its MPPI recommendation following the meeting. This includes confirmation of the exclusion 
period. But it makes no mention of the delay  in the claim period starting because of a PILON 
payment. TILP has pointed out that this information was set out in the key facts information sheet,  
which would have been sent or given to Ms H, (and in the policy  wording that would have been sent to 
her later on). But this information was halfway  down the second page of 4 pages  of closely-typed  
print. And Ive seen  nothing to suggest  that this provision was discussed  with or highlighted to Ms H in 
any way. And I see that the letter TILP  sent her after the meeting said the policy met the needs of 
someone who wished to provide  income  in the short  term to help with their mortgage commitments. 
So I find that TILP failed to give Ms H clear enough information about the policy on this point.
I think  that this would  have mattered particularly to Ms H. She has told us that she had been with her 
employer for over 20 years  at the time of the sale. And that she was entitled to a six-month notice 
period. This means that, if she had been  made redundant,  she would have had to wait for around nine 
months from the notice of her redundancy before being eligible to receive any benefit  from the policy - 
Ref: DRN68863274either because of a PILON or because of the time she would  have had to work out her notice. In fact 
in 2017 when  Ms H was made redundant and received a PILON, she was told that was the case. And 
on learning  this, she promptly cancelled  the policy. 
Ms H says she had told TILP  about her notice period and that shed get paid in lieu. Ive not seen 
anything to show  me clearly  that she did. But Ms H has said that, based on the nature of her role, she 
would have expected to find new employment fairly  quickly and would have known she was unlikely  to 
have to work her notice period. I think its likely  this was her expectation  when she took out the MPPI. 
And on balance I find that, had Ms H realised that she would have to wait for about nine months from 
being made redundant, she wouldnt have thought that the policy was worthwhile  taking. And she 
probably wouldnt  have  proceeded with it.
This means  that Ms H is worse off because of TILPs failure to give her clear enough information 
about the MPPI, as shes paid for a policy she wouldnt have taken  out.
As Ive explained above, Ive considered  everything that TILP has said. Including  that Ms H is no 
worse off than someone who had to work  their notice. So she hasnt been  financially disadvantaged 
because of the PILON  provision in the policy. I agree that the terms of the insurance  are such  that 
someone who had to work their notice, rather than getting a PILON, also couldnt  have been paid until 
the end of their notice  period plus any exclusion period. But to my mind that is missing  the point of the 
complaint. This is that, had Ms H realised the length of time she would have to wait before any 
payments would have been made, she wouldnt  have thought  the policy was good  value or met her 
needs, and wouldnt  have wanted it at all. 
Im aware TILP  has questioned whether  this service  has jurisdiction to decide  this complaint.  But Ive 
seen the decision  issued by one of my fellow ombudsmen on 10 January  2019 concluding  that we do. 
I agree with his decision  and reasoning  and in my view nothing weve seen or been told since then 
leads me to a different view. 
putting things  right
I intend  to tell TILP to put Ms H in the position shed  be in now if she hadnt taken  out MPPI.  The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already,  and TILP  should:
Pay Ms H the amount  she paid each month for the MPPI
Add simple  interest to each payment from when  she paid it until she gets it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% a year .
If Ms H made a successful claim under the MPPI policy,  TILP can take off what she got for the 
claim from the amount  it owes her.
If TILP considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income  tax from this 
interest it should tell Ms H how much its taken off. TILP must also give Ms H a tax deduction  
certificate if she asks for one so that she can reclaim tax from HM Customs & Excise if appropriate.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my provisional  decision is that I will uphold  this
complaint. And I intend  to order The Independent Life & Pensions Group Limited to pay Ms H 
compensation calculated as set out under putting  things  right above.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6886327