K821x#15complaint
Miss P says Casheuronet  UK LLC (Casheuronet)  irresponsibly  lent to her.
background
This complaint is about fourteen payday loans and five instalment loans Casheuronet 
provided to Miss P (under its trading names  of Quick Quid and Pounds to Pocket) from June 
2011 onwards.  Miss Ps last loan was provided in January 2014. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Miss Ps complaint  and thought that she shouldnt have been  
provided with eleven  of her payday loans  and any of her instalment ones. 
Casheuronet didnt accept  our adjudicators view in full. As this is the case  and the parties 
havent been able to resolve the compliant  informally, the complaint has been passed  to me 
for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Casheuronet needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks in order to 
reasonably conclude Miss P could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks 
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Casheuronet should fairly  and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Casheuronet was required to 
establish whether  Miss P could repay  her loans  in a sustainable manner. And I think that this 
Ref: DRN65421772is wider than simply assessing whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. Of course  the loan payments  being  affordable  on this basis 
might be an indication a consumer could sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt 
automatically follow this is the case.  
This is because the relevant rules and guidance  defines in a sustainable manner as being  
without undue difficulties  and in particular without incurring or increasing  problem  
indebtedness, over the life of the credit agreement and out of income and/or  available  
savings. So it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that 
a borrower is unlikely to be able be able to make their repayments in a sustainable manner if 
they have a history  of failing to settle  loans over the life of the credit agreement. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Ps complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, I think that a proportionate check for loans four, five and six 
would more likely than not have shown that:
the loan payments took up a significant  proportion of Miss Ps monthly income. In 
these circumstances,  there was a significant  risk that Miss P wouldnt have been able 
to meet  her existing  commitments without having  to borrow again.
Having looked  at the overall pattern of Casheuronets  lending  history with Miss P, I think that 
Casheuronet should reasonably have seen that Miss P was unlikely to have been able to 
make the required loan repayments  in a sustainable manner from payday loan seven 
onwards. I say this because:
By this stage Miss P was taking  her seventh  loan in a six month period. In my view, 
Miss P owing Casheuronet money  for this period of time, in these circumstances, 
was in itself a clear  demonstration of her inability  to settle  her loans over the life of 
the credit  agreement.  So Casheuronet ought  to have realised it was more likely  than 
not Miss P was having  to borrow further to cover  the hole the repayment of her 
previous loans left in her finances  and that Miss Ps indebtedness was increasing 
unsustainably.
Miss P was provided with loans for a period of over two years.  And Miss P was 
provided with further loans even while she had existing outstanding ones. So not only 
was she not making any real inroads  to the amount  she owed Casheuronet her 
indebtedness was increasing. And Miss P had paid large amounts of interest  to, in 
effect, service an increasing debt to Casheuronet over an extended period.
I think that Miss P lost out because  Casheuronet provided these loans because:
they had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Ps indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the extended period of time Miss P owed Casheuronet money was likely to have had 
negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding this complaint and Casheuronet should  put things right.
Ref: DRN65421773putting things right  what Casheuronet needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Miss P paid on payday loans  four to fourteen and all 
the instalment  loans;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the period  of time Miss P owed Casheuronet  money means that any information still 
recorded (if there is any) on her credit file is adverse. So all entries should be 
removed from Miss Ps credit  file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Casheuronet to take off tax from this interest. 
Casheuronet must give Miss P a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Miss Ps complaint.  
Casheuronet UK LLC (trading as Casheuronet)  should pay Miss P compensation  as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss P to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 October  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6542177