K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains that Arval  UK Limited  applied unfair  charges at the end of his hire 
agreement. He wants the charges waived  or removed.
background
Mr P tells us the vehicle  was inspected at the end of the hire agreement. He said he didnt 
agree with the charges  as he felt the vehicle had been returned  in good condition  and the 
damage wasnt outside fair wear and tear for a vehicle that had been contracted to cover 
69,000 miles. Mr P pointed out hed returned the vehicle  having covered much less than the 
contracted mileage. He says Arval  hasnt provided him with any evidence the repairs were 
carried out or that it incurred any costs as a result of the damage.
Arval told us the vehicle had been inspected at the end of the agreement.  It said the charges 
had been applied in accordance with the British Vehicle Rental & Leasing  Association 
(BVRLA) fair wear  and tear guidelines. And that this was permitted under the terms and 
conditions of the hire agreement. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She said she thought  the 
charges had been correctly applied. And she said she didnt think Arval was required to 
offset the damage charges against the reduced mileage covered.
Mr P didnt agree with this outcome and suggested  the charges might amount to a penalty 
and that the agreement wasnt  legally  enforceable. As its not been possible to resolve  this 
complaint an ombudsmans been  asked  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Mr Ps disappointment and I accept that any additional charges at the end 
of the hire period would be unwelcome.
As Mr P has referred to the issue of the charges possibly amounting  to a penalty and not being 
enforceable I should explain  that I dont apply the law - directly  - but I do take it into account. 
So its not for me to determine  if a court would view them as a penalty. I can say that the 
charges are in line with those imposed by many other businesses in similar situations. 
Ive seen the inspection report which was accompanied by photographs  of the relevant areas  
of the vehicle. And as our adjudicator detailed the specific  requirements of the BVRLA 
guidelines in her first view letter I shant repeat them as the parties  are aware  of this.
The damage for which Mr P was charged was in respect of damage to three alloy wheel rims, 
a dent to a panel and scratches to primer.  Having examined the photographs  I find they show  
the vehicle was subject to the damage for which Mr P was charged and that it was outside  the 
relevant guidelines. I consider the charges  to have been fairly applied  in accordance with the 
terms and conditions of the hire agreement.  And that they are reasonable. Whilst I accept it 
will be of little consolation to Mr P, theyre  also consistent with the level Id expect to see based 
on my experience of dealing with numerous  similar  complaints. 
Ref: DRN68654312Im aware Mr P says he wasnt  supplied with a copy of the guidelines at the time of hire. But 
theres clear  reference in the agreement to them and how they would be used. So if it was a 
matter of importance to him Id have expected him to make further enquiries and if 
necessary request to see a copy. And Id add that the guidelines  are widely  available  
including through internet access.
Ill now deal with the issue of whether Arval was required to provide information that the 
repairs had been  carried out or that it had suffered  a loss as a result  of them. The relevant 
part of the terms  and conditions of the agreement that Mr P signed are to be found  at 2.1.3 
which states:
ARVAL shall invoice the hirer for the cost of repairs (whether or not carried  out) to a vehicle 
returned to ARVAL  that is subject to damage  which, in accordance with the BVRLA Fair 
Wear and Tear Guide  for the Contract Hire Industry, would constitute unfair wear and tear
So its clear from this that Arval isnt under  any obligation to have the repairs  carried  out. And 
I think its reasonable to infer that the value of the vehicle  would  be adversely affected if it 
was sold without repairs being done. But whether this is the case  or not doesnt affect my 
decision. Arval  was entitled  to apply the charges in accordance with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement. And as it owns the vehicle its entitled  to dispose of it by such 
means as it chooses.
Whilst I doubt if Mr P will be surprised  at my decision, I accept it may come as a 
disappointment. But Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Stephen D Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6865431