K820x#14complaint
Miss M is unhappy with how Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has handled a claim 
shes made under her buildings insurance  policy.
background
In October  2018, Miss M contacted her insurer as shed noticed several tiles on the ground  
floor of her property had cracked. She arranged for a contractor to come  out and try and 
identify why this was happening.  Miss Ms contractor said the cracks might  be linked to a 
potential escape  of water. 
RSA sent a surveyor out to review the damage. They didnt think there  was any evidence  of 
an escape of water taking  place.  The surveyor also indicated the cause of the cracking was 
likely due to the chipboard  or plywood under the tiles not being securely fixed, and therefore 
the boards would expand  as the house  heated up and subsequently cause the tiles to crack. 
RSA went on to decline the claim for two reasons. The first being  it could not identify any 
single insurable  event. Secondly, it thought it most  likely the tiles had not been fitted 
properly, and therefore the damage was more likely as a result of poor workmanship. 
In January 2019, RSA issued its final response  to Miss Ms complaint declining  the claim 
about the cracking floor tiles. It said, as there was no evidence of an escape of water,  the 
trace and access part of the policy didnt come into effect. RSA also said if Miss M didnt 
accept this, she was free to provide her own technical report.  
Miss M considered shed  provided enough evidence,  including  a report from a civil engineer, 
who recommended  further intrusive  investigation  work be carried  out to determine why the 
tiles were cracking. Miss M said this, and that shed been told by RSA inspector that the 
trace and access part of her policy should come into effect, ought to be enough  for RSA to 
accept her claim. Miss M asked us to look into her complaint. Our investigator did so but 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M has also told us about several  other concerns shes had with her home. Shes 
mentioned a leak shes from an upstairs ensuite  bathroom, accidental damage to a single 
floor tile and a more  recent escape  of water. But these are the subject of a separate  
complaint with this service, and Im not making  a finding on those issues. Im only 
considering the claim about the cracking damage  to the floor tiles. 
The issue  I need to decide is whether I think its fair and reasonable for RSA to decline  to 
carry out an investigation under the trace and access part of Miss Ms policy.  Im sorry to 
disappoint Miss M but, like our investigator, I dont agree it needs to take any further action 
and Ill explain why.  
RSA has said, at this time,  theres no evidence of a water leak or an insured event causing 
the cracking of the tiles. As a result, the trace  and access  part of the policy doesnt come into 
effect. Miss M has said the surveyor instructed by RSA told her trace and access  should  be 
carried out. While,  the paperwork  provided  states  further investigation could be carried  out, it 
Ref: DRN67397372says: PH to carry out trace & access to determine  fault. This indicates to me it would be for 
Miss M to take this forward if she wanted.  So, Ive looked at what the policy says.
Miss Ms policy allows for trace and access to be carried out when theres been evidence of 
an escape of water. It covers the cost of gaining access  to the leak and putting right any 
damage that may be caused during this. The policy specifically says:
Trace and access
We will also pay for necessary costs that you incur in locating  the source of the 
damage
Miss M has said that her policy  covers her for a suspected escape of water.  However, the 
policy terms set out its for Miss M to decide whether to take further action to identify if an 
escape of water has occurred. If a leak is found,  any necessary costs Miss M incurs will be 
reimbursed. And I think this supports the paperwork completed by RSAs surveyor that its 
for Miss M to decide if she wants to take steps  to identify  the leak,  not RSA. 
Its clear from the images Miss M has provided there  is damage to the floor tiles. However, 
its not clear that theres been an escape  of water, or any other insurable event that she 
would be able to claim under.  I appreciate  Miss M says shes  not able to pay for these 
intrusive works without  the reassurance shell be reimbursed under her policy. 
However, having reviewed her policy carefully,  I havent seen anything in there that would 
require RSA to cover the cost of lifting the floor tiles under  the trace and access  section of 
her policy,  without clear evidence of an insurable  event having  occurred. RSA says if Miss M 
later decides  to have  further exploratory work carried out which showed there had been an 
escape of water, it would  consider a claim in line with her policy terms. I think  this is 
reasonable. But for the reasons Ive given, RSA doesnt need  to do any more at this time.  
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Miss Ms complaint,  or direct Royal  & Sun Alliance Plc to 
take any steps to put things right for Miss M. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 January 2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6739737