K820x#14complaint
Ms R complains that Virgin Money  plc has sent her promotional material, after she had 
specifically asked it not to. 
background
Mrs R told us that when  she opened  her account with Virgin,  shed specifically asked to opt 
out of all marketing  materials.  But she said that shed then received marketing materials. 
She said when she complained, Virgin  had no idea that these had been sent. She told us 
that the material included competitions  to win a holiday, and information on new products, 
but Virgin said it only related to changes in her terms and conditions. She said this was 
clearly in breach  of the relevant data protection regulations. And she signposted our service  
to guidance from the Information Commissioners Office (ICO). 
Mrs R said that she wanted  £250 in compensation for the distress,  upset, time and monies  
caused. And she wanted Virgin to confirm that it would  respect  her wishes,  and stop sending 
her marketing materials in future. 
Virgin said that it knew that Mrs R had opted out of all marketing materials.  But what  it had 
sent her wasnt promotional material. It said that what she had received was intended to 
inform her of an update  to her account. That was a regulatory mailing,  and it sends these to 
all its customers. It has to do that. It said that she couldnt opt out of this. 
Virgin sent us a copy of the email it had issued,  and the booklet  it had sent. It said that it the 
content is divided into purely regulatory material, in one section,  and a further  section which 
it described as servicing information. That offers readers  the chance  to win a holiday,  and 
reminds them of some of the other benefits of having this account. But Virgin  said that was 
still not marketing  information. It was only telling  customers about benefits  they could already 
access. It wasnt aimed at getting  Virgins customers to buy additional products or services. 
 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that hed considered the material  that 
Virgin sent Mrs R, and he was satisfied that it wasnt marketing material. He didnt  think  
Mrs R was being sent information  on new banking  products. He said that what Virgin  had 
sent did contain information on the other savings accounts that were available, and the rates 
they paid. But he said Virgin  sent that in line with its promise to tell its savers this every  year,  
so they can see if they could  get a better deal with a different account.  And the holiday 
competition which was included in the mailings  wasnt marketing material  either. It was just 
an opportunity to win a competition. 
Our adjudicator said that he didnt think that Virgin was trying to get Mrs R to buy additional  
products or services. So it hadnt  done  anything wrong. 
Mrs R didnt agree with our adjudicator. She wanted an ombudsman  to make a final 
decision, so the case was passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same overall conclusion  
on this case as our adjudicator.
Ref: DRN66572552Before reaching my decision in this case,  I asked our adjudicator  to write to Mrs R for me. In 
that email, I said that I could see that our service had suggested to Mrs R not long after she 
first brought her complaint  to us, that she might like to discuss  this issue  with the ICO. Mrs R 
said then that Virgin had told her she could bring  a complaint to us. 
I explained that Virgin had directed her to us, because it is obliged  to do that by the 
regulations that cover  it as a financial business.  Those say that anyone  who complains must 
be told that they can bring a complaint to us. Those rules are not detailed enough to 
distinguish between different sorts of complaints. 
But I also explained that our service  isnt the expert on data protection. Thats  the ICO. And 
she is asking a detailed  question which seemed to me to come down to a decision on law 
and issues that the ICO covers.
This service takes account of the relevant law. But then it decides  whether a business has 
acted fairly  and reasonably. In this case, it looked  like what  Ms R wanted was a decision on 
whether Virgin  has breached the rules on direct  marketing,  not whether it had been fair. 
She also wanted someone  to tell Virgin not to do this again. And our service  cant  do that 
either. We can only look at what Virgin has done  in this complaint, we couldnt use this case 
as a way to ask it to change its general procedures  going  forward. 
I also explained that sometimes a dispute resolution  body (like the ICO) wont look at a case 
if another dispute resolution body (like us) already has. And I said that I thought  the ICO was 
much better placed to decide whether whats happened here is wrong.  So I asked Mrs R if 
she would  like to discuss this with the ICO instead of our service. 
Mrs R responded that she would like me to give my views. So Ill do that now.
Ive considered the arguments put forward on both sides. Mrs R has clearly  opted out of 
marketing materials. But Virgin says thats  not what it sent her. I dont know whether the 
information that Mrs R was sent constitutes marketing information or not. I dont think  thats a 
clear-cut question,  and Im not an expert  in that area of law. That means that my decision in 
this case wont be made  on the basis that Virgin has breached the rules  on sending  
marketing information.  I dont think I can make that finding here. 
That means I can only consider whether what Virgin has done is unreasonable or unfair. And 
I dont think its unreasonable or unfair  for Virgin to remind  customers of the other benefits of 
their existing product,  at the same  time as it sends  them regulatory information. I also dont 
think its unreasonable or unfair for Virgin to invite its customers to enter a competition  at the 
same time. 
I know that Mrs R will be disappointed, but I dont think  that her complaint should be upheld 
by our service. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Ref: DRN66572553Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6657255