K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a Halifax-branded mortgage Mr B holds with Bank of Scotland plc. 
Hes been in financial difficulties for some  time,  and the mortgage is in arrears. Mr B isnt 
happy with Halifaxs  administration  of his mortgage  account; he believes its treated him 
unfairly and failed to meet  legal obligations towards him.
background
This is one of two linked complaints Mr B has made  to us about his mortgage. They arent 
identical, hence why weve handled them  separately, but they do arise  from a common  set of 
circumstances. Ive reviewed both complaints, and issued individual  decisions on each, but 
the connection between them inevitable means  that the narratives will be shared in places.
The events leading up to, and arising  out of, the complaint are complex.  Ive read everything,  
and its apparent that some parts of the evidence are less relevant to the underlying case 
than others. There are also a lot of duplication and repetition of arguments.  In what follows, I 
have, by necessity,  summarised events  in rather less detail than has been  presented.  
No discourtesys intended by that. Its a reflection  of the informal service  we provide, and if I 
dont mention something, it wont be because Ive ignored it. Itll be because I didnt think  it 
was material to the outcome of the complaint.  This approach is consistent with what  our 
enabling legislation requires of me. 
It allows me to focus on the issues on which I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not be 
side-tracked by matters which, although  presented as material, are, in my opinion peripheral 
or, in some instances,  have little or no impact on the broader outcome. Another reason I 
have left out a lot of the detail is to avoid the risk of identifying Mr B when my decision is 
published. 
Our investigator condensed Mr Bs complaint under four broad headings. These were:
Halifax hasnt paid administration  charges  Mr B has imposed it;
Halifax hasnt returned  Mr Bs original house  deeds;
Halifax hasnt provided  a copy of the original mortgage contract; and
Halifax hasnt explained why it refunded around  £6,000 to Mr Bs mortgage account.
She didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld on any of the above. She pointed out that 
Halifax had offered Mr B a total of £750 compensation for inconvenience, and considered 
that enough. Mr B has asked for the complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman;  thats  why 
its now with me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But Ill make  some general observations 
before dealing with the substance of the complaint. 
Im aware Mr B has complained about  how weve  dealt with his complaint up to now. The 
investigators manager has dealt with that separately. Weve  explained how Mr B can 
progress his complaint  about our service if he wishes to. I wont be considering  that; my 
focus is solely on the subject-matter of the underlying complaint against  Halifax.
Ref: DRN68559582Lenders generally do put recovery action on hold whilst we look at a complaint, but they 
dont have to and we cant force them to. For the Financial Ombudsman Service  to have that 
power would  seriously undermine  our impartiality between the parties  to a complaint. It 
would also create  the potential  risk of consumers abusing our service by making complaints  
with the intention to obstruct  businesses that were trying to take legitimate  action  to recover 
money owed to them. Ill come back to this point in due course.
Were not the regulator of financial  businesses, and we dont police their internal processes 
or how they operate generally. Thats the job of the Financial Conduct Authority. We deal 
with individual  disputes between businesses and their customers. Were impartial, and we 
dont take either sides instructions on how we investigate a complaint. We conduct our 
investigations and reach our conclusions without interference from anyone  else.
Mr B has said the investigator didnt  address  every  individual  point  of complaint hes raised. 
What she did was identify  the key issues that she considered formed the crux of the 
complaint; the issues that, in her view,  were material to the outcome of the dispute.  She was 
right to do that, and in what  follows, Ive adopted  the same broad  approach  and used the 
same headings  to summarise my findings. 
Halifax hasnt paid administration  charges  Mr B has imposed on it
Mr B put Halifax on notice of his intention to charge it for each time he is in contact with it; 
whether that be by phone,  letter or email. It hadnt  paid him anything and the amount he 
considers is due now runs to several million pounds. 
This is not a new argument; Ive seen it many  times  before. Consumers who have had 
similar charges applied  against them by their lender believe they can reciprocate. The first 
difficulty with it is that theres  no contractual basis for that to happen. The underlying 
agreement between lender and borrower  allows for a lender to apply charges in accordance 
with a published tariff. 
When someone complains that a lender  has applied  such charges, aside from checking it 
can do so under the contract, well also consider whether it acted fairly when doing so. But if 
theres no contractual provision for a borrower to levy charges on a lender,  theres  no basis  
for me to find that its fair for Halifax to pay Mr B the sums  hes attempting  to charge it. 
Theres also a procedural  point, Ill set it out largely  for completeness. Even if I thought 
Halifax should pay Mr B the charges hes claiming, the maximum binding award I can make 
under the rules of the ombudsman service is £150,000. I could recommend a business  pay 
more but couldnt force it to. So in Mr Bs case, where  his claim is in the millions of pounds,  
hed need to take the business  to court to enforce the balance  on any such award. The 
points moot, though, as I dont find Halifax owes Mr B anything in this regard.
Halifax hasnt returned Mr Bs original house  deeds
Mr Bs mortgage was taken out at a time when it was standard practice  for lenders to hold 
the original title deeds as part of its security for the debt. Its said its prepared  to let Mr B 
have copies or inspect  the originals on its premises, but it will only release the originals after 
Mr B has repaid the mortgage debt. I dont  find that to be unfair; Mr B isnt prevented from 
providing his ownership of the mortgage property; thats recorded at HM Land  Registry. 
Ref: DRN68559583Mr B argues  that Halifax  is required by law to release the deeds. He doesnt say which law, 
but in any event, any argument  of law can only be decided by a court. The test Im required 
to apply is what I consider  fair and reasonable, and I dont find Halifax to be acting  unfairly or 
unreasonably when saying it will only release  Mr Bs original deeds once hes paid off what 
he owes under the mortgage.
Halifax hasnt provided a copy of the original mortgage contract.
It seems  Halifax no longer holds the original mortgage agreement. Mr B argues that without 
it, theres no contract under which Halifax can hold him liable to pay the outstanding debt. 
Again, thats an argument of law that would  need to be tested in court. Applying the test of 
what is fair and reasonable, Im satisfied from the evidence that is available that Mr B 
borrowed money from Halifax  that hes had the benefit of, so its fair and reasonable that 
Halifax expect him to repay it. If he doesnt,  then its also fair and reasonable for Halifax  to 
take steps to recover the debt in reliance  on its security, including  court  action if it judges it 
necessary to do so.
Halifax hasnt explained why it refunded around  £6,000 to Mr Bs mortgage account.
. 
This is about  fees and charges that Halifax has levied, historically, on Mr Bs mortgage 
account. I mentioned  earlier that the mortgage contract allows  it to do that (whilst it doesnt 
allow Mr B to levy charges on the business). The regulator of mortgages, the Financial 
Conduct Authority  (FCA),  sometime  ago ordered  businesses to review  historic charges to 
ensure theyd been applied fairly.  
The FCA review requires  businesses to go back six years, and thats what Halifax  did 
initially. That resulted  in a refund, in October 2016,  of just over £3,450 in historic  charges 
and a small amount  of interest. Then, in February 2017, Halifax did a second review, of 
charges applied more than six years  previously; in fact, it went  back to inception  of the 
mortgage. This produced a further refund, with interest, of almost £2,900. 
Our investigator provided a breakdown of the figures  in her view of the complaint in February 
of this year. I dont  reproduce that here, but Ive reviewed it, and Im satisfied it provides 
enough information for Mr B to understand what hes received and why. 
Its entirely appropriate that such refunds  should be applied to the account rather  than paid 
directly to a consumer. Id also observe that, in going back as far as it has done with the 
review of charges,  Halifax has substantially  exceeded the FCAs requirements of it. Halifax  
has offered Mr B compensation for inconvenience arising from the way its handled  the 
charges refund and Mr Bs need to complain. I dont find that it needs to do anything further. 
I said at the outset that I wouldnt be commenting on every single point, and I havent. I have, 
as I said I would, confined  myself  to those matters that I consider have a material effect  on 
the outcome.  I can see from his submissions the determination with which  Mr B has brought 
the complaint.  Thats  a natural, subjective reaction, and entirely understandable. 
Its also natural to emphasise individual statements or comments  that appear to support a 
particular view point, whilst at the same time paying less attention to those that support the 
opposite viewpoint.  When youre as close to a difficult situation as Mr B has been here, its a 
natural subjective  reaction to see things  in the way Mr B has done.
Ref: DRN68559584Be that as it may, I have  to take a different approach. Im impartial and I have to look at 
things objectively,  sometimes  taking a step back and focussing on the broader picture. 
Thats what  Ive done. Having done so, I cant find in Mr Bs favour, however much  he thinks  
I should.
One of the fundamental  principles underpinning the mortgage contract is that a lender has 
the right to enforce its security to recover money  owed to it. It would be entirely inequitable 
and inappropriate  for me to remove that right in a final decision on Mr Bs complaint.
Mr B doesnt  have to accept my conclusions, and if he doesnt, then neither he nor Halifax 
will be bound by my final decision.  Subject  to any time limits or other restrictions  a court 
might impose, Mr Bs right to take legal  action against Halifax over the subject matter of this 
complaint wont have been prejudiced by our consideration of the complaint. He wouldnt 
necessarily have to initiate court proceedings of his own to do that. 
In the event Halifax resumes possession proceedings,  Mr B can, if he wishes, ask the court 
to consider all of the arguments hes presented here as part of his defence. It would then be 
for the court to decide whether, in all those circumstances,  it was fair to give possession of 
the mortgaged  property to Halifax. 
As Ive already  indicated, much of Mr Bs complaint is about ways in which  he thinks Halifax  
has acted illegally. The only proper forum for such arguments to be heard and determined  is 
a court.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. My final decision concludes  this 
services consideration  of this complaint, which means Ill not be engaging in any further  
discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6855958