K821x#15complaint
Mr H says MYJAR Limited irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six payday loans  MYJAR provided to Mr H between  June 2013  and 
October 2015. Loans one to five were  for £100  and Mr H was required  to repay amounts 
ranging between  £117 and £120, though he actually repaid amounts up to £198. These five 
loans were taking  in sequence  with no significant  breaks between  them.  After a gap of about 
two years,  Mr H borrowed £125 and he was expected to repay  £168.  Mr H repaid all his 
loans. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Hs complaint in part and thought loans four and five shouldnt 
have been given. MYJAR disagreed and so the complaint was passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MYJAR needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MYJAR should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that MYJAR was required to establish 
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN69073442Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
MYJAR asked Mr H for information about  his income  and expenditure. Mr H said his monthly 
income was £1,500 for loans one to five and £1,600 for loan six. He said he spent £200  a 
month on housing. There  was a significant break  between loans five and six. So I think  its 
reasonable for MYJAR  to treat loan six as the start of a new chain of borrowing and apply 
the affordability checks that were proportionate  to that. 
For loans one to three  and loan six, given the loan amounts, what  was apparent to MYJAR 
about Mr Hs circumstances at the time and his history with MYJAR, I dont think it wouldve 
been proportionate to ask him for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mr H provided or the information 
MYJAR shouldve been  aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate  to start 
verifying what Mr H was saying. 
Loan four was the fourth  time Mr H had borrowed in two months and he borrowed again  two 
days after he repaid  loan three. The amount Mr H borrowed  remained the same. I would 
expect MYJAR to then ask Mr H for information about his outgoings for his normal  living 
expenses to check that he could afford his loans. I can see that MYJAR recorded  Mr Hs 
housing costs, but nothing further.  
I think that the pattern of Mr Hs borrowing should  have suggested to MYJAR  that Mr H was 
struggling to repay some  of his loans. Hed had to borrow  again very soon after repaying  
loan three.  And I think this pattern showed  that Mr H couldnt sustainably  repay  his loans 
without having  to borrow again.  And so I think it was wrong for MYJAR to provide loans four 
and five and it should put things right.  
putting things right  what MYJAR needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr H paid on loans four and five;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Mr Hs credit  file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr H a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
Ref: DRN69073443For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
MYJAR Limited should pay Mr H compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6907344