K820x#14complaint
Mr U complains that My Finance Club Limited  (trading as Monkeydosh) gave him loans 
irresponsibly.
background
During 2012 Mr U borrowed two loans from Monkeydosh,  as follows:
Loan No Amount Date  borrowed Date repaid
1 £150 28.5.12 27.7.12
2 £200 27.7.12 15.4.13
These were  payday loans, scheduled for repayment  after one month. Whilst both were  
ultimately repaid  in full, loan one was rolled-over once and loan two was rolled-over before 
being subjected  to an agreed repayment plan over an extended term.
Mr U believes  that Monkeydosh acted irresponsibly in giving the loans to him. He suggests 
that, as hed struggled to repay  loan one, it should  have been apparent to Monkeydosh that 
loan two was unlikely to be sustainably affordable for him.
Monkeydosh feels that it did carry out adequate an proportionate checks before  lending  and 
that it was able to satisfy  itself that the loans were affordable.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Monkeydosh had been wrong  to give the loans and so 
recommended that the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  
Mr U doesnt agree. He argues that, after hed been given the first loan he recognised  that 
he was going  to struggle making  the repayment  and so asked  for an extension  of one month.  
Because he still couldnt afford the repayment he feels he then had no choice but to ask for a 
second loan on the same day that his first was repaid. He complains that it was irresponsible  
of Monkeydosh to give him the second loan as it could see the history  of the first loan. 
In these circumstances, Mr U has asked,  as hes fully entitled  to do, that the complaint be 
reviewed by an ombudsman for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Monkeydosh needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr U 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Ref: DRN63591972Monkeydosh should  fairly and reasonably have done more to establish  that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Monkeydosh was required to establish 
whether Mr U could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  At the time of the loans the regulator was the Office of Fair Trading, whose 
guidance said that repaying  credit  in a sustainable manner means being able to repay credit 
out of income  and/or  available savings and without undue difficulty.
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Us complaint.
Monkeydosh has said that, before each loan,  it asked Mr U for full personal information,  
including details of his employment,  income and general expenditure. And it carried out 
searches to validate his declared  income. Monkeydosh also undertook credit checks - but I 
havent seen the results  of these.
I think that, given the circumstances of this case, the checks carried  out were proportionate. 
Mr U provided  information  about  his income  and expenses and this didnt raise any concerns 
regarding the affordability of his repayments.  The repayments werent a substantial  amount 
of his income. And, given that these  were his first two loans  with the lender, I dont  think  its 
reasonable to expect  Monkeydosh to have asked Mr U for any further information.
I do acknowledge Mr Us comments in relation to him having extended the repayment  date 
for the first loan. But, given the information hed provided, the size of the loan repayment  
compared to his income, and the early  stage in their relationship, I dont feel that extending 
the loan by one month  is, in itself, sufficient  reason  for Monkeydosh to have been  concerned  
that Mr U was struggling financially.
I dont doubt that Mr U was experiencing financial difficulties and I can see that it became 
necessary for him to negotiate an extended repayment plan in respect of loan two. But, Im 
Ref: DRN63591973afraid I dont see any reasons for Monkeydosh to have carried out any further checks  before 
lending. And, as the checks  it did undertake  suggested that the loans were affordable, I dont 
find I can say that the loans should not have been provided.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr U but I dont  uphold his complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr U to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6359197