K820x#14complaint
Mr P complained that hed requested a £300  cash withdrawal at an ATM,  but the machine 
didnt dispense his money. Monzo Bank  Ltd refused to refund him. 
background
 
On 19 January 2019, at 01:09am, Mr P put his card and PIN into a cash machine to 
withdraw £300. Mr P says he went through the usual steps, and saw a message on the 
screen telling  him to take his cash. But he said no money was dispensed and after a few 
seconds the flap on the machine closed.  
At 01:16am, there was a £6 debit from Mr Ps account  at a nearby location.  At 01:46 Mr P 
messaged Monzo to say hed tried to withdraw £300 but no money had come out after the 
message on the screen telling him to take his cash.  Monzos adviser said it would ask a 
specialist to look into this. Mr P still hadnt  heard  anything by the afternoon of 21 January, 
and complained. 
On 22 January, Monzo contacted Mr P and said I have raised this as a dispute, and 
refunded your account with a temporary  credit. Just to let you know,  transaction disputes 
take up to 8 weeks to process. If we require any additional information, or if the dispute  is 
unsuccessful, well be in touch with next steps. Monzo credited Mr Ps account with £300.  It 
also apologised for the delay and said it was hiring more people  to cover such  issues at 
weekends. It offered Mr P £30 compensation for the delay, which  Mr P accepted. 
On 15 April, Monzo sent Mr P a message. This said it had contacted  the card provider who 
had turned down  Mr Ps claim. Monzo  said it had checked the evidence and couldnt  take Mr 
Ps dispute any further. It gave Mr P two weeks  notice that it would be taking back the 
£300 it had re-credited in January. This was debited again on 29 April. Mr P complained. He 
said he thought  the dispute  had been closed,  and he also pointed out that this had 
happened outside the 8 week timescale which Monzo had advised. 
In its final response,  Monzo accepted that it had heard  back  from the card provider during 
the 8 week timescale,  on 9 March, but it had failed to inform  Mr P until 15 April. It 
apologised, but said it had given  Mr P enough notice  that it would be taking back  the £300. 
As an apology for the delay in telling  Mr P that his claim had been turned down, Monzo paid 
him £50. 
Mr P wasnt  satisfied and complained to this service. 
The investigator upheld  Mr Ps complaint. She said that Monzo had provided evidence that 
Mr P had requested  the £300,  but hadnt  shown  that Mr P had received the money from the 
ATM. So she considered that Monzo should pay Mr P £300.  
Monzo didnt agree.  It provided some  more information, but said that chargeback  requests  
such as this didnt  require the bank  to provide evidence  that the cash machine had balanced. 
It said that it had been  told by the cash machine operator that there  were  no faults reported 
with Mr Ps transaction.  
my provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered all the
Ref: DRN64720272available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint.
I started  by acknowledging  the time it had taken to reach my provisional decision. Our 
investigator reached her view based on the information she had at the time and on the basis  
that Monzo wasnt willing to provide any more information. But it was important that I fully 
considered all relevant  information before reaching  a final decision.  
So I asked  for more information  in order to look into the matter  fairly and impartially. That 
took some  time, but I was satisfied that I then had enough information  to be able to decide 
the case. I explained that given the amount of new information and the decision  I intended to 
reach, the decision would be provisional  giving both sides an opportunity to respond  to me 
before I reached a final decision. 
The key information  was the record of the cash machine. So I asked for more information  
from Monzo. Cash machines are run by different organisations, and I also asked for more 
information from the bank which runs the machine which Mr P used that night.  
The information provided showed  that there  were  no reported faults with the machine, and: 
- Mr Ps card was put into the cash machine at 1:09:22 on 19 January 2019; 
- The correct PIN was entered, and 300 was entered as the amount for the 
withdrawal; 
- The card was taken at 1:09:56; 
- Cash was dispensed  at 1:10:02. The codes indicate that the notes dispensed were 
15 x £20 notes;  
- The cash was taken at 1:10:07.  
So the machine record showed that the £300 cash requested from Mr Ps account had been 
dispensed and taken. This was persuasive  evidence, and I was satisfied it could be relied on 
as a record of what  happened at this time.  It followed that I was satisfied that it was more  
likely than not that the money Mr P requested  from the machine was given  to him in the way 
the evidence shows. 
I also bore in mind the circumstances  around the withdrawal. Mr Ps account showed  
another debit  transaction, for £6, at 1:16am, at what looked like a nearby location. Mr P 
didnt report his concerns  about the cash machine until 1.46am. I found it surprising that, if 
the machine didnt dispense any money,  Mr P didnt contact Monzo straightaway.  Certainly it 
was the middle  of the night, but the messages by both Mr P and Monzo showed that they 
were able to communicate at that time of day. 
So the machine record clearly  showed  that £300  was dispensed and there  was nothing 
wrong with the machine, and Mr P didnt report a problem straightaway. In view of this, I 
considered it was more  likely than not that the machine did dispense  Mr Ps £300  as hed 
requested. 
I also considered that the £50 which Monzo  paid Mr P, as an apology  for the delay  in telling 
Mr P his claim  had been turned down, was fair and reasonable.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN64720273Mr P didnt agree. He said it was a big joke, and his phone had been at home.  He asked why 
hed contact Monzo on the road while it was cold. He said hed told us many times to look at 
CCTV, and no-one had done  that. Mr P said I was making assumptions  and not facts.
Monzo accepted  my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  Mr Ps response  to the 
provisional decision. When we reach a decision, we do so on the basis  of what  we consider 
is more likely to have  happened.
Mr Ps response gives two reasons why he didnt ring Monzo very quickly   that he didnt 
have his phone with him; and that it was because he didnt want to ring when it was cold.  I 
note that this is the first time that Mr P has said he didnt have his phone with him that night. 
And it seems unlikely that both reasons can be correct. 
Ive also taken into account the fact that £300  is a lot of money,  so it would be surprising if it 
was too cold for him to report this straightaway, but not too cold for him to go somewhere 
else locally  to make a transaction for £6. So I still find it surprising  that, if the cash machine 
didnt dispense any money, Mr P didnt  contact Monzo straightaway.
Ive considered Mr Ps comments  about  CCTV. Ive checked the original dispute form which 
Mr P completed with Monzo, in July 2019. Question  14 asked Mr P:
Have you requested  CCTV  for the locations and timings of the transactions and have
you contacted  the police and/or Action fraud UK? Please provide details.
Mr Ps form shows that he answered no to this question.
CCTV is only kept for a short period of time. If Mr P hadnt asked for CCTV by July 2019, it 
would by then have been too late to see a record dating back to January  2019. I also note 
that Mr P told us that theres a CCTV camera opposite the machine. And even if the CCTV 
had been requested in time,  I consider its most unlikely that CCTV would have shown 
conclusively what happened. Mr P would have  been standing in front of the dispenser,  and a 
camera behind him wouldnt have shown whether or not cash was dispensed from the 
machine.
So I consider my original  conclusions were fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN64720274my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6472027