K820x#14complaint
Miss S complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) wont refund the money  she lost 
when she fell victim to a scam.
background
In July 2018, Miss S fell victim to a scam. Shed been looking for a used car online when she 
came across  an advert  for a car she liked the look of. Miss S contacted the seller who sent 
her some further details  about the car and some  pictures. The seller also confirmed the 
asking price - £3,500.  The seller told Miss S that the vehicle  was based in Scotland so she 
wouldnt be able to collect it. But if she transferred the money for it, the seller would arrange 
to have it delivered to her, as soon  as possible.
Miss S paid the total cost of the car in two separate payments on 17 July 2018. But two days 
later, she was contacted by the seller again. The seller told Miss S that she had to pay 
insurance for the car totalling £1,750. He told her she needed to make the payment as soon  
as possible or the deal would be off. He also told Miss S that hed refund the insurance  
costs 48 hours after the car had been delivered.
In summary,  between 17 July 2018 and 19 July 2018 Miss S made the following transfers  via 
her Barclays  Mobile Banking APP: 
The first two payments  were made  to the same account but the last payment, made on 
19 July 2018,  was made to a different account.
Miss S told us she was provided with invoices for all three payments. But by 20 July 2018, 
the car still hadnt  arrived, and Miss S began to get worried. She tried to contact the seller by 
phone but she was unable to get through to anyone and it appeared her number had been 
blocked. So, at around 10.00am on 20 July 2018,  Miss S went  to her local Barclays branch 
to report the scam. Miss S was told to ring the fraud  helpline  from the phone in branch - 
where she was placed  on hold. It was around four hours before Miss S managed to speak to 
someone about what had happened. 
When she did eventually speak with someone, Miss S was told Barclays would try to 
recover the funds  from the receiving  bank and would be in touch with her when they had 
heard from them.  It took some time for the receiving  bank  to get back  to Barclays but 
eventually they responded to say none of Miss Ss funds remained in the recipient 
accounts. 
Miss S complained to Barclays and it issued its final response on 3 September 2018.  
Barclays said it had carried out Miss Ss instructions  in making  the payments - which she 
made herself  via her mobile banking.  And it had followed all the correct processes in 
contacting the beneficiary bank in attempting to recover her funds.  But as the money had 
already been removed  from the recipient account,  there wasnt anything further it could 
do. 
Unhappy with Barclays response, Miss S brought  her complaint to our service  and one of 
our investigators looked into things.  Our investigator  didnt think Barclays could  have 
done anything  to prevent the scam. Specifically, she didnt consider the payments Miss S 
Ref: DRN63147162made were particularly out of the ordinary,  or that they were  so unusual that they should 
have caused Barclays concern or be considered as suspicious - prompting  further  
questioning. Our investigator pointed out that Miss S had made a number of similar  
transactions in the months  leading  up to the scam and so these particular transactions 
werent unusual  when compared  to her normal account activity. 
She acknowledged that Barclays  could  have potentially contacted the receiving bank 
sooner than it did  it took three  days for it to do so - but even if it had, she didnt think  this 
would have made a difference  to the outcome. Miss Ss money had been withdrawn from 
the receiving account before she even contacted Barclays to inform them about the scam. 
So Barclays  actions didnt  contribute to Miss Ss losses in that regard.
Miss S didnt accept  our investigators  view.  She felt the payments  should have stood out 
as unusual  she said she had only made  one payment of £3,000 before the scam 
payments - and this had prompted  a text from Barclays  to verify its legitimacy. 
She also said she had gone to her local branch as soon as she had realised shed  been  
scammed  it opened at 9.30am and she was there around 10am.  
Miss S asked for an Ombudsman to look into things, so the complaint has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required 
to take into account  relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and 
standards; codes  of practice; and, where appropriate, what  I consider to be good industry 
practice at the time.
Im really  very sorry to hear about  whats happened  to Miss S, and I can understand 
entirely why she feels so strongly that her money should be returned to her. But having  
thought very carefully about Barclays actions,  I think  it did act fairly and reasonably  in 
allowing the payments to leave her account.  I also dont think it could have done  any more  
than it did to try and recover her money for her.
So, having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Miss Ss complaint.  I do 
appreciate how disappointing  this will be for Miss S, but I dont think I can fairly say that 
Barclays should reimburse her with the £5,250 she has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. 
Ill explain  why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments 
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and 
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  
what is fair and reasonable in this case. 
However:
-the law recognises  that a bank may be liable  to its customer if it makes a payment 
in circumstances  where it has reasonable grounds  (although  not necessarily 
Ref: DRN63147163proof) for believing that the payment instruction was an attempt to misappropriate 
the funds of its customer (known as the Quincecare  duty); and
-regulated firms like Barclays are also required to conduct their business with due 
skill, care and diligence (FCA  Principle  for Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to 
the interests of its customers  (Principle 6); 
And as a matter of good industry practice at the time, I consider firms should also have  
taken proactive steps to:
identify and assist  vulnerable consumers  and consumers in vulnerable  
circumstances, including  those at risk of financial  exploitation (something 
recognised by the FCA in recent  years  and by the British Bankers Associations  
February 2016 report improving outcomes for customers in vulnerable 
circumstances);
look to identify and help prevent transactions - particularly unusual or out of 
character transactions   that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam  
(something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes  October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud or financial abuse   
Code of Practice, which  a number of banks and trade associations  were involved 
in the development of); and
in relation to branch transactions  follow  the Banking Protocol when available.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent 
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline 
to make a payment  altogether,  to help protect  customers from the possibility of financial 
harm.
So in this case, I need to decide whether Barclays acted fairly  and reasonably in its 
dealings with Miss S when she transferred  £5,250 to a fraudster and when she reported 
the fraud,  or whether it should have done more than it did.
Miss S has accepted  that she authorised the three  transfers herself. Because  of this, 
Barclays had an obligation  to follow her instructions. But there  are some situations in 
which it should reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances surrounding the 
transfers - as Ive explained above.  I consider that as a matter of good practice Barclays  
shouldve been  on the lookout for unusual and out of character transactions.
So, Ive first thought  about whether the payments Miss S made could be considered  out 
of character and unusual when compared  with her usual account  activity. And, having 
reviewed Miss Ss statements for the three months leading  up to the scam, I dont think 
these three  payments stood out as unusual or suspicious when compared to Miss Ss 
normal account activity  - in so much as they ought  to have alerted Barclays  that Miss S 
might have been at risk of financial harm. 
The first payment that Miss S made  to the fraudster was for £2,000, followed soon after 
by a further payment of £1,500. Miss S had made two previous  transfers,  for amounts  
very similar, in the months leading up to the scam. Specifically, shed made two 
payments on 17 April 2018  one for £1,000 and another, soon after on the same day, 
Ref: DRN63147164for £2000.  These payments were also made in quick succession and the reference used 
for the payments indicates  they were also in relation  to a vehicle. And so I dont think  
that either of the payments Miss S made  to the fraudster, individually, were particularly 
out of character or unusual for Miss S when  compared to previous activity  on her 
account.
And even  if I were to consider the payments together,  as a total outlay in one day, as 
Ive said above,  Miss S had previously made transfers amounting to £3,000 in one day 
before. And these  transfers left her account  in a relatively similar position to the 
payments to the fraudster  leaving her with a balance of a few hundred pounds before 
being topped up by a transfer in from one of Miss S other accounts. And so I dont think 
it would  be reasonable for me to say it was particularly unusual for Miss S to spend 
around £3,500  from her account in one day either.  
The third and final transfer was made two days later, and again,  it wasnt for a 
particularly unusual amount. And so, I dont think Barclays  acted unreasonably in not 
making enquiries about the payments before processing them  Im satisfied Miss S 
frequently made similar payments from her account.  
Ive gone on to think about  whether Barclays shouldve done  more than it did once Miss S 
reported that shed been the victim  of a scam. And Ive looked into the attempts Barclays 
made to recover the money once notified. In order for me to be able to fairly ask Barclays  
to refund the money to Miss S, Id need to be satisfied  Barclays  should have acted sooner 
than it did in trying to recover the money.  And if it had done so, whether this wouldve made 
a difference.
In this case, I think Barclays couldve raised the claim against the receiving bank account 
sooner than it did  it took them three  days.  But having said that, even if Barclays had 
acted sooner, I dont  think this would have led to Miss S getting  her money back.  I say this 
because, the funds  had already  been  removed from the beneficiary account  before 
Barclays had been notified of the scam:
£3,500 had been removed on 17 July 2018  - the same day it entered the beneficiary 
account and 3 days before Barclays was notified  of the scam.  
the final payment  of £1,750 was removed from the beneficiary  account on 
20 July 2018  just before Miss S went into her local Barclays  branch to report  the 
scam. 
So, even if Barclays had contacted the beneficiary  bank as soon as it had been informed 
about the scam and not three days later, Barclays still wouldnt have been able to recover  
Miss Ss money  it had already gone.  
I want to make it clear here, that I am not saying  Miss S is at fault for not reporting the fraud  
sooner than she did. I have no doubt  at all that she reported the fraud to Barclays  as soon 
as she realised she had been the victim of a scam.  Its just very unfortunate that by the 
time she had realised,  the money had already gone,  and there was nothing  Barclays could 
do. 
I am very sorry  that Miss S has lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money  for her to 
have lost. I also understand  this whole experience was very frustrating and upsetting for 
Ref: DRN63147165her. But in the circumstances, I dont think I can fairly say Barclays couldve done more  to 
help her and should  now refund Miss S the money  she lost as part of the scam.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint  against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 September 2020.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6314716