K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains B&Q  PLC mis-sold a fixed term loan agreement that he neither agreed to 
nor signed.  
background
In 2016 Mr M was living in the Channel Islands. He owned two properties  in the mainland 
UK. In July that year he visited a B&Q  store  local to where he lived to design  a bathroom for 
one of his properties in the UK. Mr Ms son was living at this UK property. The bathroom  cost 
£7,500. At the time of ordering Mr M paid a deposit of £750.  Mr M said he later liaised with a 
London branch  of B&Q for the order and fitting  of the bathroom. He said he experienced a 
few problems concerning a delay and untidiness in the fitting.  Mr M said his intention was to 
buy the bathroom outright and expected to receive an invoice for the balance. 
In September  2017 Mr M received letters from a finance company (F) concerning a fixed 
term loan agreement it said he had signed.  Mr M said the letters had been sent to the UK 
property address but he wasnt  living  there. The letters were demanding payment for the 
balance plus interest. Mr M said he paid off the amount of the bathroom  but hasnt paid the 
interest. Mr M complained  to F. 
F said Mr M had signed a 12 month Countdown  Interest Bearing agreement. It said under 
the terms payments  are deferred for 12 months. If payment is received in full within  the first 
12 months then the interest accrued isnt applied. It said in order to settle the agreement free 
of any interest Mr M wouldve had to repay the balance in full by 16 July 2017. And as he 
hadnt F said the settlement now included interest. F also recommended that if Mr M was 
concerned the agreement  had been set up fraudulently  he should report  it to the police. Mr 
M disputed he had taken out an agreement as it was never his intention to do so and he had 
expected to be invoiced. He brought his complaint to this service. 
Upon initial review of the evidence  provided  our investigator determined this complaint 
related to the credit broking of the agreement which had been carried  out by B&Q.  
B&Q provided a final response. It did not accept the agreement had been mis-sold to Mr M. 
It said F would not provide finance  to a customer living outside the UK and when a customer 
wishes to take out a personal loan there were procedures, including  a credit check  , which  
had been followed. It also said the loan application had been e-signed on 16 July 2016 
which confirmed the address  of the customer. Mr M maintained that he had not lived at that 
address, had not taken out a loan agreement and had had no need to do so as he had the 
funds to pay in full. So he referred  back to this service. 
Our investigator thought on the balance  of probability B&Q  hadnt done anything  wrong.  He 
said there didnt appear to be enough information  to support that the agreement  had been  
taken out without Mr Ms knowledge,  and there  was evidence that Mr M had previously put 
forward the idea of paying over a three month  period. He thought that B&Q and F had done 
enough to make Mr M aware  of the agreement.  He also recommended that if Mr M was still 
concerned the agreement  had been taken out fraudulently he should report it to the police. 
Mr M asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman. He asked for further examination  of 
evidence he had provided concerning his residential  status, hence his lack of ability to obtain  
a financial agreement, and errors he believed B&Q had made. 
Ref: DRN68422902my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I realise this will come as a 
disappointment to Mr M but having done so I wont be asking  B&Q  to do anything further. 
I can see Mr M is frustrated by this situation  as he strongly believes he never intended to 
take out a finance agreement and that a human error has taken place. I want to thank him 
for all the information  and comments  hes sent. And Id like to reassure  him that if I dont 
comment on any specific point hes made its not because Ive failed to take it on board and 
think about it, but because I dont think I need  to comment  on it in order to reach what I think  
is the right outcome.
I first have  to consider  whether I have the power  to look into this complaint. Mr M said at the 
time of the bathroom order he was living in the Channel Islands. Our service operates under 
a set of rules, known  as DISP, laid down by Parliament under the Financial Services  and 
Markets Act 2000. These are published  by and are available  from the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA). The DISP rules set out the scope of our powers and  of particular 
relevance here  the geographical jurisdiction of the complaints we are able to consider. 
According to the DISP  rules our territorial  scope covers complaints about activities of a firm 
carried out from an establishment  in the United Kingdom. The rules  define this to exclude the 
Channel Islands. Mr M said he was never  in the UK. He visited  a branch local to him, in the 
Channel Islands, to design the bathroom, but liaised online with the store  in the UK. Ive 
looked at the credit  agreement in question and can see it was signed by a staff member at 
the UK store and I note Mr M liaised with the store through  its online design service. So Im 
satisfied that irrespective of whether Mr M was aware  of the credit agreement and despite 
him being in the Channel Islands, the activity, in this case the agreement, was set up and 
brokered in the UK. And so Im also satisfied I have  the power to consider the complaint. 
Mr M has mentioned there were some issues concerning the fitting of the bathroom. So its 
important to say that my role here is only to look at the way the agreement was set up, and 
brokered.
is there a credit agreement?
Ive seen a copy  of the Fixed Sum Loan agreement from F. The agreement sets out a 
number of personal details for Mr M. These include:
Mr Ms full name, including his middle name.
The UK address  where the bathroom  was to be fitted is also marked as the 
customers address. 
Time at the present  address is marked  as 4 years 6 months. 
Both home and mobile numbers are present.  Ive noticed the home  number has a 
Channel Island area code. Although this code would not necessarily be identifiable 
as being outside of mainland UK without looking it up, it is not an area code that 
would correspond to the residential  address on the form. The mobile  number starts 
07. Its possible this would be mistaken  for a UK mobile phone number. 
Mr Ms marital status is noted.
The date of birth on the agreement corresponds  to the date given by Mr M to this 
service.
Mr M is marked as the owner of the property and has a mortgage.
Ref: DRN68422903The delivery address  box is empty, indicating the customer  address is same as 
delivery address.
The agreement includes Mr Ms employment  status, his income, as well as his 
employers name  and address. This is a Channel Island  address.  
The direct  debit  box is completed  with a UK Bank address, account number and sort 
code. 
The agreement is e-signed on 16 July 2016 by Mr M and a staff member  at the UK 
B&Q store. 
Mr M has said the UK address isnt, and has never  been, his home  address as he lived in 
the Channel Islands at the time and has since  moved to a different country.  But he hasnt 
disputed any of the other information shown on the credit agreement. 
On the basis of everything Ive seen, Im satisfied  that a signed  Fixed Sum Loan agreement  
is in place between  Mr M and F. 
was the agreement mis-sold?
Mr M has said he didnt ask for, or want,  a credit agreement and that B&Q must  have  used 
information it already  had about him to populate the loan application. The credit agreement  
contains significant personal information about  Mr M. Mr M has kindly  provided information  
he requested from both B&Q and F under subject access requests  (SAR). This information 
contains the personal details held by both firms. Unsurprisingly, F has all the information 
listed above. 
B&Q has much less information. It does  have a record of Mr Ms address in the Channel  
Islands. This appears to be connected to a purchase he made in January  2016 or it was 
perhaps recorded at the same time. The delivery  address  for this purchase was Mr Ms 
second property  in the UK. Mr M paid by card for this purchase. 
Mr M made two further purchases prior to the bathroom, on 22 May and 2 July. The delivery 
for these  was to Mr Ms first UK property address, where he subsequently  had the bathroom 
fitted. So B&Q  had a record of this address prior to the order.  B&Q also has his mobile  
phone number and email address. Mr M did not apply for credit  for any of these purchases 
nor did he pay by bank  transfer.
B&Q did not hold any other personal information for Mr M; specifically his marital status, date 
of birth,  property ownership or mortgage,  employment status  or address or bank account 
details. And Mr M has said he had no other finance agreement with F. 
My role is to come to what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome based on the evidence  
available to me, taking  account of the relevant  laws,  rules and industry practice.  Where 
evidence is missing, unclear, conflicting or disputed  Ill look at whats available  and the 
surrounding circumstances   to decide  what I think is most likely to have happened.
As there is no evidence  B&Q had these further  personal details prior to the bathroom order I 
consider it likely that either Mr M provided  this information to B&Q  at that time or it was 
provided without  Mr Ms consent and the agreement set up fraudulently.   
If Mr M did provide the details to B&Q, I also find it unlikely these details would have been 
required for a purchase of the bathroom Mr M wanted to pay outright, but wouldve been 
asked for in relation to some  form of credit application. So Im persuaded that either  Mr M set 
Ref: DRN68422904up the credit  agreement himself or it was set up fraudulently. The agreement was e-signed 
by the same staff member at B&Q Mr M had communication  with so I do think  it unlikely the 
agreement is fraudulent. But if Mr M continues to believe  it is then this should be reported to 
the police, as both F and the investigator  have already advised. 
Mr M said he didnt  need  to set up an agreement because he had the cash available and has 
provided a screenshot of his bank  statement. Im not disputing  Mr M had sufficient funds in 
his account. But customers  take finance  agreements for a number of reasons, and as this 
was a buy now pay later with 12 months delayed interest it wouldnt be unusual for a 
customer to take it despite having the funds available.
Mr M said it wasnt possible for him to set up an agreement because he lived in the Channel 
Islands and F would not approve the agreement with his home address. But the residential  
address on the agreement is the UK delivery  address  for the bathroom.  There is a Channel 
Islands address on the agreement, but this is noted only as Mr Ms employers  address  and 
wouldnt necessarily be a red flag. The agreement also states Mr M has a mortgage  on the 
property and has provided UK bank details. I havent  seen details of the credit check  B&Q  or 
F wouldve  carried out, but it does  appear Mr M would have a UK credit history given his 
existing UK financial  relationships.  So a credit check wouldnt  necessarily  pick up that Mr M 
was not resident in the UK. 
Mr M said he intended to pay for the bathroom  outright  and expected to receive an invoice 
for the balance due. From the evidence  provided,  I can see this wasnt  an arrangement  B&Q  
would have offered.  The choices would  be to pay for the goods  at the time of ordering or 
engage in a financial agreement. Mr M paid a deposit on a credit card yet the agreement 
form has his bank account details which are different to the credit card details.  Mr M said 
there was considerable confusion with B&Q  as he had previously ordered something for his 
other UK property and had probably given  his bank details to B&Q  then.  But B&Q has 
evidenced, through the SAR, that it doesnt  have  these details and has confirmed he paid for 
the items  for the other property using a card. 
The residential address F had on the agreement  is used for all the correspondence. F did 
not have Mr Ms home address in the Channel Islands nor his new address.  Mr M ordered 
the bathroom in July 2016 and paid the deposit. When  Mr M received the letters  demanding 
payment, over a year later, he had not paid the remaining  balance,  nor had he enquired  as 
to why he hadnt received an invoice. Mr M moved to another  country in December 2016. If 
he was still expecting to receive an invoice I would  expect  Mr M to have changed his 
address with B&Q.  I asked Mr M when he did this. Mr M responded by saying the B&Q 
records indicate he provided his address in the Channel  Islands  on 16 July 2016. 
I accept that B&Q had both Mr Ms Channel Island address and the UK property address on 
its records. But its not clear to me when Mr M provided B&Q  with his Channel  Island 
residential address.  Neither have I seen any evidence Mr M changed his address to the new 
country when he moved in December, as I wouldve expected if he anticipated  receiving an 
invoice. 
B&Q staff at the branch said Mr M bought the bathroom on a buy now pay later and was 
going to clear the balance  in a year. They said the application steps are very intense  and this 
was all done with the customer and his son. 
In summary,  for all the reasons Ive given, I do think it unlikely the credit agreement was mis-
sold. 
Ref: DRN68422905should Mr M ought reasonably to have been aware of the agreement before the end of the 
12 month countdown?
From contact notes provided by F I can see it sent various letters addressed to Mr M at the 
UK address within the first 12 month period; on 19 July 2016, 6 December and 4 June 2017. 
After the 12 month countdown F sent letters on 17 July and 31 July. On 12 August it 
checked the details of the agreement and attempted  to contact Mr M at the employers 
address. A further letter was sent on 29 August and Mr M made contact with F on 15 
September. 
Mr M said hes never lived at the UK address and I dont dispute this. But he has said his 
son lived there, and from the evidence provided, his son helped to organise the bathroom 
fitting with B&Q in 2016. Mr M said he visited the UK for his sons wedding  from 15 July 2017  
to 24 July. He said when two letters regarding the supposed credit agreement  were 
incorrectly sent to the UK, rather than his home address, his son was not at the property as 
he was on honeymoon. He said on returning to the flat after his honeymoon, his son noticed  
the letters and contacted  him. I dont dispute this, but it would be reasonable for me to 
assume the honeymoon was after the wedding. F has provided evidence it sent letters 
during the first 12 months,  which was before  Mr Ms visit to the UK and the wedding.  Ive 
seen evidence these  letters  were sent and they werent returned undelivered so it does 
seem likely they were delivered to the UK address while Mr Ms son was living there.  So 
even if Mr M wasnt aware of the agreement at the time of ordering the bathroom,  letters  
about the finance agreement were sent to an address of a property he owned where his son 
was living.  So it would  be reasonable to expect all the letters would  be forwarded to Mr M.
So I think even if Mr M wasnt aware  of the agreement at the time, and I consider this 
unlikely, I do believe he ought reasonably  to have become aware. F sent a number of letters 
during the first 12 months  to a property owned  by Mr M. And had Mr M made  attempts to pay 
the balance within 12 months, chased the invoice, or changed his address to receive  the 
invoice during that period  he would  have become aware there was a financial agreement  in 
place in time to avoid  the interest on the balance. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6842290