K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Ms L says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ls case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms L said PPI wasnt mentioned and must have been added  without her knowledge or 
consent. Halifax has said it would  have made  the optional nature  of the policy  clear and 
would have got Ms Ls consent to add the policy. Where theres a dispute about what  
happened, I have to base  my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened  
taking into account all the evidence thats  available.
Halifax has given me a copy of the credit card application form. Ms Ls personal details 
have been pre-populated on the application  and the PPI has been selected   whilst other 
equally prominent products have not. From what we know more  generally about how 
Halifax sold PPI around this time I think its likely  there would  have been  a conversation 
with the Halifax  representative about  PPI prior to the details being entered on the 
application and Ms L has signed  the application so I think this reflected what  she wanted. 
If she didnt want the PPI she could have questioned this at the time. 
PPI would also have  appeared  on Ms Ls monthly credit card statements. So if this was 
something she hadnt agreed to then I would have  expected her to question this sooner 
than she did. So overall I think  Halifax made  Ms L aware that she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and she agreed to take the policy at the time.  
From  what I have  read and been told I think Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Ms L so it 
had to check that the PPI was right for her  and based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example she wasnt affected by any of 
the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and she seems  to have had a need  for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Ms L about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But she chose  to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms L has said - including what  she has told us about  her sick 
pay. Ms L has said she wouldve got six months full sick pay followed by six months half 
sick pay from her employer. But this policy couldve paid Ms L a monthly  benefit  for up to 12 
months if she was unable to work through an accident or sickness and this wouldve been in 
addition to any sick pay Ms L mightve  had. It wouldve also covered her if she lost her job for 
up to 12 months. Again  this would have been  in addition to any redundancy payment she 
Ref: DRN68482282may have  got. So I think she couldve found  the policy useful. So these points dont change 
my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms L paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Ms L back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Ms L now Ive issued my final decision,  if it hasnt 
done so already. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Ms Ls complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6848228