K820x#14complaint
Ms M has complained that AXA PPP Healthcare Limited has unfairly refused to cover her for 
further reconstructive surgery following cancer  treatment.
background
In 2013 Ms M was unfortunately diagnosed  with cancer in her left breast and, following  a 
mastectomy, she had reconstructive surgery. This was covered  by AXA at the time. In 2016 
Ms M contacted AXA to obtain authorisation for further reconstructive  surgery  to her left 
breast and she told AXA that she would also need surgery  on her right breast  to obtain 
symmetry.
AXA declined to cover  the second  surgery to Ms Ms left breast.  It said the policy only 
provided cover for the first reconstructive  surgery following cancer treatment. And as this 
was completed in 2013 the policy didnt cover  any additional surgery on the same breast. As 
a result Ms M didnt  go ahead with the surgery  in 2016 but contacted AXA again  on several 
occasions in 2017 to request it to reconsider. AXA declined to pay for the treatment.
Ms M was unhappy with this outcome. She said reconstructive surgery  typically  requires 
several procedures  and that this is just part of her treatment  program.  She also said that her 
initial treatment program changed following the initial surgery which  meant that it was more 
likely she would have needed  extra  surgery. She felt this decision was unfair. 
Ms M also said that, in 2016, AXA failed to notify  her of its decision not to pay for her surgery  
until the day before the operation was due to take place, putting  her through additional 
stress.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said that AXAs policy terms explained  that 
cover was only provided for the first reconstructive  surgery on her left breast and so it didnt 
have to pay for this additional operation. And she didnt think AXA had delayed telling Ms M 
about the decision not to cover this surgery.
As Ms M didnt  agree with the investigator, the complaint has been passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my decision is not to 
uphold this complaint.  I appreciate this will be disappointing for Ms M and Ill explain my 
reasons for reaching this outcome.
As is commonplace  with insurance policies, AXAs policy doesnt provide  cover for every 
eventuality. But as long as AXA sets out what is and isnt covered by the policy in its terms 
and conditions, it can decline to pay for anything which it has excluded  within  those terms.
So I need to decide if AXA has applied its terms fairly.
Im aware that Ms Ms contract has changed since she initially  contacted AXA in 2016 to 
request authorisation for this second reconstructive surgery.  In the membership handbook 
applicable in 2016 the policy  contained  the following  terms;
Ref: DRN606827826.1    We pay for
(e)Your first reconstructive surgery to restore function or appearance  after an 
accident or following surgery for a medical  condition,  provided that:
we have covered  you continuously under a policy of ours since before the 
accident or surgery happened
we agree the cost of the treatment in writing  before it is done  (see also 
6.2(o)).
6.2 What we do not pay for:
(o) Cosmetic (aesthetic)  surgery or treatment, or any treatment relating to previous 
cosmetic or reconstructive treatment  (see also 6.1(e)).
In 2017 Ms Ms contract changed  and the new terms stated the following;
4.28 > Reconstructive surgery
We do cover  reconstructive surgery, but only in certain situations.
What is covered?
We will cover your first reconstructive surgery following an accident or surgery for a 
medical condition  that was covered  by your membership. We will do this so long as:
-you had continuous  cover with us before the accident or surgery  happened
-we agree the method  and cost of the treatment in writing beforehand.
In the case of breast cancer the first reconstructive surgery means:
-one planned  surgery to reconstruct the diseased breast
-one further  planned  surgery to the other breast,  when it has not been 
operated on, to improve symmetry
-nipple tattooing,  up to 2 sessions. 
The policy that applied  at the time of the claim in 2016 explains that the first reconstructive 
surgery is covered. This was undertaken and paid for by AXA in 2013  when Ms Ms surgeon 
operated on her left breast. Unfortunately no further  cover is available.
Ive noted that AXA has stated in its final response  letter that it will consider  a claim for 
surgery on the right breast. This is because the policy terms and conditions changed in 2017 
to provide cover for one operation on the non-affected breast  to aid symmetry. I think this 
was a reasonable decision by AXA because it could have argued that the policy  in force at 
the time the claim  was made was the one that applied. It hasnt done that and has offered to 
apply the more generous policy terms that came  into effect  after the further  claim was made.  
In the circumstances, I believe AXAs acted fairly by doing that.
I do though appreciate that it appears  that until further reconstructive surgery can be 
undertaken on Ms Ms left breast  which isnt covered  its difficult to complete surgery  on 
Ms Ms right breast. I have considered Ms Ms comments about  breast  reconstruction  
surgery in general  and how this can often need  more than one procedure. I dont doubt Ms 
Ms information but AXA isnt liable for additional  surgery as her policy  only covers one 
Ref: DRN60682783reconstruction procedure.  Although AXA has said it will pay for additional surgery  to Ms Ms 
right breast.
Ms M has also complained that AXA took too long to tell her it wasnt  going  to cover the 
procedure in 2016. She has said this put her under  a lot of stress.  I have  therefore  reviewed 
AXAs records regarding this event and it appears Ms M initially contacted AXA eight days 
before the planned surgery to request authorisation. During this conversation  AXA advised it 
needed a medical report  before it could consider the treatment  this was requested and 
arrived from Ms Ms consultant five days later. On the same  day, AXA made its decision to 
decline cover  for this treatment and it called Ms M to advise  her of this outcome. 
I dont think it was unreasonable  for AXA to request medical reports before making  a 
decision about cover. And it appears that it informed Ms M of its decision on the same day 
as receiving the medical report so, while I appreciate this would have been an anxious time 
for Ms M, I dont  think AXA could have informed her of its answer any sooner.
I do sympathise with the position Ms M has found  herself in and I can understand why this 
has been so upsetting for her. Its clear she has been through a very difficult time. But I do 
think that AXA has applied its policy terms reasonably and has tried to go further than 
perhaps it is obliged  to by offering to cover  the surgery  to Ms Ms right breast.  Because of 
this I cant uphold Ms Ms complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 July 2019.  
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6068278