K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that following his vehicle  being written off U K Insurance Limited (UKI) 
incorrectly voided his motor insurance policy and declined  his claim. UKI didnt return  the 
vehicle to him; it salvaged  the vehicle so denied him the opportunity to sell the parts  to 
recover some of his losses.
background
I set out the background  to this complaint and my initial findings in my provisional  decision, a 
copy of which is attached and forms part of my final decision. In my provisional decision I 
explained why I was minded to not uphold Mr Bs complaint. I invited both parties  to let me 
have anything in response they thought  was relevant.
Neither UKI nor Mr B responded.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Because neither party has anything more to add Ive reached the same conclusions  as set 
out in my provisional  decision and for the same reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Provisional Decision
Ive considered  the relevant  information about  Mr Bs complaint. Based  on what Ive seen so far Im not intending  
to uphold  this complaint.
Ill look at any more comments and evidence that I get by 12 February 2019. But unless  the information changes 
my mind,  my final decision  is likely to be along the following lines. 
complaint
Mr B complains that following his vehicle being written off UKI incorrectly voided his motor insurance policy  and 
declined his claim. UKI didnt return the vehicle to him; it salvaged the vehicle so denied him the opportunity to 
sell the parts to recover some of his losses.
background
Ref: DRN67622222Mr B bought  his motor insurance  policy online to start at 00:01 on 18 November 2017. His vehicle was involved in 
an incident  at 01:40, just an hour and forty minutes into the policy.
During its validation checks UKI became aware that Mr B didnt  live at the address  he had given when  hed taken 
the policy out. Mr B said that he had moved on 18 November 2017. UKI asked  Mr B to provide some evidence 
showing that this had been his address recently, but he wasnt  able to provide anything that was recent. The only 
thing that he was able to show  was a bank statement  from 2015.
UKI gave Mr B the opportunity to provide  documents,  but as he was unable to, on 28
December 2017  it voided  his policy  and retained the premiums.
At the time of the voidance UKI had already  disposed of Mr Bs vehicle,  but was declining the claim. Mr B 
complained to UKI as it had disposed of his property and he had lost the opportunity to sell the parts of the 
vehicle to help recover his losses.
UKI paid Mr B £350 compensation for disposing of his vehicle. And after further discussions  it paid him a further  
£115 for the value of the salvage.
Mr B was unhappy with this so brought his complaint  to us.
While the complaint  was being  looked into by our adjudicator UKI paid Mr B £2,185. This was the full value of the 
vehicle as compensation for the loss of the vehicle.  It then paid a further  £50 compensation for delays.
Our adjudicator  upheld the complaint and said that UKI needed to remove the voidance as it had paid the claim. 
UKI disagreed  with this and so the matter has been referred to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Where  theres  a dispute  about  what happened, Ive based  my provisional  
findings  on  what I thinks  most likely to have happened in light of the evidence.
Although a number of issues have  been  raised, this decision  only addresses those issues I consider  to be 
materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given  careful consideration to all of the submissions made 
before arriving at my provisional  decision.
As UKI has paid compensation  and the value  of the vehicle to Mr B already, I have only considered whether UKI 
should remove the voidance.
Mr B took the policy and said that he lived at "address  A" but UKI discovered  after the claim  was made that he 
actually lived at "address  B". I would   normally expect  an insurer  to do any validation checks  in a reasonable 
time from the start of the policy,  but  as the claim  was within  the first two hours  of the policy  going live I think its 
understandable that it hadnt  yet carried them out.
Mr B said that he moved to address  B on the day the policy started, but was unable to show he had recently been 
living at address A. Im satisfied  that UKI gave  him the opportunity to do so. But as he couldnt it voided the policy  
and kept the premiums as it felt Mr B had deliberately misrepresented the facts to it when  taking out the policy.
Under the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA)  Mr  B had a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation when taking  out his insurance  policy.
Cl ORA  sets out a number of things that need to be considered  when deciding whether  a consumer failed  to take 
reasonable care. One of these considerations is the questions  the consumer was asked. Mr B entered the 
incorrect address in the address section online when buying the policy. Im satisfied that the online application 
asked a clear question regarding
Mr Bs address.
UKI said Mr B had deliberately or recklessly misrepresented  his address. Under CIDRA that means its for UKI to 
show he knew the information he was providing  was untrue  or misleading or didnt care whether or not the 
information hed given was untrue or misleading.  And he knew the information was relevant  to UKI or didnt care 
whether or not it was relevant to UKI.
Ref: DRN67622223Mr B only disclosed address B to UKI once  it was running its validation checks  and asked for evidence of his 
address. Mr B says he was unable to show anything  current from the address as he couldnt gain access  to  the 
property following  a relationship break  up. But if Mr B had only recently moved as he said, he shouldve been 
able to get confirmation from his bank  or one of his utility  providers.
UKI has also shown that Mr B has not been on the electoral register at address  A for a number of years. So on 
balance Im satisfied that Mr B wasnt living at address A when  he bought  the policy.
 
In view of this I dont think  Mr B took reasonable care when  answering the question  about his address. And Im 
not going  to interfere with UKIs decision to say the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless.
But to show Mr Bs misrepresentation was a qualifying one, under CIDRA  UKI needs  to show it would  either not 
have offered  the policy at all if Mr B hadnt  made the misrepresentation or that it would have offered  it on different  
terms.
UKI has shown that it would still have sold Mr B a policy but the premium would have been different.  So I think Mr 
B made a qualifying misrepresentation. Because UKIs reasonably decided the misrepresentation was deliberate 
or reckless its entitled to avoid Mr Bs policy.
Normally when  a claim has been paid and a policy  is voided the insurer would seek to recover  its costs from the 
insured. In this case the voidance came before the settlement for the vehicle  was paid and this is what led our 
adjudicator to ask for the voidance to be removed. But this case is unusual because UKI paid a settlement for the 
vehicle as it had incorrectly  disposed  of it. So Im satisfied that this was a compensation payment  and not a claim 
settlement, and therefore the voidance can remain in place.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons stated above, I do not intend to uphold this complaint.
 
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6762222