K821x#15complaint
Mrs J complains about sixteen loans she took out with Western  Circle Limited, trading as 
Cashfloat, (WCL), which she said were unaffordable. The complaint is brought to this 
service on Mrs Js behalf by a claims management company. But for ease I shall refer below 
to all actions being taken by Mrs J.
background
Mrs J took out 16 short  term loans with WCL between June 2016 and November 2018. The 
loans were repayable  by two to four monthly instalments. All the loans have been repaid. 
A summary  of the loans  is shown below:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 8/6/16 29/7/16 £350
2. 29/7/16 6/8/16 £250
3. 19/8/16 4/10/16 £250
4. 4/10/16 11/10/16 £500
5. 18/11/16 22/11/16 £500
6. 28/11/16 7/7/17 £600
7. 20/7/17 3/8/17 £400
8. 4/8/17 2/10/17 £400
9. 5/10/17 14/12/17 £600
10. 26/12/17 29/3/18 £400
11. 8/4/18 9/5/18 £300
12. 18/5/18 21/5/18 £300
13. 15/6/18 29/6/18 £200
14. 3/7/18 30/7/18 £200
15. 25/8/18 31/10/18 £200
16. 4/11/18 15/11/18 £200
WCL explained in its final response letter that it had conducted a creditworthiness and 
affordability assessment  on each  loan application.  Its calculations  were based on the income  
and expenditure  information that Mrs J provided  in each of her loan applications,  together  
with real-time data on the level of her monthly credit  commitments received  from credit 
reference agencies.  These demonstrated that Mrs J had sufficient income to comfortably 
cover the agreed  repayments on each of her loans, without jeopardising her existing  credit  
commitments and priority living expenses.
WCL also provided this service with more  information about  its assessment process. It said it 
tests a consumers  monthly  outgoings against  statistical data. If this results in higher 
expense figures than those provided by the consumer, it uses  the higher figures in its 
affordability assessment.  WCL  also said that its affordability assessment takes account of all 
outstanding borrowing and other  credit  balances and it calculates  the up to date monthly 
repayment figures for each item it sees in its credit check. WCL said that a loan is only 
approved if the total of the credit repayments together  with living  costs leave a consumer 
with sufficient disposable income to comfortably afford their repayments to it.  
WCL offered Mrs J £250 in its final response letter as a gesture of goodwill to settle her 
complaint. Mrs J rejected  this offer.
Ref: DRN68407162WCL later increased its offer to £400  to settle Mrs Js complaint  as a gesture of goodwill 
which Mrs J rejected.
The adjudicator recommended that Mrs Js complaint about Loans  2 to 16 be upheld.  He 
said that WCL would have seen on its credit checks at the time of Loan 2 that Mrs J had 
three other outstanding short term loans. And it ought to have realised that it was unlikely 
that Mrs J would be able to sustainably repay this loan and any subsequent loans. He also 
said that by Loan 7 the overall  pattern  of borrowing suggested that Mrs J was persistently 
reliant on short term loans.   
WCL disagreed and responded to say in summary:
The summary information obtained from its credit checks  showed that Mrs J had a 
total of about £3,000 outstanding  in loans and instalment credit,  including  old credit  
balances, bank  overdrafts, credit cards, and home credit. In the context of a monthly  
net income of £1,875, this did not appear  to be an excessive amount,  and there was 
no indication that Mrs Js debt was unsustainable. 
In her application,  Mrs J stated that she was committed to repaying a minimum of 
£480 monthly  on her outstanding  credit  balances, and this figure appeared to be 
consistent with the total amount outstanding  as reported by the credit agencies.  
It didnt  agree  with the adjudicators assertion that Mrs Js loans were unsustainable 
because she had three other outstanding short-term loans  at the time Loan 2 was 
given to her. This was because:  
(i) the evidence from its checks strongly  indicated  that she only had two other loans,  
as one of the entries  was a duplicate. This was indicated by the fact that both loans 
had the same balance (of £181), regular payment amount, and address details. The 
difference of two days between  the two entries was almost certainly  an error. 
(ii) Mrs Js credit position improved significantly. 
(iii) it didnt  agree that having a certain number of outstanding loans  automatically 
meant that a further loan was unsustainable and couldnt be justified. 
(iv) the credit reports it received showed  a clear  reduction in the credit repayments to 
which Mrs J was committed,  over the period of the loan cycle. At the time she took 
out Loan  2 (July  2016), she was contractually committed to repaying about  £900 on 
outstanding balances. This had reduced to £760 by October 2016, and £490 at the 
end of the loan cycle  (October 2017). This showed  that her loans  were sustainable, 
and Mrs J was successfully improving her financial situation over the period of the 
loan cycle. 
The adjudicator hadnt engaged with any of the detailed  evidence provided by it 
regarding the affordability of the loan repayments.
Mrs J terminated seven out of the 16 loans early, by repaying them  during  the 14 day 
cancellation period.  This meant that they shouldnt be considered  the same as the 
remaining nine loans which were repaid after the cancellation period, or held for the 
full term. 
Additionally, there was no increase in the loan amounts from Loan  6 onwards, and 
the monthly loan repayments went down from Loan 9. The final four loans were  all for 
its minimum amount  of £200, which again  demonstrated that Mrs J was improving 
her credit  position,  as was also evident  from her credit reports. 
Ref: DRN68407163my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When WCL lent to Mrs J the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC).  
WCL needed to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mrs J could  
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that WCL should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that WCL was required to establish 
whether Mrs J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the consumer should be able to make repayments, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. And 
it follows that a lender  should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Js complaint.
Ref: DRN68407164WCL did a number of checks  before it lent to Mrs J. It asked her for details  of her monthly 
income and expenditure. Mrs Js declared  income was £1,875  and her declared  expenditure 
was £780 before all the loans. Mrs J declared  that she spent  a total of £380 on credit and 
loan commitments  (and not £480 as WCL said in its response to the adjudicators  view 
above). WCL also said that it had revised  Mrs Js declared expenditure upwards to reflect  
statistical expenditure figures. 
WCL also checked Mrs Js credit  file before agreeing to the loans. WCL noted that Mrs J had 
no bankruptcies, individual voluntary arrangements, county court judgements  nor any 
defaults in the previous 12 months  registered on its credit checks.
WCL has also provided us with information  about  Mrs Js credit commitments  from its 
checks for Loans 1 to 9. I shall refer to this below.
Weve received a credit  report  from Mrs J. Mrs Js credit report showed other short  term 
loans. I shall refer to the short term loans shown  in Mrs Js credit  report below.
Im aware that when  a lender carries  out a credit  check, the information it sees  doesnt  
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search will and it isnt 
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. Im also aware  that not all payday and short 
term lenders report to the same credit reference  agencies. So, not all of Mrs Js short term 
loans may have been identified by a credit  check.  
Mrs J needed to make two monthly loan repayments  on Loan 1 with a highest repayment  of 
£227.37. I can see that WCLs credit check showed  that Mrs J had monthly credit 
commitments of at least £851. I can see that Mrs Js other borrowing might have suggested 
to WCL that her finances were under pressure. But I dont  think the repayment amounts for 
Loan 1 were so large that its obvious they wouldve caused Mrs J financial difficulty.
Given Mrs Js repayment amounts, what was apparent about her circumstance  at the time, 
and that this was her first loan with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for 
WCL to ask her for the amount of information  that would be needed to show  Loan  1 was 
unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mrs J provided before Loan 1 or the information 
WCL shouldve been aware of, which meant it wouldve been proportionate to start verifying 
what she was saying.  So I dont  think WCL was wrong to give Loan 1 to Mrs J.
Loan 2 was taken out on the day Mrs J repaid Loan  1. The loan amount had reduced to 
£250 to be repaid by two monthly  repayments with a highest repayment of £173.64.  I note 
that WCLs credit checks before Loan 2 showed  that Mrs J had total credit commitments of 
at least £1,032 which was substantially higher than the credit commitments of £380 she had 
declared. I think WCL should have been aware from its checks  that at least  four of the 
commitments were  short term loans. The list of short term loan commitments  included two 
loan repayments  of £87 which WCL said were for the same loan. But I can see from Mrs Js 
credit report  that these were two loans taken two days apart for the same  amount. I think  the 
amount of outstanding short term loans suggests  that Mrs J was likely finding it difficult  to 
manage her money and that WCL ought to have been concerned  about  whether  it knew 
enough about Mrs Js financial  situation. So I think it would have been proportionate for WCL 
to have asked  some questions about what its credit checks showed.  I cant see that it did 
this.
Ref: DRN68407165Had it done so, its likely  that WCL wouldve learnt  that Mrs J had around five outstanding 
short term loans with repayments due at the same time as the repayments on Loan  2. I can 
see these on Mrs Js own credit report and her bank statements. I think  that the number of 
Mrs Js outstanding short term loans  should  have put WCL on notice that Mrs J was having  
serious problems managing her money.  And I dont think it was reasonable for WCL to 
conclude that this loan could be repaid in a sustainable manner. So I think it was wrong  for 
WCL to give Loan  2 to Mrs J. 
Loan 3 was taken out just less than two weeks after Loan 2 was repaid. The loan amount 
was again £250 to be repaid by two monthly  repayments with a highest  repayment of 
£184.93. I note that WCLs  credit  checks before  Loan 3 showed that Mrs J had credit  
commitments of around £1,808 which again  was substantially higher than the credit 
commitments of £380 she had declared.  I think WCL should have been  aware from its 
checks that at least six of the commitments  were short  term loans. I think this amount of 
outstanding short term loans suggests that Mrs J was likely finding it difficult  to manage her 
money and that WCL ought to have been concerned about this. So I think  it would have 
been proportionate for WCL to have asked  some questions about  what  its credit  checks 
showed. I cant see that it did this.
Had it done so, its likely  that WCL wouldve learnt  that Mrs J had around seven outstanding 
other short term loans  with repayments due at the same time as the repayments  on Loan 3. I 
can see these on Mrs Js own credit report and her bank  statements. I think  that the number  
of Mrs Js outstanding  short  term loans should have  put WCL on notice that Mrs J was 
having serious problems managing her money.  And I dont think  it was reasonable for WCL 
to conclude that Loan 3 could be repaid in a sustainable manner. So I think it was wrong for 
WCL to give Loan  3 to Mrs J. 
Loan 4 was taken out on the day Loan  3 was repaid and was Mrs Js fourth loan from WCL 
in less than four months. The loan amount had doubled to £500.  I think that by this time 
WCL should have  been concerned that Mrs J might  have  been reliant on its lending. And I 
dont think it was reasonable for WCL to base  its assessment before Loan  4 on the 
information provided by Mrs J. I also think WCL should have been aware from its credit 
checks that at least six of the credit commitments it would have seen were short  term loans. 
I think this amount of outstanding short term loans again suggests that Mrs J was likely 
finding it difficult to manage her money  and that WCL ought to have been concerned  about  
this. So I think it would  have been  proportionate  for WCL to have asked some questions  
about what its credit checks showed. I cant see that it did this.
Had it done so, its likely  that WCL wouldve learnt  that Mrs J had around seven outstanding 
short term loans with repayments due at the same time as the repayments on Loan  4. I can 
see these on Mrs Js own credit report and her bank statements. Again I think  that the 
number and amount  of Mrs Js outstanding short term loans  should  have put WCL on notice 
that Mrs J was having serious  problems managing her money.  And I dont think  it was 
reasonable for WCL to conclude that Loan 4 could  be repaid in a sustainable  manner. So I 
think it was wrong for WCL to give Loan 4 to Mrs J. 
Mrs J repaid Loan 4 early.  I note that shed  also repaid her previous two loans  early.  I think 
this should have caused some concerns to WCL. That might be the sort of behaviour that 
would indicate  that someone was facing problems managing their money and needed to 
refinance loans  on a regular basis.  
Ref: DRN68407166I think that by the time of Loan 5 WCL should have  been concerned that Mrs J may have 
been reliant on its lending. And I dont think it was reasonable for WCL to base its 
assessment before Loan 5 on the information  provided by Mrs J without  taking steps to 
independently check what shed declared. So I think it might have been proportionate  at this 
time for WCL  to have independently  reviewed  the true state of Mrs Js finances. As far as I 
can see WCL didnt do this. 
WCL would  have seen  from an independent review  that Mrs J was spending a significant 
percentage of her income on gambling and that she had four other  short term loans which  
needed to be repaid  around the same time as Loan 5. So I think  WCL ought  to have realised 
that Mrs J was having serious  problems managing her money  and it was unlikely  Mrs J 
wouldve been able to sustainably repay Loan 5. So as a responsible  lender it wouldnt have 
agreed to lend Loan 5 to her. 
Loan 5 was repaid early.  Loan  6 was taken out six days later and the loan amount had 
increased to £600  which  was Mrs Js largest loan yet. For the same reasons as set out 
above for Loan 5, I think it might have been proportionate at the time of Loan 6 for WCL to 
have independently reviewed the true state  of Mrs Js finances.  As far as I can see WCL 
didnt do this. So I need to think about  what WCL wouldve seen if it had carried  out 
proportionate checks. 
WCL would  have seen  from an independent review  that Mrs J was still spending a significant 
percentage of her income on gambling and she had four other short  term loans which 
needed to be repaid  around the same time as Loan 6. So I think  WCL ought  to have realised 
that Mrs J was having problems managing her money and it was unlikely Mrs J wouldve 
been able to sustainably repay Loan 6. So I dont  think WCL should have given Loan  6 to 
Mrs J. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of WCLs lending history with Mrs J, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which the lender  should reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so WCL should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Js case, I think that this point was reached by 
Loan 7. I say this because:
it was clear that Mrs J was having  problems managing her money  as she repaid 
Loan 6 over four months late.
Mrs J had taken out a loan of £350 around 13 months earlier and she was now 
asking for a loan of £400. She hadnt made any inroads into her debt over this time 
and had paid high interest rates to, in effect,  service a debt to WCL over an extended 
period. 
Mrs J had repaid most of her loans early.  I think that behaviour should have caused 
concerns to WCL 
There were  some  small gaps between loans being repaid and a new loan being  
granted. But, I dont  think it would have  been  reasonable for WCL to conclude these 
gaps were any indication that Mrs Js finances had moved  on from whatever situation 
had required her previous  loans.
Ref: DRN68407167I can see that as WCL didnt stop lending at this point, Mrs J went on to take out high cost 
loans for a further 16 months. 
I think that Mrs J lost out because WCL continued to provide  borrowing from Loan 7 onwards 
because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Js indebtedness by allowing  her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time that Mrs J had been taking out short  term loans was likely  to have 
had negative implications on Mrs Js ability to access mainstream  credit  and so kept 
her in the market  for these high-cost loans.
The fact that all the loans were repaid doesnt mean that they were  repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mrs J undue difficulty. 
Ive considered above some of the main points WCL made in response to the adjudicators 
view. Ive noted that the credit commitments shown in WCLs credit  checks  were  larger  than 
those declared by Mrs J. And from Loan 2 to Loan 4, I thought WCLs checks  should have 
prompted it to ask more  about Mrs Js other  short term loans. Further  checks  would have 
shown that Mrs J had more than three short term loans  outstanding which  I think  shows that 
she was having  problems managing her money.
Ive also noted  above that I think regularly repaying loans earlier  than planned should have 
caused some concerns  to WCL. I also note that Mrs J applied for new loans shortly after 
early repayment of her previous loans. Such a borrowing  pattern often indicates  there  may 
be a gambling  problem which was the case here.
I note that WCL also referred to the loan amounts decreasing.  Although the loan amounts 
ultimately reduced to £200, Mrs J never  borrowed less than this amount. So she wasnt  
making any real inroads  into what she owed WCL and her indebtedness  was being 
prolonged. By Loan 16 Mrs J had been  borrowing  for almost 29 months  without a significant 
break.
I note that WCL said that it only approved a loan if Mrs J was left with sufficient disposable 
income to comfortably afford her repayments. But WCL was required to establish whether 
Mrs J could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether  the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. And WCL will know  from previous 
decisions (as well as whats  set out on our website) that there  are cases  where this service  
considers the overall lending pattern and not just the affordability of each loan. When  a 
consumer borrows numerous  loans over a long period of time, its most likely that the loans 
arent being used  for their intended purpose  of temporary cash  flow problems. As WCL will 
know, the FCA made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high cost lending  firms  that a high 
volume of relending..may be symptomatic of unsustainable  lending patterns. And I think  
thats the case here.
So, I think that WCL needs to pay Mrs J some compensation relating to Loans  2 to 16. So 
WCL should put things right as follows.
putting things right  what WCL needs to do
Ref: DRN68407168Refund all interest  and charges Mrs J paid on Loans 2 to 16;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
Remove adverse  entries about Loans 2 to 6 from Mrs Js credit file;
Remove all entries about Loans 7 to 16 from Mrs Js credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give 
Mrs J a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Western Circle Limited, trading as Cashfloat,  to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Mrs J paid on Loans 2 to 16;
2.Pay interest of 8% simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*;
3.Remove adverse  entries about Loans 2 to 6 from Mrs Js credit file; and
4.Remove all entries about Loans 7 to 16 from Mrs Js credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires WCL to take off tax from this interest. WCL must give 
Mrs J a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6840716