K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) wouldnt extend the term of his 
expiring interest only mortgage  or agree to port the mortgage to a different property. Mr M 
says RBS led him to believe this would be possible and then delayed  in telling him it wouldnt 
agree to his request.
Mr M says RBSs  customer  service has fallen short. Mr M says his calls werent returned and 
it took weeks for RBS to tell him it wouldnt  agree to port his mortgage. Mr M would like 
compensation for RBS declining the transaction and the way it communicated with him. 
background
Mr M had an interest only mortgage  with RBS for around £226,000.  The mortgage was taken 
out in 2005 over a 14-year term, to be repaid in 2019. 
In January 2019 Mr M contacted RBS.  He wanted to move to a new house. Mr M planned to 
use the proceeds from his house sale to repay his existing mortgage and pay around 
£100,000 into the new property. Mr M wanted  RBS to either port his existing mortgage to a 
different property or to make a new mortgage available to him and Mrs M. 
Mr M met with a mortgage adviser  working for RBS, and he was then referred to a more 
senior adviser specialising in certain types  of complex mortgage lending on 
2 February 2019.  RBS then explored a series of options with Mr M including extending the 
term of his existing  mortgage and then porting it to a new property. RBS also discussed 
Mr M taking  out a new capital repayment mortgage  on a joint basis  with Mrs M, or Mrs M 
taking out a new mortgage in her name only. 
Mr M hadnt heard anything from RBS by 19 February. He complained to RBS about delays. 
By the end of February  2019 Mr M had been  told that RBS couldnt  help.  RBS told Mr M that 
it couldnt satisfy  itself that the new proposed mortgage was affordable.
Mr M was very disappointed with RBS lending decision and the service hed received. He 
complained to RBS.  RBS sent its final response to Mr Ms complaint on 8 March 2019.  The 
response said that Mr Ms calls hadnt  always been returned, but it didnt think it had reached  
an unfair lending  decision. 
Mr M was unhappy with RBS final response and so referred the matter to us. Our 
investigator looked into Mr Ms complaint, but he didnt think it should succeed.  He noted that 
RBS had said it had taken longer than it would have liked to consider Mr Ms requests. RBS 
had also said there were times when Mr M hadnt  had all his calls returned.  But overall, he 
thought it was reasonable that RBS declined Mr Ms requests to extend  his mortgage term 
and he didnt think RBS took an excessive period to consider his further lending requests. 
Mr M disagreed and asked that an ombudsman reach a final decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself in 
agreement with our investigator  for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN60492432Mr Ms complaint has two main parts.  First, RBS lending decision not to allow  him to extend 
the term of his interest only mortgage and agree to move this loan to another property. 
Secondly, hes unhappy about the length of time RBS took to tell him it couldnt agree to his 
request and the way it had communicated with him. 
RBS decision not to extend the term of the mortgage and move it to another property
Ive listened to some call recordings between Mr M and RBS.  During  a call in 
December 2018  Mr M says hes accepted an offer on his property and hes planning to repay  
his interest only mortgage with RBS in full very shortly. Mr Ms plans  then seem  to change. 
By January 2018 Mr M is keen to explore  whether he can extend  the term of his interest only 
mortgage and then transfer (or port) it to a different property and add his wife to the 
mortgage. 
On 17 January 2019 theres a discussion between RBS and Mr M. I think  RBS makes  it clear 
in this call that an application for a new mortgage  will be more problematic for Mr M than he 
had hoped. Its clear  due to Mr Ms position he may not be able to borrow as much as hed 
like.
Mr M decides to pursue  the application  with a mortgage adviser.  Mr M has further 
discussions about what might be available to him, and to him and Mrs M jointly if she was to 
join him in making  an application. Mr M is told the matter needs to be referred to a senior  
adviser who specialises  in interest  only mortgages.
The senior adviser meets with Mr M on 2 February 2019 and explores various options. First, 
I should say I think  it was appropriate  that RBS referred the matter to a senior colleague  who 
knew about transitional arrangements and what might be possible under current mortgage  
regulation. 
There are regulations that have flowed from the Financial  Conduct Authoritys Mortgage 
Market Review (MMR). This has led to a series of major changes, effective  since 2014, in 
the way residential  mortgages are regulated. Its these regulations that RBS was carefully 
considering in its exploration of how it could help Mr M. Im familiar  with the application of 
these rules. 
MMR regulations have  brought  about stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect 
consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. The transitional 
arrangements are an important part of this regulation. Theyre  intended to make sure that 
existing mortgage  customers, whose mortgages were taken out before the new rules  were 
introduced in 2014, dont  get treated unfairly  as an unintended consequence of this stricter 
regulation. 
Ive thought carefully about these rules,  and everything that Mr M has said about  his specific 
situation, including what hed asked RBS to agree  to. Ive also considered whether RBS 
acted unfairly in asking  for an affordability assessment. And whether RBS acted unfairly by 
using concerns about affordability,  or Mr Ms plans  to repay  the interest only mortgage at 
expiry to refuse Mr Ms proposals.  
At the point Mr M asked for an extension, his mortgage was only months from expiry. Hed 
spoken to RBS about this in December 2018, saying hed accepted an offer on his property  
and that it would be repaid in full. From  the evidence available to me, Mr Ms plans then 
Ref: DRN60492433seem to change.  Mr M asks RBS to consider extending the term of his interest only 
mortgage and letting him port the mortgage to another property.  
RBS explored Mr Ms financial situation  and I think it was right to do so. Im satisfied that 
RBS was trying to establish  how it might be able to help Mr M and what might be considered  
in his best interests. Mr M asked RBS to extend  the term of his interest only mortgage by 
around five years. RBS wanted to explore whether  Mr M would be able to afford to continue  
to meet  his monthly payments of interest. And it also wanted  to know, if it agreed  to extend 
the term of the interest only mortgage,  how Mr M would repay the loan when it expired. 
Mr M has said that he planned to clear  the mortgage balance  by selling some cars that he 
owns. These cars are high value and already in Mr Ms possession.  RBS wasnt  satisfied  to 
accept Mr Ms cars as a suitable repayment vehicle  for the mortgage. I think thats 
reasonable in the wider circumstances of this complaint. 
Ultimately RBS couldnt get comfortable agreeing to extend the term of Mr Ms mortgage, 
and so it wouldnt agree  to allowing  the mortgage to be ported to another  property.  
Instead Mr M explored looking at taking  out a new mortgage on a capital repayment basis 
jointly with Mrs M, or whether Mrs M could get a sole mortgage in her name.  It seems  that 
RBS decided this wouldnt be affordable  for Mr and Mrs M having  explored their financial 
situation and so no application was made.  
I can appreciate how disappointing this was for Mr and Mrs M but Im satisfied that RBS 
explored whatever  options it could to help before  declining  the proposals made to it. 
Communication and delays 
Mr Ms complained that it took RBS an unfairly long time to tell him that it wasnt  willing to 
agree to his requests. Hes also said that it had previously  told him it would give him a term 
extension and then RBS went back on this. 
Ive thought carefully about the time taken, and the range  of options that RBS was being 
asked to consider.  I can see why Mr and Mrs M would  have  liked an answer sooner. And by 
RBS own admission it would have liked Mr M to have met with its senior adviser sooner, but 
its said there was a waiting time of around  two weeks  for an appointment. The adviser  has 
also said hed hoped  he would  be able to help. But as he explored different proposals with 
the underwriters it became evident that RBS couldnt get comfortable with the risks involved.  
I think it was right that RBS considered Mr Ms financial  situation.  As Ive already mentioned, 
RBS needed to think about  the specific regulations that surround expiring interest only 
mortgages and protections  for people  who took out mortgages before  the Mortgage  Market 
Review. Mr M also wanted to explore adding a party to the mortgage, and potentially taking 
out a new mortgage altogether. Mr M was looking to take out a mortgage that would  
potentially need  agreeing  as an exception to RBS age policy. Having considered  the 
timescales involved in this complaint, and what RBS was being asked to consider, I dont 
think RBS took an unreasonably long period of time to respond Mr M.
Ive not found  any evidence  that supports Mr Ms recollection that RBS had made  a 
commitment to provide  a term extension and then took this back. Mr M recollects  this, and I 
dont doubt the sincerity  of his belief in this recollection. But I think its more likely, on the 
balance of probabilities, that RBS advisers had hoped  to be able to help and were  optimistic 
Ref: DRN60492434about this but ultimately it couldnt  get comfortable  with the risks involved.  Either  way I 
appreciate this was disappointing and frustrating for Mr M.
Mr Ms said that he believes  RBS didnt communicate with him in an appropriate way. I think 
RBS could have  done more to keep Mr M updated  as his application progressed. However, I 
dont think this shortcoming is enough to change the outcome of this complaint. Im also 
mindful of the way Mr M interacted with RBS and that staff felt threatened by Mr M. 
Overall, considering all the wider  circumstances of this matter, I dont think  RBS acted 
unfairly and I dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 November  2020.
Emma Peters
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6049243