complaint
Mr K says PDL Finance Limited,  trading  as Mr Lender, lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr K borrowed £500 from Mr Lender  in December 2016. The loan was repayable  in six 
monthly instalments  of between £195  and £107.
An adjudicator considered  Mr Ks complaint but didnt recommend it be upheld. Mr K didnt 
agree with the adjudicator  and so his complaint was passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Ive taken into account  the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure  that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should  have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.
I understand that before approving the loan Mr Lender carried  out an assessment of Mr Ks 
income and expenditure. Based on that assessment, Mr Lender decided  the loan was 
affordable. It estimated that Mr Ks disposable income was about £680  per month. It also 
carried out a basic credit check, which  determined that Mr K had no other outstanding 
payday loans  and no defaults within the last 12 months.
Given the relatively modest  size of the loan and the information Mr Lender  obtained  from
Mr K and the credit  reference agency,  I think Mr Lenders checks  went  far enough and were  
proportionate. Ive noted that Mr K says he had multiple other  accounts  which  he thinks 
havent been taken into consideration but Ive not seen  that Mr Lender was aware of this 
from its credit check or that Mr K provided Mr Lender with this information.  So Mr Lender 
didnt act unreasonably  by relying  on the information it had in its possession.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint against PDL Finance  Limited.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
K820x#14
Ref: DRN6775173