K820x#14complaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a number of packaged 
bank accounts.  His packaged account history is as follows;
Gold account taken  out prior in June 1999
Platinum account  taken out in August 2007
Premier account taken out in November 2007
Hes used a Claims Management Company  (CMC) to make his complaint.
background
Prior to this complaint being  brought  to this service Lloyds refunded  the account fees paid for 
the Gold account with interest.  So we have not looked into this sale. Our adjudicators looked 
at Mr Ss complaint and didnt think Lloyds had mis-sold the Platinum and Premier account. 
The CMC disagreed and asked  for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ss complaint.  
Having carefully looked  at everything  provided,  Im not upholding this complaint. Id like to 
explain the reasons  for my decision. Mr S has said that he thought he had to have  these 
accounts. But in this instance, both of these accounts were  taken  out online by Mr S himself  
without the presence  of Lloyds staff. If Mr S wanted  a free account,  I cant  see why he would  
upgrade his account twice online. Neither  Mr S nor his representative, in response to the 
adjudicators assessment,  have explained  why they think that Lloyds did something wrong 
during the online upgrade process. So overall,  I think that it is more likely than not that he 
upgraded his accounts as he was attracted to something that they came with while  knowing 
he did not have  to upgrade if he did not wish to do so.
I think Mr S would have been  shown the main benefits of the account during the upgrade  
process as after all Lloyds  wouldve wanted to make  the accounts  seem attractive. I also 
cant see anything specific that he was not told that I think wouldve altered his decision to 
take out the account. So, in these circumstances,  Im not upholding the complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2020.
Charlie Newton
Ref: DRN67808322ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6780832