K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H have complained that The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc (RBS) mis-sold them  
a Royalties Gold packaged bank account  in 1999.  They pay a monthly  fee for the account 
which provides several benefits in return.
background
Mr and Mrs H say that RBS told them they had to have  to Royalties Gold account  in order  to 
get a permanent overdraft on their account.  I note theyve explained that they had a 
temporary overdraft prior to having  a permanent overdraft.
Mr and Mrs Hs account was opened  as a fee-free  account in November 1988. It was 
upgraded to the Royalties Gold account around March 1999  (they  paid the first monthly  fee 
in April 1999) and it was changed by RBS to a Select Platinum account in July 2015. 
The change to the Select Platinum account was the result of RBS changing the range of 
products it offered. It wasnt a separate sale, so I havent considered  it as such.
One of our adjudicators didnt think that RBS mis-sold the packaged account to Mr and Mrs 
H and didnt recommend that RBS should pay them any compensation. Mr and Mrs H didnt 
agree so they asked for an ombudsman  to look at the complaint and make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Where evidence is incomplete and matters  are in dispute, as they are here,  I make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened  keeping  in mind everything 
Ive seen and been told.
After giving Mr and Mrs Hs complaint a lot of thought, I dont think  the Royalties Gold 
account was mis-sold  to them.  Ill explain  why.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs H were  given  a fair choice when they took 
their packaged bank account.
Mr and Mrs H have complained that they were told they had to take the Royalties Gold  
account to get a permanent overdraft. So Ive considered the circumstances around the sale,  
and importantly, the previous lending history they had with RBS.
Mr and Mrs H have acknowledged  that before they were told of the need to have the 
Royalties Gold account, they had held temporary overdrafts with RBS.  Theres not a lot of 
information available from when their previous overdrafts were agreed, but Im not aware 
that RBS offered different  types of overdraft   in this case, neither temporary or 
permanent. Thats not to say that I havent  thought carefully about what Mr and Mrs H said; 
but from everything Ive seen I dont think theyd have believed  theyd lose their overdraft  
unless they upgraded their account.
Ref: DRN61025582It looks as though Mr and Mrs Hs overdraft limit was initially agreed at £1000 in January 
1997  over two years  before  their account  upgrade. Having reviewed their account 
transactions I can see that it remained in place and they used it frequently. In January 1999 
they increased its limit to £1500. 
Given that Mr and Mrs Hs account  was upgraded around March  1999, Im not persuaded 
that the only reason they did so was to convert what they believed  to be a temporary 
overdraft into a permanent one. Their continued extensive use of the overdraft does suggest 
it was important to them,  but as Ive explained,  having an overdraft in place for over two 
years prior to the sale of the packaged account doesnt  lead me to believe that the overdraft 
was temporary. 
On balance and having thought carefully  about  this, I dont think  the only reason Mr and 
Mrs H upgraded their account was because RBS gave them incorrect or misleading  
information in relation  to their overdraft.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think that RBS recommended  the Royalties Gold 
account to Mr and Mrs H. So it didnt  have to check if the account was suitable  for them.
Although it didnt make a recommendation, RBS still had to give Mr and Mrs H enough clear  
information about it for them to decide if they wanted it. I understand that the accounts  
benefits arent the main point of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint, but I do think that Mr and Mrs H 
were interested in some of the benefits of the Royalties Gold  account  and chose it because  
of these benefits. 
Mr and Mrs H say that although theyve never made  a claim, they relied  on the Royalties  
Gold accounts travel insurance  policy for their annual holiday booking. RBS also says that 
whilst holding the account  albeit some  time after it was first upgraded  Mr and Mrs H have  
engaged with some of the accounts other  benefits. RBS says theyve called to discuss a 
number of the benefits such as the accounts travel insurance and made  use of the event 
ticket booking service. 
Its possible that RBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs H everything it should have about the packaged 
account. And I understand that Mr and Mrs H might  not feel like it has been good  value  for 
money to them.  But I do think that RBS at least told them about the main  benefits of it, and I 
havent seen enough to make me think that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt still have taken the 
account even  if RBS had told them more about it. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs H have  raised  concerns about  the dine in scheme  benefit that 
they say they had problems with. Whilst I can appreciate this wouldve  been frustrating for 
Mr and Mrs H, it sounds  as though those problems  were  with individual  restaurants,  as 
opposed to what  RBS provided.  So I cant comment on that part of their complaint.
Mr and Mrs H have also commented on the time it took RBS to respond to their complaint. 
They say that it took 15 weeks to receive  a response, despite  them  sending  RBS two chaser 
letters after their initial complaint.
Ive looked at the history of correspondence  and I can indeed  see that Mr and Mrs H raised 
their complaint in December 2017, which RBS acknowledged a few days  later. They chased 
RBS for a response  in February 2018,  and again  in March 2018.  
Ref: DRN61025583Ive got a copy of RBSs  final response  letter which is dated 16 January 2018.  It looks  as 
though Mr and Mrs H didnt receive  this until they chased it for a second time, because  they 
then wrote to RBS in April 2018,  disagreeing with the outcome to their complaint.
I can see why Mr and Mrs H are frustrated  that their complaint took longer than they 
expected for it to be dealt with, but on balance I dont think RBS is entirely to blame for that. 
The final response  letter it issued  was sent around a month after it first became  aware  of the 
complaint, but given  the chaser letters Mr and Mrs H sent it after that, it seems likely that the 
response letter had been lost in the post. 
I know RBS didnt acknowledge  Mr and Mrs Hs follow  up letters  in February and March  
2018 and I do agree the service it provided couldve been better. But I can see that it 
apologised for this oversight when it responded to them  in May 2018. In the circumstances, I 
think this is sufficient and I dont require RBS to do anything else to put that right.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs H that Ive looked  at all the information I have about their 
complaint. And Ive thought about everything  theyve said.  But having done  so I dont think  
RBS mis-sold the Royalties Gold account to them, and I think  its apology  for the delay  in 
them receiving the response to their complaint is sufficient. So I dont  think RBS owes them  
any money.
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs H but for the reasons Ive explained, I dont uphold their 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6102558