K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains that Standard Life Assurance  Limited is asking her to repay  amounts  paid 
in error  from her Self Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) held with it.
background
In the first quarter of 2016, Mrs M transferred two pensions to an Active  Money SIPP  
administered by Standard Life, after taking the maximum tax-free cash. Although  Mrs M was 
only 51 years old at the time, and the normal minimum pension  age (the age at which 
pension benefits  can be taken) is 55, Mrs M was able to do so because she had a protected 
pension age of 50. 
The balance in the SIPP after taking the tax-free  cash was just over £53,000. 
Mrs M began to access the monies in the SIPP on a flexible drawdown basis, as she was 
able to do because  of her protected  pension  age of 50. Acting  on advice given by another  
company, Mrs M then began recycling  monies back  into the SIPP, by withdrawing £300 a 
month and paying  it back in. 
Mrs M also requested, and was paid,  a number of other amounts of income from the SIPP.  
On 23 June 2017, Standard Life wrote to Mrs M saying payments of £815 on 27 February 
2017 and £225 on 25 May 2017 had been processed incorrectly  as tax-free cash. It said 
these shouldve been taxable income,  as shed received her tax-free cash  the previous year. 
On 8 August  2017, Standard Life wrote again to Mrs M about these, and other,  payments. It 
said it hadnt been able to treat the February  and May payments as taxable income because 
Mrs M didnt  have enough in her savings post pension to cover the payments. It also said 
that shed taken a single income payment of over £25,000 in May 2017, which  it couldnt  re-
process for the same  reason that her savings pot couldnt support it. Standard Life asked 
Mrs M to return an overpayment of £2,408, which included the £225 and £815 payments. 
But as a gesture  of goodwill, it reduced the amount  by £50. It wrote again  on 29 August 
saying it hadnt  had a reply,  and if it didnt hear from her by 12 September, it would pass  her 
case to its debt recovery team.
On 11 September,  Mrs M complained to Standard  Life. She asked how its systems could 
allow her to withdraw money  she allegedly wasnt entitled to. She said she didnt have the 
money it was demanding and her husband had recently been made redundant. 
In response, Standard Life said:
The overpayments to her were an administrative error by Standard Life but it still 
needed her to return the funds.  
It said £300 would be fair and reasonable compensation for the trouble caused and if 
she accepted  the offer, the amount she owed would be reduced by that amount. 
It would  work with her about the method of repayment. 
After a further email  from Mrs M, Standard  Life increased the compensation offered to £500, 
and again asked her to contact it concerning repayment.
Mrs M brought her complaint to us. 
Ref: DRN64405032After a number of exchanges with Standard  Life and Mrs C, our adjudicators view was 
that the request for repayment of £2,408 less the £500 seemed reasonable. This was 
because after withdrawing £300  a month (which although paid in again couldnt be 
withdrawn until she was 55), around £25,000 in February 2017, and the £225 and £815, she 
didnt have enough funds available to withdraw the around £25,000 in May 2017.  
Mrs M didnt  agree, and asked for a decision  from an ombudsman.  She said Standard Life 
had created the problem, and she didnt have the money available  to repay the amounts.  
I issued a provisional decision on 20 April 2020. My provisional findings were  as follows:
I can see Mrs M is upset  and frustrated that Standard  Lifes errors have led to requests for 
repayment. Its understandable that she wants the debt waived. But Im afraid  its likely  that 
Im going  to have  to disappoint her, as I dont propose to tell Standard Life to waive  the 
amount owed. But I do think Mrs M should be compensated  for her distress  and 
inconvenience. Ill explain  my proposed  decision below. 
Standard Life doesnt dispute  that it made errors,  and that those errors resulted in payments  
being made to Mrs M to which  she wasnt yet entitled, and requests for repayment  of those 
amounts.
In summary,  when Mrs M recycled income  from her SIPP, she then became unable under 
the applicable law from accessing that recycled  cash until she turned 55. And she also didnt 
accrue any further tax-free  cash from those recycled payments until she was 55. 
The effect of this is that Standard Life shouldnt have paid either the February  2017 payment  
of £225 or the May 2017 payment of £815  tax-free,  because Mrs M had taken the maximum 
amount of tax-free  cash from her SIPP when it was set up. It couldve made those payments 
as taxable income,  but by the time Standard Life realised its error  in June 2017 it couldnt 
convert the payments to taxable income as Mrs M didnt  have  any available  income left in 
her pension pot that she was able to access before 55. 
Similarly, when Standard Life paid Mrs M the net amount of £17,169.27 on a gross (before 
tax) income  drawdown  of £25,185  Mrs M didnt have enough cash  accessible before 55 to 
support that withdrawal.  The most  she couldve received was net £15,741.27 on a gross 
income drawdown of £23, 495. The difference between the two net figures is £1368. That 
amount added to £225 and £815  totals £2,408, which is the amount Standard Life asked Mrs 
M to repay. Im satisfied that this calculation is correct.
Standard Life isnt legally permitted to make payments of income before the normal 
minimum pension age of 55 unless an earlier protected  pension age applies, so it had to ask 
Mrs M to repay the £2,408 paid in error.  
Since Mrs M brought  her complaint to us, she has turned 55. Standard  Life has provided us 
with documents  showing  that in November 2019 Mrs M took out all the cash  in her SIPP, 
some £4,800, including £1,200 as tax-free cash. Standard  Life have said to us that it 
suggested to Mrs M that the payments made  in error  be deducted but Mrs M didnt wish to 
do that whilst her complaint was still with our service. So the current position is that the 
repayment is still outstanding. 
Mrs M has consistently argued that she shouldnt have to repay the monies  that Standard 
Life paid to her in error. She says the payments are entirely due to Standard  Lifes  mistakes.  
Ref: DRN64405033She told Standard  Life repeatedly that her circumstances had changed and she didnt have 
the money to do so.
Ive thought about this very carefully,  and having  done so, Im not going to ask Standard  Life 
to waive  the debt. Mrs M has had the benefit  of the money so it is right that repayment is 
sought. And because  she has taken all the money remaining in her SIPP  once she turned 
55, the option of offsetting it against  those funds is no longer available, so I cant  tell the 
business to do that, which  wouldve been  the option  I preferred. If Mrs M is still in a position 
where she is unable  to repay the amount sought, she should  discuss  this with Standard  Life. 
Its previously  indicated  that it understands the overpaid monies may not be readily available 
for repayment and it is happy to discuss a way forward. 
I do think that Mrs M has experienced  inconvenience and distress in relation to the errors 
made by Standard Life. Standard Life has offered compensation of £500,  to be offset  against  
the amount owed,  so that it reduces to £1908.  I think the amount of £500 is fair; it isnt a 
token amount and recognises the upset  caused. 
Ive also thought about whether that compensation should be paid to Mrs M directly, or 
whether Standard Life should be allowed to offset it against the debt. I propose to tell 
Standard Life to pay Mrs M £500  directly, rather than to offset it against the debt.  This is 
because in all the circumstances  of this complaint I think it fair that Mrs M be given 
compensation directly,  due to the not insignificant distress caused to her at a time when she 
tells us she was already  experiencing  considerable stress. Mrs M may choose  to use the 
£500 to pay part of the debt, but that is a matter for her, having regard to her circumstances 
at that time. 
My provisional decision was that that Standard Life Assurance Limited must pay Mrs M £500 
for her distress  and inconvenience.
Standard Life agreed with my findings. It added  that its intention in offering to reduce the 
debt by the amount of compensation was to make it a more manageable amount for Mrs M 
to repay.  This seemed  important because shed said she didnt  have the funds to repay the 
amount she owed. It was happy to pay the compensation directly to Mrs M and help her with 
a repayment plan if she would prefer to do that.
Mrs M also responded. She said that she understood that her complaint had to be split in 
two but felt it greatly diminishes the impact  of the failings and behaviours of the Standard  
Life group.  The advice, communication and management of her small and only pension  was 
put into its care and it failed on every  front. She said it was paid for advice and created a 
problem for her, and then failed in the administration it was also paid for. The compounding 
effect is that she has been  paid money  from a small pension pot she now has to repay  whilst  
she has minimal  self employed earnings. 
She acknowledged that it was true she had had use of the money  she is being asked to 
repay, but she doesnt have a large pension pot or large earnings, and any money taken  she 
needs and is spent as a necessity. A relatively  small failure  for Standard life has a much  
greater impact on her. 
Finally Mrs M stressed that:
She was an ex-employee and placed in a position of debt by them  through  a solution 
it promoted to staff moving  their final salary pension  schemes.  
Ref: DRN64405034Standard Life had been  arrogant  in refusing to recognise its own failings and 
aggressively defended its position  and because of this shed had to spend a lot of 
time on this process. She wanted  more consideration to be given to this and to what  
she saw as Standard Lifes attempt to lay blame with her husband for their failures,  
which couldve caused upset  between herself and her husband.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular, Ive given careful thought to 
Mrs Ms comments on why she still thinks I should waive the debt. Having done so, I still 
think my provisional decision is the right one, for the reasons I gave  in my provisional 
findings, which Ive set out above.  I dont doubt  the strength  of Mrs Ms feelings  and 
submissions, and Im sorry I have  to disappoint her. 
I can only look at events  that Standard Life Assurance Ltd is responsible  for in this decision, 
although I understand the point Mrs M makes. And my role isnt to punish Standard Life, its 
to resolve individual complaints. I dont think its conduct means the debt should be waived. 
Ive recognised the impact of the events on Mrs M by requiring Standard Life to pay £500  
compensation for her distress to her directly.
I still think it is fair and reasonable for Mrs M to repay the debt because,  as she 
acknowledges, shes had the use of the money,  and Mrs Ms comments havent  changed my 
mind in relation  to that. I understand that Mrs M doesnt have a large  income or pension  pot. 
But if repaying the debt  would cause  Mrs M financial  difficulty,  Standard Life have  again  
confirmed that it will work  with her on a suitable  repayment plan. 
In conclusion, for the reasons given  in my provisional decision and in these findings,  my final 
decision will be the same  as my provisional decision.
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6440503