K820x#14complaint
Miss W and Mr S complain about National  House-Building Councils handling of a claim 
under their building  warranty.
background
Miss W and Mr S have a Buildmark warranty with NHBC which covers their home.
Six years after buying their home,  Miss W and Mr S reported a problem with their false  
chimney to NHBC and asked them to pay for repair or replacement  of the chimney  under the 
warranty.
NHBC carried out an inspection and told Miss W and Mr S that the problem with the chimney 
wasnt covered under  the warranty because the issue  was cosmetic.
Miss W and Mr S complained about that decision, but NHBC maintained  their position saying 
there was no evidence of any damage to the property which was covered under the 
warranty.
Miss W and Mr S werent happy with this outcome and complained  to us. Our investigator  
looked into it and thought  NHBC  hadnt  done anything wrong.
Miss W and Mr S disagreed and asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman.  They  think 
the issue with the chimney is more than cosmetic. 
They also believe  NHBC are discriminating against them because  theyve repaired or 
replaced similar chimneys on their neighbours homes having  carried out different types of 
inspection.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not going  to comment on decisions  NHBC may have made on other  claims made by 
Miss W and Mr Ss neighbours. 
Ill simply say that I dont believe NHBC are discriminating  against  Miss W and Mr S. The 
circumstances are particular to Miss W and Mr Ss property.  For example,  the builder of the 
property carried out repairs  to the false chimney after Miss W and Mr S bought  their home.
And it was reasonable for the inspector to take account of all those particular circumstances 
when he decided what he needed to do to complete the inspection effectively.
Whats happened  with other  claims isnt important for my decision here. What is important is 
the detail of the specific issues with this false chimney  and the terms of the NHBC 
warranty.
Ref: DRN60507732As is usual  with this kind of warranty, any problems with the property within  the first two 
years are to be dealt with by the builder. After that, NHBC are expected to deal with any 
problems that are covered. In this case,  the problems were reported  six years after 
purchase. 
NHBCs responsibilities  during years 3-10 (when  the warranty  expires)  are set out in 
Section Three of the warranty.
Section Three says NHBC will put right damage to the home caused by a defect (a failure to 
meet the NHBCs mandatory building requirements) in certain parts of the building. 
Those parts are listed. They include external render. The false  chimney is essentially made 
up of render applied  to a framework. I dont think theres any dispute that the false chimney 
is a part of the property covered by the warranty.
However, Section  Three of the warranty goes on to set out a clear and specific exclusion 
which says NHBC  will not be liable for:
 anything relating  to cosmetic damage such as minor cracking, spalling or 
mortar erosion to brickwork, which does  not impair the structural stability or weather-
tightness of your home.
Miss W and Mr S commissioned an independent  inspection carried out by qualified  
surveyors which very persuasively set out the issues with the way the false chimney  was 
built and the problems this caused.
I dont have any reason  to doubt the content of that report. Nor do I doubt  that the false  
chimney was constructed badly and was very likely to fall into disrepair at some point. 
And of course, I can understand Miss W and Mr Ss frustration and anger. They had every 
right to expect that the house  had been  built in such a way that they wouldnt encounter 
problems like these so soon. 
I do though have to come back to the policy and what its intended to cover. Its NHBCs 
argument that whilst the chimney  is undeniably cracked, this amounts to cosmetic damage 
not covered by the policy (see the exclusion quoted above) because  it hasnt impaired  the 
structural stability or weather-tightness of the home.
The relevant  exclusion in the policy is set out very clearly and is in my view given reasonable 
prominence. Its not buried  in the small print and its not ambiguous. 
So, the decision for me comes down to whether the problems with the false  chimney  have in 
fact impaired the structural stability or the weather-tightness of the property. If not, NHBC are 
entitled to say theyre not liable to pay for repair or replacement.
I know Miss W and Mr S dont think the key issue is weather-tightness. However, I think its 
worth my saying what I think about  that issue.
The independent surveyors report says the problems with the false  chimney mean  that 
water ingress into the home is inevitable. I dont think NHBC agree, but theyve  rightly  
acknowledged that they will be liable to pay for repair or replacement if it does happen 
during the lifetime of the warranty. 
Ref: DRN60507733I can only say that the warranty  doesnt  say NHBC have to carry out work to guard against 
potential future damage. And both inspection reports appear to agree that no water ingress 
has occurred as yet. 
So, its not unfair or unreasonable  for NHBC to say theyll deal with any water ingress if and 
when it occurs.
Miss W and Mr S have said they think the more relevant factor here is structural  stability.  
However, whilst  the independent  surveyors report is fairly  damning about the way the 
chimney was constructed, I dont think it goes so far as to suggest that the structural  stability  
of the home is affected.
The home certainly isnt about to collapse  or lean  or have anything else so profound 
affect it. So I think it might be pushing it to say the structural stability of the property  is 
impaired by the issues with the false chimney.
In summary,  I think NHBC are right when they say the issues  with the false chimney  havent  
(at least as yet) impaired  either the structural stability  of the property or its weather-tightness. 
And so Im satisfied that the exclusion  quoted above has been applied fairly  and reasonably.
As I say, I think most people would fully understand why Miss W and Mr S are disappointed, 
to say the least, about the issues with the false chimney. 
I hope they can understand though that NHBC arent responsible for everything  thats  wrong 
with their home. They can only reasonably be asked to rectify  issues  which are covered by 
the warranty.
And in my view the current  problems  with the false chimney arent  covered by the warranty.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W and Mr S 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6050773