K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Metro Bank PLC wont refund them  several transactions  which  
debited their account which they say they didnt authorise. Mr and Mrs P also complain  
about the service  they received when they complained  to Metro.
Background
Mr and Mrs P have  a joint account  with Metro. Theyve said that they use this account to pay 
for a safety deposit box (SDB), which cost £180.00  every year including  VAT. 
In January 2017, Mr P complained to Metro about several payments to a merchant,  which I 
will refer to as A, which had debited the account between December 2013 and January 
2014. Mr P says he didnt  make the transactions and that his bank card was never out of his 
possession. Hes also said no one else was aware  of his banking  details. 
I wont be listing all the disputed transactions as both parties  are of aware of which 
transactions are in dispute. 
Mr P says he first became aware  of the transactions when he was checking some old 
statements. Metro asked  Mr P to complete a form to confirm  he didnt make the transactions.  
Mr P says Metro told him they would investigate and refund the transactions  as soon as 
possible.
In February 2017,  Metro  called Mr P and explained they couldnt review the disputed  
transactions because  they took place  so long ago. Mr P was unhappy  with this and asked for 
this to be put in writing.  The staff member explained  she couldnt  put this in writing for him 
but could get the branch  to do this for him. In March 2017, Mr P contacted  our service 
because he hadnt  received a response from Metro.  
When our service got involved Metro reviewed  the case and offered to pay Mr P £25 
because of the delay in responding to his complaint. Metro said they didnt need to 
investigate the transactions  because of the Payment Service Regulations rules  (the PSRs). 
The PSRs  say any disputed transactions should be raised no more than 13 months after the 
money left the consumers  account.  And as the transactions had debited the account some  
years before Mr P raised his dispute,  Metro said Mr P had raised the dispute too late and 
outside the 13-month time limit to do so. 
Our investigator reviewed  the case and decided that Metro shouldve done  more to help     
Mr and Mrs P and she didnt feel the 13-month timeframe should  apply. So, she thought  
Metro shouldve given  Mr and Mrs P more information about the payments which  were  
made. But after reviewing  the case she felt Mr and Mrs P had authorised and consented to 
the payments  being made.  So, she said Metro  didnt need to refund the disputed 
transactions.
Mr P disagreed. He maintained that he hadnt become aware of the disputed transactions  
until January 2017. Metro  also disagreed  with what the investigator said.  And said they didnt 
need to investigate the payments as Mr P had raised the dispute  more than 13 months after 
they had debited his account.  
As neither party agreed the case was passed to me to consider. 
Ref: DRN65421662My provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 23 
December 2019.  In my provisional decision I said as follows:
The 13-month time limit is found in regulation 59 of the Payment Services Regulations 2009. 
Regulation 61 requires  a payment service provider to immediately refund an unauthorised 
payment. And regulation 59(1) says:
(1)A payment service user is entitled to redress under regulation 61.only if [he] 
notifies the payment  service provider without undue delay, and in any event no 
later than 13 months after the debit date, on becoming aware of any unauthorised 
or incorrectly executed  payment  transaction
Mr P first raised  the disputed payments with Metro in January 2017, which was three years 
after the most recent one, and just over three  years  from the earliest one. So, Mr and Mrs P 
were not entitled  to redress under  regulation 61 (or any other regulation  mentioned in 
regulation 59.
Ive also read the terms and conditions which applied  to Mr and Mrs Ps account  at the time. 
And incorporate section 59.  Under  section 65.7 it states:
You should tell us as soon as you can if you notice any errors on your account; 
experience any problems with our services; or otherwise become aware of any 
unauthorised transaction or failed  or incorrect payment  on your account.  If you 
become aware  of any of these matters and fail to tell us without undue delay, and in
any event no later than 13 months  after the date any transaction  was taken from 
your account  (or, in the case of a failed payment, ought to have  been  taken from your 
account), it may affect your right to have the errors  corrected and may mean  that we 
are not responsible for any loss or damage you suffer.
Mr P says he first became aware  of the disputed transactions  in January 2017, after hed 
checked some old statements whilst  in a branch. However, I think it is significant  that from 
4 February 2013,  Mr and Mrs Ps account was set up so that a statement was generated 
each month  online.  And if no transactions were completed in a month, no postal statement 
would be sent.  This means that during the months  that the disputed transactions  took place, 
Mr and Mrs P would have received a statement through the post the following month, which 
would have shown  the activity on the account  and balance.  
From looking  at Mr and Mrs Ps account statement I can see also that in January  2013 a 
payment of £150.00  was debited from the account for SDB  Rental  Fee and £30.00  for VAT  
Periodic Rental amount. These fees appear  to be for Mr and Mrs Ps SDB. After  this debit, 
the account balance was £100.00, which wouldnt have been enough to cover  the cost of the 
SDB when it was next due.
I can see from Metros contact notes that on 16 November 2013, Mr P rang Metro to find out 
when his SDB would  be renewed.  Metro  confirmed this was due in January 2014. At the time 
of the call, the account balance was £106.97, which judging by the previous payment, 
wouldnt have been enough to cover  the upcoming  cost of the SDB. From looking at the 
account statements  I can see that on 6 December 2013, a cheque  for £180.00 was paid into 
the account. This increased the balance of the account to £286.97. Ive kept in mind that 
Ref: DRN65421663Mr P has said the only function  of this account  was to fund the cost of the SDB.  So, I think  
its likely  he paid the cheque in to cover the upcoming cost of the SDB fee, because  he knew 
there were insufficient funds in the account.  
The contact  notes show that on 12 April 2014, Mr P rang Metro  for an account balance, and 
when this was confirmed he said hed deposit  a cheque  into the account. According to the 
account statement  the balance of the account at the time of this call was £30.24. I can see a 
cheque for £200.00  was then paid into the account on 16 April 2014.  A  payment was then 
taken for the SDB in May 2014. So, when I weigh everything up, I think  its likely that Mr P 
was aware of the balance of the account. And as Mr P says he didnt use the account for 
anything other than paying  for his SDB,  and the balance had reduced without such a 
payment being  made, I think if the other payments made between 10 December 2013 and 
17 January 2014  werent made  by him, he could  have said so at the time. That in turn 
suggests they were  authorised by him.  
I therefore think its fair and reasonable for Metro to rely on the term and not refund the 
transactions. 
should Metro have done more to assist Mr and Mrs P in January?
The PSRs  does say that a consumer  should  raise any disputed  transactions within 13 
months of the money debiting the account. In this case Mr and Mrs P say they werent  made 
aware of the disputed  transactions  until January  2017. For the reasons Ive already 
explained, I accept  that Metro are entitled  not to look into the case but I do feel it wouldve  
been reasonable for them to listen to Mr and Mrs Ps concerns and try and answer their 
questions as best they could, which would have included explaining the significance  of the 
13 months. So, I agree with Metro that they caused  some delays here and overall, I think  the 
offer of £25 is fair given the circumstances.
So subject to any further representations by Mr and Mrs P or Metro I wasnt minded to 
uphold the complaint.
Mr P responded to my provisional decision.  In summary he said the account was opened for 
a specific purpose and therefore  didnt  receive regular scrutiny.  So, he wasnt aware of the 
transactions and reported them as soon as hed noticed them.  Mr P also said he wasnt  
aware of the 13 month time frame and still disputes  the transactions.
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that I 
should change  my provisional  decision.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, Im satisfied  that during the months that the disputed  
transactions took place, Mr and Mrs P would have  received a statement through the post the 
following month, which would have shown the activity on the account  and balance.   And I 
can see that Mr P called Metro and was provided  with the balance  of the account on more 
than one occasion. 
So, when I weigh everything up, I think its likely that Mr P was aware of the balance and the 
activity on his account. And as Mr P says he didnt use the account  for anything other than 
paying for his SDB,  and the balance  had reduced  without such a payment being made, I 
Ref: DRN65421664think if the other payments made between 10 December  2013 and 17 January 2014  werent  
made by him, he could  have said so at the time. But he didnt do so until 2017, which is more 
than 13 months after the last payment  left his account. I therefore think its fair and 
reasonable for Metro to rely on the term and not refund the transactions. 
For the reasons  Ive already explained, I accept that Metro are entitled  not to look into the 
case but I do feel it wouldve been  reasonable for them to listen  to Mr and Mrs Ps concerns 
and try and answer  their questions as best they could, which  would have included  explaining 
the significance  of the 13 months. I can also see that Metro didnt respond to Mr and Mrs Ps 
concerns. Metro accept  that it should  have  provided  Mr and Mrs P with better service and 
have offered them £25 compensation. I think the offer is fair given the circumstances. So, Im 
not going to ask Metro to do anything more. Mr and Mrs P should contact Metro  to arrange 
payment if they wish to accept its offer.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 February  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6542166