K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Gain Credit  LLC (Lending Stream) lent to him irresponsibly. 
background
Using the information from Lending  Stream here is a summary table of the approved loans. 
loan approved repaid amount six instalmentshighest 
instalment
1 1 September 2012 19 September  2012 £450due to end 
February 2013£225
2 23 September  2012 25 September  2012 £525due to end 
March 2013£263 
(rounded)
Loan 1 was repaid early and the total repaid was about £585. So, the cost of borrowing was 
£135. Mr S applied for £1,000 for Loan  2 and £525  was approved.  Loan 2 was repaid a 
couple of days  after obtaining it  about £534.The cost of borrowing was just over £9. 
Mr S says that he paid off loan one early using  gambling winning proceeds and he was 
borrowing from other payday lenders. He has said: If you had done further due diligence  
and checks you would  have seen my finances  were in a complete mess.
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that Lending Stream did not 
need to put anything right for Mr S. He did not agree  and said that if Lending Stream had 
looked at his financial situation  at the time it would have seen that he was borrowing from 
different lenders  robbing Peter  to pay Paul. 
The complaint has been passed  to me for a decision. 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all the relevant rules,  guidance  
and good industry  practice - on our website. 
Lending Stream needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure  that it did not lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Mr S could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. 
These checks could take into account  several  different  things, such  as how much was being  
lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers income and expenditure. So, in the early 
stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate. 
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending Stream should fairly and reasonably  
have done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  
factors include: where a customers income is particularly low; where the repayments are 
particularly high; and/or  where the frequency of the loans and the length  of time over which  a 
customer has been borrowing need  to be looked at. Repeated refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing  had become, or was becoming,  unsustainable.
Ref: DRN60736642I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Lending Stream was required to 
establish whether  Mr S could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan 
payments were affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  The loan payments 
being affordable  on this basis  might  be an indication a consumer could sustainably  make 
their repayments. But it doesnt  automatically  follow this is the case. 
This is because the Office  of Fair Trading, Irresponsible Lending Guide (relevant at the time) 
referred to the concept of sustainable  and defined it as being the ability  to repay  without 
undue difficulties. In particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, 
while meeting  other reasonable  commitments, and without  having to borrow to meet 
the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments,  evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr S complaint. 
Lending Stream has said that at the time of loan 1 Mr S declared his net monthly income as 
£1,500 and that he had expenditure  of £300. For Loan  2 Mr S increased his declared  income  
to £1,700 and his expenditure was £100. Lending  Stream said in its final response letter  to 
Mr S that A credit worthiness check was completed and the third party credit reference 
agency confirmed  a rating which  was satisfactory for the loan obligation.
In 2011, it was not a requirement  that lenders obtain  credit  history details before lending. 
Lending Stream has said that it referred to a credit agency and I have seen the affordability 
data Lending Stream says it relied  on and the credit score it obtained at the time for each loan.
Mr S has sent to us a copy  of an extract from his personal credit file, but I do not think that it 
quite covers the time I would need  to see. Credit  files only go back six years.  We received 
this on March 2019 and so most of the records commence February 2013. So, it does not 
cover the period leading up to September 2012. 
In the early stage of the lending relationship - Mr S first loan - the proportionate approach 
would have been for Lending Stream to have details  of Mr S income and his expenditure. It 
had that information. So, on those figures,  Lending  Stream would have seen that Mr S was 
likely able to repay  the instalments for Loan  1.
Mr S has sent to us some copy bank statements for the period  leading up to September  2012.  
From those statements  I can see that Mr A had some  issues  with money and finances and 
gambling but as I have  explained above,  the proportionate checks  I would have  expected 
Lending Stream to have done would not have included looking at his bank  statements.
So, considering the circumstances at the time Mr S applied for Loan  1, and on the 
information I have,  I think  that Lending Stream carried out proportionate checks and was not 
wrong to lend. I do not uphold Mr S complaint for Loan 1. 
Ref: DRN60736643Loan 2 was applied for a few days later. It was unusual that Mr S had declared a larger 
income and lower outgoings  within  a month  of the first application. But still I think that the 
proportionate checks I would have expected Lending Stream to have made  would have been 
similar for Loan 2 as for Loan 1. This is because although loan 2 was for a higher amount 
than loan 2, it was still early in the lending relationship and Mr S repaid loan 1 without any 
obvious difficulties.  And I think  that Lending Stream had sufficient information with the 
proportionate checks carried out I think that it did not need  to do more. 
Lending Stream did not approve the full amount Mr S asked for  it did approve a loan for 
about half. The inconsistency in Mr S declared  information may have been the reason for 
offering less but that inconsistency was not likely a reason not to lend. And the other details 
about his financial  situation  such as the gambling  was not something Lending Stream 
would have known  about unless Mr S had told them. And at this stage I would not have  
expected it to have been  asking to see copies of Mr S bank statements from which  the 
gambling would have become self-evident.  
So I do not uphold  Mr S complaint for Loan  2.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr S complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 December 2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6073664