K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Miss G says Barclays Bank  UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Miss G says that she didnt know the policy was optional, and that she was sold PPI that she 
didnt want. But I think Barclays made  it clear  that Miss G didnt have to take out the PPI and 
she chose to take it out  although  I can understand why she cant  remember this as it was 
so long ago. 
Miss G applied  for her card and policy online, and Barclays has shown that its sales process 
at the time presented the policy as optional  and that Miss G wouldve had to make a 
choice before completing her application.  I havent  seen anything  to suggest that Barclays  
did anything differently with Miss G when she applied for her card.  
Barclays has also provided Miss Gs credit card agreement  which  was posted to her after 
shed made  her online application for her to sign and return. This confirms her choice in 
taking PPI in section seven, and Miss G has signed the document,  agreeing to the 
information on it.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Miss G so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss G got the information  she needed to decide if it was right 
for her. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Miss G about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss G because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss G about that. Because  Barclays  didnt tell Miss G, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN64357552Ive thought about everything Miss G has said - but these points dont change my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above, I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Miss G.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Miss G any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6435755