K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2001. Mr M says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M initially said that this sale took place online. Ive not seen any evidence that there  was 
an online  sale. But it also seems that Halifax arent  certain about how the policy  was sold.  In 
their response to us they said that the sale took place at an event. 
Ive considered that as this was a face to face sale, possibly a meeting that possibly took 
place at event,  where  Halifax  made a recommendation  based on Mr Ms personal 
circumstances, to take PPI. 
By considering that a recommendation was made,  this places more  responsibility on Halifax  
as it means not only did they have to give Mr M good enough information, but they also had 
to take reasonable steps to check that the policy was right for Mr M. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think Halifax made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this as the sale 
was such a long time ago.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Ms credit card application form. On the 
form theres a heading Protecting your payments. Underneath this it states Please 
enrol me in the Halifax Payment Protection  Plan..  Theres  a box with the text 
Please tick the box to enrol, and it has been ticked. Mr M has signed the overall  
application, so I think this indicates  what he wanted.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr M so it had to check that the PPI was right for 
him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was. For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover and he seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for him if something went wrong.
It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover and I dont  think  that Mr M has lost out 
because of anything  that Halifax done  wrong.   
Ref: DRN69321822Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what hes said about his existing 
means of making  his repayments. But I still think that the recommendation was suitable  and 
the policy was right for Mr M because:
although Mr M has mentioned releasing  money,  presumably equity from the house 
he owned, the equity may not have  been  readily accessible and could have 
increased or decreased in value. In addition, having  the PPI policy, for a 
comparatively small monthly  cost would mean that Mr M wouldnt have to take such a 
step as releasing  money from his property. 
Mr Ms partner  may have wanted  to help him make his repayments, but 
circumstances can change and theres  no guarantee that Mr Ms partner would have 
been able to help when  needed. 
the alternative insurance policies  life and critical illness, arent directly comparable  
or a suitable  replacement  for PPI based on what Mr M has told us about his 
circumstances. I say this because life cover  would  normally  pay out in the 
unfortunate event  of Mr M dying. Critical illness would normally  pay out if Mr M was 
diagnosed with a serious illness. PPI would pay out if Mr M was unwell and unable  to 
work or if he was made unemployed. 
I dont think that the savings  that Mr M has described (approximately £6,000)  
wouldnt have lasted  for as long as the PPI policy would have paid out for. 
the PPI would have paid out for longer  than Mr Ms sick pay would have  lasted.
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr M back  some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr M now Ive issued my final decision. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am 
required to ask Mr M to accept or reject my decision before 22 February 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6932182