K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy that Admiral  Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited declined a claim on 
their home insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs L suffered a leak in their property. Water had come through the ceiling and 
stained a wall in the bedroom. So they contacted Admiral to report a claim on their home 
insurance policy. When the surveyor visited they didnt pay much  attention  to the roof and 
said it was a problem  with the damp proof course.  Mr and Mrs L felt the surveyor was 
looking for a reason to decline the claim. And theyre  unhappy the date of the claim was 
used for the damage because they didnt know when itd actually been caused.
Mr and Mrs L thought  the leak had been  caused by a storm. But they were told they needed 
to get their own surveyors report. Theyve had to pay for a new roof themselves. So theyd 
like Admiral to accept  the claim. 
Admiral could see Mr and Mrs L were  unhappy  with the service  theyd received from its 
surveyor. It explained the surveyors visual inspection  was intended to validate the claim and 
confirm there was cover in place. 
After reviewing the report and photographs  Admiral said the claim had been registered  as 
storm damage as there was no other  peril under  which this type of claim would fit. But the 
conditions around  the time didnt meet the criteria  for a storm. And the damage to the roof 
wasnt consistent with storm damage. The surveyors report said the damage  had been 
going on for a long time. So Admiral felt itd been  right to reject the claim.
Mr and Mrs L werent satisfied with Admirals response. So they contacted  our service and 
our investigator looked into the matter. She didnt think it was unreasonable  for Admiral to 
use the date Mr L made the claim as the date when the damage happened  as they werent  
able to provide  a different  date.
Our investigator looked at the weather data for the weeks leading  up to the date of the claim. 
And there was nothing  to meet Admirals definition of a storm. The home insurance policy 
provided cover for a one-off event. Not a series  of events or gradual damage. So she didnt 
think it was unreasonable for Admiral to decline the claim.
Mr and Mrs L didnt agree. The surveyor didnt look at the area relating to the claim theyd 
made. They only referred to the wall and what they called gradually operating causes.  
Recent bad weather  had highlighted  the source of the water  ingress  in the roof ridge and loft 
space. And after replacing the roof theyd had no further problems. So theyve asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L are unhappy Admiral declined a claim  for storm damage to their property. They  
dont feel the damage  was assessed properly. And although they were unsure  when  the 
damage was caused they say there were numerous  storms in the period before  their claim. 
Ref: DRN68040992So Ive looked  carefully at everything  thats happened  to see whether Admiral  has acted 
reasonably in declining the claim.  
Mr and Mrs L have confirmed they are making a claim  for storm damage.  When deciding 
whether I think Admirals decision to decline their claim  is fair I have to decide whether an 
insured event has taken  place.  An insured event would be the cause of the damage.
The home insurance policy does cover  for storm damage. Admiral defines a storm as a 
specific, identified storm including strong winds in excess  of 54mph that may include heavy 
rain, snow  or sleet. So I need to determine if there  was a storm at the time. If there was no 
storm there cant have been  any damage caused  by a storm. If theres evidence to show  
there was a storm I would  look at whether  the damage to is consistent with what  Id expect a 
storm to cause. And Id also consider if the storm was the main cause of the damage.
I realise Mr and Mrs L say there  were  a number of storms in their area in the months  before  
the claim.  And that the location  of their property makes it more  likely to be affected by high 
winds. But I can see our investigator  has looked  at the weather data for the months before 
the claim.  And the maximum  wind speed reached  was 43 mph. That wouldnt meet Admirals 
criteria for storm  damage. And Id expect  a well-maintained property to be able to withstand 
all but the most severe of weather conditions.
I know Mr and Mrs L werent  happy with the surveyors assessment. They  felt the surveyor  
was only there to decline the claim.  And the surveyor used the date of the claim as the date 
when the damage  occurred.  Admiral has explained  it pays  a flat fee to its surveyors. So 
there wouldnt any extra incentive for the surveyor to decide either for or against a claim. 
And as Mr and Mrs L were uncertain when the storm damage mightve occurred I dont  think  
it was unreasonable for the surveyor to use the date of the claim in the circumstances.
The surveyor initially thought the water damage  had been caused by the damp proof  course. 
Mr and Mrs L disputed this. So Admiral  reconsidered the evidence and then declined the 
claim when  it couldnt  find anything to support storm damage. I dont think  its unreasonable  
for Admiral to rely on the reports it receives  from its appointed professionals. And I dont 
think it caused any delays  in dealing with the matter thatve impacted on Mr and Mrs L 
financially. 
Admiral did say Mr and Mrs L could obtain their own surveyors  report if they wished.  And I 
think thats a fair response.  But I understand they were unable to find a surveyor to visit their 
property.
I can see how frustrating this mustve  been  for Mr and Mrs L. Theyre sure the water ingress 
was caused by a storm.  But theyre  unsure when the damage  occurred.  So Admiral agreed  
to look at the weather data for a few months  before the date of the claim.  I think  thats a fair 
response in the circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs L have now provided weather data from a different  source  showing that 
maximum gusts of around 50-58 mph were reached  earlier in the year.  But the dates 
provided by Mr and Mrs L are nearly 7 months before the claim was notified  to Admiral. 
I accept there were periods of bad weather  in time leading up to the water damage being  
reported. But I dont  think it would be fair to expect Admiral to accept a claim for storm 
damage based on reported  weather over half a year earlier. 
Ref: DRN68040993Theres no evidence to show  whether the leak was caused by one specific  event or by 
gradual damage during a period of poor weather. And as Ive explained  Admiral  would only 
consider a claim for storm damage if it was shown to be the result of a specific  insured peril.
I know Mr and Mrs L will be disappointed  with this outcome.  And I do appreciate  how 
upsetting this has been for them. But based  on what Ive seen I cant  say Admiral  has acted 
unfairly in declining a claim for storm damage. There isnt enough evidence  to confirm a 
storm took place  in a reasonable  timeframe  before  the claim and that it caused the damage 
Mr and Mrs L have claimed for. So I wont be asking Admiral to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 August  2020.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6804099