K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that ALD Automotive Limited  declined his credit  application for a car and that 
it didnt give him reasons  for doing so. He also complains about  the customer service that 
hes received from it.
background
Mr S applied for a car to be supplied to him on credit  in December 2018. He says that he 
was asked to provide  considerable  amounts  of information in support of his application  and 
that he had to make a significant number of phone calls and send many e-mails  about it. And 
he says that he was sent three credit agreements  to sign but that his application was then 
declined and he wasnt given a proper explanation. He complained to ALD Automotive  about 
that and the customer  service that hed received. 
It said that Mr Ss application was declined following the failure of the verification stage  
which was the correct decision  but it agreed  that its customer service team couldve  been 
clearer in explaining the verification process to him so it offered him £250  as a gesture of 
goodwill. Mr S didnt  accept its offer and complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that ALD 
Automotive shouldve  been clearer with Mr S in confirming how the process would work 
following the manual underwriting process and he recommended that Mr S be awarded £300  
compensation due to the distress and inconvenience  caused  and that ALD Automotive 
should send a written  letter of apology  to Mr S.
ALD Automotive has accepted the investigators  recommendations  but Mr S has asked for 
his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman.  He says, in summary,  that he had to 
make many phone calls and go to his bank  about  his credit application and that he had to 
buy his credit files. And he says that he was unable  to work because he had no transport 
despite making arrangements to buy a car on the understanding  that the loan would be 
approved. He also says that he was lied to by ALD Automotive and it manipulated the 
process by not accepting  his application  because hed complained  to it. He believes that 
£2,500 compensation is fair and reasonable for his losses,  distress and upset and the impact  
on his health which has caused him to be unable to work.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand the frustration that Mr S feels as a result of his application for credit being  
declined after hed gone  to considerable effort to provide  the information that ALD 
Automotive had asked him for. But I consider that it applied its application process correctly 
and that Mr Ss application was declined because he failed the verification stage. It says that 
Mr S didnt receive confirmation  that the money would be released  and that his application 
was never  approved. 
Its a commercial decision for a credit  provider to decide whether or not it wants  to provide 
credit to a customer. This service doesnt  normally interfere with a credit providers legitimate 
commercial decisions.  And I see no reason to interfere with ALD Automotives  decision not 
to provide credit to Mr S in these  circumstances. Im not persuaded that theres enough 
Ref: DRN60560552evidence to show that ALD Automotive  acted incorrectly when it declined Mr Ss application 
for credit.
ALD Automotive has accepted that its customer service team couldve been clearer in 
explaining the verification  process to Mr S so it offered him £250 as a gesture of goodwill. 
The investigator recommended  that the compensation should be increased to £300 because  
of the distress and inconvenience that Mr S had been caused  and that it should also send 
him a written  letter of apology. ALD Automotive has accepted those recommendations.
Mr S has clearly  been caused distress and inconvenience as a result  of ALD Automotive  not 
properly explaining the verification process to him. I sympathise with Mr S for his health 
issues and understand that these events may have caused those issues  to become worse. 
But Im not persuaded that theres  enough  evidence  to show that he was lied to or that his 
application was manipulated in any way. I consider that £300 is fair and reasonable 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  that Mr S has been  caused. Im not 
persuaded that a higher  award of compensation is justified in these circumstances. And I 
dont consider that an award of £2,500 would be appropriate. 
ALD Automotive has accepted the investigators  recommendation  that it should  send a 
written letter  of apology  to Mr S. So I consider that it should do that. 
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint in part. And I order ALD 
Automotive Limited to:
1.Pay £300 compensation to Mr S.
2.Send  a written  letter of apology to Mr S.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 October  2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6056055