K821x#15complaint
Mrs P says Uncle Buck Finance LLP irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about three loans Uncle Buck provided to Mrs P between May and 
November 2014.   Mrs  Ps borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date Taken
Date Repaid
Instalments Amount Repayment
1 16/05/2014 29/08/2014 1 £150.00 £202.43
2 01/09/2014 31/10/2014 1 £200.00 £269.90
3 03/11/2014 31/07/2015 1 £400.00 £539.80
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ps complaint and thought the loans from loan 1 onwards  
shouldnt have been given because the information Uncle  Buck had gathered  about  Mrs P 
showed she was having problems managing her money because she had other  outstanding  
short-term loans when  she was given the first loan. 
Uncle Buck  disagreed and said although Mrs Ps credit file showed  other  short-term  loans 
the amounts were  affordable  given Mrs Ps declared  income.  But it offered to partially uphold 
Mrs Ps complaint about loan 3. Mrs P declined Uncle Bucks offer. 
As an informal resolution couldnt  be reached, the complaint was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could consider several 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. In the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less 
thorough checks might  be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN63707782the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mrs P could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and the customer should  be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all the arguments, evidence and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Mrs Ps complaint. 
I think Uncle Buck ought to have realised that Mrs P wouldnt  have  been  able to make her 
repayments for her loans  sustainably without taking out more lending. I can see Uncle Buck  
did income/expenditure and credit checks on Mrs P before it lent the first loan to her. And I 
can see that Uncle Buck has provided  its findings from those checks,  including the reports  
from the credit checks, to us. 
Having reviewed all of this, I dont think Mrs P was able to repay any of her loans in a 
sustainable manner.   The credit check reports show that Mrs P already had one short term 
loan outstanding on her report  which in isolation isnt enough to indicate  Mrs P was reliant  
on short-term loans.  But its also evident from the credit reports  that Mrs P had a history  of 
persistently using short-term loans.  In my view this makes it likely Mrs P was having longer 
term financial problems and her indebtedness  was becoming unsustainable. 
And whilst Mrs P might not have fallen into arrears on her loans from Uncle Buck,  it doesnt 
necessarily follow that repaying  the loans wasnt proving problematic. I think this was proven 
to be true when Mrs P deferred  the repayment  of each  of her loans  and with loan 1 she 
deferred it more  than once. 
Overall, I think this was a likely indication that Mrs P was in a debt cycle and relying upon 
borrowing to repay  borrowing. So, Im also upholding the complaint about loans 1, 2 and 3 
and Uncle  Buck should put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs P paid on loans 1 to 3;
Ref: DRN63707783pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans 1 to 3 from Mrs Ps credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires Uncle  Buck  to take off tax from this interest.  Uncle Buck  must 
give Mrs P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Mrs Ps complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance LLP 
should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6370778