K820x#14Complaint
Mr G and Mrs G have complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC wont  refund a transaction,  
which they say they didnt  make.
Background
Mr G and Mrs G want Barclays to refund a £900 payment to a betting shop, which was made 
with Mr Gs debit card and PIN. Mr G said he didnt authorise the payment.
Mr G said he was shopping in a supermarket on 12 August 2018 when he lost his wallet. He 
said he kept two debit cards in his wallet together with a written note of his PINs. One of 
these cards was his Barclays debit card. 
His two debit cards were used for balance inquiries at the supermarket ATM and two cash 
withdrawals at a nearby  Post Office ATM. They were also used in a betting  shop. The 
disputed transactions  occurred  between  2.36pm and 2.50pm.
He called Barclays at 3.23pm.  He said he didnt recognise two transactions:  a cash  
withdrawal for £300 and a £900 payment to a betting shop.
Barclays refunded the £300 immediately and said it couldnt do anything  about the £900 as it 
was pending.  However, after completing  its investigation, it decided  to hold Mr G liable for 
the transactions because he hadnt  protected his card and PIN. It also didnt think a fraudster 
would use a debit  card for betting  transactions. It said they wouldnt gain financially, as any 
winnings would be paid directly into Mr Gs account. 
Barclays refused to refund the £900 and decided to write off the £300.
Mr G and Mrs G were unhappy with this outcome so they brought their complaint to this 
service.
The investigator decided  not to uphold  their complaint. He said Mr G had given  several 
conflicting versions of how he lost his card but despite this, he didnt think  hed authorised  
the disputed transaction. However,  he concluded  he had been grossly  negligent  by keeping 
a written note of his PIN with his card.  For this reason, he decided that Barclays  was entitled 
to hold him liable  for the disputed transaction. 
Mr G and Mrs G disagreed with the investigators view. They have asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Mr G and Mrs G have read the investigators view.  So 
has Barclays. Therefore, I wont repeat every detail here, only those which form the basis  of 
my decision.  However, I can assure Mr G and Mrs G that Ive read the file, including  their 
comments and evidence.
Ref: DRN60132232When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Having done so, my review of the evidence  has led me to the same overall conclusions as 
those reached by the investigator and for broadly the same  reasons. I will explain  why.
In short,  Barclays is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction.  The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  2017  (the PSRs  
2017). Mr G says he didnt make the payment to the betting shop and is seeking a refund of 
£900. So I must first come to a view about whether  or not I think  Mr G authorised the 
payment
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Gs genuine card and PIN were used 
to make the payment to the betting shop.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is 
not, on its own, enough to enable Barclays to hold him liable. So I also need  to think  about  
whether the evidence suggests that its more likely  than not that Mr G made  the payment.
At this point, I would  look at what Mr G has to say. Unfortunately, he has given conflicting 
versions about what happened. Initially, he told Barclays he lost his wallet in a supermarket 
and that his cards and PINs were  in the wallet. He later told it hed been  threatened and 
forced by a man to provide his bank details and use his PIN. He also told the investigator  
that hed been distracted by a man at an ATM  who saw him enter  his PIN and took his card. 
His statement changed again. He said he lost his card in the supermarket and saw a man 
using it at the ATM.
Im afraid I think Mr Gs evidence is largely unreliable  because  of these inconsistencies. So, 
Ive looked at the technical evidence to determine whether its more  likely that Mr G 
authorised the £900 payment. On balance considering all the evidence, Im not persuaded 
Mr G authorised the disputed payment because:
theres no history of gambling - according to the bank statements for both accounts  at 
the time,  Mr G and Mrs G didnt gamble. So the disputed payment seems out of 
character for them.
the time interval  and distance between  the two ATMs are short - Mr Gs two debit 
cards were used for balance inquiries at 2:36pm and 2.38pm at the supermarket 
ATM.
At 2.40pm, his second  card was used for a balance inquiry at a Post Office  ATM. The 
Post Office  is only a five-minute walk from the supermarket.  The interval between the 
transactions was two to three  minutes. 
Mr G is in his late 70s. I dont know his fitness level, but he said he is frail. It seems 
unlikely he wouldve arrived at the Post Office within two to three minutes.
The second debit  card was used in a similar fashion. Ive seen the statement for the 
other bank account. Mr G didnt use his debit card for that account.  The transactions 
are mainly direct  debit payments. And, again, there  are no gambling  transactions, 
other than the disputed  transactions.  
Ref: DRN60132233I think Mr G lost his wallet  in the supermarket, which is what  he first told the bank. But Im 
afraid this doesnt  mean Barclays must refund  him. This is because  he didnt keep his PIN 
safe. 
The terms and conditions  for his account  say:
You must do all you reasonably can to keep your payment tools  safe 
You must not give your payment tools to someone  else or let someone 
else use them, or do anything that would let someone else use them, 
such as writing them down in a way that someone else could 
understand, keeping the letter carrying a PIN, or giving someone else
access to a device  like a mobile phone you keep  your details  on.
Ive highlighted  the relevant condition. Its clear that customers shouldnt  write down the PIN 
in a way, which makes it obvious to someone else. 
The relevant  regulations  also say that account holders must use their card in accordance 
with the terms and conditions governing its issue and use. And they must take all reasonable 
steps to keep their personalised  security  credentials, such  as their PIN and passwords, safe. 
If an account holder  fails with gross negligence to comply  with the regulations  theyll become 
liable for unauthorised payments instead  of the bank.  
On balance, considering all the evidence  I think Mr G was grossly  negligent  because  he kept 
a written note of his PIN in his wallet  with his card. 
I appreciate Mr G said he hadnt memorised his PIN and this is why he kept a written note. 
However, when I think about  what gross  negligence means, I have to think  about what  a 
reasonable person would do, irrespective of age, personal characteristics or circumstances. 
I think a reasonable  person would see that its risky keeping a written note of the PIN with 
the card. And if they needed to keep a written note, they would disguise it and keep it apart  
from the card.
Ive taken into account Mr Gs comment that he reported the loss of his card without delay 
but this was only one of his obligations,  as an accountholder. Im afraid I still had to consider 
whether hed been grossly negligent.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr G didnt authorise the disputed 
payment, but he was grossly negligent with his card and PIN. It follows that its fair and 
reasonable for Barclays to hold him liable for the payment.
I do understand that this must be distressing  for Mr G and Mrs G and I am sincerely  sorry to 
send such disappointing  news, especially  after such a long wait. I hope the reasons for my 
decision are clear. I thank them for their patience.
My final decision
My final decision is I am not upholding  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2020.
Ref: DRN60132234Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6013223