K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains on Miss Ms behalf  that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) opened an 
inappropriate account for her; that this led to unfair charges being applied; that this 
exacerbated her financial difficulties; and that it failed to acknowledge her complaints. 
background
Miss M holds a Barclays current account, opened in 2012. Mr M says that due to Miss Ms 
obvious learning difficulties, Barclays shouldnt have  allowed her to open an account that 
might incur  fees. He said a basic account  would have been more  appropriate.
He said that Miss M was in financial difficulties, made worse by Barclays.  He also said it had 
failed to log her earlier  complaints  in November 2018 and January 2019.  He wanted 
Barclays to refund Miss M all of the unpaid  transaction fees shed been  charged,  along with 
compensation.
Mr M says Barclays should have been aware  of Miss Ms vulnerability,  and as such taken 
extra precautions in the type of account  it allowed her to open  and operate. He feels that it 
ought to have only offered her a basic account,  to mitigate any fees or charges that could be 
applied against  her. 
He says that anybody who meets Miss M would be instantly aware of her vulnerability,  and 
that Barclays behaved unfairly and irresponsibly towards her. 
Barclays didnt agree. It said that all the unpaid transaction  fees were  correctly applied, as 
Miss M didnt have enough money in her account to cover  her direct debits. However, it did 
ask Miss M to get in touch  if she was in financial difficulties  and said it would do what  it could 
to help her. It also refunded her £120  in fees,  as it said it hadnt  received her letters of 
November 2018  and January 2019,  and conceded that had it done so these fees might have 
been avoided.
Mr M didnt  feel this was enough,  so complained  to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and was provided further information from both parties. 
He concluded  that Barclays had already done  enough to resolve matters, so didnt uphold  
the complaint.
Mr M didnt  agree. He maintained that Miss M should never have been given the type of 
account where fees could be incurred. He still wanted a refund of all fees and compensation. 
He asked for an ombudsmans review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator.  While Im sorry to hear that Miss M 
is dealing with financial difficulties, I havent seen sufficient evidence to satisfy me that 
Barclays has made mistakes,  or treated her unfairly.
Ref: DRN63895902I know my decision will be very disappointing to Mr M, and Miss M. I hope  Im able to explain 
why I think its right and fair to both parties.
Barclays has confirmed that in 2012,  when  Miss M opened her account, a basic bank 
account wasnt something it offered. So she was given the standard  current  account. I think  
this is reasonable.
It also said it wasnt aware of her vulnerability, but that as it now is its put a protective note 
on her account. I havent seen evidence to show that Barclays was made aware of this any 
sooner, so I cant say it was wrong  not to know. I appreciate that Mr M says it would have 
been clear to anyone who met Miss M that she was vulnerable, but Barclays has said that 
while she visited the branch regularly she most often used the self-service desks. So she 
wasnt generally interacting with staff.  
It also confirmed that when Miss M wrote asking for her direct  debits to be cancelled,  this 
request was actioned  within four days,  but that some weeks  later a new direct  debit  was 
created. As such, it believed that all the unpaid transaction fees had been  applied correctly.
I see that Barclays has now added  a vulnerability marker to Miss Ms account; asked for her 
to be in touch  to discuss any financial difficulties; and refunded £120 worth  of unpaid 
transaction fees. I think in the circumstances  this is fair and sufficient. I think its important to 
note that Barclays  made  this refund  in good faith,  as there was no way of proving that Miss 
Ms letter were ever sent. Im pleased to see it took a reasonable stance here.
I dont think it would  be reasonable to ask it to refund any further charges, nor to pay 
compensation.
In the event of a customer experiencing financial  difficulties, banks have a responsibility  to 
ask positively and sympathetically towards them. So I would urge Miss M, or Mr M on her 
behalf, to contact Barclays to discuss these matters  further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M, on behalf of 
Miss M, to accept  or reject my decision before  10 March 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6389590