K822xcomplaint
Miss H has complained that UK Credit  Limited lent to her irresponsibly.
background 
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in February  2021  that I summarise  
below.
Miss H was given a loan of £6,000  by UK Credit  in January 2017. I understand that a family 
member was accepted  as the loan guarantor. The loan was due to be repaid in 60 monthly  
instalments of around £264. The total amount  payable, including interest was just over £15, 
874. I understand  the loan may still be outstanding.  
I explained the basis on which I would decide the complaint, in particular the checks  that UK 
Credit needed  to do such as the amount being lent, and the consumers income and 
expenditure. 
UK Credit needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Miss H
irresponsibly. I considered  some key questions in order  to decide whats fair
and reasonable in the circumstances of this particular  complaint:
Did UK Credit complete reasonable  and proportionate checks to satisfy itself that 
Miss H would be able to repay her loan in a sustainable way? If not, what would 
reasonable and proportionate checks have shown at the time?
Ultimately,  did UK Credit make  a fair lending  decision? 
Did UK Credit act unfairly or unreasonably in some other  way?
UK Credit asked Miss H for information  about her income and verified this using an online 
verification check.  It also ran a soft credit  search  and used the Office of National Statistics to 
evaluate Miss Hs expenditure.
Miss H told us that she had been made  redundant about three months  before she applied to 
UK Credit for a loan. Our adjudicator  thought  that UK Credit  ought to have carried out more  
in-depth checks on Miss Hs financial circumstances, such  as requesting  a bank statement. 
And that if it had done so, it would have  realised that Miss H had not received a salary  the 
month prior to applying  for a loan and so UK Credit would have declined to lend to her.
UK Credit thinks its checks were reasonable and proportionate and that it should be able to 
rely on what Miss H told it at the time about her financial  position.  In particular, UK Credit 
thinks it should be able to rely on what  Miss H said during a telephone call with the lender in 
which she confirmed that she had been  with her current employer  for about four months and 
that part of her income was benefit  related.  
I thought about  this very carefully. On balance, I thought UK Credits checks  were 
reasonable and proportionate. There is conflicting evidence about whether  or not Miss H 
was still employed when she applied for her loan with UK Credit.  But I didnt make a finding 
on this because, even if Miss H was employed and earning the amount of income suggested 
in her application, I didnt think that UK Credit  made  a fair lending  decision on this occasion.
The lender  was required to establish  whether  Miss H could  sustainably  repay her loan. UK 
Credits verification checks indicated that her monthly income was around £2,080, made up 
Ref: DRN61200492of salary plus benefits. UK Credit was also aware  from its credit checks  that Miss H had 
outstanding credit commitments of around  £10,600 and that she was repaying a bank loan, a 
hire purchase agreement and other credit. 
After taking into account her monthly repayments  to UK Credit, Miss H would be paying  
around £600 per month towards all her credit commitments. This represented just under 
29% of her total monthly  income. I referred to guidance in the FLA Lending Code 2006 which  
says that factors  which may indicate  a high risk of a consumer experiencing financial 
difficulty include spending more  than 25% of monthly income on credit.  Miss H was applying  
for a costly  loan from UK Credit, repaying  over £15,000 over an extended five-year period. 
Given the level of her long-term total credit  exposure, I didnt think  it would have been 
reasonable for UK Credit  to expect Miss H to maintain that level of credit repayments over 
such a long period.
Miss H told UK Credit  that she intended to use the loan to buy a vehicle. I hadnt  seen any 
suggestion that she told UK Credit that she was going to use the lending to repay some of 
her existing credit or reduce her monthly outgoings.  Overall I thought UK Credit ought 
reasonably to have  been  aware that taking this further, costly lending was not going  to help 
Miss H make  any inroads  into her overall  existing  debt position - and in fact that it potentially  
significantly increased her indebtedness over the longer term.  
So even though on the face of it Miss H appeared to have  disposable income available, I 
thought UK Credit  ought reasonably to have realised  that in the circumstances, Miss H was 
likely to struggle to repay the loan in a sustainable manner, over the extended five-year  loan 
term. In these circumstances, I thought UK Credit  ought  reasonably to have concluded that it 
wouldnt be appropriate to lend to her.
Miss H complained that UK Credit  hadnt done enough to help her when  she ran into 
difficulties repaying  her loan and she is unhappy  that UK Credit  wanted to ask her loan 
guarantor to make some  repayments.  From what Id seen, UK Credit  did agree to lower Miss 
Hs monthly repayment. But it said it would approach the guarantor  for the shortfall.  UK 
Credit was required to treat Miss H positively and sympathetically when  it because  aware 
she was having  difficulties repaying  her loan. I understand there may still be an outstanding  
balance on the loan and if this is the case,  I expect  UK Credit  to exercise forbearance and 
come to a repayment arrangement that is affordable to Miss H. 
Taking everything into account,  I didnt think UK Credit should have agreed to provide the 
loan to Miss H. I said I was intending  to uphold Miss Hs complaint and that UK Credit  needs 
to put things right.
I invited both parties to send me any further comments or evidence. UK Credit  disagreed  
with my provisional decision and it has made a number of further comments, all of which I 
have read and carefully considered when  coming  to my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to thank UK Credit  for responding to my provisional decision. This is a finely balanced 
decision, but UK Credits further  comments havent changed my view of this case  overall.
Ref: DRN61200493UK Credit says the FLA Lending Code  that was applicable at the time does not refer to a 
percentage of income as a risk factor when lending. And that the earlier  Code refers to 25% 
of gross income, whereas my provisional  decision refers to 29% net income.  Later updates 
to the Code dont mention a figure but the 2006 Code did, and it gives an indication  of what  
could be considered best practice. I think UK Credit ought reasonably  to have been aware of 
what the Code  says about an applicants  existing credit commitments and financial situation 
potentially being  a consideration. Considering Miss Hs sources of income   I think that 
taking on this loan meant  she would, in fact, be spending over 25% of her gross income on 
repaying credit. But its not about  an explicit figure, its about whether its more  likely than not 
that the level of repayments Miss H would have  going  forward  was likely  to be difficult  for 
her, given her existing  financial  situation. I think UK Credit ought reasonably to have realised 
that by taking its loan,  Miss H would be increasing  the proportion of her monthly income she 
was spending  on credit to potentially  unsustainable levels.  
UK Credit says there  were no reasons to think that the child benefit  that Miss H was 
receiving would be discontinued or reduced. But although her income  appeared to be stable, 
it was partly benefit related and was potentially  limited. Miss H told UK Credit she wanted  the 
loan to buy a car. But she had an existing  car on finance with a year or so to go on that loan. 
So, she was either  running two cars,  which would eat into her disposable income,  or 
potentially she might have  had her car repossessed and still had outstanding debt on it. 
Miss Hs loan was not intended to repay or consolidate existing debt,  and the lending added  
to the level of her indebtedness in that shed have more to repay. UK Credit doesnt  think 
this was an issue of concern,  given its affordability  assessment  and credit  checks,  and it 
says it didnt think she needed to reduce her debts   but this is not what  I said in my 
provisional decision. Its not that Miss H needed  to reduce her debts, but that this loan 
increased her total credit  exposure to potentially unsustainable levels. I think  UK Credit 
ought reasonably  to have been  aware of this and realised  that its loan was likely to tip her 
over the edge,  making it unlikely that she would be able to maintain that level of credit 
repayments over the extended loan term. And from what Ive seen,  Miss H did run into 
difficulties shortly after taking the loan.
Where things are finely balanced, as they are here, I have to come  to a decision on the 
balance of probabilities and what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. Having 
considered everything  very carefully,  I think,  on balance, that UK Credit  ought reasonably  to 
have concluded  that it wouldnt be appropriate to lend to Miss H.
Ive thought very carefully about all of UK Credits  further comments, but they havent 
changed my view of this matter overall.  I confirm the conclusions that I reached in my 
provisional decision and I uphold this complaint.
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Miss H to repay the principal amount that she borrowed, 
because she had the benefit of that lending. But she has paid interest  and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt  have been provided to her. 
I understand Miss Hs loan might still be outstanding. UK Credit should try to agree an 
affordable repayment  arrangement with Miss H in respect of any outstanding balance - 
bearing in mind the need to treat her positively and sympathetically in those  discussions.
Ref: DRN61200494If UK Credit has sold the outstanding debt it should  buy it back, if its able to do so and then 
take the following steps. If UK Credit isnt able to buy the debt back,  then it should liaise with 
the new debt owner  to achieve the results outlined below.
UK Credit should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  on the loan and treat all the payments 
Miss H made as payments towards  the capital. 
If reworking Miss Hs loan account results  in her having effectively made 
payments above the original capital borrowed, then UK Credit  should refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest calculated on the overpayments,  
from the date the overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is 
settled*. 
If an outstanding  balance remains, then UK Credit should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Miss H.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Miss Hs credit  file in relation to the 
loan. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires UK Credit to deduct tax from this interest.  UK Credit 
should give Miss H a certificate  showing how much tax its deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct UK Credit  Limited  to put 
things right as set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June  2021.
Sharon Parr
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6120049