K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about the suitability of the advice  he received from Zurich Assurance Ltd 
(Zurich) to transfer the value of his preserved  benefits in his former  employers  defined  
benefit pension  scheme (DB scheme) into a personal pension.
Mr F is represented  in this complaint by a claims management  company (CMC).
background to this complaint
In 1992 Mr F was advised  by Allied Dunbar (which  later became Zurich) to transfer his 
preserved benefits of £13,062.05 in his former  employers DB scheme into an existing 
personal pension.
In 1994, due to concerns about mis-selling,  the then regulator, the Securities and Investment 
Board, established  an industry-wide review of particular pension business  conducted  by 
authorised firms between  29 April 1988  and 30 June 1994. It was generally  known as the 
"Pensions Review".  The regulator set down the broad methodology that firms were required 
to follow  when conducting the review.  
In March 2000 Zurich wrote  to tell Mr F its assessment of his case  under the Pensions 
Review showed he hadnt suffered a financial loss in connection with the pension transfer 
advice he received in 1992. Zurich told Mr F if was unhappy with the outcome he should  
write to explain why and, if he remained unhappy, could contact the PIA Ombudsman 
Bureau (the predecessor to the Financial  Ombudsman Service)  within  six months. Zurich 
didnt receive a response from Mr F. 
In 2018 the CMC complained to Zurich about the suitability of the pension transfer advice   
Mr F received in 1992. The CMC acknowledged that the transfer advice had already been 
assessed under the Pensions  Review. But it thought the no loss outcome had since 
changed and that, if reassessed, would  now show Mr F had suffered a financial loss due to:
the loss of guarantees under the DB scheme;
higher charges under  the personal  pension; and
his pension  fund being exposed  to an inappropriate  level of investment  risk
Zurich didnt accept  this complaint. It referred  the CMC to its assessment of Mr Fs case  
under the Pensions Review that showed  he hadnt  suffered  a financial loss. Zurich  explained  
its assessment of Mr Fs case  was conducted  in line with the guidance  issued at the time by 
the regulator. So it wasnt prepared to reassess  his case.
The CMC didnt agree with Zurichs  response and referred this complaint to us. Our 
adjudicator told the CMC  that she didnt think this complaint was one we could consider 
because it was referred to us more than six months after the Pensions  Review outcome 
letter issued to Mr F in March 2000. And, in any event, she also thought  that Zurich had 
conducted its review of his case in line with the guidance issued by the regulator.
The CMC didnt accept  our adjudicators opinion and requested this complaint be referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
Ref: DRN62690532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For the avoidance of any doubt,  Ive read and considered the whole file. Ive confined my 
comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I havent commented on any specific  point made its 
not because Ive not thought about it or missed  it, but because  I dont think I need to 
comment on it in order to decide what I think is a fair and reasonable outcome in the wider  
context of the complaint thats been made.
To make my findings easier  to follow, Ive set out under separate headings my view on both our 
jurisdiction to consider  this complaint  and whether, based on the merits, it should  be upheld.
Our jurisdiction to consider this complaint
We dont have a free hand to investigate  any complaint referred to us. We must follow  the rules  
which say what we can and cant look at. Those  rules are set out in the Financial Conduct 
Authoritys Handbook.  DISP 2.8 sets out whether a complaint  was referred  to us in time.
In considering the time limits,  our adjudicator didnt think this complaint  was one we could 
consider because it was referred to us more  than six months  after the Pensions Review  
outcome letter issued to Mr F in March 2000.
Having read the outcome letter, I dont agree with our adjudicators  opinion.  Let me explain 
why. The outcome letter telling Mr F that he hadnt  suffered  a financial loss concluded:
There is nothing you need to do now, although  you may wish to keep this letter safe,  for 
future reference. However,  if you are not happy  with the outcome of our review,  please 
write and let us know why. The PIA have set down procedures that we must follow when 
we deal with complaints and we will do all that we can to resolve your concerns.
If, after that, you are still unhappy you can complain to the PIA Ombudsmanbut you 
must contact him within six months.  I have enclosed a booklet explaining their 
complaints procedure
In my view, the letter merely mentioned that the PIA Ombudsman would ultimately  be available  to 
address any further  complaints that couldnt  be resolved by Zurich.  The letter wasnt a final 
response to a complaint and so didnt  give proper ombudsman referral rights. In addition,  while  
the letter referred to a six month referral period, it didnt mention from what  date the six month 
period started. So Mr F wasnt placed on notice  about the deadline to contact the PIA 
Ombudsman. Because of these factors, I dont agree  with our adjudicators view that receipt  of 
the outcome letter started the clock  on the six month period to refer the matter to us. In summary, 
Im satisfied this complaint was made in time under our rules  and is one I can consider.
Consideration of the merits
As explained in the background above,  the then regulator set down  the broad methodology 
that firms were required to follow when conducting  the Pensions Review.  Where advice was 
found to be non-compliant, a loss assessment calculation had to be completed using a 
prescribed methodology and assumptions. If the calculation  showed  that a financial loss had 
occurred, redress was payable. In Mr Fs case,  Zurichs loss assessment showed  he hadnt 
suffered a financial loss at that point in time.
Ref: DRN62690533Under the terms of the Pensions Review, Zurich  was only required to conduct the review 
once using the standards and assumptions the regulator told it to use at the time. The fact 
that these assumptions  may not have  been achieved or that it now appears a financial loss 
exists isnt grounds to redo the calculation.  I would only direct Zurich to redo the calculation  if 
I believed it contained  errors. Ive reviewed Zurichs  loss assessment calculation  and cannot 
see any apparent errors. So, like our adjudicator, Im satisfied Zurich  conducted its review  of 
Mr Fs case  in line with the guidance issued  by the regulator.
 
Therefore I find that it wouldnt  be fair or reasonable in these  circumstances for me to direct 
Zurich to reassess the suitability of the pension transfer advice it provided to Mr F in 1992 or 
to redo its calculation conducted  under the Pensions  Review.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, although I think Mr Fs complaint about Zurich  Assurance Ltd 
was made  in time under our rules, Ive decided not to uphold  it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Clint Penfold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6269053