K820x#14complaint
Mrs E brought this complaint on behalf  of herself  and the estate of Mr E.
She says Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them mortgage Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  in 1991  with a joint-mortgage.  
background
I issued a provisional decision about this complaint  in January 2021, comprehensively 
setting out why it was my intention to not uphold the complaint. Ive attached a copy  of this 
below. I then invited  either  party to provide any more information  they wanted  to, by 18 
February 2021.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs Es representatives replied saying it had no further points. Halifax  didnt have anything to 
add either.  So, Ive seen nothing from either party which makes me change what  I thought 
previously. Im sorry to have to disappoint Mrs E, but in my view, the evidence is strong that 
this policy  wasnt mis-sold.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.  And  I do not require Bank of Scotland plc to do anything.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E and the 
estate of Mr E to accept  or reject my decision before 22 March  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN62440362copy  provisional  decision
Ive looked at all the relevant  information about  this complaint. Based on what Ive seen so far, I need 
to explain more than our adjudicator did. Because of this, Im going to issue a provisional  decision. 
Ill look at any more  comments or evidence  I get about this complaint by 18 February 2021. But unless 
these change  my mind, my final decision is likely to be along the following lines.  
Complaint
Mrs E brings this complaint  on behalf of herself and the estate of the late Mr E.
She says Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them  mortgage Payment  Protection 
Insurance (PPI) in 1991 with a joint-mortgage.  
Background
Id like to apologise to Mrs E for the time its taken for this complaint  to get to this stage. Im issuing  a 
provisional decision  so we can all be completely sure that the parties  understand the position and 
what I intend  to do. Im also sorry about the circumstances of Mrs E bringing the complaint.
I see that one of our adjudicators provided Mrs E and the estate of Mr E with a view about this 
complaint. They said that they didnt think  the PPI was mis-sold. Mrs E disagreed and has asked for 
an ombudsmans decision about the complaint.  
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Having done this, Im afraid Im currently  intending not to uphold this complaint.
Id like to place on record that I certainly dont doubt Mrs E is being  anything other than completely 
genuinely and honest when she says she believes that the PPI was mis-sold to her and the late Mr E. 
However, Im sure she will also recognise that the sale, being in 1991,  was 29 years ago. Its 
therefore obviously possible  she may not remember everything  that took place then and / or since.
There is no original documentation from the sale left to refer to although I do have access  to certain 
computerised records. However, in the original complaint form that Mrs E sent us  she was helped 
by a claims company in doing so  she strongly implies she and the late Mr E didnt know anything 
about the PPI being added to the mortgage. Halifax, on the hand,  says they agreed to the policy  and 
that a long-term successful  claim on it was made between April 2003 and April 2005.  Its also my 
experience that Halifax would have asked for their consent  about  the policy  and also sent them  
welcome letters and a policy  schedule. I therefore think  the evidence shows they knew a policy had 
been set up for them  because clearly  Mrs E and the late Mr E would only be able to make such  a 
claim with the full knowledge of the policy, what it covered and who was covered.
All this leads me to say its much more likely  they willingly set up the PPI because  it was something 
they both wanted to have  at the time. In short, I think they consented to it.
Next, I looked to see if the PPI was suitable for Mrs E and the late Mr E, because Halifax  probably  
recommended this to them as part of an advised  sale.  
I think  it was suitable.
Ref: DRN62440363I say this because they both seem  to have been eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the 
major exclusions we tend to see in these policies, even despite Mr E having a pre-existing medical 
condition at the time.  I think the condition  was covered, a fact substantiated by the later successful 
claim that was made. 
I agree Mr E may well already have had some  sickness protection  with his job and I recognise this 
would have been relatively generous cover because of the employer he worked for. But this doesnt 
necessarily mean the PPI wasnt suitable for them. Mrs E had no such  protection and I think the 
mortgage would have been a significant and long-term financial commitment and secured  against 
their home.  So, the consequences  of not being able to make the repayments could have been 
serious. The PPI cover, on the other hand, was designed to pay a monthly sum if theyd needed to 
claim. In my view, Halifax putting forward a recommendation to have cover like this wasnt in itself 
unfair.
Halifax also had a duty to provide information  that was clear, fair and not misleading.  As I say, we no 
longer have the actual paperwork now, but I think its more likely they would  have known  the cover 
was costing  £21 per month for £350 per months worth of cover. I think they probably had enough 
information on which  to make an informed choice.
Im very sorry to disappoint Mrs E and I will certainly  look at anything else she wants me to with great 
care. But these events are from a long time ago and I should add that even if I were to uphold  the 
complaint, any previous  claim pay-outs would  be subtracted from compensation. In this case, the 
claim does look substantial  in length and value.  
I simply dont  currently  have  that evidence  to uphold this complaint and I think  its much more likely 
they tailored the cover  to suit their needs of the time and would have had a lot of documentation 
showing this. 
My provisional decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont intend to uphold this complaint or direct Bank of Scotland plc to 
do anything more  to put matters right. 
I will, however, look very carefully at any other information or evidence  I get before making a final 
decision, providing  I get it by 18 February 2021.
Ref: DRN6244036