K821x#15complaint
Mrs F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC wrongly  advised her to invest  £6,000 in a product 
that posed too much risk to her money  given  her circumstances  and objectives   in 1994.
background
An adjudicator at this service  felt her complaint should be upheld given the following:
Mr and Mrs F were  living in rented  accommodation, had a modest joint income  and no 
investment experience. He felt this meant she was more likely to be looking for a low risk 
investment rather than a medium  one, even though  the advisor recorded that she was happy 
with a medium risk.
He was not persuaded that the advisor  had fully explained the risks posed  by this 
investment, and what this meant, and thought that Mrs F may have been  persuaded to 
choose this product rather than selecting  it herself, particularly given shed admitted being 
nave about these things at the time.
On balance, he felt the advisor should  have recommended  a low risk investment. He 
therefore felt Lloyds should pay compensation by comparing the return  Mrs F had received 
with what shed have  got via one of this services recommended redress  formulas.  As the 
standard low risk formula was not applicable to investments from this date he said Lloyds  
should use the Bank of England base rate plus 1%. If this showed a loss it should pay this 
figure along with 8% simple interest  per annum on it from the date of surrender to the date of 
settlement of this complaint.
Lloyds disagreed, and said:
Mr and Mrs F had £55,000 on deposit  and this represented a very modest portion of 
their money
They initiated the meeting with the advisor  i.e. sought investment advice
The documentation  clearly  outlined that discussions  had taken place and that Mrs F 
had chosen this fund and so ought reasonably to have understood the risks involved
There was no benefit to the advisor  in recommending a medium  risk product rather 
than a low risk one
Mrs F kept her investment for the required six years, demonstrating that affordability 
did not prove an issue
Mr and Mrs F were  living on a farm and had no liabilities; she was 41, in stable 
employment and had plenty of time to recoup any losses  given she planned to retire 
at 60
There is no intrinsic reason why a first-time investor shouldnt invest  in a medium  risk 
product
Mrs F made  further  investments in 2007  and 2009, albeit with a lower  risk level
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise this is a finely balanced  decision but I have not seen sufficient  evidence  to safely  
conclude that the advisor  fully explained to Mrs F, who had no investment  experience  and 
Ref: DRN68946002probably no investment  knowledge, what the implications of agreeing to a medium  risk rating  
were, and of putting  her money at this significant level of risk.
I accept that the regulatory environment was quite different  at the time of this advice but I still 
believe the advisor had a responsibility to ensure that Mrs F understood the risk level she 
allegedly chose, and what this meant  in terms of potential risk to her money, such that she 
could make an informed  decision  at his recommendation.
While Lloyds claims that Mrs F would have made the particular fund choice I think this is 
unlikely to have  been case given she appeared to have  no investment background or 
knowledge. The fund in question, according  to recently supplied information, is likely to have 
exposed 90% of Mrs Fs money  to risk via stocks, property etc. and this included more  than 
a quarter in overseas equities. This clearly represented a substantial risk to her capital.
Based on the information available, I think it is unlikely that she would have  wanted  to take 
such a risk with her money, particularly given that Lloyds  has over-egged Mr and Mrs Fs 
financial stability at the time of advice, in my opinion.  Mr F was a self-employed  farm worker 
earning £10,000 a year and Mrs F earnt just £3,000 a year. As the advisor  recorded,  they did 
not have sufficient savings or income  to cope with potential disability or illness,  or for 
retirement or long-term  planning.
I therefore agree with the adjudicator that Lloyds  should compare the return  Mrs F received 
on surrender with what she would have got if the return had equalled  the Bank of Englands 
base rate plus 1%. If this shows  a loss it should  pay this amount along  with 8% simple  
interest per annum on this figure from the date of surrender to the date of settlement of this 
complaint. Any withdrawals should be factored in as appropriate.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Lloyds  Bank  PLC to pay compensation as outlined  
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6894600