K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Marshall  Motor Group Ltd (Marshall) mis-sold her a regular premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
February 2019. An extract from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I wasnt minded to uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. 
Marshall confirmed it didnt have  anything to add and Mrs W responded.
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive read Mrs Ws response and Id like to thank  her for the additional information  she 
provided.
I should start by explaining that although Mrs Ws loan and PPI policy were arranged  by 
Marshall, Marshall wasnt the lender of the funds to Mrs W, nor the insurer. In this situation,  
Marshall was the seller of the products.
I note Mrs W provided a letter from the finance  provider, explaining it had refunded  some  of 
the cost of her PPI policy as a result  of undeclared commission.  Whilst this may be relevant 
in the wider context  of the complaint, its worth noting that Marshall (as the seller) isnt 
responsible for this part of the complaint. This part of the complaint falls with the lender  
which is the company  that provided  the letter that Mrs W has sent to this service.
As the commission element of Mrs Ws complaint lies with the lender,  Im afraid I cant 
comment on what has or hasnt happened  with that in this is decision.  And for that reason, it 
doesnt change  my decision on whether the PPI policy was mis-sold.
Having thought carefully about again about the initial sale of Mrs Ws PPI policy, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.  
It follows that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN63525142my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mrs W but for the reasons given above, and in my provisional 
decision, I dont  uphold her complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN63525143EXTRACT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION DATED FEBRUARY 2019
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case. 
Ive thought carefully about  everything but I currently dont  think Mrs Ws complaint  should be upheld.  
Ill explain why.
Ive started by thinking  about whether Mrs W had a choice when she bought the PPI policy.
Although I can understand why our adjudicator  concluded that she hadnt seen enough  to say that 
Marshall made Mrs W aware that she had a choice about buying the PPI, Im also mindful of the time 
that has passed  since  the sale. I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to expect Marshall 
to hold paperwork or documentation  from almost nine years ago, so I need to think  about  what I think 
is most likely  in the absence of that.
Ive thought carefully about  what  Mrs W said when she raised her complaint. I note she said that she 
remembers discussing  her options and her employee  benefits, and that she decided  to take the PPI 
because shes not a risk-taker, despite having stable employment.  So whilst she now doesnt think  the 
policy was right for her, I dont think that means that she didnt know she had a choice about  whether  
to take it or not. And having  considered everything, I think its more  likely than not that Mrs W did have 
a fair choice, and she chose  to take it for the reason she explained.
Marshall recommended the PPI to Mrs W, and it seems to have been right for her based on what Ive 
seen of her circumstances at the time. 
Mrs W has explained  that she was working  as a nurse so she had a fairly generous  sick pay 
entitlement from her employer,  of six months full pay followed by six months  half pay. She also 
explained that due to her employment, it was highly  unlikely shed be made redundant.
Mrs W says that Marshall  shouldve discouraged  her from buying PPI for this reason. Whilst  I 
understand the reasons  for Mrs W saying this, Im afraid I dont agree. The PPI wouldve paid out for 
up to twelve months per claim, and couldve covered Mrs W in the event of sickness or 
unemployment. This couldve been useful to her as it wouldve  paid out alongside  her sick pay from 
her employer, and although  she says its unlikely,  it also wouldve paid out if shed  lost her job. Mrs W 
also had limited  means, for example from savings, of making her loan repayments if this were to 
happen. So whilst  with hindsight she might not feel the PPI was good  value for money or right for her, 
I dont think Marshall  made an unfair  or inappropriate recommendation by selling this PPI policy to 
Mrs W.
As I havent seen documentation from the time of sale, Im not sure how well Marshall  explained the 
cost of the policy. But Ive seen a letter that Mrs W has provided that she was sent before the policy 
started, and before she made her first payment.  This letter explained the cost and benefit of the 
policy, as well as Mrs Ws right to cancel  within  the first 30 days without being  charged.  But as Mrs W 
chose to keep the policy, I think shed already been made aware of the cost of the policy when  it was 
sold, and she was happy to purchase it knowing that.
Its possible Marshall didnt  point  out the main things the policy didnt cover. But Ive considered Mrs 
Ws circumstances  and she doesnt appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
I want  to reassure Mrs W that Ive thought carefully  about everything shes said. But having done so, I 
dont currently think that this policy was mis-sold to her. So I dont currently intend to tell Marshall pay 
Mrs W any compensation.
Ref: DRN6352514