K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained that Stonebridge International Insurance  Ltd mis-sold her a personal  
accident insurance policy. 
background
In 2003, Stonebridge sold Mrs T a personal  accident  insurance policy.  
In June 2015, Stonebridge wrote to Mrs T to explain that, following an investigation by the 
UK financial regulator, it believed she may be entitled to a refund of premium. It invited her to 
consider whether her policy was suitable  for her needs and, if she had any concerns, to 
complete and return an attached questionnaire so that it could consider whether she was 
eligible for any kind of payment.
In March 2018, Mrs T sent a completed questionnaire to Stonebridge. She said she didnt 
remember agreeing  to take out the policy. She said she had called once or twice in the past 
fifteen years to ask about potentially cancelling the policy  but in the end had decided she 
might as well keep  it. She said the cover hadnt  been set up correctly  because it was in her 
name only but her daughter had been under 18 at the time and would have been eligible for 
cover also.
Stonebridge didnt uphold the complaint.  It said the policy had been sold over the telephone 
on a non-advised  basis  and documents  were sent to Mrs T at the time. The documents 
explained that she had a cooling-off period of 60 days during which she could have 
cancelled the policy without having to pay anything.  She could also have cancelled  the policy  
at any time thereafter. It noted from its records that Mrs T had contacted it on three 
occasions in 2004 with a query about  her premiums. It also noted that she had contacted it 
in November 2015 to ask about her cover. It concluded from this that she was informed 
about the policy and was happy to continue with it. In light of this, it saw no reason to be 
concerned about  the sale of the policy and consequently there  was no refund due to Mrs T.
Mrs T was unhappy at Stonebridges response. She referred her complaint to us. She said 
that due to her busy life she had only recently come  across the June 2015 correspondence  
from Stonebridge  which was why she was so late in completing the questionnaire. She said 
she had now cancelled  the policy and believed that, in view of her other insurances and 
employee benefits, she had never needed  it in the first place. She therefore believed  the 
policy had been  mis-sold  and wanted a full refund  of her premiums.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In his opinion,  the 
policy hadnt been mis-sold.
Mrs T didnt  accept the investigators findings.  She reiterated that she had no need for the 
policy. She said she had been persuaded, against  her interests, into taking it out. She 
questioned whether she could ever have received benefit through it.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
 
Ref: DRN69298292my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy was sold over the telephone. A recording of the sales  call is no longer available 
but given the passage  of time I dont  find that surprising.
Stonebridge has explained that the policy was sold on a non-advised basis. This means the 
representative didnt  have to ensure the policy  was suitable for Mrs T. However,  they would 
have been required  to provide her with sufficient  information  about the policy for her to make 
an informed decision as to whether  to take it out. Mrs T disputes that the policy was sold on 
this basis but she also says she cant remember the telephone  call. She simply speculates 
that the representative must have been  very persuasive for her to take out a policy  which 
she now believes she never  needed. The representative may well have extolled the benefits 
of the policy  but that still doesnt  mean it was an advised sale.  I see no reason to doubt that 
the sale was carried out on a non-advised basis.
Stonebridges records show that policy documents were sent to Mrs T following the 
telephone call. Im satisfied that these documents clearly explain the nature of the cover.  If 
Mrs T had wanted to add her daughter  to the policy at this point, she could have done  so. 
There was a 60 day cooling-off period during which Mrs T could have  cancelled  the policy  
without charge if she decided she didnt want it. She didnt exercise this right. Im satisfied 
from this that Mrs T made an informed decision to take out the policy having decided that it 
was suitable for her needs.  
Stonebridges records also show that in 2004 Mrs T contacted Stonebridge on three 
occasions concerning her premium payments. One of these occasions was to ask 
Stonebridge to change her payment method from credit card to direct  debit. On two of the 
occasions, Stonebridge followed up the contact by sending Mrs T a new copy of the policy 
documents. Mrs T also contacted Stonebridge in 2015 with a query  about  her cover.  Im 
satisfied from these  contacts that Mrs T remained aware that shed taken out the policy, was 
aware of the cover  it provided, and was content to carry on paying for this. Theres  no 
suggestion from the call records that Mrs T wanted  to cancel her policy. 
Mrs T has drawn  attention  to her other insurances and employee benefits. However, these 
wouldnt have prevented her from making  a successful claim under the policy.
In summary,  Im satisfied  that Mrs T made an informed  decision to take out the policy. She 
knowingly retained the policy for fifteen years. The policy would have paid benefit if Mrs T 
had had cause  to make an eligible claim. In these circumstances, I can see no reasonable 
grounds for saying she should receive a refund of premiums.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6929829