K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  that Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 1984 Mr and Mrs S took out PPI during a meeting  at one of Lloyds branches to cover  Mr 
Ss income.  The policy cost £8.40  a month and it provided a benefit of £163 per month to 
cover their mortgage repayments plus their monthly  home insurance  policy  premium  and it 
provided £3 a month for every £1000  they had borrowed.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. 
In 1994 they extended  their borrowing and increased the PPI premium to £13.20 a month to 
cover the new monthly repayments accordingly. 
Mr and Mrs Ss PPI policy and the mortgage ended in 2004.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. The adjudicator said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs S chose  to take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate theyd 
lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs S disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Lloyds says this was an advised sale. This means Lloyds had to provide Mr and Mrs S not 
only with good  enough information about  the policy so they could make an informed  decision  
about it. It also had to ensure the policy was right or suitable for them  based on their needs  
and circumstances  at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
did Lloyds make it clear  to Mr and Mrs S that they had a choice  about PPI?
Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs S agree the PPI policy was sold in October  1984  in a branch.  
Mr and Mrs S say they didnt know much  about  the PPI and didnt want it, but Lloyds  insisted 
they have it. Lloyds says Mr and Mrs S chose to take out the PPI.
The only evidence I have  from the sale is what Lloyds and Mr and Mrs S have told us, and 
the mortgage application form which doesnt  mention PPI.  
This sale took place  35 years ago. I accept it is possible Lloyds didnt give Mr and Mrs S a 
choice about taking PPI. I also accept it is possible Lloyds gave them  the impression they 
had to take it out. But it seems more likely Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs S the opportunity to take 
out the policy or decline it as part of their mortgage application, and that they chose to take it 
out, but have simply forgotten in the years  that have now elapsed.  I say this because  this 
Ref: DRN63053272service has no evidence  of Lloyds systemically telling consumers they had to have PPI at 
this time and Mr and Mrs S could  have cancelled the PPI at any time but they kept it for 20 
years. And had they chosen not to purchase  PPI in 1984, or had it been added to their 
account without  either  their knowledge or consent,  I wouldve  expected them to query or 
challenge this shortly afterwards. I say because I think  its likely that either  the PPI cost was 
shown separately  on their statements or it made  their monthly repayments £8 higher than 
the monthly cost of the advance they would have seen in their loan offer. 
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint) it is more  
likely than not Lloyds  presented the policy to Mr and Mrs S as compulsory  or that it didnt tell 
them about  the policy at all.
Im also not persuaded that Lloyds  presented  the policy to Mr and Mrs S as compulsory  or 
that it didnt tell them about the policy when the PPI cover was increased in 1994,  for the 
same reasons as above. 
So I think it is more likely  than not Lloyds presented the PPI to Mr and Mrs S as optional and 
they chose to take it out. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs S properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs S lost out?
I dont know what Lloyds  said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S in 1984. 
I also dont know what information  Mr and Mrs S were given about  PPI. I dont know whether 
the policys benefits were  explained to them or if they were  told about  the significant  
exclusions and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs S agreed  to take the cover  
out knowing very little about it, but I dont  know if they received  everything they needed to 
know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when Lloyds  
recommended to Mr and Mrs S in 1984 that they take out PPI. I accept Mr and Mrs S may 
not have been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs S have  lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Ss circumstances  and needs  in 1984, I think  the policy 
cover was suitable for them.  And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs S would have acted 
differently and not gone ahead with the cover if Lloyds had provided better information. My 
reasons are as follows:
Mr S was eligible  for the cover and all its benefits.
Mr S was employed and in good health at the time,  so it doesnt appear he would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of the cover such as 
existing medical condition exclusions or unusual  employment terms. 
The mortgage provided for their home.  Mr S had some sick pay and redundancy pay 
entitlement from his employer and they both had some savings which could have 
helped them make the mortgage  payments if Mr S was off work ill or lost his job. But 
the policy would have paid out within 60 days in addition to any sick pay or 
redundancy pay and for up to 12 months  for each  claim. So I think  Mr and Mrs S had 
a need for their cover and that it would have been useful to them if Mr S had been 
unable to work. It could have  helped them financially at what  would be a difficult time 
- it could  have helped them protect their home.
Ref: DRN63053273I dont know how the cost of the PPI was presented  to Mr and Mrs S but I find it 
unlikely they would have agreed  to something  without having some  understanding of 
the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have  declined  it solely on the basis  of its 
cost had it been made clearer to them. Ive already said they had a need for it and at 
just over £8 per month it appears  to have  been affordable. And as they were  paying 
for the PPI monthly, they could  cancel it without further cost if at any stage their 
situation changed or they no longer wanted it.
When Mr and Mrs S increased the policy cover  in 1994, my understanding  is that their 
situation hadnt changed significantly. And I think the policy  was suitable  for them  in 1994, 
for the same reasons  Ive given above in relation  to the 1984  sale.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the PPI was sold and Mr 
and Mrs S may not have been treated fairly and reasonably by Lloyds in its dealings  with 
them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons Ive detailed 
above, I think Mr and Mrs S chose to take out the PPI and they would have been  in the 
same position if Lloyds had done  more and properly advised and informed them  - I think they 
would have still taken  it out.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs S have not lost out as a result  of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 June  2019
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6305327