K820x#14complaint
Miss M says Provident Personal Credit Limited,  trading as Satsuma Loans, lent to her 
irresponsibly.
background
Miss M had five short-term loans with Satsuma. Our adjudicator set out the details of the 
loans in his letter, which both parties  have  seen, so I wont reiterate all the details here.
Our adjudicator considered the complaint but did not recommend it be upheld. Miss M 
disagreed with the adjudicator, so the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, good 
industry practice and any relevant regulations at the time.
Having considered everything, Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I appreciate this will 
come as a disappointment  to her but I hope my explanation helps her understand why 
I reached this decision.
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure 
Miss M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into 
account a number of different things, such as how much  was being lent, the repayment 
amounts and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages 
of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
In addition to carrying out proportionate  checks,  I consider  there may also come a point 
where the lending history  and pattern of lending itself clearly  demonstrates  that the lending 
was unsustainable.
In Miss Ms case, I dont think the pattern of lending  was such  that Satsuma ought to have 
realised from it alone  that it wouldve been irresponsible  to provide Miss M with any of the 
loans it approved. 
Ref: DRN68365672Although I dont consider the pattern of lending alone to have been such  that Satsuma 
shouldnt have lent, this doesnt  mean  Satsuma didnt need to look closely  at Miss Ms 
financial situation. So Ive therefore primarily focused on whether Satsuma did enough to 
check whether each individual loan was affordable.
Having said this, I think its unlikely  the sort of further checks  Satsuma couldve carried 
wouldve suggested any of the loans were  unaffordable. I say this because the actual checks  
Satsuma carried out  which were in part based  on Miss Ms declaration  of her income and 
expenditure  suggested  the loan repayments were well within  what  Miss M could afford. 
Miss M declared  income of around £2,300  a month  and expenditure of around £720-£1,520.  
These figures included  declared housing costs of £500 a month. Satsuma  did add buffers 
and made  amendments to increase Miss Ms declared expenditure  but even after those 
amendments the loans still appeared to be affordable.  So asking further questions about her 
financial commitments  wouldnt,  in my view,  have likely revealed so much extra information 
that Satsuma wouldve  realised the loans  were unaffordable.
Ive paid close attention to Miss Ms credit  file  particularly looking at the adverse 
information which was recorded during the time Satsuma lent to her. If Satsuma was aware 
of any financial difficulty as the result of credit checks, its important that it should take this 
into account.
I can see that Miss M had some historic defaults. I dont think these  indicate  the loans were  
unaffordable. Historic defaults arent  unusual  within the market for this type of product and 
dont automatically  indicate  a borrower  is still in financial difficulty.
I can see that there was also adverse information  which wasnt  historic: Miss M had a 
current account in a payment arrangement and had a recent payment arrangement for 
another short-term  loan.  There was also a payment arrangement and then a default  on 
another current account  although  it seems  that was satisfied in February 2016. There are 
some other pieces of adverse information  in close proximity to the first loan.
I dont think the adverse  information means it was automatically wrong  to lend. Miss Ms 
credit file suggests she was generally taking action to manage her previously defaulted  
accounts, not all of which still had outstanding balances when Miss M asked Satsuma for her 
first loan. Its arguable  Satsuma couldve done  more to understand how much Miss M had to 
contribute towards the accounts which still had outstanding balances. But it added some 
significant buffer amounts to her declared expenditure  and it seems  unlikely  Miss M 
wouldve been paying more than the amounts Satsuma  added.  It therefore seems  unlikely to 
me that asking Miss M further questions about her expenditure wouldve led to a decision not 
to lend.
I note that Miss M was occasionally in contact with Satsuma  and until after the final loan 
doesnt appear to have  made it aware of her financial difficulty  in fact Miss M sent Satsuma 
an email in November  2015, reassuring it she was able to afford  the loans and offering to 
provide proof. I can understand why, given what I know  were her difficult  circumstances, 
Miss M said this. And Im not suggesting  it wouldve been right for Satsuma to simply rely on 
anything Miss M said (and Im also not saying  it did this) without verifying it. But it does 
suggest its unlikely  Satsuma couldve easily found out about Miss Ms health or other 
problems.
So while Im sorry to hear of Miss Ms difficulties, Im not upholding her complaint.
Ref: DRN68365673my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Provident  Personal Credit Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 June 2019.
Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6836567