K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained Vanquis Bank Limited  is expecting him to pay £1,500  for a transaction  
he didnt authorise.
background
On 3 February 2018 Mr C reported  his Vanquis credit  card missing. He wasnt completely 
sure when itd gone missing but he wondered whether this had happened  when he was 
abroad around the middle of January. Mr C had used the card himself when he was abroad 
on 10 January and it had not been used since.
In fact it had been  used  on 27 January for a £1,500 transaction in what may have  been  a 
used car dealer. Mr C insisted this wasnt him. He still felt someone  may have seen him use 
his PIN on 10 January  and then stolen his card.
Vanquis thought  this scenario was unlikely. No-one was likely to steal  his card, travel to a 
foreign country  just to spend £1,500  only a portion of the credit available on the account  
17 days later. Mr C was adamant hed not done this himself and brought his complaint to the 
ombudsman service.
Our investigator felt overall Mr C must  have  done  this himself. She couldnt understand how 
someone could  have known Mr Cs PIN. She wouldnt  ask Vanquis to credit  this amount 
back to his credit card account.
Mr C was unhappy with this outcome. He asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
I completed a provisional decision on 6 February  2020. I didnt believe there  was enough 
evidence to show Mr C had authorised the disputed transaction so I asked Vanquis to refund 
him.
Vanquis disagreed  with this outcome. They felt this expenditure did match his regular 
pattern. They also queried  whether Mr C had reported the loss of his card and €50 with the 
police.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as in my provisional decision.  Ill explain why.  
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other tests  do apply  but not in the case 
here where  a credit card is involved.  So when  we look at whether  a bank has acted fairly in 
rejecting someones  fraud complaint, one of the things we consider is whether  the customer  
made the transactions themselves or allowed them  to be made.  If they did, then we 
generally wouldnt ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transaction, as well 
as what Vanquis and Mr C have told us. Our investigator also got hold of Mr Cs bank 
Ref: DRN65566112statements for his current  account.  Vanquis  has asked to see these but firstly they have not 
been provided to us in a user-friendly format  nor is there anything  to see of any major  
interest. Theyre not something Ive relied  upon  in my decision.
Firstly I can see the timeline of events and how the transaction was made were covered in 
our investigators view of 25 June 2019.  I dont intend to repeat everything  that was said 
there. Except to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the complaint thoroughly.
I think the following  are pertinent to this complaint:
Mr C called Vanquis on 15 January and didnt mention then that his card was 
missing. I accept  he didnt use it all the time so may well not have noticed. But he 
may well have needed to identify himself  by using some of the card details which  
most likely he did from having  the card in front of him.
Vanquis can tell us the transaction on 27 January was completed with the genuine 
card and PIN. Theyve  stated the PIN was entered correctly first time but I have seen 
no evidence showing this. No original audit data has been provided. Following the 
provisional decision Vanquis stated that at a minimum someone must have got 
Mr Cs PIN right on the third attempt. I agree but if that was the case  it would also 
suggest the PIN was entered by someone  who wasnt sure of it.
Vanquis originally thought the disputed transaction  was for car hire. This was 
something Mr C did regularly  so they thought there would  have been  evidence this 
was him.
None of this proved  to be the case. In fact the business no longer exists  nor did 
Vanquis find anything  out about this transaction to help verify what  was bought. This 
is surprising as they knew Mr C disputed this transaction  was his.
Vanquis has continued to say this transaction was similar to Mr Cs history.  This 
transaction was not for car hire (which  Mr C did do regularly) and theres no evidence  
to say what was bought  except what the merchant category tells us  so I continue  
to disagree with them.
Mr C stored his PIN on his phone  (in the notes application). His phone hadnt gone  
missing but that doesnt mean  somebody wasnt able to access  it. He used his date 
of birth as ID for his phone which suggests it wouldnt have been difficult to access  
his phone.
Mr C noticed his card was missing when  he went to use it. He quoted a specific  
retailer to our investigator and said he used his other card instead. Theres no 
transaction for that retailer on Mr Cs other bank statements at this time.
Mr C believed he lost €50 at the same  time as his Vanquis card went missing.  He 
reported this to the police.  Theres no police report for this (nor, to be fair, would I 
expect there to be one).
Ive considered this case carefully and on balance Ive decided theres not enough  evidence  
to say Mr C made this transaction. I say this because:
Theres plenty of opportunity for a compromise  of Mr Cs card and PIN. Mr Cs PIN 
wouldnt have been difficult  to discover if someone wanted to find it out;
Theres no audit data to show whether  the PIN was successfully input first time or 
anything else about the transaction;
Vanquis carried out a limited investigation into the fraud itself and didnt get any 
information from the merchant about what was purportedly bought;
The merchant where the transaction happened  no longer exists.  This seems odd;
Ref: DRN65566113Mr C may be right about his card being stolen whilst he was abroad but I dont think 
thats likely. It could  just as easily have been stolen in the UK and then used 
immediately;
Ive considered the fact Mr C had more credit available than the fraudster used. 
Everybody likes to imply they know how fraudsters  behave  but in this case it could 
just as easily be a fraudster using the card once and striking it lucky there was 
enough available credit in the first place;
Mr C didnt use his debit card when he suggested he might  have on 3 February 2018. 
But we were asking  him this more than a year on so Im not surprised he may have 
got this wrong;  and
Ive reviewed Mr Cs card use history with Vanquis. Hes had this account  a number 
of years.  Although there are a few declined  transactions on his account Vanquis  
werent able to tell us anything about  these. This disputed  transaction   both what  it 
may have been for and where  is out of character  for how Mr C uses his Vanquis 
account.
It appears that Mr C repaid his Vanquis credit card debt including  this disputed £1,500 
transaction. In May 2018 Mr C paid £2,000 off his card which would have included this debt.  
As Ive decided theres not enough evidence to show  Mr C made this transaction,  I will be 
asking Vanquis  to repay £1,500 to him, along  with 8% simple  interest  from May 2018.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my provisional decision is to instruct  Vanquis Bank Limited to:
Refund £1,500 to Mr C for the disputed  transaction; and
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from 4 May 2018 until the date of settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6556611