K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Saga Services Limited  (Saga) has unfairly charged him premiums  for 
additional travel  insurance  cover  he didnt need.
background
Mr C held annual multi-trip travel  insurance  policies with Saga for a number of years.  In 
February 2018 Mr C planned  to travel to the Caribbean as part of a cruise.  He knew this was 
outside of the region scope of his existing insurance, so he called Saga to extend  his 
insurance to cover this trip.
Around the start of April 2018, Mr C received his insurance renewal documents  for the 
following year  which was due to renew  while he was away.  These  showed  the renewed 
policy included the additional worldwide cover. Mr C spoke to Saga and questioned whether 
he needed the extended region cover. He said this as at the point of renewal he would be 
been back within the European cover  regions, and would be so for the rest of the trip. But 
Saga said Mr C would need  the additional cover because  it would still consider him to be on 
part of a trip that had included the Caribbean.
The policy was renewed with the additional  region cover while Mr C was still away. Mr C was 
unhappy and complained  to Saga. He said it wasnt fair that hed paid for the extended cover 
for the year, despite not intending  to travel to any of the additional cover regions. Saga 
reiterated that Mr C had needed  the additional cover  to remain insured, but as a gesture of 
goodwill, it said it would offer him £50.
Mr C brought his complaint to our service and one of our investigators looked  into his 
concerns. She said when  Mr Cs policy renewed  he was still on a trip which  had involved 
travel in the Caribbean. And that this meant his trip hadnt ended, so to remain insured he 
did need the additional region cover  that he had taken.
Mr C said he felt there was no fair reason why Saga  would make  him pay for cover  he 
wouldnt need. And he questioned why it wouldnt be possible for Saga to amend the level of 
cover during  the life of the policy. Our investigator  looked again, and said Mr Cs renewal 
documents explained that the policy could only be amended at renewal stage. And our 
investigator had listened  to a call from April 2018  where Saga had told Mr C he wasnt able 
to downgrade  his cover on his return from his trip.
Saga explained  to the investigator that cover couldnt  be downgraded during the life of an 
annual policy as they arent  costed  on a pro-rata basis across the year.  This meant  Saga 
was unable to check if a customer had used their policy, and so it wouldnt be able to 
calculate if a refund was due if downgraded.
Mr C challenged the wording of the policy itself,  questioning why the underwriters had used 
the phrase each trip. The investigator  said it wasnt for our service to consider this  
instead wed look at whether Saga had applied the wording fairly in this case.  Mr C 
disagreed and so the complaint has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN69173892Having done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain  why.
Under ICOBS 5.1.1 businesses are required to take reasonable steps to ensure that a 
customer only buys a policy under which he is eligible to claim benefits. This means Saga 
needed to take reasonable steps  to make sure Mr C was able to claim on the policy if he 
needed to, when arranging his renewal.
Mr C was taking an annual multi-trip policy, which would insure  him for various risks while he 
is on a trip. Under the policy  a trip is defined as:
Any holiday, business, leisure  or volunteer trip or journey  made by you within the area of 
travel shown in the Schedule, which begins  when you leave home and ends  when you get 
back home or to a hospital, nursing home or medical institution in your home  country,  
whichever is the earlier. 
Its not in dispute  that part of Mr Cs trip away involved  time in the Caribbean,  and that this 
was continuous   meaning he didnt  return home  before  the policy renewed. So for this 
reason I think Mr C wouldve needed to have taken  the additional region cover if he wanted 
to remain insured under his annual policy.
Again, it isnt disputed  that Saga explained  this to Mr C as he challenged this before the 
renewal happened. His argument  is that this is unfair  as he doesnt  intend to travel  to these 
regions across the year of insurance  not that the policy has being misinterpreted.
I understand hes frustrated, but in the circumstances I think Saga sold him a policy  that 
would allow him to claim on the policy if needed,  as it was required to. And had Saga instead  
sold Mr C a policy with the reduced  region cover for a reduced  cost, its possible he wouldnt  
have been able to claim at all  should  he ever have needed to  while  he was on his cruise. 
Mr Cs spoke to Saga on the phone after he received his renewal documents.  In that phone 
call Saga said Mr C could  compare prices and types of cover  with alternative policies, either 
on a single trip policy or with a different insurer. And it explained  prior to Mr Cs renewal  
that he would be unable to reduce his level of cover  during the life of the policy.  
For these reasons Im satisfied Mr C was given clear, fair and not misleading information 
about the policy. And after it did, Mr C made the decision  to still proceed and take the 
insurance, choosing  to do so over taking any of the alternatives it suggested he consider. So 
Im not asking Saga to anything  further.
Mr C has also questioned  some of the terms of the policy more widely,  and challenged 
whether these are fair. This is a decision that Saga is entitled to make, and its not for our 
service to comment on what terms it should  or shouldnt decide to include within  its policies. 
So I wont  comment on this any further.
 
Ref: DRN69173893my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6917389