K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that the vehicle he acquired through  a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Startline Motor Finance  Limited was not of satisfactory quality. He wants  to reject  the vehicle 
and end the agreement.
background
Mr K tells us that he acquired the vehicle  on 9 October 2018 from a dealer Ill refer to as C. 
He says within a few days the vehicle  had broken down with gearbox  failure  and it was 
recovered to Cs premises. Mr K says he wrote  to Startline rejecting  the vehicle on 26 
October 2018. Mr K denies that he ever agreed to the vehicle being repaired. Or that he took 
possession of any courtesy vehicle or any keys to it.
Startline said that C had repaired the vehicle.  And that Mr K had accepted  a courtesy vehicle  
during the period whilst  repairs were carried out. It said that if Mr K had advised C of his 
intention to reject the vehicle it wouldnt  have  supplied him with a courtesy vehicle or 
repaired the vehicle.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. He found  the vehicle wasnt 
of satisfactory when supplied. And that Mr K had exercised his right to reject the vehicle. He 
said hed not been given  any information, such as signed handover receipt, to show  that Mr 
K had been  supplied with a courtesy vehicle.
Startline didnt accept  our investigators view. It said that Mr K had accepted  a courtesy  car. 
It claimed hed later abandoned  this vehicle. And that as hed agreed that his vehicle should 
be repaired  it stated he shouldnt now be able to reject it. As its not been possible to resolve  
this complaint an ombudsmans been  asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
For reasons I neednt explain in detail but with which the parties are familiar, this complaint 
has been subject  to various  delays. Thats unfortunate but this period has at least allowed 
the issues in dispute to be clarified  through further  contact  and correspondence.
I understand why Mr K would be disappointed and concerned that the vehicle broke  down so 
soon after hed acquired it. It wouldnt be surprising if he chose to reject the vehicle when it 
had suffered such a major failure.
Mr Ks hire purchase agreement  is a regulated  consumer  credit agreement and our service 
is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Startline supplied the vehicle so its responsible 
for complaints about the quality of the vehicle. Whilst I dont apply the law  directly   I do 
take it into account. The Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) states  that in order to conform to 
contract goods must be of satisfactory  quality when supplied. If they dont,  then a consumer 
initially has a short-term  option to reject them  provided that this option is exercised within 30 
days of supply.
Ref: DRN61023432Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  in far less detail than the parties and Ive done 
so using my own words. Im not responding to every  single point made by all the parties 
involved. No discourtesy is intended  by this. Instead,  Ive concentrated on what I think are 
the key issues  here. Our rules allow me to do this.
This reflects the nature of our service as an informal alternative to the courts.  If theres 
something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because  Ive ignored it. I havent.  Im satisfied I dont 
need to comment  on every individual argument  to be able to reach what I think  is the right 
outcome.
Where information is incomplete, unclear or contradictory - as some of it is here - I reach  my 
conclusions on the balance of probabilities. That is, what I think is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Mr Ks vehicle  broke down on or around 19 October  2018. A report by the breakdown 
service which  examined the vehicle  indicates a probable gearbox failure. The vehicle was 
later recovered to Cs premises. Its not disputed that the vehicle required repairs.  There  
cant be any doubt that it wasnt of satisfactory quality when supplied to Mr K.
Mr K wrote to Startline on 26 October 2018  rejecting the vehicle. Startline accepts that due 
to an administrative error  this request wasnt processed at the time.  This led to a delay 
during which  time the vehicle was apparently repaired  by C which  then asked Mr K to collect  
it.
Its fair to say that the main issues now remaining  between the parties are whether Mr K - 
notwithstanding his request to reject the vehicle  had agreed  to have it repaired. And was 
he provided with a courtesy vehicle whilst his own vehicle was undergoing  those  repairs.
Theres no way to reconcile the differences in the parties account of what happened. Mr K 
denies accepting  a courtesy car. Startline has said the business which  was used to recover  
Mr Ks vehicle  confirmed it had delivered  a courtesy vehicle to Mr K and left the keys with 
him.
Our investigator has asked Startline  if its able to provide any documentary evidence of the 
courtesy vehicle being  handed over to Mr K. Ive not seen that any such information has 
been provided.
In my opinion, its highly improbable to the point of being implausible that any business 
would permit a valuable asset such as a courtesy vehicle to be lent to a customer without 
that customer providing some form of receipt. And it wouldnt be unusual  for an indemnity or 
insurance against loss or damage  also to be required. In the absence of any such 
information, the most probable explanation is that Mr K didnt accept the courtesy car. And 
that there  was a lack of communication between  the recovery business and C as to what 
had happened  to the courtesy vehicle.
The fact that C repaired the vehicle is, in my opinion, indicative of nothing  other  than C 
accepted that the vehicle it had supplied wasnt of satisfactory quality. If it had thought  the 
vehicle was being rejected by Mr K it probably would still have had repairs  carried out so it 
could be re-sold.
Ref: DRN61023433In summary,  I find that the vehicle supplied to Mr K wasnt of satisfactory quality.  Mr K 
exercised the short  term right to reject the goods  in accordance  with the CRA.  Startline 
havent provided enough information to show that Mr K agreed to accept  repairs  prior to his 
rejection of the vehicle. Nor that he changed  his position after hed sent his letter seeking to 
reject it. Accordingly, Im upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding this complaint.
I now require Startline  Motor Finance  Limited  to take the following action in full and final 
settlement of this complaint:
1.End Mr K s agreement with nothing  further  to pay;
2.Refund to Mr K all the payments hes made on the agreement together with simple 
interest at 8% per year from date of payment to date of settlement;
3.Pay Mr K £250 in compensation for the inconvenience caused;
4.Arrange collection  of the car with no further cost to Mr K;
5.Arrange to have  details of the agreement  removed  from Mr Ks credit  file. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6102343