K820x#14complaint
Mr H had a mortgage  with Bank of Scotland plc and hes unhappy with how it has treated 
him since he asked for a payment  holiday  in June 2011.
background
In 2006 Mr H raised a mortgage on his (previously) unencumbered  property  with 
Bank of Scotland. In 2008  Mr H switched the mortgage onto a new preferential  interest rate.
Due to difficulties involving Mr Hs business  he requested a three-month payment holiday in 
June 2011 but his request  was turned  down.  Bank  of Scotland  says this is because Mr H 
had missed his payment  due in April 2011  and at the time of making his request the 
June 2011 payment was also late.
After then, things spiralled and eventually legal  action was undertaken. Mr H made counter 
claims and appealed against  the court rulings,  but Bank of Scotland obtained  an Order for 
Possession in August  2013. Despite obtaining  the order, Bank of Scotland  allowed Mr H 
time to sell his property privately   rather than have it taken it into possession  and the sale 
completed in November 2014. Mr H says the sale price was much lower than it should  have  
been due to the pressure  he was under from Bank  of Scotland.
Mr H has made various complaints over the years about his mortgage and Bank of Scotland  
issued final response  letters  each time;  from here on Ill refer to these as the earlier final 
response letters. Mr H referred one of those complaints to us and an ombudsman  colleague  
issued a decision in March 2013  in which she explained  we wouldnt look at the complaint as 
it was the subject of ongoing court action that hadnt  been stayed to allow our consideration.
The latest complaint was made by Mr H on 12 March 2018, and Bank of Scotland responded 
to say many  of the points Mr H had raised  had been  answered in the earlier  final response 
letters (and so wouldnt  be looked  at again), and it dealt with a few new issues.  
In a decision in June 2019 I set out details of what we would  and wouldnt look at. I said we 
wouldnt be considering;
anything  that happened before 12 March 2012,
anything  that was mentioned in the earlier final response letters,
the subject matter of the 2013 complaint  my ombudsman colleague decided, or
anything  relating to the court action.
As our adjudicator had already given his opinion I asked both sides to let me have any final 
submissions. I also asked Mr H to summarise any specific concerns he had that met the 
criteria of what Id said wed be looking at. The reason I asked for this is that Mr Hs original 
letter had 58 heads of complaint, but most related back to issues we wouldnt be looking at. 
Neither side wanted to make any further  submissions so its been passed back to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr H has set out his account  of events in 
considerable detail. I trust he wont take it as a discourtesy that Ive condensed his complaint 
Ref: DRN63672212in the way that I have. Ours  is an informal dispute  resolution service, and Ive concentrated 
on what I consider to be the crux of the complaint.
Although Ive read and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but 
because I dont think I need to comment on it in order to reach  the right outcome.  This 
service is impartial between, and independent from, consumers and businesses so we dont 
represent either party.
Having looked  at all the heads  of complaint Im satisfied I can only deal with whats 
happened since the possession order was granted in August 2013. Thats because 
everything else was either covered in the earlier final response letters,  was the subject 
matter of the 2013 complaint my ombudsman colleague decided, or was raised as part of the 
court action. 
For instance, the court granted the possession order despite Mr H telling  the judge that 
another property  was to be sold, and despite  Mr Hs arguments that Bank of Scotland hadnt  
done enough to help him to avoid repossession. As these arguments  were put before the 
court then it would be inappropriate for me to consider them  here as I cant  interfere with 
what a court has decided,  and why. To explain if, for example, I decided Bank of Scotland 
should have waited for Mr H to sell his other  property (which  to be clear Im not making a 
finding on either way, Im just using it as an example) then Id  in effect   be saying the 
court was wrong  to not also make  that ruling. And I simply dont have  the power to do that.
I understand Mr H wanted a face to face meeting with Bank of Scotland. Whilst he had a 
large debt with Bank of Scotland, that didnt give Mr H access  to a designated  case  handler, 
nor did it mean Bank of Scotland needed to provide  a bespoke service tailored specifically 
for him. Bank of Scotland  has a specially trained team that deal with cases like this - where 
mortgages are in arrears  and/or there is litigation  and that team deal with matters over the 
phone. Im satisfied  Bank of Scotland didnt  act inappropriately in not granting Mr H a face to 
face meeting,  and instead said he needed to contact it in the same way as all its other 
customers.
Mr H has said he was forced to sell the property for less than its true worth  due to the 
pressure Bank of Scotland put him under. Bank of Scotland was granted  a possession  order  
in August 2013 which said Mr H had to give up possession by 4 September  2013.  Despite  
this, Bank  of Scotland  allowed Mr H another 14 months to sell the property himself,  with the 
sale completing in November 2014.  Before  that the mortgage had been in arrears  since 
2011, with court action ongoing from 2012, so thered been plenty of time for Mr H to market  
the property. From  4 September 2013  Bank of Scotland was within its rights to not allow 
Mr H any more time to sell the property himself,  and instead take it into possession. So it 
seems it gave plenty of forbearance for Mr H to find a way to repay the debt or sell the 
property himself. A property is only worth  what a person is willing to pay for it, and Bank  of 
Scotland was more  than patient  in allowing  Mr H so long to sell his property  himself.
Finally, Mr H commented on the fact there was a shortfall when the property  was sold. On 
14 August 2014  Bank of Scotlands solicitors confirmed the sale could proceed with a sale 
price of £556,000.  But it went on to explain that Mr Hs request that the net proceeds  of the 
sale be accepted  in full and final settlement of the debt was not accepted, and that Mr H 
would remain liable  for the shortfall debt.
Ref: DRN63672213Mr H replied the following  day to say in his letter of 1 August 2014 he asked if he should 
continue with his previous  sale (which  had been  agreed  at £595,000 but had stalled)  or 
accept the lower offer of £550,000 (which was renegotiated to £556,000). Mr H said as hed 
heard nothing to the contrary he believed the lower  offer was acceptable in full and final 
settlement of the mortgage.
Its not clear why Mr H would think that; if Bank  of Scotland was willing to accept that it would  
have said so. He would  have been notified  there was a change in the contract and Bank of 
Scotland was willing  to accept a lower payment than was due (and had been ordered  in 
court). The fact he didnt  hear anything surely  meant  the status  quo remained; that is, Bank 
of Scotland expected him to pay the full outstanding  debt.
In its 2018 final response  letter Bank of Scotland apologised for the delay in responding to 
Mr Hs complaint, and for not returning one of his calls within  24 hours  and offered £75 
compensation for that. That seems fair. If Mr H wants to accept that offer (and hasnt already 
done so) he should contact Bank  of Scotland directly to do that. I make no other order or 
award.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of the 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 September 2019.
Julia Chapman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6367221