K820x#14complaint
Mr P says Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS)  mis-sold  him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr P bought the policy in 2005  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.  Due to the time 
that has passed, its not totally clear how Mr P applied for his credit  card,  he says it was over 
the internet but the records from BoS indicate it was over the telephone. 
At the time,  Mr P was employed as a Boat Finisher. He has told us he was entitled to sick 
pay, life cover and redundancy  pay from his employer and that he had around £2,000 in 
savings. Mr P has said he was in good  health  at the time of the sale,  although he had 
suffered an ankle sprain some 35 years before. 
The policy provided  cover  for critical illness, accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject 
to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mr Ps credit card balance in the 
event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost 78p per £100  of the monthly  outstanding  
balance. The premium  would continue to have to be paid during a successful claim and it did 
attract interest. 
BoS has sent us screenshots to show that the credit card account closed in 2012  and the 
PPI ended in 2007.
Mr Ps representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on his behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ps representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr P wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr Ps representatives 
believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mr P about the poor value;
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mr P and the impact  they 
would have had on his chances of making a claim; and
Ref: DRN68237412The information Mr P received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr P disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ps. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ps complaint.
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2012. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgement in Plevin about 
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgement, arent 
applicable. 
This sale took place  in 2005 after the sale of general  insurance  products like this became 
regulated by the Financial Services Authority (FSA) in January 2005. So the FSAs and the 
FCAs overarching principles for businesses and insurance conduct rules  (ICOB)  are 
applicable to this complaint.
Its also relevant to note that there  have for some  time been codes governing the sale of 
insurance products  such as PPI. There is much in common between  the present statutory 
regulatory regime and the non-statutory provisions that preceded  it (and, indeed, the position 
at law). 
Although the non-statutory provisions no longer apply as specific requirements on those 
selling insurance,  I consider that they still represent a helpful  guide to good industry practice. 
As a result its appropriate  for me to take them into account along  with the relevant ICOB 
rules and the other relevant  considerations.
In the period immediately before statutory regulation in 2005, there was a period of industry 
self-regulation by the General Insurance  Standards  Council (GISC). It published  The 
General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance Code for private customers   the 
Ref: DRN68237413GISC Code. This set out minimum  standards of good practice for its members  to follow 
when selling  insurance, including PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
BoS, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. The sale took place after insurance mediation became  a regulated  activity  in January 
2005, so BoS was required to take into account  the evidential provisions in DISP App 3 
when considering Mr Ps complaint.
key questions  
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mr P with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for him, given his needs  
and circumstances.  
Whether BoS gave  Mr P sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  him 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr P, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr P suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr P and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ps complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN68237414did Mr P know he had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. 
Mr P was sent an application form to check and sign in order to complete his application for 
the credit  card account. On this form it indicated in the summary information that Mr P had 
chosen to take out insurance  cover  and if he wanted  this he should tick the box and sign in 
the separate section of the form. The form was signed and dated 27 August 2005 by Mr P 
and date stamped  as received by BoS on 30 August 2005.  I can see Mr P did sign in the 
section to take out the insurance,  although  he didnt tick the box. 
The records  of BoS indicate the PPI was sold over the phone  after the credit  card had been 
applied for. Taking  account of the application  for the credit card account I believe that the 
record of the telephone  call on 12 September 2005,  rather than being a sales  call, reflects it 
was confirmed by telephone Mr P wanted the PPI as he did not tick the box, despite having 
signed to say he wanted it. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its very likely that Mr P knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did BoS provide advice?
Mr P says BoS didnt  provide advice during this sale, but BoS says it did as the application 
was made  over the telephone. Looking  at what happened when BoS sold Mr P the PPI, Im 
persuaded that it most likely provided  advice . The records indicate  that there was a 
telephone call with Mr P and clearly  when the application for the credit card account was 
sent out for signature it was indicated Mr P has already indicated the wanted the PPI. So 
some discussion  took place I think it more likely than not BoS provided  some advice. 
This means  BoS had to advise  Mr P with reasonable care and skill, in particular  whether  the 
policy was appropriate  or suitable given his needs  and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps BoS took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr P. It seems Mr P cant remember any discussion and exactly what  
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This 
is unsurprising in respect of a sale over the telephone. The adviser  had some limited  
information about Mr Ps financial  circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  
the adviser took steps to establish whether Mr P would have been caught  by the significant 
exclusions and limitations which  might have meant the policy  did not fully meet his needs. 
For example, there is nothing to suggest BoS considered whether Mr P had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities, Im not persuaded that BoS did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr P given his circumstances. So Im 
not persuaded BoS advised  with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BoS did all it should  have  done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Mr P, I do think  its more likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately  suitable  for 
him. In reaching that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
Ref: DRN68237415Mr P met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
Mr P had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Mr Ps ability to continue to meet  
his credit card repayments  would  have been  put under strain  if he was not working 
for an extended period of time  even allowing for the redundancy benefits,  sick pay 
benefits and savings e says he would  have been  entitled to.
The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr P, and no 
evidence has been provided to show it wasnt. 
The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr P. There  was 
nothing about  Mr Ps employment or occupation  which would have made it difficult  for 
him to claim. Regarding  the pre-existing medical conditions, Mr P has told us about  
this was a sprained ankle that occurred in 1970,  some 35 years  before the sale.  This 
doesnt appear to be caught by the specific terms and conditions  on limitations and 
exclusions. 
While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability, unemployment, it still provided useful cover given Mr Ps circumstances.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BoS gave Mr P sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable him to understand  what BoS was 
recommending to him and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr P was given a very broad  description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is, that the policy would protect his card payments in the 
event he was unable  to work through disability or unemployment). Ive reached this 
conclusion because I think  Mr P would have been told this  at the very least   during the 
discussion with the adviser. I think its unlikely Mr P would have taken out the policy without 
any sense of what the policy was. 
Im also satisfied Mr P would have realised  the policy wasnt free and its likely he would  
have had some understanding of how much the policy cost before  agreeing  to take it out.
But the evidence  from the time of the sale doesnt  tell us whether BoS gave sufficient 
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost (the fact that the premiums  
would be added to the account balance, attracting interest if unpaid  at the end of the month, 
and were payable  during  a claim) or about  the exclusions  and limitations, before Mr P 
agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr P, Im not persuaded BoS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to Mr P. Im not persuaded that BoS gave Mr P all of the information he 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take out the policy.
Ref: DRN68237416Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ps representative has raised a number  
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ps. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ps representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr P about the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ps representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr P has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mr P? To what extent did Mr P suffer loss 
or damage as a result?
I have found that BoS didnt do all it should  have done when  it sold this policy to Mr P. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Mr P suffered 
loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide whether  or not Mr P would have 
still taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly.  
While Im not persuaded that BoS took the steps  it should have done  to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr P, I have found  that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for him.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr P has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BoS had explained things properly, Mr 
P would have acted  differently, or whether he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr P says he would  not have taken it out and believes that I should  presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. I have considered  the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
Ref: DRN68237417The evidence in this case suggests that Mr P had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BoS advised him that there  was a suitable 
product he could buy that would protect  his credit card payments in the event  he was unable  
to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, he concluded he wanted that 
product. But he made that decision based on incomplete information, meaning what  he 
thought he was getting is not exactly what he got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr Ps circumstances at the time 
of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable  for him. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mr P ought  reasonably to have known  he would have to 
pay something for the PPI and that it would cover repayment of a portion of his outstanding 
balance  this would  have been highlighted in the telephone  call. But, I accept that BoS 
didnt make clear the on-going cost information.  So while Mr P didnt know some things, the 
ultimate position in the event of a successful claim wasnt dissimilar to what he would 
reasonably have thought  from the information he based his decision to take out the policy  on 
and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr P thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr P knew  about or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mr P 
wasnt a permanent employee.
I do accept that there is a possibility that the limitations and exclusions above might  well 
have caused Mr P pause for thought  and may well have caused him to conclude  that the 
policy was not as good as he thought,  and he might have decided  not to proceed. The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr P from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ps circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for him. He was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. Although Mr P says he had a medical 
condition when the PPI was taken  out, what he has referred to, was an injury that occurred 
over 35 years before he took out the policy and wasnt ongoing as a medical condition  that 
would have been excluded by the policy. And I havent seen any evidence  to suggest he 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions. So I still think he had some good 
reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr P might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely he would have expected to be able to make a 
Ref: DRN68237418disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mr P 
from taking out the policy,  Mr P, in his circumstances,  still had some  good reasons to take it 
out.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mr P would  still have taken out the PPI. The policy was sufficiently close  to 
what he thought  he was getting, and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding his employment  benefits and other  means. And in those 
circumstances, I consider it more likely than not that he would have taken out the policy in 
any event.  
Mr Ps representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) make 
it clear that, where a significant failing is identified,  it should be presumed  the consumer 
wouldnt have taken  out PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption.  They  
say we should follow this other than in exceptional  circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr P would not have bought the PPI he bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ps 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr P 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr P believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr P in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, I am 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, it is more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude BoS should pay Mr P compensation, as that would put him in a better position than 
he would  have been in if everything had happened  as it should have done. 
Ref: DRN68237419Im also aware that Mr P thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  Whilst I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mr P, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
[date] when providing information  about  an insurance policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ps representative says a court might take if it were 
to find BoS negligently misrepresented the contract  to Mr P and about  the remedy  a court 
might award if it were  to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  faith.  
But this doesnt  persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mr P in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 November  2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6823741