1complaint
Mr D and Mrs O are complaining about  Barclays Bank UK PLC because they say they were  
mis-sold a life and critical illness insurance  policy. They say they didnt need the policy  but 
were sold it anyway. They also say the adviser  didnt  explain commission would be paid for the 
sale.
background
In 2007, Mr D and Mrs O took out a secured loan for £56,000. It was set up on a repayment 
basis for a term of 15 years. At the same  time,  following discussions with a Barclays adviser, 
they also took a level term life and critical illness insurance policy  with Legal and General. The 
policy provided cover of £56,000 for a term of 15 years and was set to pay out if either of them 
died or suffered a serious illness before the end of the term.
In the end, Mr D and Mrs O fully repaid the loan in 2008. They  held the policy until they 
cancelled it in 2009.
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
partly upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision.
Barclays accepted  my provisional decision  and said Legal and General have confirmed the 
monthly cost of a decreasing policy on the terms I suggested would have been lower at £58.32  
per month.
Mr D and Mrs O made the following key points:
The commission may have been  set out in the small  print at the end of the 
documentation, but the adviser  didnt explain it verbally.
They were both employed at the time of sale (Mr D wasnt self-employed as recorded in 
the sales documentation) and had various benefits, including  salaried  sick pay.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having  reconsidered  the case, including Mr D and Mrs 
Os response to my provisional  decision, my conclusions havent changed.
I note Mr D and Mrs O have said they werent told verbally about the commission  Barclays 
received from the sale of their policy. But as Ive said before, I dont think  their recollections 
alone of what  was discussed many  years ago  and without any additional supporting  evidence  
 are enough for me to conclude the policy was mis-sold.  In any event, by including  details of 
the commission in the policy documentation  provided,  Im satisfied Barclays  fulfilled its 
obligations. I think its also relevant to note this type of commission  arrangement was normal  in 
the industry at the time, so it would probably have been a factor  if theyd purchased cover 
elsewhere.
I thank Mr D and Mrs O for confirming their employment status.  But as I said in my provisional 
decision, I think it was reasonable to recommend they take life and critical illness cover 
whether they were  employed or self-employed. Any benefits they had, including  life cover  and 
sick pay, would only have remained available while they stayed in the same job and wouldnt 
have paid a lump sum on diagnosis of a serious illness.
While I think the advice  to take life and critical illness cover for their mortgage was suitable, I 
think there were other options that should  have been discussed. If Mr D and Mrs O had been 
Ref: DRN66572492given the information to make a fully informed  decision,  I think  its likely theyd have taken a 
decreasing rather  than a level cover  policy.  The intention of my award is to return them to the 
financial position theyd  now be in if thats  what had happened.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold this complaint.
If Mr D and Mrs O accept my decision, Barclays Bank UK PLC must them compensation  
calculated using the method set out in my provisional decision. It should provide Mr D and Mrs 
O with details of its calculations in a clear  and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  11 May 2019.  
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66572493extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
Ive taken account  of what Mr D and Mrs O say took place when their policy  was sold. But on their own 
and without additional supporting evidence, I dont  think  their comments  are enough for me to say they 
were misled about the need  to have the policy or otherwise unduly  pressured  into taking it out.
The payment of commission for selling this type of policy  was common practice in the industry at the 
time and was ultimately a matter between Barclays and Legal and General. But it was a requirement for 
the commission  to be disclosed and Barclays has provided a copy of a personalised quotation from the 
time that says:
The cost of the advice
For arranging this contract for [Mr D and Mrs O] on the basis  outlined in the accompanying Kev 
Features document. Legal & General will pay commission  to your financial adviser worth 
£1.980.74 immediately. and then from month 49. £2.08 each month. until the end of the Plan.
Barclays says this was issued at the time of sale and the comments in Mr D and Mrs Os letter  to us 
dated 4 June  2018 appear to show they received it, or something similar.  On balance, I think  the 
evidence shows Barclays met its obligations to disclose  details of the commission it received.
The above notwithstanding, Mr D and Mrs O received  advice  and the adviser had a responsibility  to 
make sure any recommendation was suitable  for their circumstances  and needs.
The secured loan Mr D and Mrs O arranged  was a substantial new,  potentially long-term,  commitment 
and I think it would  be difficult  to argue they (or the survivor)  wouldnt have benefitted from a lump sum 
sufficient to repay that debt if either of them died or became seriously ill before the end of the term.  
Mr D and Mrs O have  talked about life cover  and sick pay through their work, but this would only have 
remained available while  they stayed in the same job and wouldnt  have paid a lump  sum on diagnosis  of 
a serious illness. According to the fact find completed by the adviser  at the time of sale,  Mr D was self-
employed, which if correct,  suggests he didnt have work-based cover anyway. Either  way, Im satisfied it 
was reasonable for the adviser  to recommend they take life and critical illness cover for the full amount 
and term of their loan based  on their circumstances at the time.
While I think  the advice for Mr D and Mrs O to take life and critical illness cover  was suitable, Im 
concerned they were  sold a policy providing  level cover when the balance of their loan was set to 
decrease during  the term. A more  obvious solution would have been to recommend  a decreasing policy, 
where the cover  would have reduced along with the loan and that would  normally involve a lower 
premium.
Theres some evidence  this issue was considered at the time of sale and I note the fact find completed 
by the adviser  says:
Discussed levels of cover available  and as the secured loan may be part redeemed or 
reborrowed at any time, may draw down  again In future, want the total £56,000 sum assured in 
place for the entire  15 years  regardless of the actual outstanding balance.
This appears to indicate Mr D and Mrs O wanted level cover for the whole term because they may want 
to re-borrow in the future. But I dont think it clearly  shows the alternatives were  discussed, or that they 
were made aware  of the comparative cost of a decreasing policy to match the terms of their loan, so they 
could make an informed decision. Without providing  this information, I think it would have been  quite 
easy to make the level cover option appear more attractive. 
But in practice and if Mr D and Mrs O had been able to make a fully informed decision,  Im not sure level 
cover would have been the more attractive option. Ive seen nothing  in the sales documentation  to show 
they were looking to do anything other than cover  their new loan. The recommendation of a level policy  
meant they were likely to end up spending more  than necessary  to achieve this. Ive reviewed  the loan 
agreement and I cant  see it was set up in a flexible way to facilitate future  re-borrowing. And I question 
how likely that was anyway given it was repaid  in such a short  period of time. Im also conscious the 
Ref: DRN66572494purpose of the loan was to consolidate  existing  debts, suggesting Mr D and Mrs O were keen to reduce 
their outgoings. Taking everything into account, if the options had been fully discussed, including the 
comparative costs, I think its likely Mr D and Mrs O would have ended  up selecting decreasing rather  
than level cover. 
While Im satisfied  it was reasonable to recommend Mr D and Mrs O take life and critical illness cover to 
protect their new loan, I dont think level cover was suitable for their needs at the time of sale. Further,  I 
dont think the evidence shows  full details of their options, including  the comparative cost,  was provided  
so they could  make a fully informed decision.
putting things  right
With suitable advice, I think Mr D and Mrs O would  most likely  have taken  an equivalent decreasing term 
insurance policy providing  initial  cover  of £56,000  for a term of 15 years. As Barclays was selling Legal  
and General policies at the time, I think its most likely that policy  would have been with the same 
insurer.
To put things right, I currently think Barclays should pay Mr D and Mrs O compensation  of A + B, where:
A = a refund  of each  monthly overpayment made while their policy  was in force. The 
overpayment is calculated as the difference between the cost of the policy  they did take and an 
equivalent decreasing  term policy with initial cover of £56,000 and a term of 15 years, based on 
their ages and health at the time of sale in 2007; and
B = simple  interest at 8% per year on each amount being refunded in A from the date the 
overpayment was made to the date compensation is paid. Income tax may be payable  on this 
interest.
If Barclays thinks Legal and General didnt offer decreasing cover at the time or theres some other  
reason it wont be able to find out how much this would have cost,  it should  let me know in response to 
this provisional  decision.  Ill then be able to think about alternative methods of calculating compensation.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to partly uphold  this complaint. I currently Barclays Bank UK PLC 
should pay Mr D and Mrs O compensation  calculated  using the method set out above.
Ref: DRN6657249