K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  about a number of Contracts  for Differences that were  placed on her 
account with AxiCorp Limited, trading as AxiTrader UK. She says that neither she, nor her 
husband who has access to her account,  placed  the trades.
Mrs L has been represented by her husband, Mr H.
background
Mrs L set up an account with AxiTrader in March 2018. On 5 April 2018  AxiTrader closed 
open positions on her account  due to a negative balance. 
Mrs L complained to AxiTrader about the trades that were placed  on her account  after 4pm 
Eastern Standard Time (EST) on 4 April 2018.  She explained that shed closed all of her 
positions by this time and that she didnt  place any further trades after this. She said these 
trades had been  placed  by someone  other  than herself and that they werent in line with her 
trading style. Mrs L also questioned why she didnt receive a margin  call in this instance  as 
shed been provided one before.
AxiTrader didnt uphold  Mrs Ls complaint. They said the trading platform, which  is provided 
by a third party,  uses  a digital certificate that is installed on PCs as a way of leaving a unique  
identifier for every trade or order thats  placed. And that the records provided by the platform  
provider show the trades  in question were placed  by Mrs Ls trading platform  with her 
certificate ID. So they were made by Mrs L or someone that shed  given access  to her 
account. Consequently the open  positions  resulted  in losses  and put her account into 
negative equity as the markets went against  her.
AxiTrader also explained that margin calls are made  on a best endeavours basis. So 
although one had been provided on a previous occasion, the obligation was on Mrs L to 
ensure she monitored  her positions  and had sufficient margin  in her account.  They  also 
referred to the account terms which explain this and that open positions may automatically  
close if there is insufficient margin in the account.
The complaint was brought to our service. Our investigator looked in to the matter but he 
was satisfied the trades were most likely  placed  from Mrs Ls account as hed seen evidence 
to show the account was logged into from the same  Internet Protocol (IP) address on the 
day they were placed. He also didnt think AxiTraders  best endeavour basis in respect of 
providing margin calls was unreasonable as the account terms made it clear that it is the 
clients responsibility to monitor  their account and so margin calls shouldnt  be relied upon. 
Mr H disagreed and so the matter has been  passed  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to same  
conclusions as the investigator and for largely  the same reasons. 
Id like to firstly explain that I know Mr H has raised a number of issues.  And so, while I hope 
he doesnt take this as a discourtesy, Ill be addressing what I consider are the key issues  of 
the complaint.  So if I dont  mention  a particular point it isnt because I havent  seen it or 
Ref: DRN63858202thought about it. But rather its just that I dont feel the need to explain it in my decision, 
which is just a reflection  of the informal nature of our service.
AxiTrader has provided evidence that shows the trades placed  on Mrs Ls account were  from 
the same  IP address  that has been previously  used. And so, as the previous placed trades 
arent in dispute,  Im satisfied on balance that the trades were placed  from Mrs Ls PC and 
account either by her, Mr H or someone else who had access  to it.
Mr H however strongly disputes  this and believes the trades  were  carried out by AxiTrader. 
He says the digital certificate can be downloaded to multiple PCs and that someone  couldve 
impersonated the IP address from Mrs Ls PC, which  is known as IP spoofing. He therefore 
doesnt think the matching of the digital certificate  or IP address with previous trades proves 
they were placed  by him or Mrs L. 
He also says the possibility of someone  else using the digital certificate  could be why he was 
unable to access the account  on the evening of 4 April 2018 - when it was greyed out - as 
only one digital certificate can be used at any given  time. Hes also added that AxiTrader  had 
access to the portal web page password and so they couldve replicated the IP address on a 
trading position.  This, he says, is supported by what he considers as irregularities in some of 
the trading data that is blank on 4 and 5 April 2018.
Ive carefully considered  these points. But I think it would helpful  for me to explain that our 
service isnt able to forensically investigate  AxiTraders,  or their third parties,  IT systems or 
data records. So while I accept Mr Hs assertions could be possible  Ive not seen anything to 
show it happened. There doesnt appear to be any record of Mrs L or Mr H reporting 
difficulties of accessing the account  to AxiTrader on the evening of 4 April 2018 and Im not 
persuaded the trading  data indicates any wrong doing on their part. I therefore, on balance, 
think its most likely  that the trades on Mrs Ls account were placed from her PC.  I know Mr 
H disputes this but I have  to make a decision on the information available to me and, taking 
everything in to account, I think this is the most probable explanation in the circumstances. 
Im aware Mr H has also said that its clear these  trades werent placed by them  as its not in 
line with their trading  style or trade history since the account was opened. Hes also referred 
to an email sent to AxiTrader prior to the opening of the account in which  he says he doesnt 
hold positions  long and never overnight  which  is what  happened  in this case. While I dont 
dispute how Mrs L and Mr H intended to trade when setting up the account, or how they 
traded up until 4 April 2018, I dont think this necessarily  proves they didnt place the trades 
in question here. And so while I know this will come as a disappointment to Mrs L and Mr H, 
Im more persuaded  by the evidence  that shows the trades came  from the same  IP address 
that had been used  before. 
Mr H has also questioned  why a margin call wasnt  provided by AxiTrader in this instance as 
on previous occasions theyve  contacted him by phone and email  to warn him of it 
happening. Section eight  of the client agreement however  explains that it is the responsibility 
of the client to monitor the account  and that margin calls shouldnt be relied  upon  as they are 
made as a matter  of courtesy, not obligation.  Consequently should the client fail to maintain 
such margin requirements,  as happened here, AxiTrader may automatically  close out open 
positions.  So although I appreciate why Mr H is unhappy a margin  call wasnt provided, 
particularly as he contests  they placed  the trades in the first place, Im satisfied AxiTrader 
hasnt acted outside the terms of the agreement. Im also aware that, as trading on Mrs Ls 
account was limited due to only being recently  opened,  there hadnt been  many occasions 
when a margin call had taken place. So while AxiTrader may have contacted them  on the 
Ref: DRN63858203previous occasions,  I dont think this necessarily set an expectation that it would always 
happen. And as the terms are clear  in setting out it is the clients  responsibility  to maintain 
margin requirements, I dont think AxiTrader has acted unfairly in this respect.
Im aware Mr H has since raised concerns about trading activity  on the account prior to 4 
April 2018. AxiTrader has however said that they werent made aware of such concerns until 
the complaint  about the closure of the positions was raised. And so, similar to the above, in 
the absence of anything to show AxiTrader is responsible or at fault for trades placed I dont 
think they can be held responsible.
I realise this isnt the outcome Mrs L and Mr H were  hoping  for but for the reasons Ive 
explained Im not going to ask them to do anything  further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Daniel ODell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6385820