K820x#14complaint
Mr M and Mrs H complain  that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1996. The policy  was taken out to cover  
their mortgage and was in Mr Ms name  only. It provided him with cover for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  Mr M and Mrs H 
didnt agree. Mr M said, in summary,  that:
They  werent  given  good advice.
The Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA)  told him he qualified for a commission refund.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
I dont think from what Nationwide has told us that it recommended the PPI. As Nationwide  
didnt recommend the policy, it didnt need  to ensure that it was suitable for Mr M and Mrs H.
So the key question I need  to consider  is did Nationwide give Mr M and Mrs H information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading  in order to put them in a position where they could 
make an informed choice  about the insurance they were buying?
And, if there  was a problem with the way the policy  was sold,  then I need to consider 
whether Mr M and Mrs H are worse  off as a result. That is, would they have  done  something 
different  such as not taking out the policy  if there hadnt been  any problems with the 
sale?
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr M and Mrs Hs complaint for the following reasons:
Mr M and Mrs H took out a mortgage in 1995.  The following year they took out further 
lending secured on their home and during the meeting they were given a PPI application  
form which they completed and returned  a few weeks later.  Mr M and Mrs H wouldve known 
they didnt need the PPI for their mortgage to be approved  the lending  was already in 
place. And they had time to consider their application at home before they completed it. 
Overall, I think Nationwide made Mr M and Mrs H aware that PPI was optional and they 
chose to take it out.
Its possible the information the society gave  Mr M and Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  
as it should have been. But I dont  think they would have been  put off taking  out the policy  if 
they had received better information.  I say this because:
Ref: DRN60744562The policy was taken out in Mr Ms name only and he was eligible  for the policy given 
his circumstances and the terms and conditions. 
Mr M wasnt affected by any of the conditions  limiting  the policys  main benefits such as 
those affecting  self-employed  people or people with pre-existing medical conditions. As 
he couldve  benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think  it unlikely he needed 
better information about the policys exclusions and limitations.
Mr M told us he couldnt  remember if he wouldve received any pay from his employer if 
he couldnt work  due to sickness or an accident and that he and Mrs H didnt have any 
other means of meeting their mortgage payments. Their  mortgage was a major long 
term financial commitment and their home  was at risk if they couldnt meet  the 
repayments. They chose to take out cover for Mr M so I think they probably wanted  to 
make sure their mortgage payments  would  be covered  if he couldnt  work, or became 
unemployed. The policy wouldve covered him for up to 24 months, so wouldve been a 
useful benefit  in addition to any sick pay he mightve received. And I can see a 
successful claim for unemployment  was made  in 1997.
-I cant see that the cost of the policy was clearly  communicated to Mr M and Mrs H 
before they agreed to purchase  it. I dont think they were  told it would  cost £13.23  each 
month until after the mortgage had started. For this reason I have considered  whether  
clearer information about the cost would have affected their decision to purchase the 
policy. They had chosen to take out the policy, knowing they would have to pay 
something for it. The policy was competitively priced and apparently  affordable. So 
I think it unlikely they would have made a different decision if better information about the 
cost had been provided.
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont think Mr M and Mrs H wouldve made a different 
decision about taking  out the policy if better  information had been provided  to them   overall 
I think they would have still taken out the policy.
I turn now to Mr M and Mrs Hs complaint that Nationwide  wont refund any commission  it 
received from their PPI premiums for the policy.
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some rules about how businesses should deal with complaints about  the 
non-disclosure of commission where PPI was sold. 
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
Ref: DRN60744563Nationwide has given  me information  that shows Mr M and Mrs Hs mortgage  was taken out 
in 1995 and ended in 2005. So based  on what Ive said above,  I dont  think  the unfair  
relationship provisions in the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment,  or the 
rules and guidance made by the FCA in relation  to the non-disclosure of commission  apply 
here.
So Nationwide doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr M and Mrs H paid for the 
PPI they had with their mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 August  2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6074456