K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Provident  Personal Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) lent to him in an 
irresponsible manner.
background
Mr S took three instalment loans  from Satsuma between February 2017 and November 
2017. Details of the 3 loans are as follows:
Loan Date taken Amount Monthly instalments
Highest repayment
Date repaid
1 15/02/2017 £300 4 £120.90 05/06/2017
2 27/04/2017 £1000 12 £166.00 outstanding
3 13/11/2017 £1000 12 £166.00 outstanding
Mr Ss complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  She sent a letter to both 
parties where she didnt  uphold Mr Ss complaint. She concluded that Satsuma didnt need 
to carry out any further checks at the time it granted the three loans to Mr S and didnt do 
anything wrong. 
Mr S didnt agree with our adjudicator. He said Satsuma should have seen that he had many 
other loans  to repay at the time it granted these 3 loans  to him and that it was irresponsible 
for it to do so.
So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved informally,  it has been passed  to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that 
Mr S could repay the loan in a sustainable  manner. These checks  could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Mr Ss income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for a consumer. These  factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN63280022the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Satsuma did a number  of checks before it lent to Mr S. It asked him for details of his income 
and his normal expenditure. It gathered  data from credit  reference agencies. And it then 
used this information to calculate how much disposable income Mr S had left over each 
month. Satsuma also used the credit reference  agency checks  to gather  some more 
information about Mr Ss financial  situation  at that time.
Mr S has told our service that he had taken out several other loans at the time he had 
applied for his loans with Satsuma and that it should, as a responsible  lender, been  aware  of 
this and through its credit checks decided not to give him the credit. 
I have seen results from the credit  checks that Satsuma carried  out at the time. These 
checks failed to show any information that might  have suggested Mr S was having problems 
managing his money. The checks  didnt show any concerning information  such  as a reliance 
on other short term loans,  or delinquent or defaulted accounts.
Mr S supplied a copy of his credit  file that showed  the amount of loans he had at the time 
Satsuma granted  him the 3 loans in question, but a lender might only see a small portion  of 
the consumers  credit file, or some data might be missing or anonymised, or the data might  
not be up to date. So, it may explain  that even though Mr S says that he was having 
problems managing his money  at the time,  this was not reflected in the credit search 
information collated by Satsuma at the time of each of the three loans. 
Mr S first approach Satsuma in February 2017  for his first instalment loan. The repayments  
that Mr S had agreed to make on this loan were relatively modest compared to the income 
that hed declared  to Satsuma. This was the first time Mr S had approached Satsuma for a 
loan from what I have  seen, I dont think there was any reason for Satsuma to doubt the 
information Mr S had provided about  his income  and expenditure (even though Mr S has 
provided information to us to show his income was lower). He then took out a further loan 
around 2 months  later before he repaid  his first loan and this was affordable based on what  
he had told them as well. He then requested  a third loan, after he had repaid loan 1. I think it 
is fair and reasonable for Satsuma at this stage  to consider Mr S had not become reliant  on 
its loans based  on what he was telling it, its credit check data and his short  lending  history 
with it.
I acknowledge Mr Ss comments  about  his finances at the time the loans were granted, and 
that he had other short  term loans and financial commitments  to repay. But that wasnt 
something he told Satsuma when he asked for the loans, nor do I think it is something 
Satsuma should  have discovered  from proportionate  checks. I think it was reasonable here 
for Satsuma  to rely on the information that Mr S provided about his finances when assessing 
the affordability of the loans. I dont think it would  be proportionate to expect Satsuma to 
have gone further and sought to independently verify what  Mr S had said. And as the 
information Mr S provided suggested that the loans were affordable  for him I dont think that 
Satsuma did anything  wrong when it agreed  to lend.
Ref: DRN63280023I can see that Mr S still has an outstanding balance to repay and Id remind  Satsuma about 
its responsibility to treat Mr S positively and sympathetically.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6328002