K820x#14complaint
Mrs L complains  that Creation Consumer Finance Ltd (Creation)  provided a loan to her 
which they should have known she couldnt afford.
background
In August  2016  Creation  provided a fixed sum loan of over £22,000  to Mrs L to fund a used 
car. The term of the loan was 60 months.
Mrs L says that the money shouldnt have been provided as it was clearly unaffordable  and 
she was approaching retirement  age. She says she medically retired in February 2017 and 
has called  Creation to take the car back but theyve  refused as the loan wasnt directly  linked  
to the car purchase. 
Creation noted  that payments were received on time until February  2017  when Mrs L 
informed them shed  lost her job. They said they couldnt have foreseen  this when they 
approved her application and that they were happy  theyd  completed all necessary checks  
before approving the loan.
Mrs L was dissatisfied  with their response  and she therefore referred her complaint to this 
service and a couple of opinions were provided by our investigation team.  In the last opinion 
our investigator explained that she thought Creation  hadnt completed sufficient checks 
before they approved the loan. She said theyd checked her credit file and reviewed her 
salary before  approval but she thought they shouldve  gone further and considered  her 
outgoings by requesting  bank statements before  providing such  extensive credit.
But she thought  if Creation had completed proportionate checks they would have still 
approved the loan as she noted  Mrs Ls salary  was enhanced by some income from the 
Department of Work  and Pensions and the loan only increased her monthly outgoings by a 
further £73 per month. She reviewed  Mrs Ls bank statements and noted that she wasnt  at 
the extent of her credit  limit and therefore  seemed to be managing  well at the point at which  
the loan was extended. 
She couldnt find any evidence to suggest Mrs L had made Creation aware  of any changes  
that may be affecting  her employment  or financial circumstances  and she didnt think  it 
would be fair to ask them  to consider  her health issues as they hadnt been made aware  of 
that either.  She explained  that she wouldnt have expected creation to reject  an application 
purely on the basis that a customer was close to retirement age as that may be considered  
to be discriminatory.
So she was satisfied  that although checks werent proportionate the loan was affordable and 
Creation therefore  didnt  need to take any action about affordability
She went on to consider  Creations actions since theyd heard of Mrs Ls financial difficulties. 
She explained that she would have expected them to have been sympathetic to Mrs Ls 
situation and she considered the actions theyd taken since they found out. 
She noted theyd  asked  Mrs L to provide them with information about  her financial 
circumstances on three  occasions  in 2017 but that Mrs L hadnt  provided the information 
until 2019. She thought it was reasonable for them not to take any action  until theyd 
received this information and she noted  that theyd been prepared  not to add interest  or 
Ref: DRN66223642make charges on the account from the point at which  theyd been  informed  of Mrs Ls 
financial difficulties  she thought this was fair and that there was evidence the business had 
been sympathetic  to Mrs Ls situation.
Overall, she didnt think creation needed to take any additional action.  But Mrs L disagreed 
and she said shed  tried to send the financial information back but Creation hadnt received it 
and that theyd not explained she could make lower  payments towards the agreement.  And 
she went on to explain that whilst  it would  appear she had been  able to make the first five 
payments without issue, this was only because shed been receiving help from her son. So 
she asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about Mrs Ls situation. I know it will disappoint her but Im afraid I agree 
with the investigators  view and for similar reasons. Please let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
I think theres evidence here that the affordability checks  Creation conducted  should  have 
been more extensive. Whilst the monthly  outgoings werent to increase by too much; Mrs L 
was lending about five times more than she was committed to at the time of application. I 
think Creation should  therefore have looked  further than her credit  file and a statement of 
income. They should have considered her bank  statements as it was clear she was renting 
and they wouldve wanted to see what other outgoings there were.
But if they had completed sufficient affordability  checks I think its clear  they wouldve 
identified that the loan was affordable  to Mrs L. A review of her bank statements would 
demonstrate she had sufficient income  to afford the monthly instalments and had sufficient 
income left over to afford other expenses.  She was regularly working  within her credit  limit 
and I dont think there was significant  sign of strain on her finances. Im supported  in this 
view by the fact Mrs L afforded monthly repayments for the first five months until her 
financial circumstances changed.  And whilst I understand  shes explained this was because 
her son made payments for her, I think the evidence suggests she could have afforded  
payments, at that time,  independently.
So I dont  think the loan was unaffordable.
I would expect Creation  to have reacted sympathetically from the point at which they were 
made aware  of Mrs Ls financial difficulties  and I think thats been the case. They  didnt 
charge interest  or make charges to the account  from the point they were made aware. And it 
appears they were  prepared to consider a payment plan if theyd received the financial 
information they needed to complete the necessary analysis. I understand Mrs L disputes 
that but Ive not seen evidence that the information  was sent back to Creation so it wouldnt 
be fair to suggest they were obligated to act on it. Ive seen that subsequently  Creation did 
Ref: DRN66223643refer Mrs L to their team that specialise in helping  with financial difficulty at that a reduced 
payment was agreed.
So overall, I dont  think theres been  evidence here that the loan was unaffordable  or that 
Creation have not responded  sympathetically to Mrs Ls financial difficulties and I therefore 
wont be asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6622364