K820x#14complaint
T, a limited company, complains about  the service it received from Lloyds Bank  PLC and 
that it could not get access to its clients account.
background
T had a clients account with Lloyds which was undesignated. Lloyds told it that it would need 
to have an account for each client. T is dissatisfied  that Lloyds did not help it with this 
process. And that its clients account was then blocked and police were  called  when the 
director was in a branch.  Lloyds has offered to pay T £150 for the service issues.
Our investigator did not recommend that Lloyds do anything further. He said that:
-T had been given  conflicting information  about  whether the application forms for the 
individual clients accounts would be pre-populated.
-The existing clients account was not closed  but it was blocked  contrary to what T had 
been told.
-The director of T attended a branch and tried to withdraw £500 from the clients  
account. Staff would not let him do so. Police  were called and the director thought 
that this had damaged his reputation.
-He could only consider the impact on T, a separate legal entity, and he did not see 
evidence that its reputation  had been damaged. Lloyds was not obliged  to provide a 
copy of the branch  CCTV from that day as T wanted.
-Lloyds would not allow T to transfer the funds from the clients account. It accepts that 
there was a delay  before it told T it would send it a cheque on closure.  He did not see 
that this was inappropriate.
T did not agree  and wanted  its complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I need to set out a bit of context to the complaint. The clients  account was opened  in April 
2018 shortly after T was incorporated. In an earlier complaint Lloyds  accepted that this was 
a mistake and outside policy.  It required T to have a separate  account  for each of its clients. 
Lloyds had sent T a letter dated 29 September 2018  saying that the existing account would 
be closed on 8 December  2018.  In response to that complaint Lloyds offered to pay T £150 
in compensation  with a final response letter dated  16 October 2018.
Lloyds case notes indicate that T spoke to a relationship manager  about the new accounts 
on 22 October 2018. That call ended abruptly as T was told it could not open the accounts 
over the phone.
On 12 November 2018 T spoke to a different manager who went  through  the terms and 
conditions of the account. He agreed  to send the forms  out. T was unhappy that these had 
not been pre-populated in part as expected. Lloyds accepts that a different member  of staff 
had told T that this would happen.
T raised a complaint about this which was upheld but T was told that it would still need to 
complete the forms. There  was discussion about how to complete them and a complaint 
Ref: DRN64418182manager said that Lloyds would not be able to tell T how to do this. It was arranged  that the 
closure of the existing  account be delayed. But as T says the account was blocked  and this 
was also something  that the complaint manager had not expected.
There was attempted  contact with T about  arranging a branch  appointment to discuss the 
new accounts. That was not going  to happen as soon as T wanted.  My understanding  was 
that there  was an appointment  booked  for 19 December 2018.
Things came to a head on 18 December 2018. T wanted to access  £500 of clients money. 
The director  visited a branch. He was told he could  not withdraw the money. He wanted 
written confirmation of this so he could show hed attempted to comply  with the regulatory 
requirements about this money for T. Ive seen an email sent by the complaint  manager at 
16:34 that day about this but the director was not satisfied with this. Ive read his account  of 
what happened. He says that I continued to request resolution and if not we should ring the 
police so the bank can advise them why they were not releasing my bank account moneyI 
said I would  like to have  resolution before I leave, I did not say I would  not leave.  My 
understanding is that the branch was due to close at that time. The manager did phone the 
police and the director was shocked to hear it reported that he would not leave the branch 
and says that this was all confusion. He said he would leave the branch  and wait outside for 
police. He waited  for ten minutes outside and then left and says he knew  that if the police 
wanted to speak to him his contact details  were in the public domain. 
As far as I am aware  police took no action   I dont know  if they attended. Im not clear that 
CCTV would  help me resolve  what T says was the confusion here even  if it had been  made  
available. I think the directors position  could easily have been construed  by Lloyds as a 
refusal to leave. I cant resolve here whether that was his intent and when he realised  how 
his actions could  have been  interpreted. He left the branch and decided  not to wait to speak 
to police. I see no basis for any reputational issues for T as a result of this incident.
Lloyds accepts there was a delay in clarifying what would  happen  to the balance of clients 
money if the account  closed. It then told T that it could have a cheque made out to it. The 
rationale for that seems to be that this made it Ts responsibility to apply  the funds 
appropriately. But that Lloyds would not knowingly make a transfer from the clients  account  
to Ts own account. As T did not have an alternative account for the money I see Lloyds 
actions as a reasonable compromise.  But it recognised  the delay and increased the 
compensation.
I understand the frustration of the director of T at what happened.  There  were  service 
failings. But Lloyds  had given T the required notice period to close the account  and then 
delayed this closure. There was a limited amount it could do to help T complete the forms as 
T had to provide  the necessary information about  its own clients.  Im afraid that having 
considered all the circumstances I think that Lloyds further offer of £150 in compensation is 
reasonable. I understand this has been paid to T and I wont  be asking Lloyds to do anything 
more about this complaint.
Ref: DRN64418183my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that Lloyds Bank PLC need  do 
no more than if had already  offered  to.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6441818