K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2006. Miss S says Santander  UK Plc (trading  as Abbey National at the time) mis-sold her 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
The sale of Miss Ss PPI was a long time ago and Santander doesnt have all of the 
paperwork for it. I dont think this is surprising. But we have seen a number of similar 
complaints to Miss Ss and weve developed an understanding of how Santander usually 
sold these types  of policy. Ive used this knowledge  to look at Miss Ss complaint, as well as 
looking at what she and Santander have said and the paperwork Ive got.
Miss S says the PPI wasnt fully discussed  when she took out her mortgage, that she didnt 
know she had taken  it out, and that it wasnt properly  explained  to her. But I think  its more  
likely that Santander  did discuss  the PPI with her at the time  although I can understand 
why she might not remember this now. 
I say this because  Ive seen the needs  analysis document that Santander completed with 
Miss S at the time, which sets out what cover  Santander  was recommending to Miss S 
based on her circumstances. I also note that Miss S only took accident  and sickness cover, 
but didnt take cover  for unemployment (which would usually be included  in a PPI policy  too). 
So it appears that there was some discussion about the policy  as she selected  a non-
standard level of cover.  And with what I know of how Santander sold these policies, I think  
Miss S wouldve had to complete a PPI application that was separate  from her mortgage 
application. 
Ive also seen a copy of a welcome letter sent by Santander to Miss S which  asks her to 
check her insurance schedule and policy booklet, and gives  a number she could call if she 
had any questions about the PPI. And Miss Ss mortgage offer explains that she is not 
required to take out any insurance  in order to get the mortgage.  
With all of this in mind, I think its more likely that Miss S discussed  the PPI with Santander 
and then agreed to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Miss S so it had to check that the PPI was right for her 
 and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover. 
Ref: DRN61968752And shes told us she wasnt entitled  to any sick pay, so given that the PPI could have 
covered her mortgage  payments for up to 12 months if she was too ill to work, I think it could 
have provided  her with a useful benefit.  Miss Ss mortgage was a significant  financial 
commitment secured against  her home, and the consequences of not being able to keep up 
the payments  on her mortgage could have  had serious implications. So I think  she had a 
need for the cover. 
Its possible the information Santander gave  Miss S about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  she chose to take it out - so it looks  like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for her if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
her off taking  out the cover. It follows that I dont  think Miss S has lost out because of 
anything Santander  did wrong. 
Ive also thought about whether Santander  needs to give Miss S some of the commission 
she paid back.  The Supreme Court  ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Miss Ss mortgage was 
a regulated mortgage they dont apply. So Santander doesnt need  to refund any of the 
commission Miss S paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 29 May 2019.  
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6196875