K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that CIS General Insurance Limited  declined his claim made under a motor 
legal expenses insurance policy. 
Where I refer to CIS, this includes their agents and claims handlers. 
background
In 2018 Mr N was involved in a road traffic  collision with another vehicle. He wanted to make 
a claim for his uninsured losses against  the third-party driver. Liability for the accident was 
disputed by the third party. CIS sought a legal opinion  on the prospects of Mr Ns legal claim 
succeeding in court. The legal opinion said the claim should be settled  on a 50/50  basis.  And 
as there  werent  greater  than 50% prospects  of success (which  is a requirement of cover  
under the policy) Mr Ns claim was declined. 
Mr N complained and later brought the matter to our service. One of our investigators  didnt 
uphold the complaint. She said it was fair for CIS to rely upon suitably qualified legal opinion  
when making a decision about  a claim.  So she didnt ask them to do anything more. Mr N 
didnt accept this and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Whilst the complaint  was with our service,  CIS let us know  that theyd reconsidered and had 
decided to issue proceedings  in Mr Ns claim. They said We had decided  to issue [Mr Ns] 
claim against the defendant, despite  our legal view that his claim prospects are no better  
than 50%.  We are taking  this step, where  we would ordinarily apply  a 51% threshold on 
prospects, so [Mr N] has an opportunity for his evidence  to be adjudicated  by a Court  against 
that of the Defendant. There being  no other witnesses or other  physical evidence.  We have 
shared our further  action and steps  with [Mr N] and understand he is pleased with our 
decision.
Our investigator asked  Mr N if this resolved his complaint as the insurer had now done what 
hed asked. Mr N said he would only withdraw  his complaint if he wins at court and still 
wanted an ombudsman  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Let 
me explain why.
Mr Ns policy  requires that any intended legal action has reasonable prospects of success. 
This generally means that the chances of a successful outcome  at court  are 51% or greater. 
Legal action can be expensive and a privately  paying client would be unlikely to proceed 
when advised  against doing  so. So, I dont think an insurer should have to either.  
CIS themselves arent legal experts.  So, I think it is fair for them to rely on suitably  qualified  
legal opinion  when  making a decision about  a claim. And as the legal advice was that the 
claim was at best 50/50  it fell short of the required 51% prospects of success. So, I dont  
think CIS were wrong to not initially proceed  with Mr Ns claim.
Ref: DRN61391512But in any case,  CIS have  reconsidered and are now progressing Mr Ns claim for the 
reasons they outlined  above. I dont think they are treating him unfairly by doing  so. So Im 
not going to tell them to do anything further  to resolve this complaint. 
Mr N also made some  comments  about the terms and conditions of his policy  not being 
made clear to him at the point of sale. A complaint about that would need to be addressed  to 
the business who sold him the policy. So, it would be inappropriate for me to comment 
further on that point  here.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Richard Annandale
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6139151