K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about Phoenix Life Limited (Phoenix). Hes unhappy with the service he 
received when he encashed  his Personal Pension Plan (PPP).
background
Mr W contacted  Phoenix about  cashing  in his PPP. His request to do this was finalised on 12 
April 2018. Phoenix  wrote to Mr W to confirm it had paid him £4,252.09 in respect  of his PPP 
and enclosed a P45 form. Mr W later sent the P45 Phoenix had given him to Her Majestys 
Revenue and Customs  (HMRC) so he could reclaim tax that had automatically been  
deducted from the lump  sum payment hed received.
On 24 July 2018 HMRC  wrote to Mr W and in summary said:
it had received Mr Ws P53 form (for all the pensions he was cashing in) on 28 June  
2018 but it was returning  this as the P45 form submitted didnt have any figures on it 
and the details which were provided  didnt match the P53 it held on record
for it to be able to process Mr Ws claim it asked him to send his P45 form again 
showing the income hed received and the tax that had been deducted
once it received its requirements it would update Mr Ms record  and issue a 
repayment if one was due
Mr W asked HMRC to send him a new P53 form and this was sent to him on 3 August 2018. 
Mr W also contacted Phoenix  and asked it to provide him with a new P45 form that included 
the information HMRC  said it needed. He complained Phoenix hadnt  provided the 
information it shouldve  in the first place. Phoenix  provided Mr W with the completed  P45 on 
7 August 2018  and said it would review his complaint. 
Phoenix sent its final response  to Mr Ws complaint on 2 October 2018. In summary it said:
it accepted  it had made an error  when it sent Mr W an incomplete  P45 on 12 April 
2018 and was sorry for any trouble  and upset caused
as a matter of urgency it had manually produced a new and complete P45 form 
which was sent to Mr W on the same day he requested  it
in recognition of poor service and frustration  and inconvenience caused  it offered Mr 
W £200 compensation
Unhappy with Phoenixs response  Mr W referred his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
she agreed Phoenix had made an error  with the P45 it first issued but felt Phoenix 
had taken reasonable steps to correct  its mistake
she understood Mr Ws frustration with what happened given his circumstances at 
the time but thought  the £200  compensation Phoenix  offered  Mr W for poor service 
and time taken to investigate his complaint was fair
Mr W disagreed  with our investigator. In summary  he said:
Phoenix error had caused him unnecessary  stress, anxiety, worry and untold hassle
he didnt feel Phoenixs compensation offer was fair and considered it an insult 
Ref: DRN68998432there had been significant delays in him reclaiming tax because of Phoenixs  error 
and HMRC had been  a nightmare  to deal with. In his experience  if the right 
information wasnt submitted to HMRC a person could be held up in a queue, having 
to call and write  to it repeatedly to speed things up
as he was unemployed he needed  to claim his tax back  quickly
this wasnt the first time Phoenix had made  errors for which  it had paid him 
compensation
he didnt have any confidence in Phoenix
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not intending to 
direct Phoenix to do anything further.  Ill explain why. But before I do, I should  emphasise 
that while Ive taken note of the correspondence, arguments and comments made by both 
parties, I have limited my response to what I consider to be the issues  central to this 
complaint.  
Its evident to me Mr Ws very unhappy with the service hes received from Phoenix.  Not only 
because of Phoenixs error with the P45 form, but also because  of several other  
disappointing experiences he says hes had with it. I should however be clear  that my 
decision will deal solely with Mr Ws concerns about the service he received regarding the 
P45 form. 
For Mr W to be able to reclaim the tax deducted  from the payment he received from cashing 
in his Phoenix pension, he needed  to provide HMRC with a completed P45 form. Without  
this HMRC couldnt process Mr Ws claim. Unfortunately the P45 form Phoenix gave Mr W 
was incomplete. And where information  was provided it appeared to be wrong.  
Mr W has explained that as hes unemployed he relied a lot on being able to quickly and 
successfully reclaim tax deducted from his Phoenix pension payment. Mr W was also 
cashing in two of his other pensions (with another provider) around the same  time and it was 
his intention to reclaim  the tax deducted from the payments he received  in respect of these 
also. He needed  completed P45 forms for all the pension lump sum payments he received 
so he could submit a P53 form to HMRC and reclaim the tax hed paid all at once.
I can appreciate how frustrated Mr W wouldve  been when it became apparent Phoenix 
hadnt provided him with the completed P45 form he needed. Mr W would understandably 
have forwarded  the P45 Phoenix provided him with onto HMRC in good faith and on the 
reasonable assumption Phoenix had given  him what was needed. I have sympathy for Mr W 
but unfortunately mistakes do happen  and on this occasion, as Phoenix has explained, a 
system issue  meant that much of the information that shouldve been included  on the P45 
form was missing. 
Theres no dispute about the fact Phoenix made an error with the P45 it issued. Indeed 
Phoenix accepts it made an error here and that the incomplete P45 should  never  have been  
sent to Mr W. The issue I have to decide is whether the action Phoenix has taken following 
its error was sufficient and fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Ref: DRN68998433I can see that when  Mr W contacted Phoenix  to complain and notify it of the error made with 
his P45 it apologised, said it would look into his concerns and would in the meantime issue a 
manually completed P45 on the same day as a matter of urgency. I think it was reasonable 
for Phoenix  to take this action  in the circumstances to minimise any further inconvenience to 
Mr W and potential delays with his tax claim.
As Ive already  said, Mr W needed the correct and complete P45 to move  forward  in the 
process of reclaiming  tax from HMRC for his pensions. Phoenix provided the correct P45 to 
Mr W as soon as it was made aware  of its error. I understand Mr W feels  its Phoenixs fault 
that the whole process of reclaiming tax on his pensions has taken so long.  But from the 
available evidence Im not persuaded that Phoenix  is wholly to blame for this. Indeed in his 
submissions to this service Mr W seems to suggest there have been a number of delays  and 
failings which he considered HMRC responsible for. For example he says:
I sent all the paperwork to [HMRC]  on the 24th June  2018 by registered  post!  (I dont trust 
them!) These idiots didnt write back to me until 24th July 2018! () I received  that letter on 
the 2nd August 2018 () I had telephoned  when I received their letter  to complain they could 
have telephoned  me concerning the missing information on the P45 form. Over 6 weeks had 
passed which was a waste of my time!
I understand Mr W has complained directly  to HMRC about the service he received and the 
time taken  to process his tax claim.
Overall while  I do agree  Phoenix  made  an error by not providing Mr W with the correct P45 it 
shouldve in the first place, the available evidence doesnt persuade me that the delays Mr W 
has experienced and the continued difficulties hes had reclaiming tax on his pensions  are 
things for which  Phoenix can be considered wholly responsible for. From what Ive seen, 
even after Phoenix  provided Mr W with the correct P45 there was still further 
correspondence between  HMRC and Mr W regarding his tax claim as well as other  issues  
which it appears may have prevented him from securing the payment in respect of his tax 
claim as quickly  as hed have liked. 
For its initial error and the time taken to investigate  Mr Ws complaint  Phoenix offered £200 
compensation. From Mr Ws submissions I can see that he felt Phoenixs  offer was insulting. 
Im sorry  Mr W feels this way but based  on what Ive seen I think  £200 fairly  reflects the 
trouble and upset  caused to Mr W by what happened. Im mindful that Mr W feels Phoenix is 
to blame for how long it has taken for his tax claim to be processed, but based on what  Ive 
seen I cant safely conclude its responsible for this to such an extent that a larger  award 
would be appropriate  in the circumstances.  
I have real sympathy for Mr W and can appreciate  how frustrating it will have  been  when 
Phoenixs mistake came  to light along with the subsequent challenges he says hes had with 
HMRC. Its clear  to me that successfully reclaiming tax on his pensions  as quickly as 
possible was of great importance to Mr W and understandably so as hes unemployed. 
Phoenixs mistake will have naturally  undermined Mr Ws confidence in the service  it 
provides and perhaps also his faith in the information it gives  him. But Phoenix  doesnt 
dispute the fact that it got things wrong.  It has apologised and offered compensation for what  
has happened. 
While Im not directing  Phoenix to make  the award I understand Mr W would like, in that I 
dont think Phoenix  should offer further compensation, I should say that I do think  its entirely  
reasonable for him to expect Phoenix to provide  correct information. And its unfortunate that 
Ref: DRN68998434in this case that didnt happen.  I am genuinely  sorry to hear of the impact that this has had 
on Mr W. 
I dont underestimate  or doubt Mr Ws sincerity  or strength of feeling  in bringing his complaint 
to this service and I understand that my decision may come as a disappointment to him, but 
for the reasons Ive explained I wont be asking Phoenix to do anything  further.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Chillel Bailey 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6899843