K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Acromas  Insurance Company  Limited has unfairly refused his claim for 
legal expenses funding. 
Where I refer to Acromas, this includes its agents  and claims handlers.
background
Mr B made a claim on his policy to cover the legal fees of a dispute he has with the 
freeholder of his flat. Hed received a letter from them asking  him to remove  items from the 
communal areas. Mr B had placed  a doormat in the communal hallway outside of his front 
door. He believes  this area is within the boundary of his flat. 
Acromas considered the claim  but said it wasnt covered.  It said the policy  will only extend to 
disputes over the home and land within its boundaries. And as the lease agreement doesnt  
mention the communal hallway as being  part of the flat, they said it wouldnt fall within  the 
scope of cover offered  under  the policy. 
Mr B complained to our service. Our investigator was satisfied Acromas had considered the 
claim correctly in line with the policy terms and conditions, so he didnt think  it was fair to ask 
them to do anything more.  
As Mr B disagreed, the case has been  passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy terms say it will cover the legal  costs of pursuing a legal claim and/or 
arrangement of mediation for a dispute relating to material property which  you own or is your 
responsibility... following  a public or private  nuisance or trespass . It goes  on to say theres  
no cover  for any buildings or land not shown as your property. 
The term property is defined within the policy  terms  as your home and the land within its 
boundaries, for which you are legally responsible. The property  must  all be at the address  
shown in your Statement of Insurance .
In order to determine whether the area outside  of Mr Bs front door fell within the property 
that hes legally responsible for, Acromas considered the terms of Mr Bs lease agreement.  
Having also reviewed this document, I can see the interpretation of flat says it shall  mean  
the flat/maisonette demised by the lease more particularly described in the first schedule 
hereto. 
The first schedule headed description of the flat defines it as being  the internal walls  and 
(where appropriate)  the internal floors and ceilings and the internal surfaces of the external 
walls of the block between such levels and also including the balcony of the demised 
premises (if any) and all external window  sills to the demised premises and all windows and 
windows frames doors and door frames to the demised premises. 
I think the lease  agreement is a good place to start in deciding whether the area in question  
falls within  the boundary  of the flat. And having  reviewed  it, I dont believe it does. I say this 
Ref: DRN60328852because the area outside of the front door doesnt  fall within the description  of the flat. Mr B 
has referred to the plan of the property,  which suggests a small area outside the door is part 
of his property. I appreciate why he refers to this. But looking at the lease itself, the 
description effectively limits it to the inside of the flat  the only exceptions being  the balcony,  
window sills, windows  and doors   it doesnt include the area beyond the door.  
I think its reasonable for Acromas to rely on the terms of the lease. 
Taking all of this into account,  I dont  think Mr B has satisfied the terms of his policy that the 
area in dispute  is within  his property. On that basis, Im satisfied  Acromas  considered  the 
claim fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. If Mr B provides legal advice that 
the area is within the definition of the property, then Acromas can review his claim. But as it 
stands I think Acromas  decision is reasonable.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Peter Whiteley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6032885