K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains that Santander UK Plc declined his claim  under Section 75 of the Consumer
Credit Act 1974 (s.75; the CCA).
background 
In 2018 Mr S contracted  a third party (the supplier) to supply  and lay a resin floor in his
kitchen. He says that the flooring he requested  was a specific kind and the total agreed  price
was £10,500  with an agreed  payment schedule of a £1,500  deposit,  £3,750  after day two
of the work and the remainder upon completion.  Mr S paid the deposit using his Santander
credit card and the work commenced.
But Mr S says that the supplier subsequently ordered the wrong type of flooring. So Mr S
had to buy the correct  materials  himself,  which  cost £6,480. And he paid the supplier an
additional £1,000 in cash, as well as a few other  expenses, despite the stage  of works being
behind where  they should  have been.
By this point, Mr S says that the supplier was refusing  to come back and complete  the job
unless Mr S paid him more money. Mr S says that he refused to do this as the additional
amount was going to mean  that he would have paid more than the total agreed  amount. So
the work  remained incomplete  Mr S says the supplier only completed the primer stage of
the flooring. He also says that the work that was completed was substandard. So he raised a
s.75 claim with Santander for breach of contract.
Santander told Mr S that s.75 didnt apply because Mr Ss deposit payment to the supplier
had been made through a payment  processor (business  A). So there was no direct  link
between Mr S and the supplier. Mr S brought his complaint to our service.
Our investigator disagreed with Santander and said that as business A was acting solely in
their capacity as a payment processor this didnt  affect the debtor-creditor-supplier link
(DCS link) for the purposes of s.75.
But Santander didnt  accept this. They say that the requisite DCS link for s.75 is broken
because:
Business A operates by providing  remittance  services  to suppliers, which allows
suppliers to receive funds  in connection with payment  transactions  undertaken by a
customer.
Business As terms and conditions confirm that funds  received into the suppliers
account with business A are held for one business  day before being  paid to
suppliers. And that payments can be withheld by business A upon  the existence  of
certain criteria. So payment  into a business A account isnt a payment to the supplier.
So in this case, there are two separate transactions: firstly between  Mr S, Santander
and business  A. Secondly, between  business  A and the supplier.
It follows that the credit agreement  between Santander and Mr S didnt  finance the
transaction between  Mr S and the supplier  as required by section 11(b)  of the CCA.
Instead, the credit agreement financed Mr Ss purchase of electronic money  from
business As online wallet, which was then used  to fund the purchase with the
supplier. Meaning  that it was business  A that financed the transaction  between
Mr S and the supplier, not Santander.
Also, business As terms and conditions state in order  to serve in (sic) as a payment
processor, we must enter into agreements with Networks, processors and an
Ref: DRN62332712acquirer, including  our current acquirer.. So there is a clear  separation  between
the transaction paying funds into an account  with business A and the transaction
paying those funds to the supplier.
In addition, Mr Ss payment wasnt made  under pre-existing arrangements  between
Santander and the supplier.
Santander have  also made the ancillary  point  that, although knowledge isnt a requirement  of
s.75, Mr S knew he was paying through business A because  his electronic invoice for the
£1,500 contained a payment weblink which, when  followed, would have taken Mr S to
business As payment page.
Finally, Santander have referred  to the High Courts  judgment in the case of Governor and
Company of the Bank of Scotland  v Alfred Truman (a firm) [2005] EWHC 583 (the Truman
case) in which the Court stated that the extension of s.75 shouldnt  be too tenuous. And
Santander say that applying  a DCS  link to Mr Ss circumstances would be too tenuous.
As Santander didnt  accept the investigators  view, the matter has been passed onto me for
a decision.
Mr S has also since confirmed  that his kitchen  floor remains incomplete and hasnt yet been
rectified. He has explained  that as the floor was more expensive  than usual  flooring,  and he
had already paid the supplier more than had been agreed for the stage of the works, he has
been unable  to afford any rectification work.
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Section 75
I must decide what, if anything, Santander  should do to resolve  Mr Ss complaint. To do this,
I have to decide what I think is fair and reasonable, having regard to, amongst other things,
any relevant law.
In this case, the relevant  law is s.75 which says that, in certain circumstances, if Mr S paid
for goods or services on his credit  card and there was a breach of contract or
misrepresentation by the supplier, Santander can be held responsible.  In particular, s.75(1)
states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c)
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
So s.75 only applies if:
i) There  is a debtor-creditor-supplier agreement of the type that falls within s.12(b)  or
(c);
ii) That agreement finances the transaction  between the debtor (Mr S) and the supplier;
Ref: DRN62332713and,
iii) Relating to that transaction, the debtor (Mr S) has a claim against  the supplier in
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract. If so, then the creditor
(Santander) is jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
S.12(b) applies to:
a restricted use credit agreement which falls within section 11(1)(b)  and is made  by the
creditor under pre-existing  arrangements, or in contemplation of future arrangements,
between himself and the supplier
S.11(1)(b) defines a restricted-use  credit agreement as a regulated  consumer credit
agreement:
to finance a transaction between the debtor and a person (the supplier)  other than the
creditor
And s.189  says finance  means to wholly or partly finance, and that financed shall be
construed accordingly.
Legal background to s.75
Before I turn to the particular facts of Mr Ss case,  it would  be helpful to first outline the
background to the CCA, which was enacted  at a time when credit cards were  generally
issued within  the framework of a three-party  structure which involved (i) an agreement
between the card issuer  and the cardholder to extend credit  by paying for goods or services
purchased by the cardholder from suppliers who had agreed  to honour the card;  (ii) an
agreement between the card issuer  and the supplier  under which  the supplier agreed to
accept the card in payment and the card issuer  agreed to pay the supplier  promptly;  (iii) an
agreement between the cardholder and the supplier for the purchase  of goods or services.
This three-party structure subsequently developed  into a four-party structure involving a
"merchant acquirer", whose function was to recruit new suppliers willing to accept the
issuer's card. Under this four-party structure,  instead of the agreement between  the card
issuer and the supplier, there  were two agreements: (a) an agreement between the
merchant acquirer and the supplier, under which the supplier undertook  to honour the card
and the merchant acquirer undertook to pay the supplier; and (b) an agreement  between the
merchant acquirer and the card issuer, under which the merchant acquirer agreed to pay the
supplier and the card issuer undertook  to reimburse the merchant  acquirer.
The impact  of this development on the application  of s.75 was considered by the Court of
Appeal in the case of Office of Fair Trading v Lloyds  & ors [2006] EWCA Civ 268 (the OFT
case).
The Court of Appeal first considered whether the introduction of the four-party structure
meant that the system  had evolved  significantly beyond the state  of affairs  to which  s.75 had
been directed.  They  concluded  that it had not, stating at paragraph 55 of their judgment:
From the customer's point of view  it is difficult to see any justification  for drawing a
distinction between  the different [three-party and four-party] situations. Indeed, in the case of
those card issuers such as Lloyds TSB, who operate  under  both three-party and four-party
structures, the customer has no means  of knowing whether any given transaction  is
Ref: DRN62332714conducted under one or other arrangement. Similarly, from the point of view of the card
issuer and the supplier  the commercial nature of the relationship is essentially the same:
each benefits  from the involvement of the other  in a way that makes it possible to regard
them as involved in something akin to a joint venture,  just as much as in the case of the
three-party structure.
The Court of Appeal also considered whether four-party structure transactions  between the
debtors and suppliers  were financed  by the credit agreement, even though the creditors
payment went to the merchant acquirer, not the supplier. They pointed out that the creditors
had argued in the court below that a supply  transaction entered  into under a four-party
structure was not financed by the credit agreement because the finance needed to pay the
supplier was provided by the merchant acquirer, not by the card issuer. The Judge  at first
instance had rejected  that argument because the purpose of the credit agreements had
been to provide customers with credit to buy goods and services from the supplier, which
amounted to financing those  transactions. On appeal the creditors dropped  this argument
and the Court of Appeal clearly agreed that the argument had been rightly abandoned by the
creditors, stating at paragraph 56:
It is clear  that, whether the transaction is entered into under a three-party or four-party
structure, the purpose of the credit  agreement is to provide the customer with the means to
pay for goods or services. It follows that in both cases  the card issuer finances the
transaction between  the customer and the supplier by making credit available  at the point  of
purchase in accordance with the credit  agreement.  The fact that it does so through  the
medium of an agreement  with the merchant acquirer  does not detract from that because it is
the card issuer's agreement to provide credit to the customer that provides the financial
basis for the transaction with the supplier.
The Court of Appeal then examined whether the creditors were correct  to argue that the
four-party structure fell outside the definition  of restricted-use  credit,  because  section 11(3)
of the CCA excludes agreements under which the credit is in fact provided  in such a way as
to leave the debtor free to use it as he chooses.  They rejected the argument, because  the
card could only be used  to purchase  goods and services from some  businesses  namely
the suppliers who had agreed to accept the card.
The Court of Appeal also held that the definitions in s.187 were not intended to define  the
only type of arrangements  that fell within s.12(b).  The word arrangements  is capable of
carrying a broad meaning and, in the context of the CCA, must  have  been  deliberately
chosen by Parliament with a view to embracing a wide range of different commercial
structures having substantially the same effect. (Para. 61-66 of the judgment).
The Judge  who heard  the OFT case at first instance ([2005] 1 All ER 843) had also
considered the meaning of the word arrangements, as used  in section 12, and whether
there existed  relevant  arrangements  between  creditors and suppliers in the four-party
situation. She held that the use of the word showed  a deliberate intention on the part of the
draftsman to use broad, loose language,  which was to be contrasted  with the word
agreement. She went on at paragraph 26:
In my judgment, in the natural ordinary sense of the word, there are clearly arrangements  in
place made  between the card issuers and the suppliers, notwithstanding the absence  of any
direct communication between them, or any direct  contractual relationship, or even of
knowledge on the part of the issuer of the identity of the particular supplier. The fact that
there are a number of different  arrangements,  reflecting  the various roles, contractual or
Ref: DRN62332715otherwise, played  by different participants in the network, does not mean that there is not an
arrangement in place between  the issuer and the supplier. I consider that it is unrealistic to
look merely at the individual links in the chain; rather one should stand back and look at the
whole network of arrangements that are involved in the operation  of the schemes. If one
does so, one can, in my judgment, properly conclude that, by virtue of the supplier and the
issuer being subject to the rules and settlement processes common  to all participants in the
card network, there is indeed an arrangement  (albeit indirect) between  them.
In the Court  of Appeal, the creditors argued  that arrangements should be given a narrower
meaning that took the four-party structure outside the definition. But the Court of Appeal
agreed with the Judge that arrangements  had been used to embrace a wide range of
commercial structures having  substantially the same effect. They  held it was difficult to resist
the conclusion  that such arrangements existed between credit  card issuers and suppliers
who agreed to accept their cards, and stated:
Moreover, we find it difficult to accept  that Parliament would have been willing to allow  some
consumers to be disadvantaged by the existence of indirect arrangements when other
consumers were protected  because the relevant arrangements were  direct.
Its also important to note that in the OFT case the court saw evidence  about the particular
rules governing the activities of merchant acquirers. The Judge at first instance  drew
attention to the following  features (paragraph 30):
The evidence showed that the rules of the four-party card schemes control  which suppliers
may participate in the schemes by, for example, (i) stipulating that merchant acquirers  must
only put transaction details into interchange for suppliers with whom they have  valid and
subsisting merchant  acquirer agreements; (ii) requiring  merchant acquirers to screen
suppliers before entering into agreements with them, in order to establish  that the suppliers
are creditworthy and carrying on bona  fide businesses; (iii) requiring merchant acquirers to
monitor suppliers to deter wrongful activity; (iv) requiring merchant  acquirers to forward
information to the network merchant databases  where, for example, a supplier is suspected
of fraud  or where a supplier's ratio of transactions charged back by the card issuer exceeds
established criteria.  Likewise card issuing creditors exert  leverage  over suppliers, through
the networks [operated by MasterCard, Visa and American Express], in that the networks
reserve rights to insist that suppliers'  merchant acquirer agreements  are terminated and to
exclude suppliers  from entering into merchant acquirer agreements.  Thus some sort of
leverage is available,  at least in domestic  four-party  transactions, but even if it were  not, that
would not affect  my conclusion.
The issues  I therefore need to decide in this case,  and in this order, are whether:
(1) The nature  of business  As role and involvement meant that there were no relevant
arrangements between Santander and the supplier under  which Mr Ss purchase was
financed, and therefore no DCS link. (The DCS issue).
(2) If there  was a DCS  link, whether there  was a misrepresentation or breach of contract
by the supplier, which Santander must remedy under s.75. (The liability  issue).
(3) And, if there  was liability,  its amount. (The quantum issue).
(1) The DCS issue
With all of this in mind, I have considered the particular facts of Mr Ss case. In order for s.75
to apply there has to have  been arrangements between Santander and the supplier to
Ref: DRN62332716finance transactions between Santanders cardholders and the supplier. Its clear that there
was no direct arrangement between  them  but this isnt necessarily fatal to the application of
s.75, for the reasons outlined in the OFT case above.
I also dont think that Santanders point in relation  to there being two transactions,  within
itself, is fatal. After all, the very nature  of the four-party structure  considered in the OFT case
involves two separate agreements.
Instead I need to stand  back  and consider the whole network of arrangements that were
involved in Mr Ss transaction  and, in particular, what business  As role was within  that
network.
Our investigator contacted business  A to get a better understanding of this and the services
they provide. They  responded  to say that the supplier held an account with business  A and
business A processed Mr Ss payment made  to the supplier under their merchant  acquiring
services. They remitted the funds collected  on the next business  day to the bank account
that the supplier  had linked to their account with business A.
I have looked  at business As website, which contains a great deal of information about the
services that they offer to their account  holders. I note that these include providing them with
card readers that accept  all the major  credit  cards,  so that they can take payments from their
(that is, the account holders) customers. In this case, Mr S says,  and all the evidence
suggests, that the supplier used such a card reader to take payment from Mr Ss credit card.
Business A also provided a link to the relevant terms and conditions that the supplier would
have had to agree to when signing up to an account with business A. These can be found on
the UK version  of their website. The payment  terms section states the following in
particular:
Clause 1 describes  business As role as providing services which include allowing
their account  holders  to accept credit  and debit cards from customers for the
payment of goods  and services, which they describe  as merchant  acquiring
services, and remitting the proceeds to the account holder.
Clause 1 also states business A is a payment  processor that allows  suppliers to
accept cards from customers  for the payment for goods and services. Business A is
not a bank and a suppliers account  with business A isnt a payment account.
Furthermore:
In order to serve  in (sic) as a payment processor, we must  enter  into agreements
with Networks [that is, American Express, Mastercard and Visa], processors and an
acquirer, including  our current acquirer, .. or any other acquirer with respect  to
which we may notify you from time to time (the Acquirer).  With respect to the
processing of payments  through the Mastercard  Network, [business A] enters into
these Payment Terms with you as agent of the Acquirer.
Clause 2 states:
In connection with the Payment Services, you authorise us to act as your agent for
the limited purposes  of holding, receiving and disbursing funds on your behalf.
Ref: DRN62332717And later:
Our receipt of transaction funds satisfies your customers  obligations to make
payment to you.
Clause 3 restricts the types  of businesses that may use business As payment 
services by listing numerous prohibited industries including,  for example, credit 
counselling, betting, automated fuel dispensers,  bankruptcy lawyers and car rentals.
Clause 11 states:
[Business A] will value  date and credit the amount of a payment transaction to your
[Business A] Account  on the Business Day on which it receives the funds. [Business
A] will automatically initiate a payout  of Proceeds  from a given Business Day to your
valid, linked  bank account during the next Business Day and funds received into and
credited to your [business A] shall be deemed  made available  to you for this purpose.
[Business A] will initiate a payout of Proceeds received on non-Business Days on the
next Business  Day.
Clause 12 allows business A to defer payment to the supplier  or restrict their access
to the proceeds  of a payment in some circumstances including upon a
recommendation from the related  company that licenses  the point of sale equipment
and if business  A needs to investigate or to resolve  a dispute relating to the services.
They can also do so, if required by law or requested  by a government entity, and if
the supplier breaches  their contractual obligations.
Clause 14 also allows business A to withhold funds from the supplier and to place
these in a reserve  account as security  for the suppliers performance of their own
contractual obligations and of business As obligations to their merchant acquirer or
any of the card networks.
Clause 23 requires  the account  holder to use the payment services only to submit
transactions in respect of goods and/or services that you provide to your customers .
Clause 27 states:
By using the Payment Services, you agree to comply with all applicable bylaws,
rules and regulations  set forth by the Networks,  as amended from time to time
(Network Rules). The Networks amend their rules  and regulations from time to time.
[Business A] may be required to change the Payment Terms in connection  with
amendments to the Network Rules. Significant  portions of the Network Rules are
available to the public at [Visa, Mastercard and American Express URLs].  In the
event of inconsistency between a Network Rule and the Payment Terms and except
as otherwise agreed between [business  A] and the Network, the Network  Rule will
take precedence.
The Networks have  the right to enforce  any provision of the Network Rules and to
prohibit you from engaging  in any conduct the Networks deem could injure  or could
create a risk of injury to the Networks, including reputational  injury  or that could
adversely affect  the integrity  of the interchange system,  information  the Networks
deem to be confidential or both. You agree not to take any action  that could interfere
with or prevent  the exercise of this right by the Networks.  You agree to cooperate
Ref: DRN62332718with [business  A] and the Acquirer in respect of any issues arising  out of a breach of
security in relation  to the holding of any confidential data.
Clause 29 states:
Your use of Network logos and marks (Marks) is governed by the Network Rules;
you must familiarise yourself with and comply with these requirements. The Networks
are the sole and exclusive owners of their respective Marks. You will not contest the
ownership of the Marks for any reason and any Network may at any time,
immediately and without  advance notice, prohibit you from using  its Marks for any
reason. [Business A] may require you to make  modifications to your Website  or other
advertising and signage in order to comply  with Network Rules  related to the Marks.
Clause 33 states:
By accepting Card  transactions through the Payment Services,  you agree to process
returns of and provide  refunds and adjustments for, your goods or services  through
your [business A] Account  in accordance  with the Payment Terms and Network
Rules. Network  Rules  require that you disclose your return  or cancellation policy to
customers at the time of purchase.
Clause 42 contains a number of specific requirements in relation  to the use of
American Express cards, such  as that the supplier must always indicate they accept
those cards whenever communicating payment methods to their customers;  and
must not criticise American  Express or any of their services or programs. These
requirements appear to have been included in business As terms and conditions
mainly for the benefit of American Express and the card issuers within that network.
Networks, merchant acquirers, suppliers and card issuers  (all referred to in these terms and 
conditions) normally inter-relate in the following way: a card scheme is the business that 
runs the payment network  rules  (in this case  Mastercard) and links the card issuer 
(Santander), the card holder (Mr S), the merchant (the supplier in this case) and the 
merchant acquirer. The merchant acquirer is the financial business that provides the supplier 
with the facility to accept  card payments. The cardholder's instruction is routed from the
merchant to the merchant acquirer then through the card scheme to the card issuer.  Where
payment is approved, the card issuer debits the cardholder's account  and settles this with
the merchant  acquirer. This is the four-party structure that the Court  of Appeal considered in
the OFT case and confirmed doesnt break  the DCS  link.
In the absence of any other evidence, I think it would be reasonable to assume  that Mr Ss
transaction was channelled through  a merchant acquirer. I say that because  the terms and
conditions above  clearly refer to business A operating through a merchant acquirer  and,
more importantly, as an agent of the acquirer for any Mastercard transactions. Santander
have confirmed that Mr Ss credit  card was a Mastercard.
But the important  difference  in this case is that business A was an additional fifth party
involved in the processing of Mr Ss transaction. So I need to decide whether  business As
role and involvement interfered  with what appears to have been the usual underlying
four-party structure in a way that meant the relevant  creditor-supplier arrangements didnt
exist in this case.  I dont  think their role and involvement caused an interference for the
following reasons.
Ref: DRN62332719Business As terms and conditions not only confirm  that their role is limited to that of a
payment processor but they also, in transactions involving Mastercard, show  that business A
act as an agent for the merchant acquirer.  Santander have, themselves, cited  this part of
business As terms and conditions.  But they havent  cited the full clause  namely, the part
about business A being an agent of the merchant  acquirer.  So I dont think Santanders
statement that there is a clear separation  between  the transaction paying  funds into an
account with business A and the transaction paying  those funds to the supplier can be right.
The terms and conditions  also make  it clear that the supplier had to agree to the relevant
network rules and that those take precedence over business As terms and conditions. Plus
the networks are explicitly given  the right to enforce their rules and place prohibitions upon
the supplier.
Santander have  referred to business A not transferring funds to the supplier straight away
and also being  able to withhold funds from the supplier. In relation to the former, I dont think
the transfer timescales within  themselves  change  the nature of business  As role from a
payment processor to something more. As for the latter, I assume  Santander is referring to
business As rights under clause  12 and 14, which I have mentioned above. But those rights
seem to me to have  the main purpose  of securing the suppliers  compliance  with their
various obligations and protecting business A against loss. I consider that they serve  an
ancillary role, rather than going  to the purpose of the contract, and I dont think  that their
inclusion in the terms and conditions changes the character  of the arrangements  between
the parties.
In short,  it appears  that business A operated a formal and structured  system  which  enabled
their account  holders,  such as the supplier  in this case, to receive payments made  by credit
and debit card to pay for the supply of goods  and services to the cardholders. Further, both
Santander and the supplier were  bound to the same network rules and therefore  subject to
the rules and settlement processes common to all participants in the card network. These
features are all consistent with the existence of the required  arrangements, for the purposes
of s.75, between Santander  and the supplier.
Its also possible to go as far as saying  that there is some sort of indirect  leverage available
to Santander over the supplier, through  the network rules,  in that the networks reserve  rights
to insist that suppliers' merchant acquirer agreements are terminated  and to exclude
suppliers from entering into merchant acquirer agreements. The fact that the networks can
implement prohibitions under business As terms and conditions arguably  intimates  this and
supports such a conclusion. Indeed, the content of the terms and conditions seems  to me to
suggest that the card networks are able to influence, to their own advantage, the terms on
which business A trades (see Clause 27 above  and also my comments on clause 42).
Im also not persuaded by Santanders reasons  for why they say their credit  agreement with
Mr S didnt finance the transaction with the supplier. Theres no evidence  that I can see that
Mr S purchased electronic money from business  As online wallet.  Indeed, this does not
even appear to be a service business A offers. For this assertion to be true, Id generally
expect to see the transaction funds being deposited into an electronic money account held
by Mr S. However, on this occasion theres  no relationship between Mr S and business A at
all. Instead, Mr S needed to pay the supplier  and it was the supplier that drove the
transaction through their account with business A, using business As payment services.
It follows that I dont think it makes sense to say that the transaction  financed  by Santander
was one that took place  between business  A and Mr S. Mr S wasnt  an account holder of
Ref: DRN623327110business A and the reason he used his card was to pay the supplier for the goods and
services he was purchasing.
I would also note that both Santander  and the supplier undoubtedly benefit  commercially
from the involvement of the other,  through the intermediation of business A, in a way that
makes it possible to regard them as in something akin to a joint venture. Specifically, by
financing purchases  from the supplier  Santander are able to lend money to their customer
and make interest and/or other charges  for that service, whilst the supplier is able to obtain
payments from Santanders credit  card holders and so benefit from the credit Santander
extended.
Furthermore, not every business accepts Mastercard. So where a supplier does agree to
accept Mastercard that results in Santander providing restricted use credit, regardless of
whether Santander  has a direct agreement with the supplier or not.
Taking this into account, and looking  at the principles outlined in the OFT case and business
As terms  and conditions, it seems to me that Santander provided finance to Mr S which
enabled him, through the medium  of the suppliers  account with business  A, to pay for goods
from the supplier.  The purpose of the credit agreement between  Santander and Mr S is to
give him the means to pay for goods  and services,  which is what he did when he paid the
supplier. So, following  the reasoning in the OFT case, Santander  financed  that transaction
by making credit available  to Mr S at the point of purchase in accordance with his credit
agreement.
Santander have  also pointed to the weblink contained within Mr Ss invoice. But Santander
also confirmed that they have only ever had a copy of the invoice where the link doesnt
function. So Santanders comment that the link would  have redirected Mr S to business As
webpage is a doubtful  assumption. As Ive said above, the evidence  indicates that Mr S
made his payment using a card reader. But even if this wasnt the case,  I think its unlikely
that the weblink would  have made  Mr S appreciate  that there was no direct agreement
between Santander  and the supplier. So he would have had no means of knowing whether
his transaction  with the supplier was conducted under one or other arrangement. And, as
Santander have  rightly pointed out, Mr Ss knowledge isnt a relevant  factor  for s.75 in any
event.
I have also considered Santanders comments about the Truman  case  and whether
extending the application of s.75 to Mr Ss transaction would be too tenuous. In the Truman
case, the bank  (a merchant acquirer) paid money to a solicitors  firm (the firm) under a
merchant services agreement, which it sought  to recover.  The firm acted for a car
dealership which had no facility to accept  payment by credit card and so used  the firm to
take credit  card payments from customers. The bank  paid money  to the firm under the
merchant services agreement in respect  of a series of transactions where  credit  card
payments had been taken from the dealerships customers to purchase  cars. However,  the
card holders  involved in those transactions did not receive their cars.  The card holders made
claims under s.75 against their respective card issuers for the reimbursement of the
payments. The card issuers duly repaid their card holders then recouped  those sums from
the bank via chargeback. The bank, in turn, sought repayment of those sums from the firm,
which defended  the claim by arguing that the card holders had no valid claim against the
card issuers  under s.75. Meaning  that the chargeback scheme  should  not have operated.
The court was therefore considering a five-party structure (debtor, card-issuer, merchant
acquirer, the firm, car dealership) in which  the fifth party,  the car dealership, had no
Ref: DRN623327111contractual or other  direct  relationship with either  the Visa or MasterCard  scheme. But it was
held that it did not matter  that the card issuers had no direct contractual  or other  relationship
with the dealership or that the card issuers had no idea of the existence  of the car
dealership. There  still existed arrangements  sufficient for the requisite DCS link.
In Mr Ss case, I think there are stronger indications  of relevant arrangements  than those in
the Truman case given that business  A, as the fifth party, is specifically and publicly in the
business of payment processing. Plus all parties to the structure appear to have  had a
relationship with the Mastercard scheme. Whereas in the Truman case the card issuers
dealt through  a merchant acquirer with a merchant ostensibly carrying on business  as a firm
of solicitors, rather than the business of payment processing for third parties.
So, in Mr Ss case the creditors issuing cards  within  the Mastercard network,  including
Santander, would seem in a stronger position both to know  about the activities  of the
payment processor than the card issuers were in the Truman case, whilst the Mastercard
network itself was well placed to decide  whether it would permit  the payment processor to
carry on that business in relation to its cards  and to influence the terms on which  it could do
so. I therefore dont consider the arrangements to be more tenuous than those examined by
the court in the Truman  case, but rather the opposite.
For all of these reasons, my provisional  conclusion is that there  were  indirect  arrangements
between Santander  and the supplier  under  which Santander financed transactions between
their card holders and the supplier, including Mr Ss purchase from the supplier in this case.
Meaning that DCS is intact and s.75 applies.
So I move onto the next issue.
(2) The liability issue
I need to first decide what the terms of the contract  between Mr S and the supplier  were.
There was no formal,  written contract in this case so Ive instead considered the other
evidence available  to me. In particular, I have Mr Ss own account and also the following text
messages:
A message from Mr S to the supplier, prior to the agreed  works, enquiring about the
suppliers experience in laying  the specific resin floor that Mr S says he wanted.
A message from the supplier confirming his experience in laying that particular type
of flooring.
A message from the supplier to Mr S confirming that the agreed  total price  was
£10,500 comprising  of an immediate deposit  payment of £1,500, followed by £3,750
after day two of the work and the remaining balance upon completion. Followed by a
further message  from the supplier confirming that the work would take five to six days
to complete.
Messages between the supplier and Mr S discussing the alternative type of flooring
Mr S says the supplier  ordered in error and Mr Ss ultimate confirmation that he
would still like to proceed with the type of flooring he originally requested.
So overall, I think its more likely  than not that the terms  of the contract were as Mr S has
outlined. Namely, a total contractual  price  of £10,500 to lay a specific type of resin  flooring in
five to six days.
Ive next gone on to consider whether these terms were breached  in any way. Again,  Mr S
Ref: DRN623327112has provided his own account as well as the following text messages and additional
evidence:
A message from the supplier to Mr S confirming that due to the cost difference and
money tied up across materials he had no funds  left to keep paying for his van. So
he had no money or transport to return and complete the work.
Mr Ss message asking what it would  therefore  cost for the supplier to return and
complete the work.
The suppliers response  that it would cost £2,650, which included him paying  for the
van rental, re-hiring it the cost difference between the materials  as money is tied up,
filling in the flooring and to do the colour and top coat.
Mr Ss response that this amount would take the total contract price to £11,900.
A report from the manufacturers of the resin flooring  stating that the suppliers work
hadnt been completed with reasonable care and skill to the expected standard  of a
competent installer. The work was of a substandard level and the subfloor  hadnt
been prepared  sufficiently. To rectify  the issue the primer needs to be sanded back,
the subfloor made well and the floor relayed.
Overall, I think that there is sufficient evidence to conclude that its more likely  than not that
the supplier breached the terms of the contract  with Mr S. The breach  was twofold. Firstly,
the supplier failed to return  and complete the work  as agreed due to his financial  difficulties.
It appears from both the messaging and the report from the manufacturers  that the supplier
only got as far as completing the primer and subfloor, which is consistent with Mr Ss
account.
Secondly, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA) implies a term, amongst others, that a
contract of this kind is carried out with reasonable care and skill. From the evidence  Ive
seen in the manufacturers report, it appears that the work that was completed by the
supplier didnt reach this expected standard.
So I now turn to the final issue.
(3) The quantum issue
Ive looked at all of the evidence available to decide  what losses  Mr S has suffered as a
result of the breach of contract.
Mr S says that he paid £1,500 as a deposit, a further £1,000 to the supplier in cash, £6,480
for the resin and £27.87  for DIY materials. I accept this given the following corroborative
evidence:
Mr Ss Santander credit card statement  showing the £1,500 deposit payment
A message from the supplier requesting a cash payment  of £1,000.
Mr Ss bank  statement  showing a withdrawal or £5,000 cash. He has explained that
this was initially in order to buy a car but that then fell through. So he used £1,000  of
this to pay the cash requested by the supplier.
Mr Ss receipt from the resin flooring manufacturer for the £6,480 materials he
bought.
Mr Ss receipt from a DIY store confirming purchase of items totalling  £27.87.  The
date of this receipt  is the same date that the supplier started  the work.
So Mr S paid a total of £9,007.87 to the supplier. As an aside, he has also mentioned that he
Ref: DRN623327113gave the supplier £150 for food and fuel. But in the absence  of any receipts or corroborative
evidence of this, Im afraid that Im not willing to take this additional amount into account.
As Ive outlined above, the work stalled at a very early stage of the works  namely the
primer and subfloor and yet Mr S paid close to the agreed full contractual price. So it seems
more likely than not that he has significantly overpaid for the stage that the works  reached.
Given that some of the work was completed  Ive considered  what benefit Mr S has derived
from that in order to ensure he is not over compensated  for his losses.  In considering this,
Ive thought about the fact that the work that was completed was substandard and it seems
from the manufacturers report that Mr S is going  to have  to have the work  redone. So it
would be reasonable to conclude that Mr S hasnt actually derived  or retained any benefit
from the work that was completed.
I also need to consider  the fact that Mr S is still in possession  of the resin flooring materials
he purchased. But Mr S has provided a technical data sheet  relating to the resin  floor
materials. This confirms that the materials need  to be used within 12 months but, looking at
the date of Mr Ss receipt, more than 12 months has now lapsed. So it appears that the
materials he bought,  and which were never used due to the supplier failing to return  and
complete the work, are no longer usable. Meaning  its more  likely than not that hell need to
repurchase this in order to complete the flooring.
It is of course arguable  that Mr S could have mitigated his losses  by having  the work  rectified
and completed by a different supplier within the 12 month period. Ive considered  Mr Ss
explanation around this. He has provided a detailed account of the inconvenience his family
went through and will have to go through again when the flooring is rectified. Namely,
moving into a partially finished home  and the prospect of now having to move  everything
back out for the floor to be relayed. I think it unlikely that Mr S would have entertained this
disruption if hed been  able to afford  to pay someone else to rectify the work. Especially
given the significant overpayment he made to the supplier. So, without any evidence to the
contrary, I find his account persuasive and accept that not only does the floor remain
unrectified but that he couldnt afford to have it relayed  as recommended  by the
manufacturers report.
For all of these reasons, I think that a fair and reasonable outcome is for Mr S to be refunded
the full amount he paid for the work, namely  £9,007.87. This will remedy  the losses  he has
suffered from the breach of contract by permitting  him to use the funds to have the work
redone and completed  to the right standard.
I think that Santander should  also pay Mr S 8% annual simple interest on that refund
amount. The calculation should  be from the earliest  opportunity that Santander  had to refund
Mr S  namely the date at which Mr S provided  all necessary supporting  information  to
support his claim. Looking at Santanders internal  notes relating to Mr Ss s.75 claim, there is
a note on 11 February 2019 confirming that the information/evidence Mr S had provided
had been looked at. So in the absence of any other  evidence, it appears that this would be
Ref: DRN623327114the fairest date from which  the interest should  be calculated.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Santander accepted my provisional decision.
Mr S says that he now faces  the additional costs of moving out in order to have the flooring 
relayed. He would  like me to consider awarding  for this as well and has offered to gather 
quotes to evidence the potential cost.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence,  arguments and the responses to my provisional 
decision in order to decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
When there has been a breach of contract  I need  to think  about what  losses  have been 
incurred as a result of that breach and the fairest way to remedy  that for both parties. The 
potential future costs that Mr S has referenced havent yet been incurred or crystalised and 
so, although Im grateful for his offer to gather quotes, this isnt something that I am willing  to 
take into account.
Ive considered the option of delaying my final decision until the remedial work  is completed. 
But its more likely  than not that this will build further, significant delay into what has already 
been a long and drawn out complaint process  and I need to be fair to both parties. So I think 
that the benefit to both parties  of being  able to draw a line under this matter,  without  further 
delay, far outweighs the option of keeping the complaint open for an unknown and indefinite  
period of time. 
For all of these reasons, and the reasons outlined in my provisional findings, Im not 
persuaded to change  my mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. I direct 
Santander UK Plc to:
Pay Mr S £9,007.87 plus 8% annual simple  interest* calculated from 
11 February 2019 up until the date of settlement.
*If Santander considers they should deduct  income tax from any 8% interest element of my 
award they may do so, but they should  give Mr S the necessary certificate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 May 2021.
Sim Ozen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6233271