K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  financed by 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to 
reject it and have a refund of payments made.
background
Mr S tells us he acquired the vehicle, as new, in 2012. But its not been used much - so has 
only covered around 22,000 miles since then. And for part of that time its been off the road 
and stored. But when he decided to start to use the vehicle again he found a problem - as 
the engine warning light became illuminated. He says theres  a problem with the cylinders  
and the car has become undriveable. Mr S informs us that similar  vehicles have been  
subject of a recall in the United States.
VWFS said Mr S had reported  a fault in June 2017 - with the engine warning light being 
illuminated. It says a fault has been  identified with the cylinders. But as this was over five 
years after supply it was satisfied the issue was not present  at the point  of supply.
The investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said there was no 
independent report  to show the alleged  faults were present  at the point of supply. And even 
allowing for the period Mr S had kept the vehicle off the road - it had been around three and 
a half years before the issues became apparent. Shed found  no evidence of a vehicle recall 
in this country.
Mr S didnt accept this outcome. As its not been possible to resolve  the complaint an 
ombudsman has been asked to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr S has experienced problems  with the vehicle. And I understand his concern 
that a vehicle which has done  so little mileage - even  if it is over several years - should 
encounter such problems.
Whilst I dont apply  the law directly - I do take it into account. Under legislation at the time 
the vehicle was supplied - as the supplier  of both the vehicle and finance agreement  - VWFS 
is responsible for the vehicle being  of satisfactory quality at the date of supply. So if I thought 
it was not of satisfactory quality Id expect VWFS  to put things right.
We are an evidence based service and whilst  theres no doubt the vehicle has encountered 
serious faults these  only became apparent in 2017. Thats five years after the vehicle was 
supplied. And whilst its been off the road for part of that time the mileage recorded on an 
invoice for an inspection in June 2017  shows the odometer reading as 22,828.
Theres no independent report so Ive only got the fact that the fault with the cylinders  was 
first reported  in 2017. And where evidence is incomplete - as some of it is here - Im required 
to make my decision on the balance  of probabilities. Put another  way what  is the most 
probable explanation. It seems to me unlikely the vehicle could have been driven this far if 
the problem had been present at the time of supply.
Ref: DRN69444362Mr S has referred to a  vehicle recall in another country - but Ive not seen evidence of any 
recall in the United  Kingdom.
In summary,  theres no persuasive evidence the vehicle was not of satisfactory  quality at the 
time of supply. So it would not be fair and reasonable to hold VWFS responsible for the fault 
which has now occurred. 
Whilst I know it will disappointment Mr S Im not upholding his complaint and I shant be 
asking VWFS to end the agreement or take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6944436