K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain National  Westminster Bank Plc hasnt given  them a refund for two 
time share contracts they entered into where they say the contracts have  been  breached  or 
a misrepresentation  occurred. 
background
Mr and Mrs L first entered into a time share contract in June  2016   Ill call this time share 
one. They entered into another in June 2017   Ill call this time share two. Both transactions  
for the time shares  were  made in part by debit card transactions. 
Mr and Mrs L made a chargeback request  to NatWest in September  2018. But as this was 
out of time NatWest  never  made the chargeback request.  Mr and Mrs L complained. 
NatWest didnt uphold  the complaint. It said the chargeback request had been  made  out of 
time for time share one and it hadnt  received the requested information for time share two. 
Mr and Mrs L subsequently  provided the information about time share two. NatWest  
explained that chargeback request was also out of time, but as the merchant had gone out of 
business, and there  had been a court case,  it refunded the debit transaction as a gesture of 
good will. 
Not happy with the outcome Mr and Mrs L asked  us to look into the matter. Our investigator 
concluded NatWest  hadnt acted unfairly by not raising the chargeback  as it was made out of 
time. Mr and Mrs L have asked for the matter  to be reviewed as they were unaware of the 
chargeback time limits. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I explain why below.
A chargeback is not a legal right that Mr and Mrs L have. Chargeback schemes are 
voluntary schemes  set up between card issuers   such as Visa, Mastercard  or American 
Express  and merchants.  In this case, I understand the debit cards were Visa debit cards 
and so it is Visas scheme rules  that apply.  
There are only certain activities that Visa allows chargeback rights for. And it has set time 
limits for chargebacks to be attempted. And it is Visa that actually makes the decision about 
whether or not to make  a chargeback  the bank  simply  makes a chargeback request. If a 
card issuer  (here  its NatWest) knows a chargeback  is out of time, or its unlikely to succeed, 
I wouldnt necessarily expect it to make a chargeback  request.  
Mr and Mrs L have already received a refund of the transaction  they made in June 2017,  
which was refunded as a gesture of goodwill. I see no basis on which  to ask NatWest to do 
anymore in relation  to timeshare two. 
I turn now to timeshare one. The transactions for this time share took place in June 2016. 
Under the scheme rules a chargeback can be attempted within  120 days  from the 
transaction. But there are some limited  circumstances where  that can be extended to 540 
days. As the transaction here was for ongoing goods or services, the extended  time limit can 
apply. But Mr and Mrs L didnt raise  their chargeback until September  2018, outside  of that 
Ref: DRN67584852extended time frame.  I appreciate they might not have  been aware of the time limits, but that 
doesnt mean they dont apply. And as the time limits are a defence against a chargeback, I 
dont find NatWest was acting unfairly  when not making a chargeback request. 
I do understand Mr and Mrs L are in a difficult situation and have possibly lost out. But I dont 
find NatWest has done anything wrong given  the scheme rules that apply. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 March  2019.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6758485