K820x#14complaint
Mr F is unhappy  that AXA Insurance UK Plc wont pay under his home  insurance  for a watch  
and a gold chain stolen from his home during a burglary
background
In December 2017, Mr F suffered a burglary at his home. He made a claim to AXA who 
accepted it and agreed to pay out for an electronic tablet and for a ring. It wouldnt pay 
however for a gold chain and a Rolex watch. It said that Mr F hadnt provided sufficient 
evidence of ownership and value of those items. For the gold chain Mr F couldnt provide  
any photos. He supplied photos of a matching bracelet but AXA estimated the cost of a 
similar chain  was vastly in excess of the original purchase price some 10-15 years  
previously. Because of the value claimed  for AXA required more substantiation  of ownership 
which Mr F couldnt provide.
For the watch, Mr F had bought it through an online selling site. He showed confirmation  of 
the purchase and a letter from his local jeweller  saying he had seen the watch and confirmed 
it was genuine.  But Mr F wasnt able to provide the serial number. AXA didnt think  the 
documents provided were sufficient to substantiate ownership.
On referral to this service  our investigator  thought that AXA had acted fairly and reasonably. 
The matter  has been referred to me for consideration
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When an insurance claim is made  an insurer is entitled to ask for proof of ownership and of 
value. This would be the case  for any insurance  policy, so AXA isnt doing  anything different. 
For the gold chain, I appreciate that Mr F bought  it a long time ago. He paid about  £3-£400  
for it. He wasnt able to provide any photos of it so when he was asked to describe it he said 
it was of a similar type and carat to a matching bracelet which  he still has. AXAs  jewellers 
estimated from the photos of the bracelet that that would  mean  a value of over £18,000 for 
the chain. Because of the substantial difference in value (which  cant reasonably be 
accounted for by normal inflation and fluctuations in gold prices) I dont think  it was 
unreasonable for AXA to ask for further proof of ownership, like photos  of it being worn.  
Without such evidence  I think it was reasonable for AXA not to pay for this item.
As for the watch,  because  of the brand, every  watch has a unique  serial number which  will 
be on the watch itself and on any authentication papers. Without that number AXA will be 
unable to say if its a genuine  watch or if it was listed as stolen (there is a database which  
stolen Rolex  watches are listed on). That isnt to say that AXA is suggesting  that Mr F 
definitely had a fake or stolen watch or that he was complicit in such. Mr F has produced the 
sale notification and listing from the online sellers site. Hes also shown  AXA the email 
exchange where the seller explained  that it was previously his own watch. Yet the seller  
wasnt able to provide  the serial number. 
Mr F has also provided a letter from his local jeweller, dated some  five months after the 
claim was made. It says the watch is genuine  but doesnt say when or why Mr F visited  with 
Ref: DRN61230712the watch. It doesnt describe the exact  model as advertised on the online site, nor does  it 
provide a serial  number.  My understanding is that verified Rolex repairers note the serial  
number on each watch and this would be on the watch itself.  I dont  think  the letter  is 
sufficient proof.
I note also that Mr F made a claim for a watch in 2015 which AXA paid out for. He listed it on 
the policy but didnt change the listing when he bought the new watch. The policy doesnt 
require items  to be specifically listed before it will pay out but it is another consideration in 
deciding proof  of ownership.
So I dont  think AXA acted  unreasonably.  As we have advised him AXA would be happy  to 
reconsider the claim if Mr F can provide  more  proof  of ownership/value. But Im satisfied that 
it was reasonable  for AXA to decline the claim for these two items on the basis that the 
current documents he has provided are sufficient. So I wont require AXA to take any other  
action.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6123071