K821x#15complaint
Mr Gs unhappy with the time taken to settle  a claim on his AXA Insurance  UK Plc motor  
insurance policy.
background
Mr G had an accident on 10 August 2017.  He says AXA offered him a settlement for his car 
on 15 August 2017 valuing  the car at £10,400.  But he didnt  hear anything  more from it until 
after he chased settlement some  months  later. He says his finance deal was finally  paid off 
towards the end of March 2018.  But by this time hed paid another seven payments to his 
finance company  and he wants  AXA to reimburse him for the extra £1,470  he paid.
AXA said the total loss settlement letter was sent to Mr G on 15 August 2017 but the signed  
copy wasnt returned to them.  Mr G disputes this but cant provide the email he says he sent.
AXA agreed in its final response to pay Mr G £500  compensation.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. She said:
No one from AXA contacted Mr G to follow up on its total loss settlement letter. Mr G 
contacted it for an update after about  six months. It isnt reasonable for AXA to have 
not contacted  Mr G in this period  to settle the claim.
After this contact AXA offered a revised  total loss settlement on 19 March  2018 of 
£9976.69 which  was the amount left outstanding  on the finance on it. That was less 
than its original valuation of the car and so Mr G is entitled  to the outstanding 
amount. AXA only realised this in September 2018. This shouldve been identified  
earlier. 
AXA didnt respond to Mr Gs complaint in the appropriate period. Its offered him 
£500 compensation for the delay and the financial impact  this has had on him. 
But the amount  outstanding on his loan in September 2017 was £10,967 and in 
March 2018 it was £9,967.69. If the total loss settlement had been made in 
September 2017 the shortfall on the loan wouldve been  £567. Given  the 
unnecessary delay caused by AXA its reasonable to expect it to pay this difference.  
Had the total loss payment been  made  sooner Mr G wouldve only owed this amount 
and AXA should pay the £567 shortfall plus interest from when the finance company 
confirmed the shortfall  figure  along  with the £500  compensation.
AXA doesnt  agree  and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  It says this isnt a fair 
resolution as the onus  was on Mr G to follow up the total settlement letter.  It also says that 
as Mr G had a PCP agreement he wasnt the cars owner and AXAs  responsibility was to 
pay back the cars market  value  or the outstanding  finance whichever  is less. In this case the 
cars market  value in August was £10,400 and the amount outstanding on the finance was 
£10,967. It only found this out later and it wouldve been for Mr G to have claimed this 
difference on his GAP  insurance of which AXA wasnt aware. It paid the outstanding amount 
on the finance agreement when it later settled the claim. Its offer of compensation was to put 
Mr G back into the position he wouldve been  in less the GAP coverage.  There  was an onus 
on Mr G to tell it of the GAP insurance.  He also didnt say he was still paying his finance 
Ref: DRN62123582agreement. AXA shouldnt be held liable for Mr G not being  able to use the GAP  insurance 
for the last £567 as only he was aware of his coverage and its limitations.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear the settlement  of Mr Gs claim didnt happen as quickly as it shouldve done.  I think  
that delay was something both parties contributed to.
AXA says it sent Mr G a settlement form in August 2017 offering to pay the cars market  
value of £10,400 which would pay off most of the £10,967 owing on his finance agreement. 
That wouldve  left him to pay a shortfall of £567  which it subsequently found  out mightve 
been covered  by GAP insurance.
Mr G says he sent the settlement forms back to AXA but has no proof of this. And AXA says 
it didnt receive them.
Unfortunately neither  party  then followed up on concluding the settlement until Mr G 
contacted AXA some months later.  When  the finance was settled in March 2018  the amount 
paid off was around  £9,976.
I think AXA had a responsibility to review the case in a regular and timely way and to take 
steps to ensure the claim was settled  within a reasonable period. But it clearly didnt do so. I 
also think Mr G shouldve reasonably done more to contact  AXA sooner not least  as his 
finance payments  kept being  taken  and it was therefore reasonably  apparent his finance  
agreement hadnt  been paid off.
AXA has already  offered  to pay Mr G £500 compensation for what  happened.  And our 
investigator recommended AXA should  pay Mr G an additional £567.
She said this was for the £567 shortfall on his loan as at September 2017. But I dont  think  
that would  be fair as AXA wasnt aware  he had GAP  insurance and Mr G wouldve been 
aware of its terms and conditions and shouldve made a claim on it himself.
Mr G says during the delay he paid another seven months finance payments amounting to 
£1,470 and he wants AXA to reimburse him for them. But I agree with AXA that Mr G didnt 
mitigate his loss as he reasonably shouldve done.  So, I dont think  I can fairly ask AXA to 
reimburse all of this amount.
Even so I think its fair for AXA to increase its total offer of compensation to reflect  some  of 
the extra payments  Mr G made and to compensate him for some of the distress  and 
inconvenience he was caused.
Our investigators recommendation was for AXA to pay Mr G a total of £1,067. Taking 
everything into account -  including the level of awards we make,  AXAs lack of action to 
finalise a settlement  and Mr Gs failure  to mitigate  his losses - I think a payment of that total 
amount of compensation is a fair resolution of this complaint. I think it fairly  and reasonably  
compensates Mr G for the distress, inconvenience and financial consequences hes suffered 
as a result  of what happened.
Ref: DRN62123583my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right AXA Insurance UK Plc should  pay Mr G, if it 
hasnt already done so, a total of £1,067 compensation.
AXA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr G accepts 
my final decision. If it pays later than this it must  also pay interest* on the compensation from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at 8% a year simple.
* If HM Revenue & Customs requires AXA to take off tax from this interest.  It must give Mr G 
a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6212358