K822xcomplaint
Mrs M complains that Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y 
Reaseguros, S.A. misled  her when it said that her travel insurance  claim had been  declined. 
background 
Mrs M was unable  to travel on a planned  cruise because her husband  had suffered an injury 
and she would need to care for him. Her cruise  company had told her it wouldnt change the 
holiday to another  date,  and the only option was to cancel and claim the cost from her 
insurer (less 25% that the cruise  company  would  return to her). 
Mrs M contacted Mapfre through a webchat.  It explained the information it would usually 
need to assess  the claim. Mrs M cancelled the cruise and made a claim online. 
In error Mapfre sent Mrs M an automated  message saying that the information shed 
provided suggested her claim  was not covered under her travel insurance policy.  It said its 
claims team would be in touch shortly with the exact  reason. So Mrs M asked the cruise 
company to reinstate her cruise, which it agreed to do for different dates and at additional 
expense. 
Mrs M then called Mapfre the following day. It told her the claim hadnt been declined,  and 
shed need to send it further information.  It explained it had made an error in sending the 
automated message saying her claim wasnt covered.  It said sorry for its error and offered to 
change the policy dates for the new cruise, but Mrs M had already arranged  different cover.  
So it cancelled the policy, refunded the premium to her and offered  £20 compensation. 
Unhappy with this she came to us, saying shed incurred additional expenses  in rebooking 
the cruise due to Mapfres error. 
Our casework manager didnt think Mapfre should  have to pay the additional cruise costs, 
but she asked  Mapfre to pay £100 compensation, in total, for Mrs Ms distress  and 
inconvenience. Mapfre agreed to this but Mrs M didnt. She pointed out her actions in 
reinstating the cruise  were the result  of Mapfres own systems failure. So the complaints 
come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its not in dispute  that Mapfre made  an error, so I need to decide whether its increased  offer 
to pay £100 compensation is fair. I think it is, and Ill explain  why.
Mapfre accepts it shouldnt have  sent the automated  message saying that Mrs Ms claim 
wasnt covered. 
I understand Mrs Ms concern, but I dont think I can fairly require Mapfre to pay for the 
additional costs  she decided to incur to reinstate the cruise the same evening  and before 
shed spoken  to Mapfre about  its message. Also it seems that Mrs M had initially wanted to 
change the cruise dates.
Ref: DRN69910582I think it was reasonably foreseeable that Mrs M would  be distressed and inconvenienced by 
Mapfres incorrect message. I see it acknowledged this when she called it the following day. 
Mapfre also properly apologised and offered to change  the policy dates. I think its initial offer 
of £20 compensation wasnt enough.  But in my view its current  total offer of £100 is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances for the distress and inconvenience  caused by its error. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. I order Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania 
Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. to pay Mrs M £100 compensation for distress  
and inconvenience  as it has offered to do. 
Mapfre must pay the total compensation  within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it Mrs M 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest* on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision until the date of payment at 8% per year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If Mapfre  Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros,  S.A. considers 
that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from that interest, it 
should tell Mrs M how much its taken off. It should  also give Mrs M a certificate showing this 
if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6991058