K820x#14complaint
Ms H is unhappy with the amount Experian Limited has been  charging her to use its service. 
She complains she shouldve been made aware of a cheaper alternative.  
background
Ms H initially  took out an Experian Credit Expert membership in 2011. This membership 
cost her £14.99  per month to use and included access to her credit file as well as alerts  and 
monitoring of her record. 
In 2013, Ms H contacted Experian  as she wanted  to cancel her membership. But after the 
discussions she agreed to continue with it. At this point Ms H began  paying £9.99 a month 
for the Credit Expert membership. 
She now complains that she wouldnt have continued her membership had she known she 
could get a statutory report for £2. 
Experian looked into the complaint and didnt  uphold it. It explained that Ms H had agreed to 
continue to take on the Credit Expert membership, and had used the product on a number of 
occasions since. It says it wouldnt have advised  Ms H to take out the statutory report  as she 
had an active membership at the time. 
Our investigator agreed with Experian.  He said there  was no record of Ms Hs conversation 
from 2013, so he had relied  on the call notes at the time. He was persuaded these showed 
Ms H agreed to continue  the membership. He also explained he was satisfied Ms H had 
used the Credit Expert membership benefits on a number  of occasions. So he felt Experian 
had acted fairly.
Ms H disagreed and asked for an ombudsman to issue a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms Hs strength of feeling on this matter, and Id like to assure her I have 
carefully considered  her point of view. But Im not persuaded  this complaint should be 
upheld. 
All parties  agree that Ms H wasnt informed of the option to get her statutory report for £2 
when she called in 2013. 
But this this doesnt mean that Experian  has done something wrong.
Ultimately, Ms H called  to cancel her membership. Experian gave her option to continue to 
have the membership at a reduced  rate  which she accepted. There  is no suggestion that 
Experian refused  to cancel Ms Hs membership. 
Experian was under no obligation to inform her of cheaper a statutory option. This may be 
different if Ms H had asked about this directly.  But Ms H has explained that she wasnt  aware 
Ref: DRN66128152that she could  get this service at the time.  So I dont think its unreasonable  that this option  
wasnt discussed when  she called to cancel.
Instead she has taken  Experian up on its offer. I dont think this is unreasonable or that 
uncommon. If Ms H didnt want to pay a membership  fee then she didnt have  to. It was her 
choice to continue  with it. And by her own admission she was aware  of how much  she was 
paying each month and what  this included. So I cant say Experian  gave her misleading 
information. 
And in any event, even  if I were  to say Experian  shouldve offered Ms H more options,  I dont  
think it would  be fair to say it should now refund her money. Mainly because in the end Ms H 
has made use of this service, and has benefitted from being a Credit Expert member. She 
may dispute that she has got good value for money  but that in itself doesnt mean she 
should receive compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 March  2019.
Tom Whittington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6612815