K821x#15complaint
Mr B, through his solicitors, has complained that Link Mortgage  Services  Limited (trading as 
Capita Mortgage  Services Limited  and referred to here as Capita) has failed to provide the 
correct documentation  to allow its charge to be removed at the Land Registry.
background
Mr B owns  a property on which there  is a mortgage serviced by Capita. In order  to discharge 
the mortgage, the Land Registry requires  there  to be a signed Power of Attorney from the 
lender in favour of Capita. The property is in Scotland so discharge has to be done through  
solicitors.
Unfortunately the documentation originally provided by Capita didnt satisfy the Land 
Registrys requirements. Mr B complained. Capita was unsure what  Mr B required, saying 
that the documentation it had sent him had been accepted  without question  by the Land 
Registry in the past. Capita offered Mr B £100 compensation for any errors.
Mr B complained to our service. An investigator looked at the complaint. She noted  the 
solicitors specific request for a certified copy of a Power of Attorney. A copy of the Power  of 
Attorney dated  23 December 2014 and certified  to be a true copy by Capita on 5 July 2019 
was provided by Capita in July 2019. 
The investigator thought Capita should  increase its offer of compensation to £200 and pay 
Mr Bs reasonable legal costs, which his solicitors said would be £200  + VAT (so a total of 
£240). Capita agreed to do this.
The solicitors said they needed a Power of Attorney dated prior to the date (27 June 2017) 
on which Capita signed the Discharge of the loan on behalf  of the lender. They  have also 
asked whether Mr Bs costs of bringing  the complaint will be covered by Capita. As the 
matter appears to have  reached a stalemate, the complaint has now been  passed to me for 
a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  The issue  in this case  is quite simple; 
Capita says that the documentation provided  has always been  accepted  by the Scottish 
Land Registry, but Mr Bs solicitors argument is that this documentation is insufficient to 
enable it to remove the charge.
It appears to me that Capita has now provided  the documentation required by the solicitors, 
as Ive seen a certified copy of the Power of Attorney dated 23 December 2014. Since this 
was sent in July 2019,  there  has been  no further suggestion from the solicitors  that this is 
inadequate for their purposes.  Nor is there anything from the Land  Registry rejecting this 
document. 
In the circumstances, it appears the only question to be decided is that of compensation.
Capita has agreed  to pay £200 compensation to Mr B for trouble and upset. I think  this is fair 
and reasonable and proportionate to any error in not understanding what documentation his 
solicitors needed.
Ref: DRN63309552Capita has also agreed to pay Mr Bs legal  costs of £200 + VAT (£240 in total).  Again I think  
this is reasonable.
Mr Bs solicitors  have asked if we will order Capita to pay their costs for the work done in 
bringing the complaint to us on Mr Bs behalf.  But we provide an informal  service  which  is 
free for consumers  to use without needing to instruct a solicitor.  Im satisfied  the issues  in 
this complaint are not so complex  that Mr B couldnt  have brought the complaint  himself. In 
the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable to order  Capita to pay Mr Bs 
legal costs for bringing the complaint to us.
my final decision
My decision  is that, in full and final settlement  of this complaint, Link Mortgage Services 
Limited must  pay Mr B £200 compensation for trouble and upset.  Link Mortgage Services  
Limited must  also pay Mr Bs legal costs in the amount of £200 + VAT (£240) on receipt  of 
an invoice in that amount from Mr Bs solicitors.  I make no other  order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 March  2020.
Jan OLeary
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6330955