K820x#14Complaint
Mr L complains  that when he requested to refinance the balloon payment at the end of his 
hire purchase agreement Black Horse  Limited  said this option  was no longer available.  
Background
Mr L entered into a finance agreement with Black  Horse in 2016  to acquire a motorcycle.  
He says that at the time Black Horse provided  a facility where the motorcycle could be 
refinanced at the end of the agreement.  He says he entered into the agreement  on this basis.
In May 2019, ahead of the agreement  end in August 2019, Mr L contacted Black Horse  to 
arrange the refinancing but was told this facility had been removed around six months prior. 
Mr L says Black Horse changed the conditions on which he had entered into the agreement  
and refused to refinance his motorcycle even though he says this option is still common  
amongst the industry. 
Mr L says he wasnt  told about the change at the time it took place and so wasnt  given the 
chance to refinance  at that time. He says has had a material impact on his financial position.
Black Horse  says that the option to refinance  the balloon  payment wasnt  part of Mr Ls terms and 
conditions and that due to a policy change this offer was no longer available  to its customers. 
It says that when this offer was available  it was subject to affordability  and credit  checks.  
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. She said that the option to refinance  the 
balloon payment wasnt in the terms and conditions of Mr Ls agreement.  Because of this 
she didnt think Black Horse had made a mistake by no longer providing this option.  She also 
didnt think Black Horse was required to notify  Mr L of the policy  change.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators  view.  He didnt think that Black  Horse had acted fairly 
towards him. He said that when he entered into the agreement he was offered the option to 
refinance to the balloon  payment on his motorcycle but this offer was withdrawn while he was in 
the agreement. He said that the offer to do this was still available on cars. Mr L also said that his 
terms and conditions prevented him from accessing  other finance as he wasnt the owner of the 
motorcycle. He said the situation meant he had to withdraw funds  from his pension plan to make 
the final payment  and this had affected  the projected  income  of that plan.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr L entered into a finance agreement with Black  Horse in 2016  to acquire a motorcycle.  The 
agreement contained  a final repayment  amount, referred to as the balloon payment, of over 
£10,000. I have  looked through the terms and conditions of the agreement  and these set out 
the options available when the agreement reaches the final payment. These options do not 
include an option to refinance the agreement.  Therefore I agree that based on the terms and 
conditions Black Horse hasnt done anything wrong  by not providing  this option to Mr L.
Ref: DRN66373192Mr L says that when he entered into the agreement the option  to refinance was available and 
that this was relevant in his decision to enter  into the agreement.  He has said this option was 
common among the industry and says this is still the case. Mr L believes he has been 
treated unfairly  by this option being removed and by him not being informed at the time of 
the removal so that he could  have  refinanced  at that time.
For me to uphold this complaint I have to be satisfied that a mistake has been made or that 
Mr L has been treated  unfairly. I understand why Mr L feels  he should have been told about 
the change in policy Black  Horse  made.  But there wasnt a change to the terms and 
condition of Mr Ls agreement. While Black Horse  has said it did offer this option in certain 
circumstances subject  to affordability and credit  checks, based  on the information provided I 
do not find I can say this is something that Mr L could or should have relied on being  
available. Therefore when the policy changed  I do not find that Black Horse  was required to 
contact Mr L about  this.
I understand that Mr L is upset that an option he thought would be available at the end of the 
agreement wasnt but it is not my role to say that Black Horse  has to make this option 
available. I appreciate his comments about him being offered it at the outset but without 
further evidence  of this I do not find I can say I have enough to say he was misled into 
entering into the agreement. The options set out in the agreement  are clear and I have 
nothing to suggest Mr L has been treated differently to other customers or in a way that is 
different to the standard  terms. Therefore I do not find I can say he has been  treated unfairly  
in this case.
I appreciate the comments Mr L has made about  the financial impact of the options at the end 
of the agreement but these were clearly set out in the agreement. So while I acknowledge he 
thought an alternative  option would be available I do not find that it was reasonable for him to 
rely on this and I cannot say Black Horse  is responsible for any financial impact Mr L has 
suffered through is decision of how to fund the final repayment amount.
Overall, I understand why Mr L is upset and I note his comments about the restriction  in the 
agreement. However  the agreement is clear in regard to who owns  the motorcycle  and the 
options available both at the end of the agreement and in regard to early termination. So 
while I appreciate  Mr L is upset that the didnt have  the refinance option available,  I cannot 
say that this would have  been available (as it was subject to conditions) without the policy  
change and I do not find I can say Black  Horse has done anything  wrong  by no longer 
having this option available. Because of this I do not find I can uphold this complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6637319