K822xcomplaint
Mr S has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold him a Platinum packaged 
bank account.  Hes used  a Claims Management  Company  (CMC) to make this complaint.
background 
Lloyds agreed  that the Platinum account  was not sold correctly  as it thought that it should  
have recommended that Mr S take out a Gold account instead. It therefore offered to refund 
the difference between the fees that Mr S paid for the Platinum account  and the fees he 
would have paid for the Gold account.  It also agreed to add interest to the difference  in line 
with our approach.
One of our adjudicators looked  into this complaint  and they thought that what  Lloyds had 
agreed to do was enough. The CMC  disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  this complaint. 
Having carefully looked  at everything  provided,  I think that what  Lloyds has already offered 
to do is sufficient. Let me explain  why.
I think that Mr S had a fair choice in taking out this account. I note that Mr Ss account  was 
opened as a Platinum account  and that he has said that he has never  had a fee free 
account. But it is common knowledge that fee free banking  is available  in the UK and Mr S 
has not said anything  about why he would  have believed  that free accounts were not an 
option for him. Mr S has though said that he was told he had to upgrade to maintain his 
overdraft level but as his account was opened  as a Platinum account rather than being 
upgraded then I cant see how this could  have happened. So overall  I think that Mr S had a 
fair choice  in taking  out the account and he chose to take it.
Lloyds has already accepted that it should not have recommended the Platinum account and 
that it should have recommended the Gold account. Therefore I next need to consider 
whether the Gold  account wouldve been a suitable  recommendation.
At the time the Gold account would have been  recommended the main benefits  of the 
account were mobile phone insurance, breakdown cover and worldwide travel insurance. Mr 
S has said that he had his own breakdown  cover  and mobile phone insurance but this 
suggests that he had a need for these insurances  and he has not explained why he could 
not use the cover that the Gold  account  wouldve come with if he had chosen to do so. In 
any event, Mr S did have a need for travel  insurance as illustrated by his attempt to claim on 
this benefit and the Gold account would have been the cheapest  account  that had this as a 
benefit. So I think that the Gold  account  would have been a reasonable recommendation.
So overall and having carefully thought  about everything provided, I think  that what  Lloyds 
has already agreed  is reasonable and I dont think it needs to do anything  more.
Ref: DRN65249742putting things right
Lloyds should  do as it has offered and:
work out and pay Mr S the difference in the fees he paid between the Platinum 
account and the Gold account  for the whole period  he held a Platinum account, 
and
add simple interest at 8% per year on to the above amount, from the date 
Mr S paid the fees to the date of settlement.
If Lloyds is able to work out any savings Mr S has made  from holding the Platinum 
account and it can show these calculations to him, it may, if it wants, deduct  this 
additional saving  from the payment it makes him.
HM Revenue & Customs requires HSBC to take off tax from this interest. Lloyds must give Mr S a 
certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
I direct  Lloyds  Bank PLC to pay Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6524974