K820x#14complaint
Ms N complains about the charges  that have been  made by Hitachi  Capital (UK) plc for 
additional rental after the hire period ended.
background
A car was supplied  to Ms N under a hire agreement with Hitachi Capital that she 
electronically signed in April 2016.  The agreement had a two year term. When  Ms N didnt  
return the car in May 2018,  Hitachi  Capital  charged her additional rental of £104.39  which 
was collected  from her account  and then £127.25  which  remains outstanding. She 
complained to Hitachi Capital about  the charges but wasnt satisfied with its response so 
complained to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She concluded that 
Ms N didnt return the car at the end of the agreement  and that Hitachi Capital didnt do 
anything wrong  by charging  her for the additional time that she had the car. She said that 
Hitachi Capital had made Ms N aware  that the agreement was coming to an end by e-mail in 
February and it was Ms Ns responsibility to return the car, as stated in the terms and 
conditions. So she said that Hitachi  Capital hadnt  acted unfairly and she wouldnt be asking 
it to do anything more.
Ms N has asked for her complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  She says,  in 
summary, that:
the e-mail from Hitachi wasnt received (and proof of that email has never been sent 
to her);
Hitachi Capital made no effort to inform her that the return  date was imminent;
the car was taken  from her and then sold at auction;
she knew that the car was due back towards the end of May and she phoned Hitachi 
Capital to ask why she hadn't received any notification and how she should proceed 
to get the car picked up;
her previous rental car had been  returned  seamlessly two years previously and she 
expected Hitachi  Capital to be as committed to customer care;  and
she strongly feels that Hitachi Capital made no effort to communicate with her and 
give guidance about returning the car within the deadline. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms N electronically signed the hire agreement in April 2016.  The signature box of the 
agreement says: This is a Hire Agreement regulated by the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
Sign it only if you want to be legally bound by its terms. 
The agreement also says that the car was for a: Fixed period of hire 24 months starting  on 
the date of the delivery of the Vehicle. So Ms N knew   or ought to have known - that the 
car was to be returned two years after it was delivered to her.
Hitachi Capital has provided a copy of the e-mail  that it says it sent to Ms N in February  2018  
the subject of which was: Reminder:  Your vehicle contract is coming  to an end. That e-mail 
Ref: DRN69390522set out the date that the hire agreement ended and explained a number of options to Ms N  
including about  collection of the car. 
Ms N says that she didnt  receive the e-mail. But it was sent to the e-mail address that 
Hitachi Capital held in its records for her (which is the same as the e-mail address that Ms N 
has provided to this service). I consider it to be more  likely than not that the e-mail  was sent 
to Ms N  even if she didnt receive  it. And by sending the e-mail to Ms N, I consider that 
Hitachi Capital gave  her the necessary information  about the end of her hire agreement.
I agree  with Ms N that it wouldve been  helpful  for Hitachi Capital to have  sent another  
communication to her nearer the end of the agreement (particularly when she hadnt  
contacted it to make arrangements for the return of the car)  but I dont  consider that there 
was any requirement  for it do so.
Ms N didnt return the car by the agreement end date so Hitachi Capital has charged her 
£104.39 (which  shes  paid) and £127.25 (which she hasnt paid)  for additional  rental. I 
consider that Hitachi Capital  was entitled to charge  Ms N for additional rental when she 
didnt return the car by the agreement end date. And Im not persuaded that it would  be fair 
or reasonable in these circumstances for me to require Hitachi Capital to refund or waive any 
of those charges.
I dont consider that Hitachi Capital has acted incorrectly in its dealings  with Ms N. And I find 
that it wouldnt be fair or reasonable  for me to require it to take any action in response to her 
complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Ms Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6939052