K821x#15complaint
Mr Ps complained about repairs carried out under his AXA Insurance  UK Plc motor  
insurance policy. 
background
In March 2017 Mr P was involved in an accident  with another car. AXA arranged the repairs  
with one of its repairers. The repairs included respraying one of the cars doors. In         
August 2018 Mr P noticed paint had bubbled on the door and cracked around the handle.  He 
complained the AXA.
The repairing  garage offered to rectify the paintwork  but Mr P didnt agree. He wanted it to 
be rectified by the manufacturer. AXA arranged  an inspection  by a paint specialist that took 
place in October 2018.
The paint specialist  said there were issues with the paint film. He said this was mainly due to 
bird lime attacking  it. He said the cracking  around the door was known  as neufield effect 
and can be caused  when a component is installed and tightened on fresh paintwork. He said 
the cracking doesnt immediately appear. The specialist  noted the rectification work that was 
needed. 
The specialist also said Mr P had asked why the rest of the paintwork  hadnt bubbled when it 
also had bird lime on it. The specialist  said the repairer had to use low bake materials  
where the original  manufacturer used  high bake.  He said this was because the plastic  
components on the car would distort at the temperatures used to dry high bake materials.  
AXA didnt think it was responsible for the damage to Mr Ps car. It said due to the amount of 
time that had passed it was unlikely the damaged paint  was the fault of its repairer.  
However, it recognised  that it had caused delays in arranging the paint inspection and paid 
Mr P £250  compensation. 
Our investigator spoke  to the paint specialist.  The specialist  said while the neufield  effect 
doesnt show up immediately, it would normally show after four to five months. So he would 
have expected Mr P to have noticed it sooner if it was due to AXAs  repairs.  
Our investigator didnt  think there was enough  to say AXA was responsible for the problems 
with the paintwork. So she didnt  recommend that AXA do anything else.
Mr P didnt agree. He said AXA should  have used the manufacturers garage and returned  
the car in the condition it was in before  the accident.  He said his car was only a year old at 
the time of the accident and the rest of the paintwork  hadnt  bubbled  in a similar way. He 
also asked a number  of questions about  the paint specialists report  and said the 
manufacturer would  have  guaranteed the paint  work. He asked for an ombudsmans 
decision. 
After looking into things  I contacted AXA and Mr P to let them know I intended to partly 
uphold Mr Ps complaint.  I thought it was likely the problems with the paint had resulted from 
the repairs and thought  AXA should  put this right.  I said it could choose whether to do this 
through its own repairer or the manufacturers garage.  
Ref: DRN62701042AXA accepted my provisional findings.  Mr P said hed accept them  as long as it was the 
manufacturers garage that carried out the repairs or it was done  with a high bake product. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to partly  
uphold it.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ps policy say AXA will use one of its approved repairers  to 
carry out any repairs. So that means it doesnt have to have repairs done by the 
manufacturer. However wed expect any repairs to be lasting and effective and put Mr P 
back in the position he was in before the accident. The terms of the policy  also say that any 
repairs are guaranteed throughout the time he owns the car. 
The paint specialist  concluded that the paint film had been affected  by bird lime.  However  he 
said the reason  only the repaired area seems  to be affected was because  the repairs were 
completed using  a low bake product, whereas the original materials were high bake. He 
explained that the repairer couldnt  use high bake products as the temperatures  needed to 
dry the materials would  distort the plastic components on the car. 
Given the detailed  explanation by the paint specialist Im persuaded that the paintwork has 
been affected by bird lime. However I think the finish used in the repairs  meant the paintwork 
is susceptible to this type of damage. I havent seen anything to show  AXA had any 
alternative to this or that the manufacturers garage would have used a different technique. 
So I havent seen  anything to persuade me AXA did anything wrong  in how it did the repair. 
But it might have been helpful  if AXAs repairer  had let Mr P know  this sort of problem could 
happen after the repair. As the repairs led to the problems  with the paintwork I think  it would 
be fair and reasonable for AXA to have the damage  repaired.
The paint specialist  has also explained that the crinkling around  the door handle could have 
happened when  a component is installed and tightened on fresh paintwork. He said it 
doesnt appear immediately although hed have expected Mr P to have noticed before he 
did. I havent seen  anything to suggest  Mr Ps had any other repairs done to the area. So on 
balance I think its likely  it was AXAs repairs that caused  this to happen. It follows  that I think  
AXA should  be responsible for putting  this right.
AXAs repairer offered  to rectify the damage on Mr Ps car. This is what Id expect it to do in 
the circumstances, given that it carried  out the work.  I understand Mr P didnt want  that 
repairer to do the work and the repairer is no longer trading. I also understand Mr P would 
like the manufacturers garage  to do the work or the repairer to use a high bake product. 
As AXAs responsible  for the repairs, I think it should  have  the opportunity to put them  right. 
AXA can decide whether to arrange for one of its repairers to carry out the work or whether it 
prefers to pay a manufacturers garage to do it. But Im not going to tell AXA it has to use the 
manufacturer to carry out the repair as I havent  seen anything  to show  the manufacturer 
would use any different technique. I also havent  seen anything  to show  it would be 
appropriate to repair the car using high bake products,  so Ill leave it to the repairer  to decide 
how to carry out the repair. 
Ref: DRN62701043my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require AXA Insurance  UK Plc to arrange  
to rectify the damage to Mr Ps paintwork.  It can choose  whether  to do this using its own 
repairer or a manufacturers garage  and Im not going to interfere with the repair  method. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN6270104