K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited  (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 17 July 2020.  The background and
circumstances of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold  it were set out in 
that decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to
consider. Neither  party provided any more evidence or made any further comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I see no reason to depart 
from the findings set out in my provisional  decision that the complaint should be upheld. 
my final decision
Accordingly, for the reasons set out in my provisional decision which  is attached, my final 
decision is that I uphold  Mr S complaint. 
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr S on the
following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S as close as possible to 
the position he would probably  now be in if he had been given suitable advice. I think  Mr S 
would have invested differently. Its not possible  to say precisely what  he would  have done,  
but I am satisfied  that what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given  Mr S 
circumstances and objectives when he invested.
what should Alexander  David  do?
To compensate Mr S fairly Alexander David should:
Compare the performance of Mr S investment with that of the benchmark 
shown below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable. 
Alexander David Securities Ltd should also pay any interest set out below.
If there  is a loss, Alexander David  Securities  Ltd should pay into Mr S pension  plan to 
increase its value by the amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment 
should allow  for the effect of charges and any available tax relief.  Alexander David 
Ref: DRN61158822Securities Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation into the pension plan if it would conflict with 
any existing protection  or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to pay the compensation into Mr S pension plan, 
it should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the compensation  should  be reduced to 
notionally allow for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.  The notional 
allowance should  be calculated using Mr S actual  or expected marginal rate of tax at his 
selected retirement age.
I think M S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the 
reduction should equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr S would have been able 
to take a tax-free lump sum, the reduction  should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate of 
transferDate of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days  of
Alexander
David  being
notified  of
Mr S
acceptance of
this decision
In addition,  Alexander David should:
Pay Mr S £250 for the inconvenience the disruption to his retirement  planning 
has caused. 
Provide details of the calculation to Mr S in a clear, simple format.  
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David Securities Ltd 
considers that it is required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct  income  tax from 
that interest, it should tell Mr S how much  it has taken off. It should  also give Mr S a 
tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN61158823Actual value
This means  the actual transfer  value of the SIPP  at the end date.
If, at the end date,  the debenture is illiquid (meaning  it cannot  be readily sold on the open 
market), it may be difficult  to find the actual value of the SIPP.  So, the value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David  Securities Ltd should take 
ownership of the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension  
provider / administrator. This amount should  be deducted from the compensation  and the 
balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable to purchase the investment its value should  be 
assumed to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr S provides an undertaking to pay 
it any amount he may receive from the investment  in the future. That undertaking must  allow  
for any tax and charges that would be incurred on drawing or receipt  from the pension plan. 
Alexander David Securities Ltd will need  to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
Fair value
This is what  the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges incurred within  
the plan on transfer, would  have  been worth at the end date had they grown  in line with the
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Alexander 
David Securities Ltd should use the monthly  average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 
17 months maturity as published by the Bank of England. The rate for each month  is that 
shown as at the end of the previous month. Those  rates  should  be applied  to the investment 
on an annually compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should  be added to the fair value calculation from the
point in time when  it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the SIPP should be deducted from the fair
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation  from
that point on.
SIPP Fees 
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth  of SIPP fees if it 
couldnt buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Mr S hasnt  got the opportunity to 
close the SIPP or transfer to another pension if the illiquid debenture remains  in it. So if 
Alexander David Securities Ltd cant buy the investment  and it remains illiquid, it should  pay 
Mr S an amount equal to five years  of SIPP fees based on the current  tariff.  This is in 
addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
Why is this remedy  suitable? 
The investigator recommended  that the firm should use the FTSE UK Private  Investors  
Income Total Return Index as a basis to calculate  compensation. This was because  Mr S 
Ref: DRN61158824existing pensions were  invested in mainstream equity funds and he thought Mr S was willing 
to accept a moderate level of risk. 
However Mr S has said he was risk averse; his pensions were his only savings and he was 
unemployed at the time of the transfer. So I think his circumstances  were  consistent with an 
aversion to risk, and he didnt have the capacity to accept the loss of his pensions.  In the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Mr S would have transferred with suitable  advice.  
But I think he would have  switched investments  with his existing provider given the existing 
funds presented significant risks. Given I dont know exactly  how he would have invested, I 
think the index  I have outlined above  is an appropriate benchmark as I think its a reasonable  
proxy for a lower level of risk that Mr S was willing and able to take.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared  to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does not mean  that Mr S 
would have invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond and 50% in some  kind of 
index tracker investment.  
Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of 
return Mr S could  have obtained from investments suited to his objective and risk 
attitude.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61158825Copy of Provisional  decision
complaint
Mr S has complained about the advice he was given  by St Pauls  Marketing Limited  (an Appointed  
Representative of Alexander David Securities  Limited)  to transfer  his pension to a self-invested  
personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
Mr S, through his representative,  complained to Alexander David in April 2018.   I understand  
Alexander David didnt acknowledge or respond to the complaint.  The representative subsequently 
referred the complaint  to us.
Our investigator asked  Alexander David for its files and to provide any other evidence it wanted us to 
take into account. Alexander David provided  very little documentation from the time of the transaction. 
It said St Pauls role was to review the yields on pension products and if the client expressed an 
interest they would be passed on to another firm that had pension advisory permissions. It said Mr S 
invested through this other firm, and that he did so on an execution only basis.  
The background  to the complaint was set out by the investigator in his assessment. He explained  Mr 
S had said,  through his representative, that he was cold called by St Pauls  Marketing and he was 
offered a pension review   which he accepted. He said that representatives  from St Pauls  then visited 
him at his home. 
Mr S had two pension plans; both held with the same pension provider. St Pauls  Marketing had 
received information about the plans directly from the pension provider in a letter  dated  13 March  
2016, after the pension provider had received  a signed authority from Mr S. One plan was a 
stakeholder pension invested in a mixed investment (40-85 shares). Its value was around  £20,000 in 
May 2016. And Mr S had a personal pension  invested in UK and Global  Equity funds valued at 
around £2,000 in March  2016.
Mr S had said that at the meeting the returns from his current plans were  compared  with the potential  
returns from the prospective investment (debentures  issued  by a single  company). He said he was 
told the debentures were  likely to perform  at around 12% per year,  though there were  guarantees of 
at least  6% per year.  He said he was told his current  plans were performing worse than this.
The investigator said Mr S received a letter  from another firm (who he understood were involved in 
the administration process) in April 2016. The letter said:
We have information from St Pauls Marketing  in relation to an investment you wish to make. We 
understand you wish to transfer an existing  pension  to fund this investment and that in order to do this 
you have chosen to apply  for the [SIPP Provider] SIPP. The same letter contained an application  
form for the SIPP.
Both plans were transferred to the SIPP  and an account with a discretionary fund manager was 
subsequently opened. Just over £21,000 was used  to buy debentures in the single company. 
The investigator said that Mr S original pension  provider had confirmed that it had sent St Pauls 
Marketing information  about Mr S existing pensions. And the new SIPP provider had confirmed that 
St Pauls  Marketing were  the introducing firm. He noted this was consistent with the letter from the 
other firm involved in the administration  process which  confirmed the introduction was made  by St 
Pauls. He thought the documentary evidence that was available reinforced  Mr S testimony.
The investigator said he thought  it was clear St Pauls Marketing  was involved in the transfer and 
investment. And given Mr S had said St Pauls Marketing  had compared  the possible returns from his 
existing pension with those proposed, he thought it likely this would have shown  that one was better  
Ref: DRN61158826than the other. The investigator said he found it difficult to imagine  a discussion  about  the two 
investments taking place without St Pauls recommending  that Mr S take out the better  performing 
one. 
The comparison of the two prospective investments  was specific  to Mr S circumstances   it involved  
looking at the performance of his plans in relation  to his objectives.  And he noted this was what Mr S 
had said had happened. 
Taking all this into account, the investigator thought that St Pauls  had made  a personal  
recommendation to Mr S. So he went onto consider the suitability of the recommendation.
The investigator said that Mr S was a relatively inexperienced investor in 2016. The two pensions 
were his entire pension provision. He held no other investments and had only had
cash savings accounts  in the past. And he had no fixed income. His existing pensions  were  invested 
in diversified funds in traditional assets. And the stakeholder plan had returned around 25% in the 
2014 to 2016 period.
In comparison, the debentures were issued  by a single  company that was involved in peer to peer 
lending. The investigator noted that according  to Companies House website the firm had first 
incorporated in December 2014. So when  St Pauls Marketing approached Mr S it had only been in 
existence for about eighteen  months. It was a new company in a fledgling industry. Yet Mr S entire  
retirement provision was invested in it. This resulted in magnifying the risk. The investigator thought 
Mr S would have been willing to take a moderate amount  of investment risk given  how his existing 
scheme had been invested. However  the debentures were  speculative and the investigator thought  
they were unsuitable for Mr S. 
The investigator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt provide a 
response. The investigator subsequently wrote to both parties  on 2 December 2019 explaining that 
the complaint would be passed to an ombudsman for review and to make a final decision.   No further 
evidence or arguments were  provided.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Alexander David didnt respond  to Mr S original complaint. And it only provided very limited 
information to the investigator to enable  him to carry out his investigation.  It didnt provide  any further 
evidence or arguments in response to the investigators assessment. So theres only very limited 
evidence available to establish what happened at the time of the transfer and investment. 
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Mr S recollections of events. 
Alexander David/St Pauls hasnt disputed what Mr S said in his complaint  to it, or what  the 
investigator said in his assessment. 
Im also mindful  that this is one of a number of complaints  we have received and which I have seen 
against St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature,  involving  seemingly similar circumstances  
and the same  investments. 
Clearly I need  to consider each complaint on its own facts and the evidence provided in each  
particular case. But Ive noted that what  Mr S has said about  St Pauls role is consistent  with what  
other complainants  have  described. So I think what he has said is plausible.  And taking  everything 
into account,  I have found it credible. 
As noted by the investigator, Mr S had said that at the meeting the returns  from his current plans  were 
compared with the potential returns  from the debentures and he was told the debentures  were likely 
to perform significantly  better.
Ref: DRN61158827Mr S has said to us: 
I have no experience  in investing in "alternative investments" as you call them..
I am risk adverse as this is the only savings i have and I have been out of work  since I was made  
redundant at the age of 40 .The pensions consultant from St Paul's came to analyse  my pension  
performance ("a review") and demonstrated that my pension pot with [pension provider] had actually 
gone down in recent years prior to his visit (At the time I was suffering greatly  from depression and 
M.E.). I was concerned that I needed to do something to stop the figure  going down  and was shown 
that previous performance from the SIPP  had proved  good.
Mr S completed a complaint form for us a copy of which was sent to Alexander David. In it Mr S 
representative said that during the financial review meeting  Mr S had with St Pauls  Marketing, Mr S 
was advised on using his pension to invest in the debentures  and St Pauls  Marketing aided in the 
movement of the existing pension. 
The documentation shows St Pauls Marketing were involved  from the outset. Mr S subsequently 
transferred his pensions to the SIPP  and invested in the debenture.  In my experience its unusual  for 
someone of Mr S background and experience to want to transfer  an existing pension  in order to 
invest in this type of investment without prompting. 
Im satisfied, that St Pauls initiated  the investment  in the debenture. It was aware of where the 
investment was going to be made  through the DFM and facilitated it. Mr S has said St Pauls  advised  
him to use his pension to invest in the debentures, the investigator said he thought it likely  St Pauls 
had recommended the investment and it wasnt suitable  for him. And the firm hasnt disputed  this. In 
all the circumstances and on the balance  of the evidence  available, I think  its more likely than not that 
advice was given.
St Pauls  Marketing was the promoter  for the debenture,  but Im satisfied, on the limited evidence  
available, that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging the investment (as well 
as recommending it). Mr S has described its involvement  and the documentation that is available is 
consistent with what he has said. 
These debentures were a non-readily  realisable  security. The promotional material I have seen 
referred to debentures as illiquid; said that there might be no market for them even  after listing, and 
said that investors might  need to hold them to redemption. COBS 10 required St Pauls  Marketing to 
assess Mr S knowledge and experience  in the
investment field relevant  to the specific type of product  or service offered or demanded  so as to 
enable the firm to assess whether the service or product envisaged is appropriate.
Mr S had no significant investment knowledge and no experience of making  investments of this 
nature. The debentures were high risk and speculative  and clearly not appropriate for   Mr S given his 
background, knowledge and circumstances
The FCA is responsible for consumer protection. Its Principles for Business  are a general  statement 
of the fundamental obligations on the firms it authorises. These include Principle 6, that it must pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly, and Principle 9, that it must  take 
reasonable care to ensure the suitability  of its advice and discretionary decisions for any customer 
who is entitled  to rely upon its judgment.
In my view switching  a pension can be a fairly complex transaction with a number  of different factors 
to weigh  up and consider.  Mr S was an ordinary  retail investor. He doesnt appear to have had any 
particular experience  or knowledge of this type of transaction or the complex and higher  risk 
investments he was invested into. I think Mr S was entitled to rely on the firm providing advice that 
was suitable to his circumstances.  It was acting in its professional capacity and was obliged to take 
reasonable care to ensure the suitability  of its advice and to act in Mr S interests.  
Ref: DRN61158828Mr S has said he was risk averse  and the pensions  represented his only savings. Hed got very 
limited capacity for loss. I think it was clear that the debentures werent  suitable or appropriate  for Mr 
S and this should have been clear to St Pauls. So I dont think St Pauls  acted in Mr S interests. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that if St Pauls hadnt advised  Mr S to transfer and invest 
in the debentures or if it had told him it wasnt appropriate or suitable  for him, he wouldnt have 
transferred and invested in them.  Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls  failures caused Mr S to 
transfer and invest in a product that he would otherwise not have invested into. And Im satisfied its 
failures caused  the losses  that Mr S has claimed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr S complaint.  I intend to order Alexander David Securities  
Limited to calculate and pay compensation  to Mr S on the following basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr S as close as possible to the 
position he would probably now be in if he had been  given suitable advice. I think Mr S would have 
invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what  he would have done,  but I am satisfied that 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable given Mr S circumstances and objectives when he 
invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr S fairly Alexander David should:
Compare the performance  of Mr S investment with that of the benchmark  shown below. 
If the fair value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation  is 
payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no compensation  is payable.  
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  also pay any interest set out below.
If there is a loss, Alexander David Securities  Ltd should pay into Mr S pension plan to increase its 
value by the amount of the compensation and any interest.  The payment should  allow  for the effect 
of charges and any available tax relief. Alexander David  Securities Ltd shouldnt pay the 
compensation into the pension  plan if it would conflict with any existing protection  or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr S pension plan, it should 
pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible to pay into the plan, it would have provided  a 
taxable income. Therefore  the compensation should  be reduced to notionally allow for any income  tax 
that would otherwise have been paid. The notional  allowance should be calculated using  Mr S actual 
or expected  marginal rate of tax at his selected retirement age.
I think  M S is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement age, so the reduction should 
equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr S would  have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition,  Alexander  David  should:
Pay Mr S £250 for the inconvenience the disruption  to his retirement planning  has 
caused. 
Provide details of the calculation  to Mr S in a clear, simple format. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David  Securities Ltd considers  
that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it 
Ref: DRN61158829should tell Mr S how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr S a tax deduction certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  
date)additional interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate  of 
transferDate  of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision  to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified  of
Mr S
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual  transfer  value of the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date, the debenture is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the open market),  it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should be assumed to be nil to 
arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David Securities Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider / administrator. This 
amount should be deducted  from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to purchase the investment its value should be assumed  to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr S provides an undertaking to pay it any 
amount he may receive from the investment in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax and 
charges that would be incurred  on drawing or receipt from the pension plan. Alexander David  
Securities Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking. 
Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges  incurred  within the plan 
on transfer, would have been worth at the end date had they grown in line with the
benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Alexander David  
Securities Ltd should use the monthly average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
Ref: DRN611588210maturity as published  by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month.  Those  rates should  be applied to the investment on an annually compounded 
basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value  calculation from the
point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted from the fair
value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from
that point  on.
SIPP Fees 
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth of SIPP fees if it couldnt  
buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Mr S hasnt got the opportunity to close the SIPP or 
transfer to another pension if the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if Alexander  David Securities Ltd 
cant buy the investment and it remains  illiquid, it should pay Mr S an amount equal  to five years of 
SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition  to the compensation calculated using a nil 
value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable? 
The investigator recommended  that the firm should use the FTSE UK Private  Investors Income Total 
Return Index  as a basis to calculate compensation. This was because Mr S existing pensions were  
invested in mainstream equity funds and he thought Mr S was willing to accept a moderate level of 
risk. 
However Mr S has said he was risk averse; his pensions were his only savings and he was 
unemployed at the time of the transfer.  So I think his circumstances were  consistent  with an aversion 
to risk, and he didnt  have the capacity to accept  the loss of his pensions.  In the circumstances, I dont 
think Mr S would have transferred with suitable advice. 
But I think he would have switched  investments  with his existing provider  given the existing funds 
presented significant risks. Given I dont know exactly how he would have invested,  I think  the index  I 
have outlined  above is an appropriate benchmark as I think  its a reasonable proxy for a lower level of 
risk that Mr S was willing and able to take.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who wanted 
to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to their capital.
The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the FTSE 
WMA Stock Market  Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices with different 
asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds.  Its a fair measure for someone 
who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher return.
I consider that Mr S risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to take a 
small level of risk to attain  his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination would 
reasonably put Mr S into that position. It does  not mean  that Mr S would  have invested 50% of 
his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. 
Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise  that broadly reflects  the sort of return  Mr S 
could have obtained from investments suited  to his objective and risk attitude.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6115882