K822xcomplaint
Mr M complains that AWP P&C SA hasnt paid a claim on his mechanical breakdown 
insurance policy. 
For ease any reference to AWP includes its agents.  
background 
A warning light came  on Mr Ms car, so he took it to a garage  to be diagnosed.  The garage 
said the diesel particulate filter (DPF) had reached  the end of its life and needed  to be 
replaced. 
AWP initially said Mr Ms claim wouldnt be covered as the DPF filter needed to be cleaned 
and the policy didnt cover  this. As Mr M wasnt happy with his claim being declined,  he 
complained. AWP maintained that his claim wasnt covered so Mr M brought his complaint  
here. 
Our investigator reviewed  Mr Ms complaint  and found that Mr M needed to replace the DPF 
filter so didnt think AWPs reasons for declining the claim were  correct. AWP reviewed its 
position and said the diagnostics showed the DPF had reached the end of its life due to the 
age and mileage  of the car. Our investigator  agreed  the policy didnt cover parts which  
needed replacing because of wear  and tear. But she did think  AWP had caused Mr M 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience by their poor claim handling  and recommended 
they pay £100 to compensate him for this. 
AWP agreed to pay Mr M the £100  compensation. Mr M disagreed, he said hed paid nearly 
£2,000 to fix his car and AWP should  cover this. 
As Mr M disagreed the complaint has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Ms policy covers  him for the electrical or mechanical failure  of covered parts.  It defines 
electrical or mechanical  failure as the sudden  and unexpected failure of a component  which 
is covered by the warranty  section of this insurance  and which needs immediate repair or 
replacement. Wear  and tear or normal  deterioration  is not covered under this definition.
AWP accepts  that the DPF is a covered  part but said as its reached the end of its life due to 
the cars age and mileage,  it doesnt meet the above  definition. Ive therefore  looked at 
whether AWP has applied this term fairly and reasonably.
I think it would only be fair and reasonable to say a part has failed due to wear and tear if its 
reached the end of its normal  working  life. The diagnostics report for Mr Ms car says, 
particle filter system: max mileage exceeded, it goes on to show  this happened at 141,926 
miles. AWPs explained this means the DPF filter has reached  the end of its serviceable life 
and it therefore  needed to be replaced. Because of this Im satisfied this part has reached  
the end of its normal working life and that AWP has applied the term fairly and reasonably. 
Ref: DRN67825192AWP agreed with our investigators recommendation to pay £100 compensation. In the 
circumstances of this case,  Im satisfied this is fair and reasonable compensation as AWP 
hasnt done anything wrong  by declining Mr Ms claim. I therefore wont  be instructing it to 
pay any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I partly  uphold this complaint and require AWP P&C SA to 
pay Mr M £100 for the distress and inconvenience  caused, if it hasnt already done so. 
AWP P&C SA should pay this within 28 days of us telling it Mr Ms accepted my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it should  add interest at a rate of 8% simple per year from 
the date of my decision to the date it makes  payment.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 February  2020
Alex Newman
ombudsman
1 1 If AWP  P&C SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
the interest, it should tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also give Mr M a certificate showing 
this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN6782519