K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Lowell Financial Ltd contacted  her over an extended  period of time
about debts that didnt  belong to her. She also complains about the impact this has had on
her credit file.
background
Ill set out the chronology of whats happened  as far as I understand it.
Lowell sent two letters to Mrs C in December 2014 asking her to contact them  about
a debt theyd recently  bought from a business Ill call P.
Mrs C contacted Lowell in the same  month  to say this had nothing  to do with her and
that shed been contacted incorrectly. Lowell agreed not to contact her again  and to
update their records accordingly.
Lowell sent letters to Mrs C in March 2015 about  debts theyd purchased from
businesses Ill call V1 and E that required  payment from her.
Mrs C contacted Lowell in the same  month  to say this was nothing to do with her and
that shed been contacted incorrectly. Lowell agreed not to contact her again  and to
update their records.
Lowell sent Mrs C a letter in September 2017  about  a debt theyd bought  from a
business Ill call V2, for which they said she was liable.
Mrs C contacted Lowell to say this wasnt anything  to do with her. Lowell agreed that
this was because  of a mis-trace and sent her a cheque for £40 which  I understood
Mrs C cashed. Lowell  referred Mrs C to the Consumer Ombudsman if she wanted to
take this further.
In 2018, Mrs C noticed that a debt was being recorded on her credit  file for a
communications account by Lowell. Her credit file showed that this account had been
defaulted in November 2013.  Lowell  said this was bought from a business  Ill call B.
Lowell subsequently removed the default and all records  of this debt from Mrs Cs
credit file and offered  her £150  for the error.  Lowell gave referral rights  to the
Consumer Ombudsman  if she wanted to take her complaint  about  this any further.
Our investigator explained to Mrs C that she couldnt  consider the impact of any unregulated
accounts. She upheld  Mrs Cs complaint and recommended that Lowell pay Mrs C £300.
This seemed to be in relation to the period  2014 to 2017 covering the P, V1, E and V2
letters. Lowell disagreed and said they didnt believe £300 was a proportionate award.
Mrs Cs case was referred to me for a decision as a result.
I issued a provisional decision to both parties  on 4 December 2020,  in which  I said the 
following: 
As our investigator has already explained, there  is a limit to what  we can consider in this
complaint. To put it as simply  as I can, I can only consider the impact  of Lowells actions on
Mrs C in relation to the accounts where there  has been a provision of credit, even though,  as
Lowell accepts, Mrs C was contacted incorrectly for all of these debts.
Ref: DRN65279822Ive looked at the evidence sent by Mrs C and Lowell, which  includes the letters that Mrs C
received, and Lowells records of the accounts  in question. Having  done  so, it appears that
the letters Mrs C received in 2014  and 2015 relating to the accounts bought by Lowell from
P, V1 and E stem from the provision of credit. However, the letter  sent by Lowell  in 2017 for
the account they bought  from V2 and the credit file entry from 2018 for the account bought
by Lowell from B relate to telecommunication accounts possibly for data or airtime plans. So,
there was no provision of credit for either of those accounts.
So, I am only able to look at the impact on Mrs C for the letters sent in 2014 and 2015.  Ive
looked at what  happened and can see that clearly that Mrs C was contacted in error and that
this caused her unnecessary distress. However, and I accept this will likely disappoint Mrs C,
I dont believe that a payment of compensation for £300 is proportionate, as recommended
by our investigator. Lowell  should  not have contacted Mrs C about these three accounts, and
I certainly dont underestimate  that this would have greatly troubled and concerned Mrs C,
However, Lowell did agree  not to contact  her any more about  these particular  debts as soon
as Mrs C contacted them  about this. I cant see that further contact was made  about these
particular debts or that Lowell recorded these on Mrs Cs credit file.
I realise that Mrs C was then contacted by Lowell  about the V2 account in 2017.  However,
this was to do with a separate account to the previous ones and, as Ive mentioned,  not
related to an account with credit provided. This falls outside of my jurisdiction to consider as
does the entry on Mrs Cs credit  file for the account bought by Lowell from B.
I completely understand that Mrs C has had to deal with a succession of issues from 2014 to
2018. Ive spoken to Mrs C and fully appreciate the impact this has had on her. However,  I
need to bear in mind what I can and cant consider here. Mrs C will need to contact the
organisation mentioned in Lowells  letters if she wishes to take the matters that occurred in
2017 and 2018 any further.  I am though unable to investigate  the events that occurred in
2017 and 2018.
So, for the reasons Ive set out above,  I currently  dont intend to uphold  this complaint.
I invited Mrs C and Lowell  to provide  any further comments or evidence to my provisional  
decision. 
Lowell responded saying  that they had nothing further to add. Mrs C said that she felt that I 
hadnt shown  the same level of empathy in my provisional decision that I had shown in our 
telephone conversation and that this was very disappointing to her. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I havent  been sent any 
further submissions on the substance of the complaint. So, I see no reason to depart from 
the findings and conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision. This means I wont be 
upholding Mrs Cs complaint for the reasons I outlined in my provisional decision,  which  are 
shown in the above section of this decision. 
Ref: DRN65279823I am very sorry  to hear though that Mrs C feels that I didnt show the same level of empathy 
in my provisional decision as I did when we spoke on the phone.  I certainly didnt wish to 
cause any more distress to Mrs C and I do recognise that she has been  deeply affected by 
the contact from Lowell over many  years. I do though have to explain my reasons for not 
upholding Mrs Cs complaint, although  I have certainly taken note of what Mrs C has said 
and I will keep that in mind in the future. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2021.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6527982