K820x#14complaint
Mr I has complained that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  him a store 
card payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer, has taken  responsibility  for the sale of such policies. To keep things 
simple, Ill therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
I have attached my provisional decision from June 2019, which  forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I set out why I was not minded to uphold Mr Is 
complaint. I invited both FICL and Mr I to provide any further submissions they may wish to 
make before I reached  a final decision. No responses were  submitted.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As none of the parties has provided any 
further evidence  or arguments for consideration, I see no reason to depart from the 
conclusions set out in my provisional decision.
It follows that I do not uphold Mr Is complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Is complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66885642COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr I has complained that Financial Insurance Company  Limited (FICL)  mis-sold  him a store card 
payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL, the PPI insurer,  has taken responsibility  for the sale of such policies.  To keep things simple, Ill 
therefore just be referring to FICL in this decision.
background
Mr I took out the PPI at the same time as applying for a store card whilst in a shop in March 1997.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. FICL disagrees and so the complaint has been passed to me 
for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently decided  not to uphold  Mr Is complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive seen a copy of the application form that was completed at the time.  There is a separate  section 
for PPI and a box has been ticked to request  the policy. From  the wording and layout of the form I 
think that Mr I would have known that the PPI was optional.  Mr I hasnt  said that he wasnt given  a 
choice about buying the policy. Looking  at the available evidence,  it seems to me that he probably  
decided to take the policy out, knowing that he didnt have to.
FICL didnt advise Mr I to take out the policy, so it didnt need to ensure that it met his needs. But it 
did need to provide Mr I with enough information for him to be able to make an informed choice  about 
whether or not the policy  was right for him.
Mr I says his employer  would have given him three months sick pay. But the policy would have paid 
out in addition  to this and potentially  for longer  than Mr I would have received  full pay for. And Mr I 
didnt have any other  means, such as savings, that he could fall back  on. So I think he had a need for 
the PPI and could have benefitted from it at what would  have been a difficult  time.
Mr I did have  a pre-existing  medical condition. Our adjudicator therefore  concluded that Mr I wouldnt 
have taken out the policy if the limitations  around pre-existing medical conditions  had been sufficiently 
explained to him. This is where my view differs from that of the adjudicator.
Mr I had been  diagnosed with the condition twelve years prior to the date of the sale.  So in 1997 he 
would have had a good understanding of how the condition affected him. We asked Mr I for more 
information about whether  he had taken any time off work as a result  of it, but we didnt receive a 
response. From what I know, his condition was controlled by medication  and didnt impact too much 
on his daily life. So it seems unlikely hed have thought that the condition  would  be something hed 
ever need to claim for on the policy.  
Its possible that FICL didnt provide as much  information as it should  have about the policy, 
particularly about the things that it didnt cover. But, for the reasons Ive explained, Mr I probably  
wasnt affected by any of those things. As I think he had an interest in the policy and decided  to buy it, 
I dont think that further information would have caused him to change his mind. So he isnt any worse  
off as a result of anything FICL may have done wrong, so theres  nothing  that FICL needs to do to put 
things right.
Ref: DRN66885643my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr Is complaint.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6688564