K821x#15complaint
Mrs B says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy for her credit card.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mrs B took out in 2002. It was added to her 
account when  she applied for the card by post.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Tesco disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so the 
complaints been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.  
Ive decided this PPI policy was mis-sold, for much the same reasons as our adjudicator.
Tesco didnt  recommend the policy to Mrs B, so it didnt have to check  it was right for her. 
But it did have to give Mrs B information about the PPI that was clear,  fair, and not 
misleading, so she could decide  for herself whether  it was right for her.
The policy excluded claims resulting from pre-existing medical  conditions  the customer 
already knew about, or which theyd had advice  or treatment for in the year before the policy  
started. Mrs B had such a medical condition which wouldnt have been covered. So she 
couldnt have  claimed on the policy for everything she mightve  expected to be able to.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs B. From what shes told us, the condition  had prevalent 
effects on her day-to-day life and needed regular treatment and monitoring. At the time of 
the sale, it had been ongoing for quite a number of years and looked set to carry on, rather 
than being a brief flare-up  for instance. So I think Mrs Bs condition wouldve  been a 
significant concern  for her.
But from what Ive seen,  I cant see that Tesco gave Mrs B clear  information about the 
exclusion for pre-existing medical conditions at the sale. If it had done, then I think  its most 
likely that Mrs B wouldnt have taken out the policy.
Additionally, as our adjudicator mentioned, Mrs B said she had significant  work  benefits, 
alongside some  savings. From what shes said, it seems like she couldve managed without 
the PPI for long enough to not really need  it. And I have noted that it doesnt look like the 
cost or benefit of the PPI were made  clear,  either.
Overall, I think that if Tesco had given Mrs B clear enough information about the PPI, its 
most likely she wouldnt  have bought it. So I think Mrs B has lost out because of the flaws  in 
Tescos sale.
Ref: DRN66886952putting things right
Tesco should put Mrs B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and:
A.Tesco should find out how much Mrs B would owe on her credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Tesco should then refund the difference between what Mrs B owes and what  she would 
have owed.
If Mrs B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Tesco can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. Similarly, if Mrs B has already received a 
refund of the commission part of this PPI policy, then Tesco  can take that off of what it 
owes now, so that it does not refund  the same cost twice.
B.If  when Tesco works out what Mrs B would have owed each month  without PPI  she 
paid more than enough to clear  her balance, Tesco should also pay simple  interest  on 
the extra Mrs B paid. And it should carry on paying interest until the point when  Mrs B 
wouldve owed Tesco something  on her credit card. The interest rate should  be 8% 
simple a year.
C.Tesco should tell Mrs B what its done to work  out A and B.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Tesco to take off tax from this interest.  Tesco must give 
Mrs B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6688695