K822xcomplaint
A, a registered mutual society,  complains  at the poor service provided  by National 
Westminster Bank Plc and which led to a delay in opening a liquidity account.
background 
A received funds  of over £460,000 and wanted to place these in an interest bearing liquidity 
account at NatWest. It first completed an application  form in July 2017. It complained about 
the delay in opening the account in September 2017 and referred  its complaint  to this 
service in November 2017. NatWest  accepted  that it had made a mistake in carrying  out a 
previous change to the account signing mandate for A. This had affected the progress of the 
application. It paid A £100 for the issue with the mandate when it issued a final response 
about that on 20 February 2018. 
We investigated this complaint  and there  were  further issues in opening the account.  In 
February 2019 our investigator at the time recommended that NatWest  pay interest on the 
funds from the date of the application  to the date the account was opened. And to pay A 
£200 in compensation. NatWest did not agree  and said that the delays had in part been due 
to A not providing all the information  it had requested. The account was still not open and in 
order to settle the complaint it offered as an alternative a payment of £350  in compensation. 
Our investigator recommended this as reasonable.
A did not agree and the complaint  was passed for an ombudsman to review.  A was unhappy 
that board  members  had needed to go to a branch on a number of occasions to verify their 
identity. And that the money it had wanted to put in the account had sat idly. It provided a 
detailed spreadsheet setting out the steps  it had followed  and the amount of time that it said 
had been wasted.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When I first reviewed  the complaint I noted that the account had been opened on 2 
September 2019. I took the view that A should  be compensated for not receiving interest  
until then and also paid additional compensation for the inconvenience  with a total of £550. 
This was put to NatWest and in response  it agreed  to pay interest  of £6,539.29 on the 
balance from 1 January  2018 at the interest rate applicable to the account  of 0.85 per cent 
per annum.  It also offered to pay £750 in compensation.
This offer was put to A and it accepted the interest  part of the settlement. But it did not think 
that the compensation was reasonable. It referred  to the spreadsheet provided to this 
service and said that its board thought that £3,500 would be reasonable. This took into 
account the excess calls made, the number of emails sent and the requirement for members  
of the board  and staff to attend branches on multiple  occasions.
I now need to reach  a final decision  on this complaint. I have looked at all of the history  
provided to this service.  I dont intend  to repeat this in any detail for reasons which I will 
explain. But in summary as I put to NatWest  I am struggling to understand how it could 
reasonably have taken so long for an effective  account to be opened. Thats especially after 
Ref: DRN66984832the complaint  had been referred  to this service and appeared to be receiving heightened  
attention from NatWest.
Some of the key factors that in my view have contributed to the delay have been:
-No action being taken to progress  the account  application after the original issue with 
the signing mandate had been  resolved.
-It appearing that additional checks were required for this type of account even though 
A already banked  with NatWest. There was some  confusion at NatWest  over the 
status of A as a registered mutual.
-Documentation provided by A had been lost. It says that the new chairman provided  
identification on four occasions and in August 2018 it seemed that NatWest accepted 
that this had been lost between the branch involved and the processing centre.  It 
also seemed that staff at the branch may not have appreciated  what  was required.
-There were  changes  to officers of A which might be expected over this time period 
and which meant  updated documentation was required. 
-There was in my view a general lack of clarity  given to A about what  was required 
and an incremental approach used which meant that A needed to provide more  
information rather than be able to give this all at once.
-Although at one point  NatWest expressed  the view that A hadnt responded to some 
of the requests for a period in my view it could not reasonably  be expected to deal 
with each further request immediately given the time the whole  process took and that 
it understandably needed to focus  on its own operations.
A is satisfied  with the offer of interest from NatWest  and I agree that this is reasonable. The 
issue for me to decide is the compensation for inconvenience. I need to start by making two 
key points. First,  I can only look at the impact on A not the personal impact  or distress to 
officers of A, who I understand have needed to queue in branches  and provide  their 
identification several times. Thats because this complaint is from A which is a separate 
entity. And second,  we rarely make awards  based  on time spent or in bringing a complaint 
itself. And if we do that would only generally  be at a modest hourly rate. Rather  we consider 
the overall impact  and any financial loss thats  arisen to A. 
So Im going to be applying my judgement  as to what I think is reasonable for the 
inconvenience caused here to A taking  into account  everything thats  happened.  Having 
done so I think  that the offer from NatWest is reasonable and is clearly  more than the figure  
Id originally suggested it pay of £550. I appreciate that the officers  of A will be disappointed 
with my decision.
Ref: DRN66984833my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and I require National Westminster  Bank  Plc to:
1)Pay A interest of £6,539.29.
2)Pay A compensation of £750.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6698483