K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs G, trading  as B, complain about the way HSBC UK Bank  Plc handled a review of 
their business account.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint, and my provisional findings, in a provisional 
decision issued in May 2019. A copy of that decision is attached  here.
In that decision  I explained why I thought this complaint  should  be upheld  and that HSBC  
should pay £250 compensation to Mr and Mrs G. 
My provisional decision was shared with the parties  and they were invited to comment.
HSBC responded  and agreed to pay £250  compensation to Mr and Mrs G. But they said that 
this should be for inconvenience caused to Mr and Mrs Gs business  and not for any stress 
they personally experienced. This is because the complaint  is brought in the name of their 
business, and not as individuals.
Mr and Mrs G also responded.  They said that HSBC did not inform them that their business 
account would stay open following the safeguarding review and they felt strongly that HSBC  
should have sent them this information as soon as the decision  was known on 19 July 2018. 
They also said that their business is not a limited company  and that their business  account is 
in both their names,  trading as B. Mr and Mrs G said that they experienced considerable 
stress as a result of HSBCs  actions  so a higher amount of compensation would be 
appropriate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have in particular taken into account  the 
responses to my provisional  decision. 
On the issue of how HSBC handled  Mr and Mrs Gs business account, neither party 
disagrees with what  I have said on this. So I remain of the view that HSBCs  customer 
service was not what it should have been  for the reasons  I have given in my provisional  
findings.
On the issue of how to put things right, I agree with Mr and Mrs G that HSBC  should have 
informed them that their business account would not be closed following the safeguarding 
review in July 2018. It was this lack of communication that meant Mr and Mrs G took steps  to 
close their business  account  before they went on holiday, all of which was unnecessary and 
avoidable.
HSBC do not challenge  the amount of compensation  proposed   they agree to pay the sum 
of £250. But they say that should  be for inconvenience caused  to Mr and Mrs Gs business 
because the complaint is brought  in the name of the business and a business cannot  
experience stress.
Ref: DRN67282552Strictly speaking HSBC  are correct and this applies  to not only a limited company but to 
other types of businesses  too. And I have to follow the rules. But this is not to say that Mr 
and Mrs G did not experience significant  stress  about their business  account as a result of 
HSBCs actions because clearly they did. 
In my view £250 compensation for both the poor service received up until the 9 July 2018, 
and what happened  afterwards is fair and reasonable, and is line with the type of awards this 
service makes. It fairly reflects the fact that Mr and Mrs G had had their business account 
with HSBC for some time and that considerable inconvenience was caused to their business 
throughout the safeguarding review  process, and particularly  when theyd  had to take steps 
to close the account just before their holiday as a result of HSBCs failure to communicate  
with them.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint.  I order 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to pay £250  compensation to Mrs and Mr G, trading as B, for 
inconvenience caused to their business.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G, 
trading as B, to accept  or reject my decision before  23 August 2019.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67282553Copy of Provisional Decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about the way HSBC UK Bank Plc handled a review  of their business  
account.
background
Mr and Mrs G say they received a phone call about their business  account  from someone who said 
they were from HSBCs  safeguarding department on 29 June 2018.  They wanted to check that the 
caller was genuine  before  giving out any information, so they ended  the call and phoned the number 
back. On finding that the call was indeed  from HSBC,  they arranged  a telephone appointment on 9 
July 2018 for a safeguarding review of their business account. HSBC agreed to use a verbal 
password at the time of this call. 
But before this took place, Mr and Mrs G received a letter from HSBC dated 3 July 2018 telling them 
that their business account would be closed  in September 2018 because the safeguarding review had 
not been  completed.
So on the 6 July 2018 they asked their business manager about  repayment of their HSBC  loan if their 
business account was closed. And they were  told that HSBC records showed  the proposed  closure of 
their personal  account rather than their business one.
The safeguarding review  took place  by phone  on 9 July 2018.  The HSBC call handler did not use the 
agreed verbal password, as arranged, but safeguarding information was requested and provided  by 
Mr and Mrs G. They  say that HSBC told them that the next step decision would take two-three weeks. 
But as they were  going  on holiday at the beginning  of August for four weeks,  Mr and Mrs G felt they 
had no option but to move their banking facilities  to another provider  towards the end of July 2018. 
They say this caused them a great deal of stress and inconvenience  and ruined their holiday.  And 
they say they wouldnt have paid fees for their business account overdraft or loan had they known that 
HSBC planned to close their account.  So they ask for compensation in the amount for £5,000.
HSBC say that theyd tried to make  contact  with Mr and Mrs G about the safeguarding review of their 
business account by phone and email in May and June  2018. As the review had not been completed, 
letters were automatically sent out. This included  the notice of closure that HSBC  were  obliged to 
send to meet  regulatory requirements. But HSBC recognise that their service could have been better 
and they offered  £100 compensation  to Mr and Mrs G which they did not accept.
HSBC say their review was completed by the safeguarding department on 19 July 2018 and as 
everything was in order a decision was made that Mr and Mrs Gs business account would not be 
closed. However,  HSBC  received a switch account request from Mr and Mrs G on 24 July 2018 and 
their business  account  was closed on 3 August 2018. So HSBC say the actual  closure of the account 
was not down  to them.
Our investigator explained  that HSBC were  entitled to request safeguarding information  and that 
theyd tried to make phone contact with Mr and Mrs G before writing to them and saying that their 
business account would  be closed in September 2018.  And a review  was conducted on the phone  
shortly afterwards. Nothing more was then required  after 19 July 2018, when the review was 
completed, but he noted  this important information wasnt communicated  to Mr and Mrs G. He thought  
HSBCs communication should have been better after their phone appointment on 9 July 2018 and 
that they should pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
He did not think that Mr and Mrs G should receive a refund  of fees paid for their business overdraft  
and loan. And he confirmed that no negative markers  had been placed on their credit file.
Ref: DRN67282554my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. And I am grateful for the documents  Mr and Mrs G have provided 
which theyve clearly taken time to put together.  While I may not refer to every point  theyve raised, 
Ive addressed those I consider most relevant to my decision.
I can see that Mr and Mrs G feel strongly about what has happened here. And thats not surprising.  
They were longstanding customers of HSBC  and they feel theyve not been treated well at all. At this 
stage I am minded to uphold their complaint.  And Im thinking  that HSBC should pay Mr and Mrs G 
more compensation  than the £100 that has so far been offered. I shall explain  my reasons.
First, let me explain the context of HSBCs safeguarding review  process. Anti-money  laundering 
regulations and UK legislation place extensive obligations on regulated  financial businesses to have 
accurate and up to date information on their customers. HSBC uses  safeguarding  reviews, amongst 
other things,  to review  and update their records. So although Mr and Mrs G had been the banks 
customers for a number of years, HSBC are legally  required to ask for certain  information to ensure 
they meet  their regulatory  obligations and they did nothing wrong  in trying to do so. 
HSBC had tried to get in touch with Mr and Mrs G by phone and email in May and June  2018 to 
obtain the information it needed. And it appears that the notice of closure letter  was automatically sent 
out on 3 July 2018 because  the safeguarding  review  had not yet been completed.
But I dont think it was unreasonable that Mr and Mrs G to wanted to check that it was indeed HSBC 
who were  calling them  on 29 June 2018 before they gave out any personal information. And it must 
have been upsetting and confusing  for them  to then get a letter telling  them  their business account  
would be closed in September when  theyd  arranged a telephone appointment with HSBC for 9 July 
2018. And any confusion could only have been made worse when they were then told their records 
showed that their personal account was to be closed,  rather than the business one, which  clearly 
wasnt correct. I can also understand their upset when the call handler  didnt use the agreed verbal 
password when they had their telephone appointment in July.
When they complained  about what had happened, HSBC  wrote to them on the 11 July 2018 and 
offered £100  compensation in recognition  of the poor customer  service theyd received up until this 
point.
It looks like HSBC were  able to obtain  the information they needed during the July telephone 
appointment and Mr and Mrs G say they were told that the next step decision on whether their 
account would remain open  would take two-three weeks. HSBCs records show that the safeguarding 
review was satisfactorily concluded on 19 July 2018. But the bank did not tell Mr and Mrs G that a 
decision had been made that their business account  would not be closed. So I can understand why 
they sought  alternative banking arrangements,  as they were due to take a long trip at the start of 
August 2018.  This must have caused  them a great deal of stress  and inconvenience,  which turned out 
to be unnecessary and avoidable. So I think they should  be paid a total of £250 compensation to 
reflect both the poor service received up until the 9 July 2018  and what happened  afterwards. 
I dont think it would  be fair for me to ask HSBC  to return the fees paid for the business overdraft and 
loan because  there is no evidence that HSBC  had decided to close Mr and Mrs Gs business account  
at the time these fees were paid, and the account  was available for use. Although HSBC  needed  to 
carry out the safeguarding review to meet their regulatory  requirements, this did not mean  the account  
would necessarily be closed.
Ref: DRN67282555my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, subject to any further  information provided  by Mr and Mrs G, trading as 
B, or HSBC UK Bank Plc, I intend to say that compensation in the total sum of £250 should  be paid to 
Mr and Mrs G.
Sonia Kalsi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6728255