K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc asked him questions about  payments 
into his business  account and then told him his account was going to be closed.
background
Mr M was asked  by RBS about  the source of cash payments to his account. And for invoices 
for other payments he had received. He says he did not like the inference that he was being 
accused of something. And after his complaint  was referred to this service RBS gave him 
notice that his account would be closed.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that RBS had to 
comply with legal  and regulatory obligations.  And this could mean  it needed to request 
information about the way an account  was operated. Shed seen the questions Mr M had 
been asked and she did not think that these were unreasonable. It also had acted within the 
terms and conditions when it gave Mr M notice to close  his account on 28 April 2019. The 
account was due to be closed on 28 June  2019  and Mr M had told her hed made 
arrangements for an account with a different financial  business.
Mr M said that he understood the reasons given by our investigator.  But he provided a 
schedule showing consistent  levels  of payments into his business account since  2010 both 
in sterling and in Euros. Hed also received a letter dated 1 July 2019 from RBS stating that 
his overdraft on the account was going  to be renewed. This made  him think  that RBS had no 
basis to have suspicions about the credits  to his account in the first place.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has set out the main issues in this case and I agree with what  shes said.  
Irrespective of any past patterns of credits to the account RBS was entitled  to ask for 
information about any payments. And to review whether it wanted to continue  to operate  an 
account for Mr M.
I fully understand  why Mr M found  its questions intrusive and thought they were 
unnecessary. But I dont have a basis to say it shouldnt have asked them   even if as he 
says it seems that RBS was later prepared to offer him continued overdraft facilities.
The terms and conditions  state that RBS can close the account  if it provides 60 days notice. 
And it does  not have  to give a reason to do this. Here it gave the required period of notice to 
Mr M although again I understand why he was unhappy about  this.
Im afraid that Im going to disappoint  Mr M when I say that I dont consider RBS has made  a 
mistake or acted unreasonably.
Ref: DRN67386612my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6738661