K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that when closing his account  American Express  Services Europe  Limited  
(AESEL) sent a letter  asking for repayment  of a debt, when he didnt owe any money.  And 
hed like compensation for the distress caused.  
background
Mr D had an Amex card.
On the 3 July 2018 Amex wrote to Mr D to tell him theyd  be reviewing his account   and it 
couldnt be used.  They also asked for certain  documentation from Mr D. 
On the 20 July 2018 Amex wrote to Mr D informing him that his account would be closing 
immediately.
Then on the 15 August 2018 Amex  sent a further letter again stating that Mr Ds account 
would be closed. 
Mr D complained to Amex that the content  of the letter  sent on the 20 July 2018 was 
threatening. Mr D said that on the 20 July 2018 he was on holiday and asked  his Mother to 
open the letter. And when  she informed him of the contents he was very concerned and 
returned home immediately  which  led to him having increased transport and hotel costs. 
Amex responded  to say they hadnt done  anything wrong. They explained the letter  sent was 
an automated response and Mr D didnt  have any outstanding balance.  Amex said the letter 
was sent to notify Mr D his account  would be closing, and the bank hadnt  made  any errors.
Mr D wasnt happy with Amexs response  so complained  to our service. He said hed like 
compensation for the distress  caused  to him by Amex. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ds complaint. And they thought  Amex  should have 
done more. They thought  the letter Amex sent didnt fit Mr Ds circumstances, including  
suggesting he owed  a debt to the bank, and thought they should pay compensation for this. 
So they asked  Amex to pay Mr D £50 compensation. 
Mr D accepted our investigators outcome but Amex didnt agree  they said the letter is 
clear in saying Mr D isnt creditworthy anymore. In particular the letter is specific  in saying 
Mr D doesnt owe any money  and mentions default because its the standard letter sent to 
customers when their card is cancelled. 
As Amex didnt agree its been passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
conclusion as the investigator. Ill explain why below.
Mr D isnt complaining  that it was unfair  for Amex to close his account. But hes unhappy  
about the content of  in particular   one letter Amex sent notifying him of the account 
closure. Amex believe  the letter they sent was clear  and fair in the circumstances, so its left 
for me to decide.
Ref: DRN65916732Ive looked at the three letters Amex sent to Mr D in reference to the closing of his account.  
Im satisfied that two of the letters, those sent on the 3 July and the 15 August 2018  were 
fair. But, I dont agree  this is the case with the letter sent on the 20 July 2018. 
Amex accept that Mr D didnt have an outstanding balance on the 20 July and the purpose of 
the letter was instead to inform him of the cancellation of his card. But its clear some of the 
phrases and terms used  in the letter to Mr D arent suitable and I think  are likely to cause 
anyone, including Mr D, some anxiety and concern. For example:
-If nothing is received, we may take legal  proceedings  against you for the outstanding 
balance  
-You should be aware that if we take you to court and get a judgement against you  
-If youre not sure what to do, you should get help as soon as possible for example. 
You should contact  a solicitor, your local trading standards department
Im not satisfied that any references to Mr D having an outstanding balance  including 
Amex taking Mr D to Court to recoup outstanding funds  were  reasonable. 
Mr D explained that after his Mother opened  the letter dated the 20 July 2018 he cut short  
his holiday to return home. Ive not seen any evidence to support this  and even if I did Im 
not convinced  Id regard this as a foreseeable consequence arising from this letter.  But, Im 
satisfied the content of the letter likely caused him anxiety and distress.  And in recognition  of 
that Ill be asking  Amex to pay Mr D £50 compensation. 
my final decision
My final decision is I direct American  Express Services  Europe  Ltd to:
-Pay Mr D £50 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6591673