K820x#14complaint
Mr K is unhappy that Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) has declined  a claim under his 
legal expenses policy. Where I refer to IPA, this includes  its agents, representatives and 
claims handlers.
background
Mr K made a claim on his policy to cover the legal costs of a dispute over his service 
charges. IPA referred the claim to one of its panel  of solicitor firms. It said the circumstances 
of the claim didnt appear to be something  that would fall within the scope  of cover available 
under the legal expenses  policy.  But even if it did, solicitors said the claim had no 
reasonable prospects of success  which is a policy condition. So, IPA said it wouldnt cover 
the claim.
Mr K didnt agree. He said the solicitors hadnt seen all available  evidence  before coming to 
its legal  opinion. Mr K wanted  IPA to obtain  a further  assessment  from another  solicitor. Mr K 
brought his case  to this service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She was satisfied  that IPA was entitled to rely 
on the legal  advice it had obtained.  And that if Mr K wanted to challenge  this, hed need to 
seek a legal assessment  at his own cost. As Mr K didnt accept this his case was passed on 
to an ombudsman for a final decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In order to make a successful insurance claim,  our view is that a policyholder  needs  to prove
their claim. That means they need to show an insured event (something that falls within the 
cover their policy provides) has taken place.
Having reviewed the policy terms and conditions, I can see there is cover for certain  types of 
property disputes.  These  are defined as a dispute  relating  to damage to the home; a dispute 
regarding an agreement  for the sale or purchase of the home; a dispute  with the landlord 
regarding a tenancy agreement to rent the home;  a dispute with a contractor in relation  to 
work on the home.
I think the policy is clear on what it will provide cover for. And I think  IPA acted reasonably 
when it said Mr Ks claim isnt covered under any of the policy sections. I dont think Mr K 
has provided any evidence to show why there is policy cover and why it should apply to his 
case.
IPA has taken advice  from legal experts on whether  the dispute over service charges  fits into 
one of the property dispute heads  of cover  within the policy.  The advice received is that it 
doesnt. In the absence  of any evidence to the contrary, I think IPA is entitled to rely on this 
advice.
The solicitors have  also been clear that the claim doesnt enjoy reasonable prospects  of 
success.
Ref: DRN67589512I think its a fairly standard requirement  within  legal  expenses  policies  that any intended 
claim has a reasonable  prospect of succeeding. Mr Ks policy  is no exception. It said for 
cover to be provided reasonable prospects of success must  exist for the duration of the 
claim. For civil cases that means the policyholder will recover losses  or damages or obtain 
any other legal  remedy  IPA has agreed  to, as assessed by IPAs panel  firm of solicitors. I 
think thats fair. Court action can be expensive. A privately paying customer  wouldnt want  to 
bear the legal  cost if advised their case is unlikely  to succeed. I think its fair to say the same  
of a legal  expenses insurer.
Where an insurer has declined funding  in such a case, it isnt for us to evaluate the merits of 
the underlying  claim. Mr K has provided a lot of supportive evidence  for his legal case. But 
our role isnt to consider the claim itself. Instead we look at whether the insurer  has acted 
fairly and reasonably. So long as it has got advice from suitably qualified lawyers, we wont  
generally question  its reliance on that advice, unless we think  it was obviously wrong or 
based on factual  mistakes.
IPA did obtain  legal  advice. I understand that the panel firm were  suitably  qualified  in dealing  
with property litigation cases similar  to Mr Ks. So, I think IPA was generally entitled to rely 
on the advice.  Im not aware of any reason why it shouldnt have done so in this case.
I understand Mr K thinks the legal advice to IPA was flawed and that the matter  ought  to 
have been referred  to another  firm of solicitors. But I dont  think IPA had to do this. It was up 
to Mr K to obtain a contrary  legal opinion on the merits of his claim, at his own cost.  Without 
legal advice confirming  that this claim does  fall within an insured event as set out in the 
policy terms; and has a reasonable  chance  of success  on the evidence available, Mr K isnt 
entitled to cover. I think IPA has dealt with the claim fairly and in line with the policy  terms.
If Mr K does get and provides differing legal opinion that supports his case, then IPA has 
said it will consider the claim again.  It also said that if it goes on to accept the claim,  it would 
reimburse Mr K for the cost of this advice. I think this is fair and reasonable. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
I make  no award against Inter Partner Assistance SA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
John Quinlan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6758951