K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Millennium  Insurance Company Limited didnt settle  their claim 
in full under  their buildings  insurance because, it said, they were underinsured.
background
I attach a copy of the provisional decision I sent to the parties on 17 December 2019. In that 
decision I explained why I was minded to uphold the complaint and what Millennium  needed 
to do to put things  right.
Mr and Mrs P accepted my decision whilst pointing out that Millennium hadnt yet made any 
payment in respect of the claim.
Millennium didnt agree  with my decision. In its email of 30 December 2019 it asked me to 
consider a number  of things before reaching my final decision.  
In summary  it said it had given sufficient  warning that it was up to the insured to check the 
adequacy of the sum insured; that it had advised on how the insured could do that; and that 
it had identified the penalties for misrepresenting the value at risk in the event of a claim.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered everything Millennium has said. But it hasnt raised any new points or 
suggested that Mr and Mrs P saw any additional  or different information to that set out in my 
provisional decision.
In other  words Millennium  hasnt said anything or provided any new information  which  would 
cause me to change my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision I uphold  this complaint. 
Millennium Insurance Company  Limited must now:
Settle Mr and Mrs Ps claim in accordance with the terms of the policy, but without 
making any adjustment for underinsurance. 
Pay interest at 8 percent a year simple on that amount  from the date of loss to the 
date of settlement.
If Millennium  Insurance Company Limited considers that it is required by H M Revenue & 
Customs to take off income tax from that interest  it should tell Mr and Mrs P how much it has 
taken off. It should also give Mr and Mrs P a certificate showing this if they ask for one so 
that they can reclaim  the tax from H M Revenue & Customs if appropriate. 
Ref: DRN66331152Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2020.
Sue Wrigley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66331153provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain that Millennium Insurance Company Limited didnt  settle their claim in full 
under their buildings insurance because it said they were  underinsured.
background
Mr and Mrs P made an insurance claim after a water leak damaged  their kitchen.
Millennium arranged for a loss adjuster  to visit the property. The loss adjuster  calculated the rebuild  
cost of the property  to be £550,000. When Mr and Mrs P applied for the insurance  the buildings  sum 
insured was set at £300,000. This meant that, according to the loss adjuster, they were  substantially  
underinsured. Millennium said that in these circumstances the terms of the policy allowed it to 
average the claim.  So it offered to pay just over half the claim.
Millennium also said that the damage covered both contents and buildings and that Mr and Mrs P 
would have to pay an excess under each part of the policy.
Mr and Mrs P didnt agree they were underinsured.  They said theyd applied for the policy on-line  and 
that, after theyd entered their address and property details, the website  had automatically filled in the 
rebuilding costs.  They  said it was about what theyd been insured for before and they had no reason  
to think  the amount was wrong. They  didnt remember being asked to check this.
They also said that they thought the rebuild cost provided by the loss adjuster was too high. They said 
theyd now used  the Building Cost Information Service (BCIS) calculator themselves  and this had 
shown a much lower figure.
Millennium said that the on-line application process required Mr and Mrs P to answer a number of 
questions about the property, such as the number and type of rooms, when the property was built,  the 
materials used and an estimate  of the market value. It said that the rebuild cost was pre-filled with an 
estimated cost from BCIS but that this was amendable. 
Millennium said it had been unable to obtain a copy of the original questions or answers given by Mr 
and Mrs P. But it sent us an example of a screenshot which it said formed  part of the application 
process. Next to the section which has the rebuild cost is a box which  includes the following 
information:
Property rebuild  costs
This is the cost of rebuilding your property  in the event that its destroyed or damaged beyond  repair, 
including the cost of clearing  the site and professional fees. The rebuild cost is different from the 
market value  as it does  not allow  for the value  of the land the property is built on, because  this is not 
insured. The rebuilding cost is often lower than the market value however this is not true for all 
properties (for example  if the property is built from stone which is no longer  available locally or if it 
includes period or special  architectural features).
Where can I find this information?  If you have a recent survey  report, mortgage valuation report or 
building insurance renewal  document  you should  be able to find the information  there. Alternatively 
the BCIS rebuild cost calculator may help you decide  how much to insure your property for.
Later Millennium said it had done a dummy run of the application process and that the following 
recommendation would have been provided in respect of rebuilding costs:
Ref: DRN66331154The rebuild cost of your property  will typically  be less than its market  value  as the rebuild cost does 
not include the value  of the land. BCIS has estimated that your propertys actual rebuild cost could 
range from £213,000 to £600,000. This value could  depend on the size of your house in comparison 
with an average  property, the quantity and quality  of the fittings and any special or unique features.
With regard to the difference between the loss adjusters  and Mr and Mrs Ps calculation it said it 
appeared that different  information  had been inputted for the size of the property.
Our investigator considered Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.  She thought  that Millennium  was entitled to 
deduct an excess under  both the contents and buildings  part of the policy.
But she didnt think Millennium had done enough to make sure Mr and Mrs P knew they needed to 
check that the amount filled in for rebuilding costs  was correct. So she recommended that Millennium 
settle the claim without applying the average clause. But she thought  that Millennium should be 
allowed to deduct from the settlement any additional premium Mr and Mrs P would  have been 
required to pay if theyd insured the property  for its full rebuild  cost. 
Mr and Mrs P agreed but Millennium didnt  and so the matter has now been passed to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive reached the same overall conclusions  as our investigator but Ive reached a slightly different  
conclusion of the matter of the additional premium. Ill explain why.
Excesses 
Part of Mr and Mrs Ps claim was for damaged  carpets which would fall under the contents part of the 
policy. So I agree with our investigator that Millennium  was entitled to deduct  an excess  under each 
part of the policy.
Underinsurance
Mr and Mrs P bought the policy on line. They didnt ask for and werent given any advice about  
whether the policy was right for them.
In these circumstances Millennium was simply  providing  information, leaving Mr and Mrs P to decide if 
the policy  met their needs.  But Millennium had to make sure Mr and Mrs P were  given enough  
information that was clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make an informed choice about  
whether the policy was right for them. And Millennium needed to ask Mr and Mrs P clear  questions 
about the material facts  it wanted to know  in order to decide whether to offer them  insurance and, if 
so, on what terms.
Millennium doesnt dispute that the figure for rebuilding costs was pre-populated  at £300,000. And 
although Millennium hasnt been able to provide  the original question and answer  set there doesnt 
seem to be any suggestion  that Mr and Mrs P entered wrong information about their property when  
they completed the on-line  form. 
Millennium has provided two slightly different explanations about the rebuilding costs which it says Mr 
and Mrs P will have seen  when  they completed the application.
I cant  be sure which, if either would  have been visible  to Mr and Mrs P or whether  it would have been 
possible for them to complete the form, without seeing either  explanation. But I dont think  that 
matters for the purpose of this decision. 
Ref: DRN66331155Millennium generated the building  sum insured  as an estimate based on details given by Mr and Mrs 
P. So I think it should have highlighted  somewhere  in the sales process  how important it was to get 
this amount right and the implications of getting it wrong. 
Mr and Mrs P gave their address and details  about their property including the number of bedrooms  
and the construction of the building. As far as I know Mr and Mrs Ps house doesnt have any unusual  
features. So I think it was reasonable for them to think the figure produced would  be broadly right, 
certainly not around half of what  Millennium says they should have insured for.
Its difficult for someone without experience to know the rebuilding costs of a property. And without 
clear information of the importance of checking this it seems to me to be reasonable for Mr and Mrs P 
to think  the indication  theyd  been given  would provide the cover they needed.
I understand why Millennium makes  the points  it does. But in this case, and on the limited information  
provided, Im not persuaded  it did enough  when Mr and Mrs P bought the policy to highlight the 
importance of getting the buildings sum insured  right and the potential implications of getting  it wrong.  
Nor do I dont  think it gave  them enough  information that might lead them  to conclude the pre-filled 
cost might need to be changed by them,  or how to accurately assess this figures. 
I now have to decide what Millennium should do to put things right.
I think  if Mr and Mrs P had been given  sufficiently  clear  information theyd have checked the amount 
needed and insured  the property for a higher amount if necessary. I cant see any reason why they 
would knowingly have left themselves underinsured.
So I agree with our investigator that it would  be fair for Millennium to settle Mr and Mrs Ps claim in 
accordance with the terms of the policy but without making any adjustment for underinsurance.
Ive also considered whether  it would  be right to allow  Millennium  to deduct  from the settlement any 
additional premium Mr and Mrs P would have been required to pay if theyd insured the property for 
its full rebuild costs.
In some circumstances that would be fair. But in this case Ive concluded that Millennium failed to give 
Mr and Mrs P sufficiently clear information when  the buildings sum insured was set for the policy. As 
Mr and Mrs P werent  at fault for the underinsurance  I dont think it would  be reasonable for them to 
have to pay any additional  premium that might be due. Equally, I wouldnt have expected Millennium 
to have to make a payment  under the buildings  claim that was higher than the sum insured.
So my provisional decision  is that Millennium should:
Settle Mr and Mrs Ps claim in accordance with the terms of the policy, but without making  
any adjustment for underinsurance.  
Pay interest at 8 percent a year simple on that amount from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement.
my provisional  decision
Im minded to uphold  this complaint and direct  Millennium Insurance Company Limited to settle the 
claim as set out above.
Ref: DRN6633115