K821x#15Complaint
Mrs B complains that BMW Financial Services (GB)  Limited (BFS) refused to let her reject a 
faulty car.
Background
In April 2018 Mrs B acquired a second  hand  car costing £14,790. This was funded by a 
deposit of £8,000 and the balance by a hire purchase agreement with BFS.  It was some 
eight years old and had done around 92,000 miles.
Within a few days  she identified that it had a number of faults and contacted the dealer. She 
says initially she was fobbed off, but at the end of April she took the car back to the dealer 
and it carried out repairs. Several days after she got the car back it was still faulty  and 
continued to leak oil. She says she had her own garage inspect  it and the mechanic 
identified there was an oil leak and padding  had been  installed to soak this up. 
Having asked to reject the car she wrote  to the dealer  on 3 May 2018.  She then returned  the 
car. The dealer  suggested she speak with BFS and get a quote for a settlement figure. On 
9 May she says she stopped taxing the car and cancelled her insurance. On 14 May the 
dealer called her to say it had fixed the car and asked that she collect it. She refused to 
collect it and it arranged  for the car to be delivered back to her.
She had it inspected by the RAC  and this identified it was still leaking and it had other faults. 
BFS also refused  Mrs Bs request to reject the car after taking advice from the dealer and so 
she brought the matter to this service.  It was considered by one of our investigators who 
recommended it be upheld.
She noted the car was second hand and therefore it wouldnt be expected to be perfect, but 
it should be durable. It was noted  that Mrs B had only managed  to drive the car for 2,000 
miles. The investigator said that Mrs B had written  to the dealer to reject the car within 30 
says of it being delivered and this had been  refused. 
She didnt  think the fact the letter had been  sent to the dealer  rather  than BFS altered the 
position. She added that even if the 30 day rejection  request was flawed the car wasnt of 
satisfactory quality and as such could be rejected.
She noted there were several  issues with the car and that at least  two repairs to the oil leak 
had been attempted. However,  the RAC report in July 2018  noted that the engine  still had an 
evident oil leak and the transmission still had a slight  oil leak. She had seen messages 
between Mrs B and the dealer that show she reported this on 24 April 2018  and again on 
4 May, after a repair had been attempted. She thought it clear that the repairs had failed. 
Around the time the investigator issued her opinion the dealer took the car back for 
inspection and concluded there  were  no faults.  It also said the car was in a poor state and 
had been used off road.  The business hasnt accepted  the investigators view and so the 
matter has been  referred  to me.
Ref: DRN65431452My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
BFS is also the supplier  of the goods  under this type of agreement, and responsible  for a 
complaint about  their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
In this complaint  the car was quite elderly  and had done a significant number of miles so 
some wear  and tear was to be expected. However,  it is reasonable to assume that it 
shouldnt have been suffering from something as significant  as an oil leak within days of 
delivery. I am satisfied  that Mrs B wrote  to the dealer within  30 days to reject it and it had 
such a fault that she was entitled to do so. On that basis  I believe the business should  have 
accepted her rejection.
However, it accepted  the dealers opinion that the matter had been resolved, even though 
the car had been returned a second time. It would have been prudent to have had an 
independent inspection carried out at that time, but that was not offered. Fortunately  Mrs B 
sought the advice of the RAC and this confirmed that the car had a number of faults which 
hadnt been repaired by the dealer.  I have seen evidence that Mrs B stopped using the car in 
May 2018 and she did so because of the problems she encountered.
In short  Mrs B was sold a faulty  car which I believe wasnt fit for purpose and she was 
entitled to reject it. The matter could have been resolved some time ago if this had been 
recognised by the business. I would add that some of the later delay came about  because 
Mrs B was exploring taking legal  action.
In conclusion I believe this complaint  should  be upheld and Mrs B receives suitable redress. 
Ref: DRN65431453My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct BMW Financial Services  (GB) 
Limited to:
collect the car at no cost to Mrs B,
refund  her monthly  payments from 1 June 2018  plus interest at 8% simple from the 
date of each payment  until it is refunded.
pay her deposit of £8,000 plus interest  at 8% simple from the date of payment until it 
is refunded.
remove any adverse entries it may have placed on her credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6543145