K821x#15complaint
Mr B and Mrs B have complained about  Southern  Rock Insurance Companys handling  of 
their car insurance policy.
Reference to Southern  Rock includes their agents.
background
On 21 February 2018, Mr B and Mrs B took out a telematics (also known as a black box)  
car insurance policy with Southern Rock. The black box installed on their car would measure 
a range of driving behaviours and points would be awarded, which  could result in Mr B and 
Mrs B either being rewarded or penalised depending  on how they drove. Their driving was 
reviewed on a monthly basis.
A review was done on 23 April 2018.  Southern Rock said Mr B and Mrs Bs driving  score  
was low, so an additional premium of £691.77 had to be paid. Mr B and Mrs B had paid for 
the policy in full by card when they took it out. Southern  Rock  therefore told them  they would 
try to collect the additional premium within seven days from the same  card they used before.
On 26 April, Mr B and Mrs B emailed Southern Rock to say they couldnt afford to pay the 
additional premium  and that they wanted it looked into as it was excessive. Southern Rock 
replied by saying  the additional premium was in line with the policy,  given their driving score 
was low. Mr B and Mrs B then asked if they could pay in instalments. Southern  Rock  agreed 
to split the amount into two. Mr B and Mrs B paid the additional  premium.  In August 2018, 
Mr B was involved  in an accident  which resulted in the total loss of the car. Sometime after 
that accident the policy was cancelled because, as I understand it, there was no longer a car 
in existence to be insured.
Mr B and Mrs B complained saying the additional  premium was excessive. Southern Rock 
didnt uphold  their complaint  and said that the additional premium  was correctly  charged.
Mr B and Mrs B didn't think that was fair so they brought their complaint to us. One of our 
adjudicators looked into the complaint. He felt that Southern Rock  hadnt dealt with Mr B and 
Mrs B fairly. He recommended that Southern  Rock  should: refund the whole additional  
premium to Mr B and Mrs B together with 8% interest; and pay them £100 compensation 
As Southern  Rock  didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
The additional premium  Southern Rock  had charged Mr B and Mrs B was £691.77.  But after 
Mr B and Mrs B brought their complaint to our service, Southern Rock looked  at the amount 
again and said £245.63 of the additional  premium  would  be refunded. That meant the 
additional premium  should have been  £446.14.  So I think  the original amount wasnt  
accurate.
Ref: DRN66565142Southern Rock said the additional premium was charged because Mr B and Mrs Bs driving 
score was low. The policy had set criteria against which  the driving was measured. And as 
the driving was deemed to be poor, Southern  Rock  charged the additional  premium.  In 
judging the quality of the driving Southern Rock said they relied on the data obtained from 
the black box. They said the data was accurate. But Mr B and Mrs B disputed  that. When  
Mr B had the accident in August 2018,  Mrs B spoke with Southern Rock. She said that she 
was told the black  box hadnt recorded the accident. Yet the car was a total loss. Mr B and 
Mrs B said that they had, even before the accident,  suspected that the black box was faulty 
and that it was recording inaccurate  data.  They believed the inaccurate data led to the poor 
driving score and the additional premium. They said they had raised  the issue with Southern  
Rock before but nothing had been done. Following the accident, and having been told it 
wasnt recorded on the black box, Mr B and Mrs B said that they again contacted Southern  
Rock to question  the accuracy  of the data generated by the black box.
In August  2018,  our adjudicator raised  Mr B and Mrs Bs concern about the black  box 
possibly being  faulty with Southern Rock and asked them to comment. Southern  Rock  said 
that on the day of the accident three mini-crashes were recorded  within  a three hour period 
and that since activation 27/02 2018  there  have been 1812 impacts recorded. When our 
adjudicator questioned why there  were  so many impacts recorded Southern Rock said:
All crashes are detected  by taking into account  the amplitude of acceleration and the 
event duration.  Mini crashes can be caused  by bumps in the road, pot holes, traffic 
calming measures and so on. It is possible that the wires on the box had become 
slightly loose, but this can not be verified with a service call as the voucher is closed.
In his written view, our adjudicator told Southern Rock of his concerns about the issues  with 
the black box, in particular  that the data may have  been inaccurate,  which may have led to 
the additional premium. Southern Rock said that Mr B and Mrs B hadnt raised this issue  
until after the total loss of the car in August 2018. But Mr B and Mrs B have said that they 
had raised the issue with Southern Rock  before  the accident but it wasnt looked into. And 
once Mr B and Mrs B brought it to our attention our adjudicator raised it with Southern Rock 
within a few days of the accident when I understand the black  box was still in existence. Our 
adjudicator made it clear  to Southern Rock that Mr B and Mrs B believed  the black  box was 
faulty and that it was recording inaccurate data which  led to the additional premium. But the 
black box wasnt examined to establish  whether or not it was faulty.
I think the available evidence does raise doubts  about the accuracy  of the black  box. 
Southern Rock have accepted that it recorded  three mini crashes in one day and almost  
2,000 impacts since the start of the policy. I cant dismiss the possibility that those mini 
crashes and the impacts,  or other  potential  issues resulting from wires possibly becoming 
loose, reflected negatively against  Mr B and Mrs Bs driving score which resulted in the 
additional premium.  I therefore  think Mr B and Mrs B should  be given the benefit of any 
doubt. Im therefore upholding  this complaint and require  Southern  Rock  to refund the 
additional premium  in full. Simple interest at 8% a year should  be added  to that amount from 
the dates of payment of the additional premium until the date the refund is made. As this 
matter has been  a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr B and Mrs B, I also require 
Southern Rock to pay them a total of £100 compensation to address  that.
For completeness, Mr and Mrs B were  unhappy that when Southern  Rock  asked them  to pay 
the additional premium, they were only given seven days  in which to pay. But the policy 
terms did say any payment for an additional premium would be processed in seven days. 
Ref: DRN66565143But when Mr B and Mrs B told Southern Rock they couldnt pay it, Southern Rock gave them  
the opportunity  to pay in two instalments. I think that was reasonable.
Finally, sometime  after the total loss of the car, the policy was cancelled.  Southern  Rock  
issued Mr B and Mrs B with a refund. But Mr B and Mrs B feel that the refund was inaccurate 
as they were due back more money. I dont think Southern Rock have fully responded to this 
issue. I would suggest that they send Mr B and Mrs B a letter  clearly  setting out the cost of 
the policy and the refund. And if Mr B and Mrs B still remain  unsatisfied they can ask us to 
look into it further.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Southern  Rock  Insurance 
Company to:
Refund Mr B and Mrs B the total additional premium. Simple  interest at a rate of 8% a 
year should be paid on that amount  from the dates it was paid until the refund  is made.1
Pay Mr B and Mrs B £100  compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused to 
them. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling  them  that Mr B and Mrs B have 
accepted my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that 
amount from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year 
simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.    
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
 
1 If Southern  Rock consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax 
from that interest, they should tell Mr B and Mrs B how much they have taken off. They should also 
give them a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HMRC if 
appropriate. 
Ref: DRN6656514