K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that a third party  gave  him misleading information about the cost of repairs 
to a car supplied with finance from Link Financial Outsourcing Limited.
background
In January 2017 Mr F voluntary  surrendered  a car supplied with finance from Link.  He says 
that he did this because hed been  advised by a third party garage that the car needed 
repairs costing £6000  which he felt was too much  to justify continuing with the finance  
agreement. Mr F says he was also told by the third party  garage  that the car only had a 
nominal value in its current  condition.
After handing  the car back, Mr F discovered  that the repair  costs  were only £500 and that 
Link had sold the car for £3000.
Mr F says that if hed been  given the correct  information about the cost of repairs and the 
value of the car, he wouldntve voluntary surrendered it. Instead, he says he wouldve paid 
for repairs and kept the car. Mr F feels that Link had a duty of care to advise him of the 
repair costs and the value of the car once repairs had been carried out before he made the 
decision to voluntary surrender.
In its final response,  Link said that Mr F told it he couldnt afford  to repair  the car. It said it 
issued a voluntary  surrender form having  confirmed this with Mr F and that once he had 
signed and returned the form, it collected  and sold the car. Link said that whilst  it appreciated 
that Mr F may have  been given incorrect information by the third party  garage, this wasnt 
something it could be held responsible for, because  it didnt know the condition of the car 
prior to collecting it.
Mr F wasnt happy with Links response  so he complained to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. He felt that Link had acted in good  faith based  on the 
information available to it at the time.  Mr F didnt  agree. He said he didnt think  the voluntary 
surrender was valid because extraordinary  circumstances existed  when the form was 
signed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive listened to the available calls between  Mr F and Link.  Mr F told Link that the car had 
broken down and that he wasnt able to afford the repairs. Mr F said to Link that he wanted 
to hand the car back because it was becoming too much to cope with.
I dont think Link acted  unreasonably in issuing  voluntary surrender forms to Mr F in these  
circumstances. That said, I think Link could have discussed all of the available  options with 
Mr F, which would  have  included both voluntary surrender and voluntary termination. If Mr F 
had decided to voluntary  terminate the agreement, he wouldve been responsible  to pay any 
shortfall due under the agreement (if half of the total amount payable hadnt  been paid). He 
would also have been obliged to pay for the necessary repairs,  together  with any charges for 
other damage which went beyond fair wear and tear.
Ref: DRN65773872Based on what Ive seen,  Im satisfied that Mr F was provided with incorrect  information from 
the third party  garage about the cost of repairs. And I understand that this led him to make 
the decision to voluntary  surrender the car, as opposed to voluntary terminating the 
agreement (which would have involved him paying the repair  costs  in any event).  On the 
available information,  Im satisfied that voluntary surrender was the only viable choice.
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Link was aware that the information provided by the 
third party garage was inaccurate. At the time when Mr F completed  the voluntary surrender 
form, Link hadnt seen  the car, so it wasnt in a position to comment  on the cost of repairs.  
Link relied on the information provided to it by Mr F. Im unable to say it shouldve  advised  
Mr F of the repair costs and the value of the car before it accepted the voluntary surrender, 
because this isnt the way in which the voluntary surrender process works. Link wasnt  able 
to collect or inspect the car until Mr F had signed and returned the voluntary surrender form.
Mr F has said that the voluntary surrender wasnt valid because  of exceptional 
circumstances. He feels that the incorrect  information provided by the third party  garage led 
him to surrender  the car when he wouldnt otherwise have done so.
Ive thought about this point and although I appreciate that Mr F might have made a different 
decision if hed been told the repair costs were  £500 as opposed to £6000, I cant be certain 
of this. Further, I havent seen anything to suggest  that a surrender isnt valid in 
circumstances where  incorrect information  is provided by a third party,  as opposed  to the 
finance provider.  Taking  everything into account, Im unable to uphold  the complaint.
I can see that Mr F has recently raised a further point regarding  affordability.  This isnt 
something which formed part of his original complaint to Link,  so he would need to raise a 
new complaint about this with Link before this service could look at it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 April 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6577387