K821x#15complaint
Miss G complained that Zurich Assurance Ltd prevented her surrendering her investment 
bond on the due date,  wrongly claiming  its requirements had not been met, and then refused 
to pay the increased  value when it admitted its mistakes.
background
Zurich admitted its mistakes but said it was entitled  to pay her the surrender value as of the 
due date rather than the increased value by the delayed  date.
An adjudicator at this service  did not agree, and said:
The investment  continued  and remained Ms Gs after 9 April 2018, with returns  
continuing to accrue
Delays in surrenders happen frequently  (policyholders  may lose the surrender 
paperwork or not process the surrender quickly enough) but that doesnt mean the 
owner shouldnt  benefit from the actual growth  during that delay
Zurich should  pay the surrender value it quoted on 8 May 2018 plus 8% simple 
interest a year - from that date to the date of settlement (adjusting for any money on 
the bond that may have been paid out already)
It should also pay £100 to reflect the evident  trouble and upset this caused Miss G.
He didnt believe Zurich should pay the professional fees Miss G had occurred in 
pursuing this matter nor issue  an apology  to her solicitors
Zurich did not agree, and said:
It was Miss Gs wish to surrender  the bond with effect from 9 April 2018  so she was 
only entitled to the value of the investment at that date
If unit prices  had fallen after 9 April Miss G would not have complained
Correct resolution of a complaint is to put the complainant back into the position they 
would have otherwise been in but for the error  which occurred
It has already paid £50 as an apology but agrees to pay an additional £100
The bond was surrendered on 8 May 2018
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons. I am extremely surprised 
that Zurich has sought  to challenge his view.
Zurich made  a series  of errors. It was responsible  for Miss G being  unable to surrender her 
bond as planned. As it transpired, she benefitted from this delay as the value of the bond  
rose. If she were only to receive the value of the bond at the earlier date this would mean,  in 
effect, that Zurich  would benefit financially from its own mistakes.
While this services  general ambition is to put a consumer  back in the position they would 
now be in but for a business  error,  in this case I do not believe this would be fair or 
reasonable (another key principle of this services approach).
Ref: DRN61513642Overall, the evidence I have seen  indicates  that Zurichs handling of this issue,  and Miss Gs 
subsequent complaint, was woefully inadequate. Its offer of £50 for its numerous failures 
was way below what I consider  acceptable. Arguably even the adjudicators recommended 
additional £100 does not adequately reflect the trouble this issue has caused. Given  this I do 
not believe Zurich  should take account  of the £75.58 it paid in interest (after notional  
deduction of tax) when  calculating the redress below. In effect I am adding this figure to the 
overall compensation for the trouble and upset this has caused  Miss G. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Zurich  Assurance Ltd to pay:
The difference between the amount Miss G belatedly received  and the value of the 
bond on the date the surrender  finally  took place
8% simple interest per annum  on this figure  from the date she received  the maturity  
sum to the date of settlement of this complaint
£100 in lieu of the trouble and upset this issue has undoubtedly caused her
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6151364