K820x#14complaint
Mrs H has complained that Zenith Insurance plc unreasonably refused to pay her claim 
under her pet insurance policy.
background
Mrs H took out a pet policy  at the vets when she brought her cat in for treatment. She was 
told she had cover instantly.
Her cat needed treatment,  so Mrs H made  a claim. However Zenith said it couldnt  provide 
cover as in effect,  her claim was for her cats pre-existing condition  by virtue of the policy  
conditions. Mrs H disagreed and complained but Zenith wouldnt change its stance.
So Mrs H brought  her complaint to us. The investigator didnt  think Zenith had done anything 
wrong. Mrs H disagreed so her complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
My role and that of this service is assess whether Zenith only did anything  wrong  in refusing 
to pay Mrs Hs claim. Vet practices arent regulated  by the Financial Conduct Authority and 
therefore I cant look at anything that Mrs Hs vets might have said or done when Mrs H 
brought her policy from her vets.
Its clear from the Statement  of Fact that the boxes  explaining the following were ticked  with 
a yes.
You accept  and understand that all medical conditions, illnesses or injuries,  and 
directly related symptoms  and/or reoccurrences of any of these at point  of inception 
of the policy, will not be covered.  
You accept  and understand that any conditions which occurred or existed in any form
prior to the start date of the policy are excluded. Any injury  that occurred within 24 
hours of the start of this policy, or any illness that occurred within the 14 days of the 
start of this policy are excluded.
On this basis I consider  Zenith reasonably brought these limitations in cover to Mrs Hs 
attention at the time she bought this policy. Such a Statement of Fact is a recording of the 
questions that were or ought to have  been  asked at the time the policy was sold.  Its on the 
basis of those answers, that Zenith  then can offer a policy.  All pet insurers detail such 
application questions  or assumptions, which must be answered for the policy to be offered. 
This is not unusual or significant. 
Given the vet history of Mrs Hs cat, she was suffering chestiness  on 4 October 2018 with 
around a two-day  history  of coughing prior to be seen by the vet on that day. The cat was 
then recorded  as struggling to breathe on 6 October 2018 and appeared to have recurrent  
bronchitis. Mrs Hs policy started on 4 October  2018. No condition  which  existed on the day 
Ref: DRN61244642the policy started is covered under this policy. Furthermore no illness which  started within 
the first 14 days of the policys start date is covered  either. 
Such limitations are very common in many  pet policies. It would be highly unusual  to find any 
pet policy which provides cover  for illnesses (not accidents) before the first 14 days of cover.  
So I dont  consider the terms of Zeniths  policy to be unusual. 
Clearly here, Mrs Hs cat was suffering an illness around two days before this policy was 
taken out and therefore cover for the vet fees in treating this illness  arent covered.
Mrs H said these questions werent asked by the vets. However if thats the case Mrs H 
needs to complain to her vets. From Zeniths point of view the relevant paperwork sent to it 
by the vets for the inception of this policy appeared correct and in order. There  was no 
reason for it to question anything with Mrs H and theres no indication from this paperwork 
that Mrs H wasnt aware of the how the cover worked under her policy.  
Theres no evidence before me that Zenith should  be responsible for any mistakes  the vets 
made in completing  the insurance  application. If such mistakes were made then thats a 
matter between Mrs H and her vets in the first instance, which the vets themselves can then 
take up with Zenith if necessary. 
I am unaware of the relationship between Zenith and Mrs Hs vets and its irrelevant for the 
purposes of this complaint, which is that Zenith wont  pay Mrs Hs claim because her claim 
isnt covered under this policy. Given the Statement of Fact and the policy terms and 
conditions Zenith hasnt done  anything  wrong  in refusing to pay Mrs Hs claim.  
I thoroughly understand Mrs H is of the view that as her vets sold this policy on Zeniths 
behalf, Zenith should carry the liability for anything wrong that her vets might  have  done.  
However first, Mrs H must  prove coherently that her vets did do something wrong and 
theres no evidence  before  that the vets did, given the contents of the Statement of Fact. 
This is really matter between Mrs H and her vets, rather than a matter  between Mrs H and 
Zenith. As I explained,  vets arent regulated  by the Financial Conduct  Authority  and therefore  
I have no capacity to assess anything her vets might have  done  or not done. Vets have their 
own regulators and indeed professional indemnity  insurance providers. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN61244643Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6124464