K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Sainsburys  Bank Plc changed his address on its systems and sent a 
credit card and PIN to an incorrect address.
background
Mr J says Sainsburys changed his address  on its systems by mistake  and then sent out his 
credit card and PIN to the wrong address. He says this caused him a great  deal of distress  
and worry that he could be the victim  of fraud either  now or in the future. Mr J says 
Sainsburys has offered  him £125 compensation which isnt enough in the circumstances.
Sainsburys accepts it made a mistake by incorrectly changing Mr Js address and then 
sending out his credit card and PIN to the wrong address. It says the card and PIN details 
were sent back to it. Sainsburys has apologised to Mr J and offered him £125 compensation 
and says it will pay for a fraud  marker to be placed on his credit file. It has also added a 
password to his account as an extra level of security  but says its unlikely that any fraud will 
take place as the account information  was sent back.
Mr J brought his complaint to us and our adjudicator thought overall  Sainsburys had dealt 
fairly with it. He thought the compensation offer was fair and reasonable and that 
Sainsburys additional steps were appropriate  and fair such as the fraud warning and the 
password.
Mr J doesnt accept that view and says there is no evidence  to say that his personal  
information wasnt compromised. He says the compensation  offer doesnt go far enough.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to a similar 
overall view as the adjudicator. I realise  Mr J will be disappointed  by my decision.
There is no question here that Sainsburys made a number of mistakes.  And so I appreciate  
how concerned  Mr J would have been to find out what had happened and I appreciate his 
concerns that he may be the victim  of future fraud.  But Im satisfied that Sainsburys has 
fairly explained what happened and apologised for what took place.
Im also satisfied that Sainsburys has acted fairly to avoid future problems  by placing the 
password on the account and by offering to pay for the fraud  warning to be placed on Mr Js 
credit file.
The key question here is the level of compensation. And Ive come to the overall view that 
Sainsburys offer is fair and reasonable. I dont think Mr J suffered any financial loss as a 
result of what took place  and I dont think it likely  that the person whom received the credit 
card had any intention  of using it fraudulently as it was sent back. The mistake took place 
about a year ago and I think that if Mr Js personal information was used or was going to be 
used fraudulently then he would have  found out by now. So I dont think  it likely  that Mr J will 
be caused any future problems.
I appreciate how strongly Mr J feels about what took place. But I think  Sainsburys has done 
everything it could to put matters right and I will leave it to Mr J to decide if he wishes to 
accept the compensation offer.
Ref: DRN62555322my final decision
My final decision is that Sainsburys Bank  Plc has made a fair and reasonable offer of 
compensation. Mr Js acceptance  of that offer would be in full and final settlement of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6255532