K821x#15complaint
Mr P complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford.
background
Mr P took out seven  loans with Cashfloat  between August 2016 and March  2018.
Loan Date borrowed
Amount Amount to be 
repaidDate repaid
1 10/08/2016 £200 £267 20/09/2016
2 02/12/2016 £300 3 @ £138 20/01/2016
3 31/01/2017 £300 3 @ £139 20/04/2016
4 27/04/2017 £500 3 @ £237 20/07/2017
5 25/07/2017 £1000 4 @ £393 20/11/2017
6 24/11/2017 £750 3 @ £364 08/03/2018
7 24/03/2018 £700 3 @ £340 outstanding
Mr P says that Cashfloat didnt carry out proper  checks. He says that he was caught in a 
spiral of debt.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ps complaint should  be upheld  in part. In summary, 
he thought that it wasnt  unfair of Cashfloat  to agree loans one to three. But the adjudicator 
didnt think that it was reasonable of Cashfloat to agree loans  four to seven.
The adjudicator recommended that Cashfloat refund all interest and charges that Mr P paid 
on loans four to seven  with interest  on the refund. And the adjudicator said Cashfloat should  
remove all entries about those loans from Mr Ps credit  file.
When Mr P complained to this service, Cashfloat  offered to refund the interest on loan seven  
but it hasnt responded to the adjudicators  recommendation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
Ref: DRN60533722the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint.
loans one to three
Before agreeing each of these loans, Cashfloat asked Mr P for details of his income, living 
costs and regular  credit commitments. Mr P told Cashfloat that his net monthly income was 
£2,100 with outgoings of £1,150 for loans one and two. 
Mr P declared a slightly higher income  before  loan three and his monthly  expenses  had 
increased to £1,350. Cashfloat also carried out some credit checks  which didnt reveal 
anything of concern  such as any County Court Judgments or defaults. And Cashfloat 
increased some of the declared expenditure figures  to allow  for any undeclared expenses  
that it could see on Mr Ps credit searches.
Given the amount  that Cashfloat  expected Mr P to repay each month,  I consider the checks 
were proportionate. Based on the information Cashfloat had about Mr P, I cant  say it was 
wrong to agree loans one to three.
loans four to seven
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Cashfloats  lending history with Mr P, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Cashfloat should reasonably have seen  that further 
Ref: DRN60533723lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, so that Cashfloat should  have  realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ps case, I think  this point was reached by loan 
four. I say this because:
loan four was Mr Ps fourth loan from Cashfloat  in about eight months and Mr P took it 
out just a week after repaying loan three.
Mr P went on to follow a very similar  pattern of borrowing from Cashfloat shortly after 
repaying each  earlier  loan. Mr P was also borrowing more  money  for than before.
I think that the pattern of lending over a sustained period shouldve alerted  Cashfloat to 
the likelihood that Mr P was having  problems managing his money. So I think  Cashfloat 
should have been  concerned that Mr P wouldnt be able to repay the loans sustainably.
I think that Mr P lost out because Cashfloat continued to provide borrowing from loan four 
onwards. This is because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ps indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time.
the number  of loans, combined with the total length of time Mr P had been  borrowing 
from Cashfloat, was likely  to have had negative implications on his ability to access 
mainstream credit. This kept Mr P in the market for these  high-cost loans.  
So Im upholding  Mr Ps complaint about  loans four to seven
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on loans four to seven;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan seven;
if it chooses to, apply the refund  to any outstanding principal balance  on loan seven 
before paying  any remaining balance (if there  is any) to Mr P**; and
the number  of loans taken from loan four onwards means that any information  about 
them is negative.  So all entries  about loans four to seven  should be removed from Mr Ps 
credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one. If Cashfloat 
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  balance,  it must do so after deducting 
the tax.
**If after taking these  steps Mr P still owes money  to Cashfloat, I remind  it of its obligation to 
treat any repayment proposals that he might  make fairly and reasonably.
Ref: DRN60533724my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ps complaint in part and direct  Western  Circle Ltd 
(trading as Cashfloat)  to put things right as detailed above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2019.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
.
Ref: DRN6053372