K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the level of service he received  from Barclays Bank UK Plc. There are 
a number of aspects to Mr Bs complaint.  He complains about error messages  which  are 
preventing him from sending money from his mobile app, the digits  in his account number, 
customer service  being  transferred to different departments to deal with the error messages 
and staff being rude and unprofessional during  telephone  calls.  
background
Mr B had an account with Barclays.  He says for six months he kept getting an error message 
when he tried to make  a transfer using his mobile  app. 
Mr B says he called  Barclays on several  occasions  about this error. But the issue  hasnt 
been fixed and he has been charged an additional  £150 because he wasnt  able to make  a 
payment using his mobile banking app. 
Mr B complained to Barclays  about  this issue, he was also unhappy that his account number 
includes three sixes  and that he had been  transferred  between  departments.
Mr B complained to Barclays  and their case handler  called Mr B to discuss  the complaint 
before issuing the final response letter. Mr B was unhappy with the call and asked to speak 
to a manager. The staff member  told him their manager didnt  take calls and if he was 
unhappy with how she handled the complaint  he could bring the issues to the financial 
ombudsman service. 
Mr B called back and spoke to a second member of staff. Again, Mr B was unhappy with 
how that conversation  went  and said the staff member was lying to him and acted  
unprofessionally.
Mr B raised a second complaint  about  the service he received from the two staff members. 
Barclays issued a final response on the first complaint. Barclays  said they recognised the 
frustration of not being able to make a payment  using his mobile  banking  app. To put things 
right Barclays offer Mr B £35 in compensation. Barclays said theyd consider the additional 
charge of £150 if Mr B provided  them  with evidence of the loss. 
Barclays issued a final response letter on the second complaint. Having listened to the calls 
they didnt think  their staff members were rude or unprofessional. 
Mr B brought his complaints to our services.  Barclays agreed for us to consider all the 
aspects of Mr Bs complaints in one case.  
Our investigator considered the case  and he didnt think Barclays  made  an error. He listened  
to the calls and he felt there was no evidence that the advisors acted unreasonably on the 
phone. He thought  Barclays made  an error in not being able to action Mr Bs transfers but he 
felt they did enough to put this right. He considered Barclays were correct  when they said 
the only way to change the account  number was for Mr B to open a new account. 
As Mr B disagreed with the investigator the case has come to me to decide. 
Ref: DRN67557702my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusions as the investigator for broadly the same 
reasons.
technical error
Mr B was experiencing  technical issues with his mobile banking  app. When  he tried to make  
a payment he was receiving an error  message. Mr B says this issue had been happening for 
six months on his account and he has complained on several occasions. 
Barclays evidence shows that Mr B raised  this issue with them in January 2019. I appreciate 
this issue may have been happening to Mr B on a number of occasions but I cannot see that 
Barclays had an opportunity to look into this until he raised it with them in January 2019.     
Mr B said he did raise  this issue previously but I havent seen any evidence to support this. 
So, I find it more likely  than not that Barclays first opportunity to address this technical issue 
was in January  2019. 
I recognise how frustrating it must  be not being  able to make a transfer that you want  to by 
mobile banking  app. Barclays has explained the error message is a technical  glitch. They 
advised when  this error message appears a customer must wait four hours before 
attempting the payment  again. When the error message appears the payment will be 
delayed and it may not be processed. 
I accept when you access your mobile banking app you expect that you should be able to 
make a transfer without  these errors  occurring. And I can understand why Mr B wanted this 
issue sorted. During the calls with Barclays they explained they had logged the issues with 
their IT department. They also explained  they could transfer Mr B to the IT department  so he 
could discuss with them the type of mobile he had in an attempt to get to the bottom of why 
the issue happened. 
To put things right, Barclays also offered Mr B alternative  ways  to make  payments like 
telephone banking. Mr B explained that he had lost £150 as a direct result of the issues  he 
was having with his mobile banking. Barclays said they would consider refunding this to him 
if he provides evidence of the charges he incurred as a direct  result of this error. As they 
didnt receive any additional information Barclays did not pay Mr B the additional £150 he 
asked for. 
Our investigator also asked Mr B for the evidence he had of the additional charges he 
incurred. But Mr B hasnt  provided us with any evidence to persuade me to ask Barclays to 
pay him £150. 
Barclays did recognise that it was frustrating not being able to make the transfers  he wanted 
to and accepted that Mr B had to telephone  them to discuss the error codes. To recognise 
the trouble and upset theyd caused  Mr B they paid him £35. 
Under the circumstances  I feel £35 was a fair amount to pay Mr B. I say this because  they 
did offer Mr B alternative ways to make  the payment and they would  consider  any direct 
financial loss he incurred  but they wanted  to see evidence of this. I dont  think  it is 
unreasonable for Barclays to ask for supporting evidence of the cost Mr B incurred. As Mr B 
Ref: DRN67557703hasnt provided  Barclays  or our service with any additional information I cannot  ask them to 
do anything further.  
Mr Bs account number
Mr B says he is superstitious and does  not want an account number which  includes three 
number sixes. Im satisfied account numbers are computer generated and Barclays cannot 
control the number  that are assigned to their customers. 
Barclays have explained the only way to change the account  number is to open a new 
account. I appreciate  this is inconvenient  but I cannot see that there  is any other  alternative.  
transferred to different departments
The complaints department were  dealing with the issues  that Mr B raised. Unfortunately as 
the initial issue with his mobile  banking  app is an IT issue they did need to refer this to the IT 
department. Barclays  also recommended  that Mr B speak to the IT department  to rule of the 
possibility that there  was an issue  with the app linked  to his phone. 
I cannot see any evidence  that Mr B was unfairly  passed between departments. 
telephone calls with two staff members
Mr B was unhappy with two particular calls he had with staff members when they were 
dealing with his complaint. On the first call Mr B believes the staff member  was abrupt and 
unprofessional. He also asked to speak  to the staff members manager but was told that 
wasnt possible. During the second  call Mr B believes the staff member lied to him and was 
unprofessional.
Ive listened to both these  calls and Mr B has told our service he has a copy  of these  calls.  
And I understand he has listened back to both calls. 
In the first call the staff member remained calm and polite during  the call. I appreciate  Mr B 
believes she was unprofessional but I cannot agree. The case  handler was providing her 
response to the complaint Mr B had raised. He wasnt  happy with the outcome and the 
issues the case handler was discussing.  As a result he asked to speak to a manager. The 
case handler explained that her manager doesnt take calls. She also explained what  the 
process would  be if he disagreed with her findings on her complaint.
I can appreciate why Mr B felt he should  be allowed to speak to a manager if he wasnt  
happy with the staff members handling of his complaint. But Im satisfied that the case 
handler was following their process  when she explained that he wouldnt be able to speak to 
a manager. And that if he disagreed with her handling of the complaint the next step was to 
contact our service. 
During the second call Mr B explained  that he was unhappy with the previous call he had. 
The staff member puts Mr B on hold and explains he was going to speak to the previous call 
handlers manager. When he returns to the phone he explains that the previous call handler 
will be sending  him out a letter in the post.  Mr B then says he wanted to speak  to a manager 
and the call handler explains he is a manager. Mr B is convinced that the call handler is lying 
to him because he put Mr B on hold earlier to speak  to a manager. The staff member then 
tries to explain that he is a level two complaints manager. He explained that their managers 
dont take calls; he tried to explain  their managers role to Mr B. 
Ref: DRN67557704Although I appreciate Mr B feels very strongly  that both staff members  were unprofessional I 
havent found any evidence to suggest they were.  I think they handled the calls as best they 
could and gave  Mr B accurate information.
Because of this, Im unable to ask Barclays to do anything further. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Bs complaint against Barclays  Bank UK plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Tracey Nugent
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6755770