K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about the decision made by ERGO Reiseversicherung AG (ERV) to 
withdraw their travel  insurance  cover.  
Mr and Mrs M will notice  that ERVs  business name has changed slightly.  This reflects  a 
change in ERVs  registered company name, and it doesnt affect the outcome of their 
complaint. My references to ERV include its agents.
background
In October  2017 Mr and Mrs M took out annual multi-trip travel insurance  with ERV. It 
agreed to cover existing  medical conditions for both of them in return for an increased  
premium. Mrs Ms conditions included Parkinsons disease, type 2 diabetes and heart 
disease. They booked  an overseas holiday for September 2018.
Under the policy ERV asked Mr and Mrs M to tell it about certain changes in their health 
during the policy  year.  In May 2018  they told ERV about Mrs Ms admission to hospital  for a 
condition called cellulitis and a foot ulcer.  She needed intravenous  (IV) antibiotics. ERV 
agreed to cover the conditions for an additional  premium. In July 2018 an x-ray showed  an 
infection in the bone of the toe. Mrs M was admitted to hospital for a period of just over two 
weeks and she was again given IV antibiotics. She was discharged, and her doctor  told her 
she was fit to travel  and that a holiday would do her good. She was asked to continue  to 
take antibiotics for a period of a few weeks.  
When Mr and Mrs M explained  the position  ERV said it would no longer cover Mrs Ms 
medical conditions.  It said Mrs Ms combined  medical conditions together  with the 
unresolved infection requiring longer term antibiotics  had now become too high a risk to 
cover. It offered them  three options: to cancel the policy with a pro-rata refund; to submit  a 
cancellation claim for their pre-booked holiday;  or to travel anyway without medical travel 
cover. 
Mr and Mrs M cancelled their holiday. They made a claim for their travel costs,  which  ERV 
paid. They complained about  ERVs  decision to withdraw the medical  cover  for their travel 
insurance. ERV didnt accept it had done  anything wrong. They  came  to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said ERV had been  entitled to withdraw the 
medical travel cover  because Mrs Ms medical conditions together with the infected and 
fractured toe increased the risk to ERV beyond the level it was prepared  to cover. She 
thought ERV had acted  fairly in agreeing to pay a cancellation claim for their pre-booked 
holiday. Mr and Mrs M sent a detailed  response to her opinion and she explained why their 
comments didnt change  her mind. As an agreement couldnt be reached  the complaints 
come to me for review.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs M have  explained their complaint very clearly  and Ive thought  carefully about all 
their comments and concerns. But I dont  uphold the complaint, for broadly the same  
Ref: DRN62316632reasons as our adjudicator has given. Ill focus  on what  I see as the main issues in this 
complaint. 
Mr and Mrs M properly  told ERV about Mrs Ms hospital admission for cellulitis and that she 
had a foot ulcer. It agreed to cover  her for these conditions on payment of an additional 
premium. Mr and Mrs M also then properly told ERV that shed been diagnosed  with an 
infected and fractured toe. She had been  put on IV antibiotics in hospital and her doctors 
had asked her to continue antibiotics for several weeks  after she was discharged. 
As a travel insurer, ERV was considering  the risk to it of Mr and Mrs M making a claim. We 
wouldnt expect the insurer to withdraw  cover  part-way through  a policy  year unless there  
had been a significant change in risk to it. 
In this case, ERV arranged  for an underwriter to review  Mrs Ms specific  circumstances, 
taking into account  what she and Mr M had said about her medical conditions and hospital 
admissions. I think this was a fair response. But I think  the underwriter was entitled  to reach 
a decision that the risk presented by the toe fracture and infection, when combined with 
Mrs Ms other medical  conditions,  was too high for it to cover for their forthcoming holiday. In 
my view ERV has shown  that there had been  a significant change in risk. So it was entitled  
to say it would no longer  cover Mrs M for her medical conditions.   
Mr Ms made  the point  that ERV had agreed to cover Mrs Ms existing medical conditions, in 
return for additional premiums. I see what hes saying and it wouldnt have been fair for ERV 
to decline a claim linked to those medical  conditions. But ERV was still entitled  to withdraw 
cover for all the accepted pre-existing medical conditions where there had been a significant 
change in risk. The policy terms  and conditions say, on page four, that a doctor  saying the 
insured person is well enough to travel doesnt mean that ERV will cover the medical  
conditions. The policy explains what ERV will do if it is unable to provide  cover.  
Where a travel insurer does withdraw cover we think it is fair and reasonable for it to offer to 
pay the cancellation costs of any pre-booked holiday during the policy  year  even if at that 
time the insured person is fit to travel. This is because  otherwise they will be placed in the 
difficult position of travelling without medical  travel insurance. 
ERV offered Mr and Mrs M a number of options  as set out in its policy terms and conditions. 
Its offer to pay a cancellation claim is in line with the approach that we consider is fair and 
reasonable, as Ive said above. Mr and Mrs M decided to make  a cancellation claim, which  
ERV then paid.  ERV didnt have to refund the policy premium as well because theyd made a 
claim under the policy. 
I appreciate Mr and Mrs M lost their holiday.  Ive read what  theyve said about  that and why it 
was so upsetting and disappointing for them, to say the least. But Im afraid that in my 
experience no travel  insurance  policy covers loss of enjoyment of a holiday.  And Ive found 
that ERV was entitled to withdraw the cover.
Mr and Mrs M have  said that they are concerned  about whether another travel insurer  would 
cover them, given ERVs  decision. The decision of one travel  insurer to withdraw cover  
doesnt automatically mean another insurer will make the same decision.  But each insurer is 
entitled to make its own judgment  of risk. I dont  think ERV has acted unfairly so I dont 
uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN62316633my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 September 2019. 
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6231663