K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about a caravan he got using finance from Black Horse Limited. He says he 
was told the caravan was brand new, but he doesnt believe it was. And he says the caravan 
wasnt of satisfactory quality.
background
Mr S acquired a caravan that was sold to him as being brand new through a dealer in 
September 2017. The caravan cost £22,500.  He paid a deposit of £19,000, with the 
remaining balance being financed with a hire purchase agreement  through Black  Horse. The 
agreement was over five years, with monthly repayments of £70.35.
Shortly after getting the caravan Mr S returned it to the dealer as he had issues with a 
broken speaker, a blind clip, a leaking sink and a squeaking floor. Repairs were completed 
on the speaker  and the sink. No action was taken on the floor and the dealer couldnt find a 
record of the issue  with the clip.
Around a year after getting the caravan, Mr S took it for an annual service  at a workshop H. 
H told Mr S there was an issue with the caravan. It said there were cracks on the rear panel 
and there  was evidence a repair  was previously completed on the area that may have  been  
done at the factory. 
Mr S was unhappy with this and complained to the dealer.  He said he wanted either a full 
refund or a replacement. The dealer then confirmed that the caravan did have  a factory 
repair before  being  delivered to Mr S. It offered  to repair the caravan under warranty.  
Mr S was unhappy with this and complained to Black Horse in December 2018. He said he 
wasnt happy with the quality of the caravan. And he said he didnt believe the caravan was 
new when supplied, as it had already had a repair carried  out. In January 2019 Black Horse  
issued its final response letter.  It upheld the complaint.  It said it accepted that the caravan 
had issues at the point of supply, but didnt believe the cracks were  linked  to the previous 
repair. And, it didnt agree  the caravan wasnt new when supplied. It offered to repair  the 
caravan by replacing the rear panel and offered Mr S £200 for the trouble and upset hed 
been caused.
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought the complaint to us. Our investigator didnt uphold 
the complaint.  She said she didnt agree the caravan  wasnt  new when supplied.  And, she 
thought Black Horses  offer to put things right in relation to the rear panel was fair. Mr S 
remained unhappy and so asked for the case to be passed to an ombudsman.
While waiting for a decision, Mr S contacted  us to say he had further problems  with the 
caravan. He said hed used  the caravan in June 2019 and when it rained water was running 
down the inside of the bedroom, on the same side as the cracks and repair. We made  
Black Horse  aware of this and it arranged an independent inspection of the caravan.
Ref: DRN66342702The independent inspection said that the repair had not been carried out to a satisfactory 
standard. And it said the caravan was unusable  as rain would enter. Black Horse  said this 
didnt change their opinion as it still thought a repair would rectify the issue.  It asked for an 
ombudsmans decision.
While awaiting  a decision Mr S had the caravan serviced. The technician  noted further 
issues, saying the caravan  roof was improperly bonded, condensation was inside a sealed 
light, damp was found and a header  tank was incorrectly fitted.
The case  was passed to me to decide. I sent Mr S and Black  Horse a provisional  decision on 
11 October 2019 explaining that I initially thought the complaint should be upheld. My 
findings from this decision were as follows:
Was the caravan  misrepresented  to Mr S?
Mr S says he paid for and expected  a brand new caravan. But, he believes the caravan 
wasnt new, as it had been repaired in the factory  before being  delivered. In order for a 
misrepresentation to have  taken place, Mr S wouldve had to be told a false  statement of 
fact. Im satisfied Mr S was told he was getting a brand new caravan. So Ill consider  if this 
statement was false.
I appreciate Mr Ss frustration with finding out that a repair  had been done  before the 
caravan left the factory. But, when considering  if the caravan was new,  I think  the important 
things to consider  are that Mr S was the first owner of the caravan. And when he bought it, 
no one else had previously used it. So, I think in this case, even though it had been  repaired 
at the factory,  the caravan still met the description  of new.  It follows that I dont think Mr S 
was told a false statement of fact, so I dont think the caravan was misrepresented  or 
mis-described to him.
Was the caravan  of satisfactory quality?
This case involves a regulated hire purchase agreement  from Black Horse. In this type of 
arrangement, the supplier  of the caravan is Black  Horse. Our service  is able to consider 
complaints about  this type of agreement.
When considering  whats fair and reasonable, I take into account relevant law. The 
Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA)  is relevant  to this complaint. This says that when Mr S got 
the caravan, the supplier had a responsibility to make sure it was of satisfactory  quality. 
Satisfactory quality is what  a reasonable person would  expect  taking into account  things  
like the caravans age, price, description  and other relevant factors.  Ill bear in mind that, as I 
explained above, Im satisfied  the caravan was new.
As the caravan was brand  new, I think a reasonable person wouldve expected it to be in 
mint condition and free from even minor defects.
In this case, Mr S, Black Horse, the manufacturer and the independent  inspector all seem in 
agreement that the caravan had an issue when Mr S acquired it. Black Horse offered  a 
repair, so they accept the caravan wasnt of satisfactory quality when Mr S got it. 
For the purpose of clarity, its worth pointing  out that after looking at the evidence  on this 
case, I think its clear there  was a failed repair attempted at the factory  before Mr S got the 
Ref: DRN66342703caravan. Thinking about this, Im satisfied this means the caravan wasnt of satisfactory 
quality when Mr S acquired it.
So, what  I need to consider is whether Black  Horses  offer to put things right is fair. 
Under the CRA, Mr S has a right to ask for a repair if the goods supplied  werent of 
satisfactory quality. If after the repair, the goods  still dont conform  to the contract he can 
then elect to request  a different remedy  such as a replacement, price reduction or 
rejection.
In this case, Im happy a repair has already been  carried out. The CRA says that in 
appropriate cases, freedom from minor defects should be part of considering satisfactory  
quality. But, shortly after he got the caravan, it needed repairs carrying out to a speaker and 
a leaking sink. Im satisfied these issues meant the caravan  wasnt of satisfactory quality 
when it was supplied.
Ive thought about the extent of the repairs now required  the independent inspector said 
The repairs previously undertaken  are not to a satisfactory standard and the caravan will 
require a substantial  amount of repairs to be done to put the caravan in to a condition that 
would be acceptable  and commensurate  with its age.. Given a repair has already been  
carried out, I dont  think its reasonable to allow another repair against  Mr Ss wishes. 
The caravan  is now around two years old, so I dont think  a direct replacement is practical. 
Ive also considered a price reduction. But, the repairs  required  are significant and I think  
further damage may have been  caused  by the damp. So, I think  the fairest thing to do under  
all the circumstances  would be to allow Mr S to reject the caravan.
When thinking of how to put things  right I need to bear in mind Mr S repaid the borrowing 
early. And far as Im aware, Mr S still used the caravan until June 2019. 
Mr S repaid  the borrowing  early, so working out how to put things right is not straightforward  
in this case. Ive considered what I think to be fair and reasonable. I think its reasonable that 
Mr S should  pay for the usage of the caravan he had  up to the point it became unusable 
due to the water ingress. I believe Mr S wouldve made around 20 repayments  towards  the 
finance, had he not paid it off early, for the time he had use of the caravan. Normally, I would 
consider it reasonable for a finance company to retain one months repayment per month of 
usage. So, I think its reasonable  that Black Horse  retains this amount of £1,407. 
Ive considered that in this case Mr S paid a much larger deposit than normal. So, Ive 
thought about whether it would be reasonable to allow Black  Horse to retain more than  
figure above. But, Im satisfied Mr S has suffered distress and inconvenience because  of 
what happened. Finding  out about the issue with the caravan  must have been stressful. Hes 
been without the caravan at times when its been  inspected. He had to return the caravan to 
the dealer. And, his most  recent  holiday in the caravan was spoiled by water coming into the 
bedroom. So, to keep things simple, I wont award  Mr S a separate  amount to reflect  this 
distress and inconvenience - as I believe  this is reflected by the lower  amount Black Horse is 
retaining. 
Finally, Mr S has provided an invoice for a recent service for £370. Mr S says he had to get 
this done to comply  with the warranty and this was incurred  after the caravan became 
unusable. I dont  believe he wouldve  had to pay out for this had Black  Horse allowed him to 
reject the caravan. So, I think its fair he gets this back.
Ref: DRN66342704I gave Mr S and Black  Horse  two weeks to come back with any further comments  or 
evidence for me to consider.  Mr S replied and said he was happy with the decision. 
Black Horse  replied and said it didnt initially receive my decision. So, I said Id consider 
anything it provided  within two weeks of when it said it did receive the decision. It didnt 
respond further.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I still think this complaint 
should be upheld,  for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision set out above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I instruct Black  Horse Limited to put things 
right by doing the following:
Collect the caravan  at a time and date suitable  to Mr S.
Return Mr Ss deposit of £19,000*
Refund any repayment made  towards  the finance agreement  since Mr S had repaid a 
total of £1,407*
Reimburse the servicing charge of £370 from 14 September 2019*
Remove any negative  information about the agreement from Mr Ss credit file
*These repayments  should have 8% simple interest  added from the time of payment to the 
time of reimbursement. HM Revenue & Customs requires Black  Horse to take off tax from 
this interest. Black  Horse  must give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if 
he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6634270