K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that National Westminster Bank  Plc (NatWest)  mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a mortgage with NatWest in 1996. At the same time they were  sold a 
PPI policy  which covered Mr W. It would have paid their mortgage and provided an 
additional sum for up to 12 months at a time if he hadnt been able to work  due to an 
accident, sickness or redundancy.
Mr and Mrs W say they have  no recollection  of the sale and that it wasnt  fully explained  to 
them. They say if it had been explained  properly they wouldnt have bought it.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs W 
disagree, so their complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs 
Ws complaint. Ill explain why Ive reached  this decision. 
Its over 23 years since Mr and Mrs W took out the mortgage and PPI, so its not surprising 
that neither party has a complete set of the documents  from the sale.  NatWest  says Mr and 
Mrs W would  have been given a choice about  taking the PPI. Mr and Mrs W say theyre not 
sure if they were given  a choice. NatWest has provided a copy of the mortgage offer sent to 
Mr and Mrs W. This mentions that Mr and Mrs W have taken PPI, but its not part of the 
conditions of the mortgage. Mr and Mrs W also completed a separate  direct debit mandate  
for the PPI, so I think  this indicates the PPI was separate to the mortgage. If they hadnt 
agreed to buy it, I think theyd have queried  it when the payments went  out.
I also have considered that Mr and Mrs W took cover  far in excess of their monthly mortgage 
payments. If the PPI had been  compulsory  and they hadnt actually wanted it I think they 
wouldnt have bought more cover than the minimum to cover  their mortgage repayments. 
On the limited information I have available to me I cant fairly say that Mr and Mrs W didnt 
agree to buy the PPI or that they didnt know they had a choice about it.
NatWest didnt give Mr and Mrs W advice or a personal recommendation about buying  the 
PPI, so it didnt have to take any steps to make sure it was right for them.  But it did need  to 
make sure they received all the information  they needed to make their own decision. I think  
its likely  Mr and Mrs W didnt receive  this, because they werent sent the full policy  
document until after theyd agreed  to buy it. 
Ive looked at Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances  at the time to see if this missing  information 
would have made a difference  to their decision to buy the policy.  I dont think it would  have 
made a difference, because the policy was suitable for them. I say this because:
Ref: DRN64226382Mr W, whom the policy covered, was eligible for the cover  and wouldnt  have  been  
affected by any of the terms which might have made it more difficult  for him to make  
a successful claim, such as those  related  to existing  medical conditions  or self-
employment. Although  Mr W suffered from high blood pressure the policy  didnt 
exclude conditions  which  may have arisen later as a result. So I dont think  if hed 
understood this that it would have put him off buying  the policy;
Mr W had good sick pay from his employer,  but the policy  would have paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for longer than his full sick pay would have lasted. I 
think Mr and Mrs W would have at least understood the principle that the policy was 
intended to pay out if Mr W couldnt work. So if they felt that they had sufficient 
resources to manage without the PPI, that was up to them to decide;
Mr W would have likely received  redundancy pay from his employer. But again, the 
policy would have  paid out in addition to this. Mr and Mrs W didnt have any savings,  
so the policy  would  have meant that the redundancy pay could have covered other 
uninsured expenses.  And it was up to them to decide if they had enough cover from 
other resources;
The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on the market  around 
the same  time. It was flexible as it could be cancelled or amended  at any time without  
a financial penalty. 
On balance, if Mr and Mrs W had all the information  they needed at the time they made their 
decision to buy the PPI I dont think theyd have  acted differently. So I dont think  they lost 
out as a result of anything NatWest did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  so it follows that National Westminster Bank Plc 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 April 2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6422638