K821x#15complaint
Mr Cs complaint is about a claim he made under his Liverpool Victoria  Insurance  Company 
Limited (LV) home insurance policy. He is unhappy  that the claim for subsidence damage to 
his conservatory  has been declined because LV believes the foundations are inadequate.
background
Mr C bought his home  in 2001 and at that time there  was an existing conservatory attached 
to the rear of the property. He believes it may have been installed as early as the late 1980s 
and had certainly been there for some years when  he moved  in. In 2006 Mr C had the UPVC 
elements of the conservatory replaced,  but the foundations and brick walls  werent  replaced.
In August  2018  Mr C discovered cracks in the walls of the conservatory and made a claim to 
LV. It arranged for the conservatory to be inspected and some  investigations  to be 
completed. 
A loss adjuster  assessed the damage to the conservatory. It was noted the brickwork and 
frame of the conservatory was pulling away from the floor. There was distortion of the door 
opening and a diagonal crack at the window opening. One window  in the conservatory had 
cracked. It was concluded that the pattern and nature  of the cracks  was indicative of an 
episode of subsidence and that this was probably due to clay shrinkage. It was noted  there  
were several very large trees in the neighbours garden three of which  were  quite close to 
the conservatory. It was also commented on that the soil type in the area was London Clay, 
which has a high shrink/swell potential. Site investigations were arranged.
The site investigations  consisted of a trial pit of approximately 30cm square and deep  being 
dug and a borehole sample being  taken within the pit. This identified  that the conservatory  
foundation consisted of a 4cm steel plate  with 3cm of concrete above it. Below that level 
there was 23 cm of made ground  (soil imported to the site, usually for levelling purposes). 
Thereafter the underlying soil was orange brown silty clay, which contained roots  from the 
nearby conifers  and laurel. The plasticity index of the clay doesnt appear to have been 
tested as would usually be the case. 
LV declined the claim. In explained that site conditions,  including  things like the nature of the 
underlying soil and any trees  or shrubs  in the vicinity  should have been taken into account 
when the foundations of the conservatory were designed. It said the soil type meant that the 
foundations should have  been at least 1m deep and the nearby trees  would have meant 
they should have been even deeper. In light of the depth of the foundation that was present, 
it decided the foundations  were  inadequate and so the claim was defeated by the exclusion 
within the policy for faulty design, materials or workmanship.
Mr C complained to LV, but it didnt change  its mind. As such,  the complaint was referred  to 
this service where one of our investigators considered the complaint and proposed  to uphold  
it.
LV didnt accept  the investigators  findings.  It said that when the conservatory  had been 
replaced in 2006 the builders should have followed NHBC  guidelines.  It also provided 
evidence that the neighbours trees had been  very large  in 2008, and so put forward  that 
their presence could not have been  unknown in 2006 when the new conservatory was built.  
It said when the trees were taken into account;  the foundations should have been 2.5m 
deep. It went on to explain that due to how substantial  the foundations would have needed 
Ref: DRN61566792to be, it would likely have required a foundation designed by an engineer and would most 
probably have  included internal piling or something along similar lines.  It stated  that the 
foundation depth would  have needed to be below the depth  where  roots and soil desiccation 
were found.  If this had been the case,  the movement would not have occurred.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed to me for consideration. I 
issued a provisional decision on 18 February  2020.  In that decision I set out my conclusions 
and reasons for reaching them. Below  is an excerpt.
LV is correct that even  for structures that dont require planning permission,  suitable  
foundations should be installed. That would  mean  taking into account risk factors that 
were known of at the time and considered a risk at the time. However, standards  in 
construction have  changed over time with increased knowledge about risks, ground 
conditions, changes in building  materials, building methods and environmental  factors.  It 
is not appropriate for an insurer to expect current standards from a build designed 
before those standards existed. The standards from the time of the build must be 
applied to determine whether it was adequate or not. 
That said,  the foundations exposed by the trial pit beneath the walls of the conservatory 
were very shallow  only 7cm deep. If that foundation were a traditional  strip foundation 
then I dont think there could be any argument that it was too shallow. In fact, it would  be 
the shallowest foundation I have seen  when dealing with many  such cases. However, 
the foundation very clearly isnt a strip foundation. Such foundations are made  of 
concrete, whereas Mr Cs foundation involves a thick steel plate as the base layer. 
I have also noted  LVs comment that given the site conditions  an engineered solution  
would need to be considered. However,  despite  the foundations of Mr Cs conservatory  
clearly not being  traditional strip foundations, it didnt investigate the actual nature of the 
foundations further. Nor does LV appear  to have considered the possibility the very 
unusual foundation format was actually  an engineered solution to take account of the 
potentially very adverse  ground conditions being  built on. 
In explanation of my last comment, I am referring  to the layer of made ground 
immediately beneath  the foundation and the London clay beneath that. Made ground is 
soil brought to a building site, usually for levelling  purposes. The soil is compacted to 
some degree and the stability  and load-bearing capacity of made  ground  can vary 
considerably. London  clay is very susceptible to shrinkage in periods of dry weather, 
especially when there are nearby trees. So the ground conditions  at Mr Cs home  are 
potentially challenging.  
The fact that the base  layer of the foundation  is a steel plate may well indicate the 
conservatory was built on a raft. Raft foundations are used to spread the load of a 
building when the soil beneath has poor load-bearing capacity. As such, a raft 
foundation would not seem out of place in the circumstances. I note that LV has said 
that internal piling may well have been necessary  to provide a stable foundation. Without 
any further investigations it isnt possible to know whether  such an arrangement was in 
place.
I have now to consider  the remaining facts available to me. Mr C isnt sure when the 
foundations and base of his conservatory was built, but believes it could  have been  built 
as far back  as the late 1980s. Whilst LV has focused  on the fact the UPVC part of the 
conservatory structure was replaced  in 2006, the parts of the construction that matter in 
Ref: DRN61566793the assessment  of adequacy were built 10 to 20 years  before that. LV has provided  no 
evidence of what good building practice  was circa  20 years ago.
During the period the base of the conservatory  has stood there have been many years 
where there  were spikes in clay shrinkage  subsidence claims; yet Mr Cs conservatory 
wasnt by all accounts affected. LV has evidenced  the trees likely to be to blame for the 
clay desiccation have  been there for a long period and were not much smaller  10 years 
before the claim. So it is likely they were large  trees throughout a significant  part of the 
conservatorys lifespan and during years where  subsidence was generally a problem. So 
despite what appear to be very shallow foundations and site conditions,  2018 was the 
first time there was any movement to Mr Cs conservatory. This may again indicate  an 
engineered foundation was in place.
Overall, LV has not persuaded me that the foundations of Mr Cs conservatory were  
inadequate when  it was built. It believes that an engineered  foundation  would have  been  
needed and I think the evidence would  indicate  that may well be what is present. 
Certainly the fact that the conservatory has not moved  in 20 or more years despite  
having incredibly  shallow foundations and being  built on London Clay,  would  lead me to 
the conclusion  the foundations were adequate and it was the extreme weather in 2018  
that was the dominant cause.
For completeness I would like to comment on something LV has said. It has said that the 
foundations for the conservatory  should  have reached below the level of any tree roots 
or desiccation. LV has confirmed throughout its submissions that it has taken  into 
account guidance from a provider of building warranties. However, that provider, when 
discussing foundation  depths has stated: The depths are not those at which  root 
activity, desiccation and ground movement are non-existent, but they are intended to 
provide an acceptable level of risk. So I am not persuaded  LVs comment provides an 
accurate reflection of recent good  practice or industry guidance.
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments from the outset to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. As no further  evidence  was 
provided and both parties accepted my decision,  I see no reason  to depart from the 
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and in full and final settlement I require LV to reconsider this claim 
without applying the exclusion for faulty design/workmanship. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept  or reject my decision 
before 18 April 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6156679