K821x#15complaint
Mr M says that Glyn Hopkin Ltd (Glyn Hopkin)  mis-sold him a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in connection  with a car purchase.
background
In 2006 Mr M bought  a car through Glyn Hopkin. At the same time he was sold a PPI policy 
to protect  his car loan repayments.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. She didnt think the policy was a 
suitable recommendation because she thought  Mr M would have difficulty  making  a 
successful unemployment  claim and on this basis the policy  shouldnt  have been 
recommended. 
Glyn Hopkin disagreed. So the complaint  has come  to me for a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms complaint.
Ive decided to uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Glyn Hopkin have  provided a sample  of its demands and needs statement and terms of 
business documents from the time of the sale of Mr Ms policy.  I can see on the demands 
and needs statement there is a section  for additional information supporting a 
recommendation. And I can see on the terms of business in the paragraph  titled  Our 
Service to You it says:
 Our service includes: advising you on your insurance needs; arranging  your insurance 
cover with insurers to meet your requirements;.
So I think Glyn Hopkin  advised Mr M to buy the policy. This means that Glyn Hopkin had to 
make sure the policy was suitable for him.
I dont think the policy  was suitable  for Mr M because I dont think  he wouldve been  able to 
successfully claim  on the policy for unemployment.  
The policy terms and conditions say in order to be able to claim for unemployment that the 
person insured has to be in full time employment. Full time employment is defined  as:
actively working for remuneration for an employerunder  a contract of employment which 
has no specific or implied termination  datesuch  work not being  of a temporary or casual 
nature. 
At the time of sale of the sale Ive seen evidence to show that Mr M was employed as a 
contractor working for an agency. Based on this and from what  Mr M has told us about the 
type of work he did I dont  think this falls into the definition of full time employment. 
Ref: DRN64464682So I dont  think Mr M wouldve been  able to make a successful  claim for unemployment  
cover because at the time of sale Mr M was an agency worker  taking on temporary contracts  
and not in permanent work. As this was an advised  sale the sales advisor shouldve checked 
that Mr M wouldve been able to benefit from the whole  policy.  
If the sales advisor had properly assessed Mr Ms employment situation they wouldve 
realised that Mr M couldnt  make  a successful claim for unemployment and shouldve 
advised him of this.
I think if Mr M had understood this he wouldnt have taken the policy as he would be paying 
for something he wouldnt be able to get the full benefit from.  It follows that I uphold Mr Ms 
complaint. 
what Glyn  Hopkin should do to put things right
Mr M borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so his loan was bigger than it shouldve  been and he 
paid more than he shouldve each month.  So Mr M needs to get back  the extra hes paid. 
So, Glyn Hopkin should:
Work  out and pay Mr M the difference between what  he paid each month  on the loan 
and what he wouldve paid each month without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr M paid each month  from when he paid it until 
he gets it back. The rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from 
then on.
If Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Glyn Hopkin can take off what he 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes him.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Glyn Hopkin to take off tax from this interest. 
Glyn Hopkin must give Mr M a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mr Ms complaint against Glyn Hopkin  Ltd and direct 
they pay the fair compensation outlined above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6446468