K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains  Link Financial Outsourcing Limited (Link Financial) is pursuing him for a 
student loan, which is no longer payable  under  the original terms of the agreement.
background
Mr P had a student loan,  which  was sold by the government in 1997; and administration of 
the account was transferred to Link Financial in 2016. He says in 2000 he received forms 
from the Student Loan Company (SLC) that enabled him to defer  the repayment of the loan 
as he was earning below the minimum amount. He said he then received  forms in 2001 and 
2002, which he completed and returned,  as he remained exempt.  But, in 2003, he was 
contacted by the SLC as no payments had been made. He said he explained he did not 
receive the forms and the SLC refused to supply any further forms. The case was taken  to 
court in 2004  and dismissed and a repayment  plan of £5.00  a month was agreed with Mr P 
and the SLC.
Mr P continued to make his monthly  payments until around 2014 when payments ceased.  
He says Link Financial  has never  asked  him about  his financial situation nor did they supply 
deferred payment  forms. It has also registered  defaults on his credit file. Mr P doesnt  
believe, student loans can be registered  as ordinary loans for default,  and thinks  Link 
Financial are acting outside  its remit and the loan in question  should be statue barred.
In its final response,  Link Financial didnt uphold Mr Ps complaint. It said Mr P failed to 
adhere to the terms and conditions of his agreement, which  he was required to pay in full in 
2004, when the 60-month repayment term applicable to his agreement expired. It also said 
although Mr P is now over 60 years of age, he has lost the right for his account to be 
cancelled, under section 8 of his agreement  that means he is required to repay the 
outstanding balance. It went onto say that although the full balance is due it doesnt expect 
Mr P to pay the balance  in a single payment. It said it is willing to agree a payment 
arrangement based on Mr Ps financial circumstances.
Mr P remained dissatisfied with this response. He maintains he completed  and returned  
deferment forms, as and when they were sent to him. This is because he has always  earned 
under the qualifying threshold.  He feels the original  payment arrangement for £5.00 per 
month was set up under false pretences following a court dismissing his case. He also feels  
strongly that as he is over 60 years of age, under  the original  terms of the agreement, the 
agreement should  be terminated.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr P. She explained  an ombudsman had made a 
decision about what this service could and couldnt  look into. Prior to April 2007, this service  
couldnt look into the type of loan Mr P has complained about and so she could only address 
any issues after this date.  She couldnt see any evidence of a deferment and explained that 
Link Financial isnt involved in the administration of the deferment  process.  She looked at the 
terms and conditions of the agreement and found that Mr P was required to have repaid the 
loan by 2004. As this hadnt  happened  Link Financial were appointed  to collect the 
outstanding balance. She found it to have acted  fairly and reasonably  and although she 
understood Mr Ps felt strongly the recovery of the balance  after age 60 was very unfair, she  
found Link Financial  were acting within the terms and conditions of the agreement and didnt 
ask it to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN69033942Mr P disagreed. He says the investigator has failed to address a number of significant 
points. These include:
1. A failure to check  the court records which prove a ruling  in my favour. The records  also 
show that the SLC accepted that they accept postal  forms, yet never  sent any, and that the 
agreement falls into student loan government terms.
2. He doesnt think Link Financial was asked  if they considered there was a default how and 
when that default first occurred.
3. He doesnt think the investigator asked why they considered it inappropriate or not 
possible to send out further forms.
4. He doesnt think the investigator looked into where or why the payment arrangement of 
£50 per month was agreed and if so under what terms.
5. He doesnt think the investigator asked who represented student loans at court and what 
records they have.
Our investigator looked into Mr Ps additional concerns and issued a second view 
addressing them. In summary,  she explained that most of the points Mr P had raised  were  
regarding the court action taken in 2004. As this was prior to April 2007, it was not 
something she could  look into or comment upon.  She also explained that whilst  she 
understood Mr P felt strongly the terms of the original  agreement should apply unfortunately 
because the agreed payment arrangement had fallen into arrears,  Mr P had breached the 
terms and conditions of the agreement and as such he had forfeit his right to both deferment  
and cancellation  on attainment  of 60 years of age. 
Mr P disagreed. He remained of the view the investigator has misinterpreted and ignored 
certain points. He asked  for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive looked at all the information from both 
parties afresh. Having  done so, Ive reached  the same  conclusion as our investigator.  I know  
this will disappoint Mr P so please  allow me to explain  why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities. That is to say, what I think  is more 
likely to have happened. 
Ive also read and considered all the available information, but Ill concentrate my comments  
on what I think is relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because  Ive failed 
to take it on board and think about  it but because I dont think  I need to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
I understand Mr P feel aggrieved and frustrated  that the court action regarding his student  
loan and the events that followed in 2004 are hugely  relevant  to his complaint. He says he 
feels these havent  properly considered and taken into account.  
Ref: DRN69033943Its important to say at the outset that another ombudsman had already considered and 
reached a final decision  on what this service can look into in terms of Mr Ps complaint.
In that decision  it was decided that as student  loans  only fell under consumer credit 
jurisdiction in April 2007, this service can only consider  events following that date. It was also 
decided that Mr Ps complaint was about  Link Financial administration  of his loan, as he 
feels the terms of the original agreement havent been honoured, in particular, the terms and 
conditions around  the threshold  of earnings and the terms relating to his age. He also feels  
his agreement to pay £5 per month to original lender hasnt  been  honoured. So for clarity,  I 
will be only be looking  at whether Link Financial  have been fair and reasonable in the 
administration of Mr Ps student loan and Im not able to comment  on any of the events prior 
to April 2007.
Originally, Mr P signed an agreement  under  which he was due to repay his loan over a 
period of 60 months. Deferment of this type of loan is only granted if the customer satisfies 
the SLC that their total gross income  does not exceed a sum prescribed by the relevant 
regulations. The Department for Education sets the deferment threshold annually. Link 
Financial has explained that it has no influence over this process  and is only informed by 
the SLC if the borrower has made a satisfactory deferment claim. So, I cant  fairly hold Link 
Financial responsible for any issues regarding the deferment of the student loan as it has 
no influence on the deferment of the loan.
I can see when Link Financial wrote  to Mr P in 2016  to explain it had been appointed to 
continue collection,  it enclosed a copy of the agreement and along  with statements, which 
showed Mr Ps account, was in arrears. Although there had been a payment arrangement 
for £5 per month, the last payment was received on 20 October 2014. So, at this point  the 
arrangement Mr P agreed to had been broken and importantly this also means the terms 
and conditions of the agreement had been breached. Ive carefully considered  the 
communication log from Link Financial. I can see that it tried on numerous occasions,  
following its appointment to recover the balance, to contact Mr P without success until 
October 2018. From what Ive seen, I am satisfied that Link Financial has been correctly  
appointed to recover  an outstanding debt and I havent seen  anything  to suggest it has 
acted unfairly in attempting collection of that debt. 
I appreciate Mr P feels the original terms of the agreement should stand, but, unfortunately 
as Mr P has breached the terms of the agreement by failing to make the repayments in 
accordance with the terms  and conditions, he forfeits the right to cancellation of the 
agreement and so Im satisfied, based  on what Ive seen, that Mr P remains liable for the 
outstanding balance. As Link Financial  has said it will take into account Mr Ps financial 
circumstances and agree a reasonable payment  arrangement, I cant fairly  ask it to do 
anything further.
I know my decision will be disappointing for Mr P but I can only suggest he provide  Link 
Financial with details  of his financial circumstances to reach a satisfactory payment 
arrangement. If he requires support to help him do this there are a number of free debt 
advice charities who can assist him.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN69033944Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6903394