K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained that HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him a Advance  packaged 
bank account  in 2010. 
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at Mr Ds complaint and didnt think  HSBC had mis-sold the 
Advance account. Mr D disagreed and asked  for an ombudsman to look at his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Ds complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive seen, Im not upholding  Mr Ds complaint. Id 
like to explain the reasons for my decision in more  detail.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr D was given a clear choice in taking this account.  At this 
point, it may also help for me to explain that I have to make  my decision based  on what I 
think is more likely  than not to have happened. When the parties  to a complaint disagree 
about what happened (such as here) and theres a lack of evidence from the time, I have to 
think about what I have  been provided  with, what I do know and the wider  circumstances  at 
the time.  In other words,  what l have  to do, in this case, is decide  what I think  is more likely 
than not to have  happened having  weighed up what both Mr D and HSBC  have been able to 
provide me with.  
  
Mr D upgraded to the Advance account  from a free one. So I think  Mr D wouldve known 
HSBC did free accounts. Mr Ds says he was told taking the account would enable him to get 
a loan. But he was turned down for a loan when he applied for one 18 months  later. I dont 
know what Mr D was told at the time.  But I do think its unlikely that he wouldve kept the 
Advance account once hed been unsuccessful  in obtaining a loan, if hed been  misled in the 
way hes suggested.  So overall I think its more likely than not that Mr D agreed to upgrade  
to the Advance account after he was provided  with a fair choice on doing so. 
HSBC says the account was sold in branch during a period of time when it didnt generally 
provide recommendations to consumers. So it doesnt think the Advance  account was 
recommended. Equally  I havent seen anything  to suggest that HSBC assessed Mr Ds 
circumstances before selling the Advance account  to him, which  it what shouldve happened  
before any recommendation took place.  So overall  having weighed up everything Ive been  
provided with, I dont think that HSBC recommended the Advance account to Mr D. 
This means  HSBC didnt  have to check whether the Advance account was right for Mr D. 
And it was up to Mr D to do this for himself. I think its likely Mr D wouldve been told about  
most, if not all, of the benefits on the account in order to make  it appear as attractive as 
possible. After  all HSBC  was trying to persuade  him to take a fee paying account  when he 
most likely knew  he didnt  have to. And the best way to do this wouldve been  by telling him 
about what hed get for the monthly fee. Indeed  the application form Mr D signed authorising  
the upgrade does set out the headline benefits of the account.  
Ref: DRN69058862When Mr D was sold the Advance account  the main benefits it included were  preferential 
borrowing rates, fee free overseas cash withdrawals, travel  insurance and breakdown  cover. 
Having looked  at the information provided, Ive seen no reason to believe that Mr D couldnt  
have used these  benefits. And it was up to him to do so.
I accept Mr D might not have been  told absolutely everything he needed to know  about the 
ins and outs of the benefits.  But as I havent  seen anything to suggest that Mr D wouldve 
been affected by any of the main exclusions or limitations on the benefits, I cant  say that 
being told this information wouldve stopped him taking the account in the first place.
 
Overall I think  that Mr D did use some of the benefits included on the Advance  account  
such as the preferential overdraft rates and he was eligible for and couldve benefitted from 
some of the others  too. Given  all of this I think Mr D was told enough to know what he was 
agreeing to. 
Mr D may now believe  he didnt benefit as much  hed initially  hoped  and expected to. And 
given what he mayve  since read and heard about  packaged accounts,  I can understand why 
he may believe his account  was mis-sold  especially  as he never applied for a mortgage. 
But I think he chose to take the account  while having a decent understanding of what it 
included. So I want to reassure Mr D that having  looked at everything provided and thought 
about what hes said, I dont think that his packaged account was mis-sold. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6905886