K821x#15complaint
Mr P says Evergreen Finance London  Limited, (Evergreen), irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about 2 instalment loans Evergreen provided to Mr P in 2016 and 2017. 
Mr Ps borrowing  history  is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate Repaid No. of
InstalmentsAmount Max Repayment
Approx.
Interest
Paid
1 01/08/2016 21/10/2016 3 £350.00
£161.00 £133
2 14/02/2017 13/04/2017 6 £1,000.00
£268.74 £319
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ps complaint and thought that Evergreen  shouldnt have given 
Mr P either of the loans. Evergreen  disagreed  and said that it had undertaken proportionate 
checks before each loan.  And that it was unrealistic for an underwriter to review each line of 
a credit file prior to lending, especially in the early stages of the relationship. 
As Evergreen disagreed the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Evergreen needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr P 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Evergreen should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
Ref: DRN66930012I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Evergreen was required to establish 
whether Mr P could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ps complaint. And in the circumstances of this 
complaint I dont disagree with Evergreen that it undertook proportionate checks  before 
giving Mr P the first loan - one of these was to obtain a credit  check on him. However, I do 
find that, having obtained this information, it was up to Evergreen at least  to broadly review 
its main contents, if not necessarily considering  every line. And I agree with our adjudicator 
that had it done so Evergreen would have seen  that Mr P was having trouble managing his 
money. He had at least three existing outstanding short-term loans, as well as two 
delinquent mail order accounts. And as a result  Evergreen shouldnt have made the first 
loan.
Mr P applied for the second loan only four months after paying off the first one. And it was 
for more than three times  the previous amount. As was the case  with the first loan, I think 
that Evergreen undertook proportionate  checks before giving this loan;  these included  a 
credit check.  And again I find that it at least ought  to have  broadly reviewed the main  
contents of this check. Had it done  so it would have  seen  that Mr P was still having  trouble 
managing his money. The credit check carried out by Evergreen before giving him the first 
loan showed 17 active accounts and over £10,000  of debt and that he was at 88% of his 
credit limits. Whereas  the second check undertaken showed he now had almost £30,000 of 
debt, that is to say almost  three times more than at the time of the first loan. And he now had 
22 active accounts and was at 95% of his credit  limits. He had defaulted on two accounts,  
missed payments on others and was in a debt management plan for another  loan. Taking  all 
this into account  Im satisfied that Evergreen couldnt have reasonable concluded that this 
showed that Mr P had got his finances under control since  the first loan. And again  it 
shouldnt have made the loan.
putting things right  what Evergreen needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr P paid on both loans one and two;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans one and two from Mr Ps credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen to take off tax from this interest. Evergreen 
must give Mr P a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN66930013my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my decision is that Im upholding Mr Ps complaint. Evergreen 
Finance London  Limited should pay Mr P compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 June  2020
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6693001