K821x#15complaint
Mrs Js complaint is about the handling  of a claim under her central  heating  insurance policy
with Amtrust Europe Limited.
Amtrust uses  agents to handle claims on its behalf.  Any reference to Amtrust in this decision
should be read as including  things  said and done on its behalf  by those agents.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in April 2010, part of which is copied below: 
On 19 January  2019, Mrs J made  a claim under  her policy, as her boiler was not working.
Assurant sent a contractor to look at Mrs Js boiler  the same  day. He said that the pump  was
faulty and would need to be replaced. It was arranged  that this would be fitted on 21 January
2019 and she would  be contacted with an appointment time.
Mrs J says she didnt hear anything from Amtrust, so she called  the contractor who said the
pump would be fitted on 22 January 2019 between 8am and 5pmthe faulty pump  was 
replaced and the boiler was left working. However,  shortly after the engineer left, Mrs Js 
boiler stopped  providing hot water.
Mrs J said she called  the contractors direct but it wouldnt send out another engineer, as the
previous job had been closed. They told her she would have to lodge another claim with
Amtrust. Mrs J contacted Amtrust who confirmed the contractors would come back out. They
attended the same day, but the engineer was unable to find any faults. Mrs J contacted
Amtrust again later, as she was unable to get heating or hot water after the engineer  left.
Another engineer  came  out on 26 January 2019.  He diagnosed that the problem was with
the printed circuit board [PCB], which he said he could replace two days  later. In the 
meantime, he said the boiler was providing heat and hot water. This appointment was then 
put back to 2 February and then 6 February  2019. The printed circuit  board was replaced on 
6 February 2019  and I understand that finally resolved the problems with the boiler.
Mrs J is very unhappy that the repairs took so long and the appointments kept being
changed. She had told Amtrust that she has a medical condition affected  by the cold, and so
she needed the boiler to be fixed sooner. Mrs J says Amtrust didnt offer her any alternative
heating; she had no hot water and incurred additional costs  in using electric heaters. Mrs J
has asked for £2,000  compensation for the trouble caused to her and her family  by this.
Amtrust said it apologised for the delay in fixing Mrs Js boiler and offered £65.76  (i.e. two
months premiums)  as a gesture of goodwill.
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He did not think  it should be upheld  as he
thought Amtrust had overall acted reasonably and tried to repair the boiler  as quickly as it
could; and as the boiler  was working   so Mrs J had heating and hot water  during this time,
he didnt think that any further compensation was warranted.  The investigator also said the
policy doesnt provide cover  for the cost of alternative sources of heating  while  a boiler is
awaiting repair, so he didnt think Amtrust had acted unreasonably in not offering to provide
Mrs J with electric  heaters.
Mrs J doesnt accept  the investigators  assessment,  so the matter has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN68402972Mrs J has made a number of points, which Ive summarised below:
The investigator said hed taken account  of letters sent to her but, other than the final
response letter, she didnt  receive any. If there  were  any other letters  they should be
disclosed, otherwise  this makes the process  one sided and unfair.
Why were  these  letters, the visit reports and internal contact notes not disclosed  to
her for her comments  and to check their accuracy, before the investigator issued her
findings.
Without her input the investigator cannot have carefully  reviewed  this evidence and
the investigator has failed to properly understand the complaint. Mrs J was unhappy
because Amtrust took extensive time to fix the boiler  and the way and manner it was
fixed. The complaint was raised as result  of this.
Amtrust may have  been short of engineers but shed paid for a service and she
should not be punished for Amtrusts shortcomings. She has not received the service
that shes entitled to under the Consumer Rights Act.
She made a recording of the pilot light flickering,  not firing  up and shutting down,
because there was no other way to prove to the engineer there was still a fault with
the boiler, which he was then able to diagnose as being with the PCB.
The PCB was available  the day after he diagnosed this as the problem but couldnt
be fitted for a week because of a shortage of engineers.
If the PCB was faulty then how can the boiler  have been  working? The boiler cannot
work without  this. The investigator has relied  on the lies of the engineer to save his
skin and that of his firm he worked  for.
We should ask for recordings/transcripts of the telephone conversations she had with
Amtrust, as the notes  disclosed to us are inaccurate.
The boiler was not working which is why she was calling  Amtrust every day to get 
the appointment to fit the new PCB installed as soon as possible.
Amtrust should have  been proactive to resolve the fault much  earlier  during the week
than having to wait until the weekend the change  the part when the part was at their
disposal much  sooner.
The investigator didnt  mention  the offer of compensation  from Amtrust  which  clearly
show it admits  liability.
The investigator is biased and his assessment is flawed.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  passed to me. In the
meantime, Mrs J has been  provided  with copies of all the correspondence and documents
that have been provided  to us by Amtrust.  Mrs J says Amtrust  was less than transparent and
did not provide  copies  of all the emails exchange  between her and Amtrust which set out the
timeline of events. This was provided on the file but as Mrs J was already  in possession of
these, they were not sent to her again.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no dispute as to the basic fact that it took from 19 January to 6 February 2019 to fix
the boiler  i.e.  18 days altogether. Amtrust has provided job sheets which  confirm  the
following attendances  and actions:
19 January 2019  Attended as boiler not working, needs a new pump.
Ref: DRN6840297322 January 2019  Replaced  the pump and all working  for a short time only.
22 January 2019  Second attendance that day. Boiler  working as normal,  possible air in heat
exchanger.
24 January 2019  No fault found.
26 January 2019  No fault found but watched a video Mrs J had taken of the ignition light and
from which the engineer  said he could tell it was an electrical issue  on the PCB and a leak
from a connector.
6 February 2019  PCB,  air vent,  fan and connector were replaced and the problem was
resolved.
The only difference in this and Mrs Js timeline  is that she didnt say there was a second  visit
on 22 January 2019.
Mrs J and her family were  therefore  without heating and hot water for before the new pump
was installed.  That visit didnt resolve the fault entirely but theres  no convincing evidence
that the replacement of the pump was unreasonable action  to take or that Amtrust  could and
should have known that the PCB and other parts would also need  replacing during that first
attendance or the two subsequent visits. Amtrust  went out again promptly each time Mrs J
let it know there was an issue but the fault was intermittent and therefore  difficult to
diagnose. I am not therefore persuaded that Amtrust  acted unreasonably during this period,
or that it failed to fulfil its obligations  under the policy.
There was then an eleven day delay before the other  new parts were fitted on 6 February
2019, with the appointment  date being  changed  twice. I agree that this would have caused
some inconvenience  and frustration to Mrs J which could have been avoided.
Mrs J says the boiler cant have been working if the PCB was broken and that she was
without heating and hot water for the entire  period and the engineers  have just said the
boiler was working  to cover themselves. However,  I have no reason to doubt what the
engineers have recorded in their job sheets. These are contemporaneous notes  of each visit
and they would have no reason to say there  was no visible fault if in fact the boiler was not
working at all. However, I accept it would still be inconvenient and stressful to have the boiler
stopping intermittently.  If the parts had been  fitted  on 28 January  2019 as originally
scheduled, this would  have meant the boiler was properly fixed  in nine days, which  would
not seem  unreasonable, rather than eighteen  days.
So while I do not agree  that this warrants the level of compensation Mrs J has asked for, I do
not think the amount offered by Amtrust is enough  either. I consider that the sum of £250 is
appropriate and in line with awards  made  in similar  cases. This is to reflect  the 
inconvenience of having the appointments rescheduled and the boiler working intermittently
between 26 January and 6 February 2019.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against Amtrust  Europe Limited and require it to pay Mrs J
the sum of £250 (to include the £65.76 already offered) as compensation for the distress  and
inconvenience caused by its handling of this claim.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. Amtrust  confirms  it accepts my provisional  decision. Mrs J 
Ref: DRN68402974still thinks that the compensation should be higher  but nevertheless  has reluctantly accepted  
my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party has provided any further 
information or arguments and they have  both accepted my provisional decision, I see no 
reason to change  my provisional findings. I therefore  remain  of the opinion that Amtrust 
should pay Mrs J the total sum of £250  as compensation. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against Amtrust  Europe  Limited and require it to pay Mrs J the sum of 
£250 (to include the £65.76 already offered) as compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused by its handling of this claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or
reject my decision  before 7 June 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6840297