K820x#14complaint
Mr G says that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold him payment  protection insurance 
(PPI).
background
In 2002 Mr G took out a Nationwide mortgage along with PPI to protect his mortgage 
monthly repayments. The policy covered Mr G in the event of accident and sickness.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mr G disagrees. He 
mainly says the policy wasnt something  he ever wanted or needed as he had a five figure 
amount of savings. And he told us that if hed known the full limitations of the policy  he 
wouldnt have taken  it out. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. Heres why I say this.
Nationwide hasnt been able to provide any documents to show how the PPI was taken out. 
But that isnt surprising given how long ago this sale happened. Mr G told us he took out the 
PPI during a meeting so I think its likely thats  what happened.  
Ive taken into account everything Mr G has told us about  the way he says Nationwide  sold 
him the PPI. But what Mr G says isnt enough  on its own for me to be able to uphold his 
complaint. It wouldnt be reasonable to expect Mr G to recall exactly  what  was discussed at 
the time.  I have to look at everything  and decide,  on balance, what I think is most  likely.  
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, potentially due to run for a long period of 
time. Mr Gs home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date. 
So, I can see why Mr G mightve  felt PPI was useful  to have.  I can completely understand 
why he mightve forgotten some of the details from the sale. On balance, I think  its likely that 
Mr G decided he wanted to have the benefits and security that PPI offered (especially as it 
was offered free for the first year) and he chose to take the policy. 
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend PPI to Mr G  he says it did. Looking at what this 
service knows  about how Nationwide sold policies in branch at the time, I dont think its 
likely it gave advice or a recommendation about  PPI to Mr G. But Nationwide  still had to 
make sure it told him enough about  the policy for Mr G to be able to decide if he wanted  to 
buy it. I think, broadly  speaking, it did - and where  it mightnt have done, better information 
wouldnt have made a difference. 
Nationwide told us that it doesnt  any longer have a policy document  from the exact date that 
Mr G took out PPI. But it has provided  a policy document which was in use the month  before 
 so I think its likely that in all main respects  the policy that Mr G took out wouldve had 
similar terms and conditions.
Ref: DRN60404332It looks to me like Mr G was eligible for the PPI. The policy wouldve paid out for up to 
12 months per claim in the event of an accident  or illness  that prevented Mr G from working. 
As he was self-employed and he couldnt depend on getting  any pay if he couldnt  work as a 
result of accident or sickness,  I think this couldve been a useful benefit at a difficult time  
also bearing in mind that Mr G mightve  had some  additional  costs if he was too unwell  to go 
back to work  or disabled.  
And Mr G couldve made repeated claims on the policy , giving him long term protection for 
his mortgage.
I dont know if Mr G wouldve always had savings to rely on if hed needed to make  a claim 
as everyones circumstances can change unexpectedly. 
And it looks like he preferred not to spend  savings,  or he had other  plans for that money, 
since he took out this mortgage rather than invest all his savings  in buying the house. Having 
PPI meant Mr G could depend  on being able to continue to keep savings intact to spend on 
other things  or to provide  financial  security  for the future. 
So I think the policy offered Mr G useful benefits given his particular circumstances.
Its possible  some information Nationwide gave Mr G about the policy  wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it appears that he couldve benefitted  from the full extent  of the accident 
and sickness cover hed taken out. So I dont  think that having better information about the 
policys exclusions and limitations is likely  to have put Mr G off taking out the cover he 
chose. 
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr G at the outset. But he couldve cancelled  
the PPI if he hadnt  wanted to start paying to keep  it running at the end of the free period. As 
he also took out some extra benefit  it doesnt look like keeping costs down was a priority for 
him at the time. Taking into account his situation,  I can see why Mr G mightve  valued  the 
benefits that accident and sickness cover offered him. 
Looked at overall, I think it unlikely Mr G wouldve made a different decision about whether 
to take out PPI if better  information had been  provided. On balance, I think  hed still have 
taken it out. 
So I dont  find that Mr G has lost out as a result of anything Nationwide may have done 
wrong. This means it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6040433