K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc closed  his business current account  and made a 
formal demand for him to repay his overdraft which has affected  his credit record.
background 
HSBC wrote to Mr W about its safeguard exercise. It asked him to provide information  
about his business to help it prevent fraud  and financial crime. Mr W did not respond  to 
these letters and HSBC  decided to close his account. Although  he was then in contact with 
HSBC it did not return  his calls. He says he was not told he could make  payments to the 
account to avoid charges. But that HSBC  then wrote to him giving him a limited  period to 
repay the overdraft  balance. And, when he didnt,  it made a formal demand.
Our investigator recommended that HSBC pay Mr W £100 and it agreed to do so. He said 
that: 
-HSBC was entitled to close the account in line with its terms and conditions. Mr Ws 
account was inhibited from 31 October  2018.  
-Mr W made a number  of calls after this date and no one called him back. 
-Hed listened to recordings of the calls and Mr W had not been told by staff at HSBC 
that he couldnt make payments into the account.
-He didnt think that HSBC would have  changed  its decision  about the account  even if 
it had reviewed the position and called Mr W back.
-HSBC should  pay £100 for the poor service.
Mr W did not agree and wanted  his complaint to be reviewed. He accepted  that he could 
have responded  to the initial letters from HSBC. But he thought they were part of a scam.  He 
said HSBC had his email and telephone number and could have tried different  ways of 
contacting him. The closure of the account  is not only inconvenient but is life-changing  for 
him as a sole trader. This has affected his credit rating and he expected better  support from 
HSBC.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive not seen copies of the initial letters Mr W received  about  the safeguard exercise but I am 
familiar with the content. HSBCs process  was to give Mr W a period of time to complete 
information about his business. 
HSBC has a record that it later sent Mr W a letter on 28 August 2018 saying it would be 
closing his account. And Ive seen a copy of its letter  dated  1 October 2018 saying that the 
account would be restricted from 31 October  2018.  That letter explains that any overdraft 
would need to be repaid  before  then. I know Mr W says he did not receive this letter but I 
consider based  on what  HSBC have  provided that it was correctly sent. It is not fairly 
responsible for any problems with the postal  system.
Ref: DRN62628442Im going  to set out the contact HSBC had Mr W after this date as I understand it: 
-Mr W phoned HSBC on 1 November  2018   after his account was restricted. He was 
told that someone would call him back.  That didnt happen. 
-On 17 November 2018 HSBC sent Mr W a letter saying he needed to repay the 
borrowing within 21 days. 
-He made  a further call to HSBC on 22 November 2018 and the person he spoke to 
said she would contact the case manager  as the review  had already gone past the 
deadline. 
-Mr W called again on 27 November 2018.
-HSBC had set up a complaint and wrote to Mr W on 5 December 2018 with its final 
response saying  that the account closure  would stand. He says he did not receive 
that letter.
-Mr W called again on 14 December 2018  after he had received a final demand dated 
10 December 2018. He was then told there was nothing it could do beyond agreeing 
a repayment plan with him. He contacted our service on that day.
-HSBC sent a further final response to his complaint on 18 December 2018 repeating 
its earlier decision and saying that it had not told Mr W he could not make payments 
to his account.
my assessment.
I appreciate that Mr W thought the initial letters were a scam to get information about him 
as he says the quality of printing was poor.  I dont have a copy of those letters.  But sending  
those letters was HSBCs process  for communicating with him about the safeguard  exercise. 
And, as he says in his response to our investigator, he could  have followed this up.
Im not clear why some of the further  letters to him about the account closure  did not reach  
him. But HSBC was entitled to close his account  with the required notice period. And here its 
reason was that he had not complied  with the safeguard review.
Mr W called  after the account  had been restricted.  I think it was going  to be unlikely  then for 
the decision about the account closure to be reversed.  I say that taking  into account HSBCs 
position on the account closure even now it knows all the circumstances. But HSBC at that 
time gave  Mr W the impression it would be looking into this. 
I know he thinks HSBC told him he could not make  payments into the account.  Ive not heard 
staff say that in any of the calls. And its letter about  closure of 1 October  2018  set out that 
the overdraft would need to be repaid. The limit was removed so although Mr W made  a 
payment on 14 December 2018  to bring  the overdrawn balance  within  the past limit of 
£5,000 that would not have been enough to avoid  charges. HSBC  expected  the whole 
balance to be repaid. I dont think  Mr W was in a position to do that  which was the point of 
his contact with HSBC.
The overdraft, which had only been  applied to the account in May 2018, was repayable  on 
demand. And it was transferred to the recoveries team. Id expect HSBC  to act positively and 
sympathetically in discussing Mr Ws repayment proposals and to take account  of his 
circumstances.
But Im afraid my finding  on Mr Ws complaint is that I dont have  a reasonable basis to 
require HSBC to reinstate  the account  and the limit. It made a commercial  decision about 
this and acted  within the terms and conditions.  So that means that I wont  be asking it to 
Ref: DRN62628443change what its reported to credit reference agencies.  I agree with the suggested 
compensation for the poor service here which I know  will be little consolation to Mr W.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require HSBC  UK Bank  Plc to pay, not 
credit, Mr W £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6262844