K820x#14Complaint
Mr Hs complaint is about HSBC UK Bank Plc allowing  a payment to leave his account even 
though he didnt have the funds to cover  it. He says this caused  further  issues on his 
account and led to it being  defaulted. Mr H wants all negative information removed from his 
credit file. 
The details of this complaint are well known  to both parties, so I wont repeat  them  again 
here. Instead Ill focus on giving my reasons for my decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
conclusions reached  by the investigator for these reasons:
Mr H opened an account with HSBC and in doing so he agreed  to its terms and 
conditions. His account didnt  have an arranged overdraft and HSBC  has explained 
that when a payment request is received and there are insufficient funds if may allow 
the account to go overdrawn. This results  in an unarranged overdraft. 
Mr Hs account statements show that he had regular  payments  (including direct 
debits) set up. It was Mr Hs responsibly to manage his account and as he had 
regular outgoings  set up it would be reasonable to expect  him to check  his account to 
ensure he had enough funds to cover these.  
In the early part of 2018, Mr Hs account  went overdrawn on several  occasions.  From  
May 2018 until the account closure  in November 2018, Mr Hs account was in debit. I 
have seen copies  of the letters sent to Mr H in January,  February, April,  June,  July 
and August 2018 telling him the status of his account, the amount  it was overdrawn 
and the charges that will be applied. Given these I think Mr H should have been 
reasonably aware that his account  was going  into unarranged overdraft and the 
consequences of this.
Mr H was sent a letter  dated June 2018, requesting payment be made that day and 
explaining what could  happen if this didnt happen. A further letter requesting 
immediately payment was sent in July 2018 and a letter was sent dated 6 August 
saying his account had been  overdrawn for three months.  Given the letters  I have 
seen that were issued  to Mr H, I find that HSBC kept Mr H informed of the situation 
on his account  and explained the need to make payment. 
A further  letter was sent dated 22 August setting out the need to make  payment and 
the consequences of not doing  so. As payment was not made and his account wasnt  
brought into credit, I find it reasonable that HSBC issued a final demand on 5 
October 2018. Payment still wasnt made, and Mr Hs account was closed. Given  this 
I find that Mr H was provided with the information he needed to be aware of what 
would happen  if he didnt make payment. As payment wasnt made I do not find I can 
say HSBC did anything  wrong  by applying  the default and closing his account.
I understand why Mr H is upset that a default was applied to his account and I 
appreciate he has offered  to repay  the outstanding amount.  However,  as I cannot say 
the default was applied  unfairly  I do not require HSBC to remove the default.
Ref: DRN63057502For these reasons, I do not uphold this complaint. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about HSBC  UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 November 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6305750