K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained that Uncle Buck Finance LLP (Uncle Buck) irresponsibly  lent him 
money.
background
 Mr M took a number of loans with Uncle Buck. A summary of the loans  is set out below:
Loan Number Date Taken Amount Borrowed
1 17 February 2015 £100
2 4 March 2015 £100
3 13 April 2015 £150
4 4 May 2015 £200
5 8 June 2015 £100
6 14 November 2015 £100
7 22 February 2016 £500
8 13 June 2016 £400
9 9 September 2016 £400
10 3 November 2016 £175
11 9 May 2017 £100
12 31 July 2017 £200
13 31 October 2017 £200
One of our adjudicators looked  into this case already and they upheld  this complaint in part. 
They thought that by loan seven Mr Ms repeated borrowing meant that the lending  was no 
longer sustainable. So they asked Uncle Buck to refund interest  and charges and remove  
loans seven onwards from Mr Ms credit  file.
Uncle Buck  did not agree  with this and therefore  this complaint was passed forward  for a 
final decision. Given that Mr M did not disagree with this assessment I will only be looking at 
whether loan 7 onwards was sold responsibly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure that Mr 
M could repay the loans in a sustainable  manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN63224562the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  
repayments on time, while meeting other  reasonable commitments; as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr M with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable or otherwise harmful. So that Uncle Buck  shouldve  realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any more loans to Mr M.
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
seven. I say this because:
By loan 7, Mr M had been borrowing  from Uncle Buck  for around a year during  which  
time hed generally re-borrowed new loans shortly after hed repaid an earlier one. I 
accept that there was a break  of around  11 weeks  between loans 5 and 6 but given 
the previous borrowing this was insufficient for Uncle Buck  to conclude that Mr M 
wasnt reliant on its short-term  high-cost credit products.
  
Loan 7 was for the largest  amount Mr M had borrowed. Previously hed borrowed 
between £100  and £200  although I note he appears to have applied for £400  in 
January 2016  but this was declined.
From  loan 7 onwards  Mr M was provided with a new loan within days  or weeks of 
settling a previous  one. In response to our adjudicators view Uncle Buck  pointed  out 
that there was a 97 day gap between Loans 10 and 11 but again  it seems Mr M 
applied for a loan during that period  which was declined. But in any event  Mr M had 
been borrowing  from Uncle Buck for around two years by now.  So Uncle  Buck ought 
Ref: DRN63224563to have realised it was more likely than not Mr M was having  to borrow  further  to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances and that Mr Ms 
indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mr M didnt make  any real inroads to the amount  he owed Uncle Buck.  Loan  13 was 
taken out 28 months after his first loan. So Mr M had paid large amounts of interest 
to, in effect, service  a debt to Uncle Buck over an extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Uncle Buck  continued to provide credit  from loan 7 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ms 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans
I note Uncle  Bucks comments that the loan amounts varied  after loan 7 and sometimes 
were for smaller  amounts  than previous loans and I have carefully considered this. But 
overall I cant see a consistent  reduction  in the amount being borrowed and therefore I dont 
think that this suggests that whatever the underlying issues that caused  Mr M to require 
further borrowing  had been resolved.
Ive mentioned above that Uncle Buck has also referred to there being gaps between some  
of the loans but Im not persuaded  that the gaps were for a sufficient duration  to suggest that 
Mr Ms financial situation had improved.
Finally Uncle  Buck  has said that its satisfied that Mr M wasnt reliant  of this type of 
borrowing but used  it as a lifestyle  choice.  I dont think that this is likely given the high cost 
of these loans  and the sums Mr M was paying in interest to service  them.  In any event I've 
looked at Mr Ms bank statements for the period in question I am not persuaded that this was 
the case. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 7 onwards and Uncle  Buck should put things right 
as detailed below.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr M paid on loans  7,8,9,10,11,12 and 13;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from loan 7 onwards means any information  recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loan 7, 8, 9, 10, 11, 12 and 13 should be 
removed from Mr Ms credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN63224564my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Uncle  Buck Finance 
LLP should pay Mr M compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6322456