K821x#15complaint
In summary  Mr C has complained he was mis-sold  a life assurance policy by 
Citifinancial Europe  Limited (CEL). 
background
In 2007 Mr C took out a loan for £8,000  with CEL. At the same time CEL recommended he 
take out life cover for a sum assured of £50,000. The needs analysis form (NAF)  its adviser 
completed recorded the following information.
Mr C was married  with no dependants. He had life cover for his mortgage  and also had 
another policy through his union. His existing life cover was recorded as being for £83,000. 
In terms of identified  needs, it recorded  Mr C felt the existing cover  needed  to be increased 
by £50,000 to support his family.
The key facts document and the insurance  application form provided  by CEL show that the 
cover had a maximum term of five years. 
Mr Cs complaint was looked  into by one of our investigators.  He thought  the complaint 
should be upheld  as in summary, he didnt think Mr C had a need to take out £50,000 of life 
cover over a five year term.  And he didnt think CEL had provided Mr C with an explanation 
as to why the policy  was suitable.
CEL didnt agree with the investigators  assessment. It said the NAF showed the 
representative had discussed Mr Cs circumstances and specific needs. Mr C wanted to 
ensure his wife was well provided for with a £50,000  lump  sum in the event of his death. And 
it noted he didnt  take out any other  insurance  which it said supported  its view that Mr C 
considered his existing level of life insurance  to be insufficient  for his and his familys needs.  
In response the investigator commented that the policy recommended to Mr C was only for 
five years.  And he asked if CELs agent  had considered what Mr Cs position  would  be in five 
years when the policy lapsed. He arranged for the complaint to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman. 
Mr C confirmed to us that at the time he took out the loan he had life assurance to cover  his 
mortgage and life cover through  his union, but he couldnt recall  how much  this was for. His 
mortgage taken  out some 10 years before his CEL loan was £72,000 on a repayment basis. 
He and his wife also had joint credit card debts of around £10,000. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  
Mr Cs complaint. Ill explain why.
Im satisfied that CELs  representative recommended the policy  to Mr C, so it had to take 
reasonable steps to ensure it was suitable for him.  
Ref: DRN63159912CEL recommended  a term assurance  policy with a sum assured of £50,000. And the term of 
the policy was only for a maximum  of five years. If Mr C required further  life cover as CEL 
suggests the NAF shows, I dont think its recommendation met Mr Cs needs as it would 
only provide cover for a maximum of five years. And Mr C would be left in the position where 
he would  need  to take out a new policy at the end of the policy term. It seems  to me there 
was a risk Mr C might not be able to obtain  new cover at that time; or if he could it might be 
more expensive and on less advantageous terms than he could have  obtained in 2007. 
Ive also thought carefully about whether Mr C had any need for additional life cover  taking  
into account the new liability he was incurring by taking  out the loan. Mr C has said his 
mortgage was for £72,000 and had been  taken out 10 years before on a repayment basis. 
Hes also said there was a life cover policy in place that would clear his mortgage  in the 
event of his death.  And hes confirmed he had another life policy taken out through  his union. 
Although Mr C and his wife had credit card debts of about £10,000 between them and Mr C 
was taking out the loan,  Im not persuaded that on balance he needed additional life cover  to 
protect this additional borrowing. I say this because even though he cant recall the sum 
assured on the policy taken out through his union,  Im satisfied he had additional  life cover 
over and above what was in place to clear his mortgage. And I dont think  I can safely 
conclude based  on the available information,  that he needed additional  life cover to protect  
this relatively small amount of additional  borrowing.
So having  thought about everything Ive been  provided with, for the reasons Ive set out 
above; Im not satisfied  the recommendation CEL made to Mr C was suitable. 
putting things right
CEL should  compensate Mr C by refunding  all the premiums he has paid on his policy  and 
add 8% simple interest per annum to each sum from the date it was paid to the date of 
settlement of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is to uphold Mr Cs complaint about Citifinancial Europe Limited. And I 
direct it compensate Mr C using the methodology Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before  30  May 2019.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6315991