K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains that Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy with a mortgage.
background
Mrs M took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland in 1997. Around the same time,  PPI was 
added to cover her mortgage  repayments in the event of accident,  sickness  and 
unemployment. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  the complaint. Mrs M disagreed. She said she 
didnt know PPI had been added, it was not explained to her and she didnt  need  it because 
she had other ways of meeting her repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint  for the reasons given below.
Mrs M took out the mortgage at a meeting with the bank. It seems likely that the mortgage 
and PPI were taken out around the same time.  I cant know  exactly  what was discussed 
when Mrs M took out the PPI. Where  the evidence is either incomplete or contradictory,  I 
have to make a decision based  on what I think is most likely to have happened   based on 
whats available. 
Bank of Scotland no longer has copies of Mrs Ms paperwork from the time of sale.  Banks 
often only keep records for six years and this sale took place over 20 years ago. Based on 
the limited information  now available, I dont  have enough to fairly conclude  that Mrs M 
wasnt given a fair choice  about taking PPI. I think it just as likely that it was added because  
she said she wanted cover, knowing it was optional.  So, I cant  fairly uphold  her complaint on 
this ground.
 
I think it likely that Bank  of Scotland recommended Mrs M take PPI. So, it had to make sure 
the policy was suitable for her, as well as giving her information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading so she could make an informed choice  about whether the policy  was right for her. 
It doesnt look like PPI was unsuitable  for Mrs M based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances when  the policy was sold. Ill explain why. 
Mrs M was eligible for the cover;
She said she wouldve  got at least 6 months  worth of sick pay from work. The policy 
wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Ms work  benefits, for up to 12 months  per successful 
claim, possibly for longer  than she wouldve got full pay for. She wouldve also been 
covered for redundancy. Given that the policy was protecting  Mrs Ms home, I cant 
see that her other means made the policy unsuitable. 
Ref: DRN65392892Mrs M said her parents couldve helped out. Whilst  her parents may have wanted to 
help, help of this kind cant  always be guaranteed when the time comes.  So, I havent 
placed much reliance  on this. 
There wouldve been some things the policy didnt cover. But, I cant  see that Mrs M 
was affected by these.  So, I dont think having more  information  about the things the 
policy didnt cover wouldve affected her decision to take out the policy. 
The policy cost £14.94 per month. The amount of cover was £300 per month. The 
policy didnt carry interest. Mrs M couldve cancelled it at any time without losing out 
financially. I cant know exactly what she was told about the cost of the policy. But, I 
think she was likely  given enough information  to make an informed choice about 
whether she wanted it or not. It was competitively priced and I cant see that it was 
unaffordable. 
Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  shortcomings in the way this policy  was 
sold. But I still think Mrs M wouldve decided to buy the policy even  if she had been better 
advised and informed as the policy gave her useful protection. I cant  see shes  lost out 
because of anything  that Bank of Scotland may have done  wrong.
Which means Bank of Scotland doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs M because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mrs M about that. Because  Bank of Scotland  didnt 
tell Mrs M, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs M has said, but these  points  dont change  my conclusions. 
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs M.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mrs M any commission and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6539289