K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains because Inter Partner  Assistance SA (IPA) hasnt paid a claim for stolen 
belongings under his travel  insurance policy.
background
Mr S holds a travel  insurance  policy provided  by IPA. 
Mr S was participating in a golf tournament abroad. He put his belongings into what he 
described as a holding area while he went into a room next door to book a taxi. The rooms 
were separated by a glass wall and plants. When Mr S returned  a few minutes later some  
items were gone. 
Mr S made a claim under  his insurance  policy but IPA said there  was no cover  for;
Lost, stolen or damaged personal  belongings where  You have failed to take 
sufficient care of them  or have left them unsecured or outside Your  reach.  
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to our service.  Our investigator  recommended  that IPA 
should pay Mr Ss claim. 
Mr S accepted our investigators opinion but IPA didnt so the complaint has been passed  to 
me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont think Mr Ss claim is covered under  a strict application of the terms and conditions  of 
his policy  because he left his belongings unsecured and outside of his reach. 
But I also need to consider whether I think its fair and reasonable for IPA to rely on the 
policy exclusion it has quoted to turn down his claim in the circumstances. And I dont  think it 
is. 
Mr S has provided a letter from the executive  director of the golf tour he was playing in to 
say the golf club was closed to members  of the public during the tournament, with security 
on both entrance  and exit doors  and players  had been designated small, roped-off areas in 
which to place their belongings so as not to litter the clubhouse. This is why Mr S left his 
belongings where he did.
I dont think Mr S failed to take sufficient care of his possessions  in the circumstances as he 
left them  in a place designated for golfers  to put their belongings. And I think Mr S was 
reasonably entitled to consider this designated  area as being safe and secure. Theres  no 
evidence to suggest there were alternative  locker  facilities available  which  Mr S failed to use. 
It doesnt seem fair to now conclude with the benefit  of hindsight that the location wasnt  safe 
based on the fact that items  were  stolen. And as this was where golfers  had been told to 
place their belongings, I dont think it was unreasonable  for Mr S to leave his items there 
rather than carrying them around  with him.  
Ref: DRN67138952So overall, based on the specific  circumstance  of this case, I dont think its fair and 
reasonable for IPA to rely on the policy exclusion mentioned  above  to turn down Mr Ss 
claim. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Inter Partner Assistance  SA must  accept  Mr Ss claim  subject  to any applicable policy limits  
and/or excesses. Interest  at 8% simple per year should be added  from the date of the claim 
until the date settlement  is paid. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.  
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6713895