K821x#15complaint
Mrs M says Yorkshire Building Society  mis-sold her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out in 2006. Mrs M applied for 
the PPI over the phone.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Yorkshire  disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Ms complaint because:
I dont think Yorkshire  gave Mrs M clear enough  information about the policy.  I say this 
because Mrs M wouldnt be covered for claims because of pre-existing medical 
conditions (PEMC)  or chronic conditions and I dont  think that Mrs M was given clear  
enough information about this or that it was sufficiently brought to her attention. 
In this case, this was important because Mrs M has told us that she suffered from a 
neurological condition  at the time of sale and has provided a medical letter to support 
what shes said. In my opinion Mrs M wouldnt have been able to claim for her condition  
because of the policy exclusions.  
Yorkshire has told us that this policy was taken out during a phone  call on 5 January 
2006. Theyve also said that during  this phone call their adviser would have followed a 
script to ensure  that Mrs M was given all of the necessary  information . No copy  of the 
call recording  or call notes are available - so its difficult for me to know what  was 
discussed about PPI on the phone or what information  Mrs M was given about the policy. 
But Ive seen a copy of the document  referred to that Yorkshire has said would have 
been completed by the adviser  on the phone. 
Whilst I acknowledge that the document does  contain a reference  to accident and 
sickness cover, Im not satisfied that, even if it was followed  that it went far enough so 
that Mrs M would understand that she wouldnt be able to claim for her condition. 
Ive also noted  that Yorkshire have said that Mrs M was provided with enough 
information to enable her to make an informed decision, but for the reasons Ive 
explained above I dont agree with that argument
Ref: DRN60406892On balance, I dont  think Mrs M wouldve bought  the policy if Yorkshire  had given her 
enough information about it. So, I think Mrs M has lost out because  of what  Yorkshire  did 
wrong. 
putting things right
Yorkshire should put Mrs M in the position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken  out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Yorkshire should:
Pay Mrs M the amount she paid each month  for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Yorkshire can take off what she 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Yorkshire to take off tax from this interest. Yorkshire  
must give Mrs M a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Yorkshire Building Society should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 August 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6040689