K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained that Covea Insurance plc unfairly increased his premium under his 
motor policy  and then unfairly cancelled it.
Background
Mr B applied for his motor  policy on an online  aggregator  website  for the policy to start on 5 
May 2018. A broker  dealt with the administration of his policy. 
Mr B then noticed his premium had increased so he asked  the broker  about it. That broker  
said he hadnt disclosed a non-fault accident.  As a result, his premium increased by £29.30.  
Mr B didnt want to pay this so ultimately  his broker cancelled his policy charging him a 
cancellation fee.
Mr B complained to the broker and to Covea.  Neither would change their stance  so he 
brought his complaint to us.
The complaint about the broker was dealt with separately.  Therefore this complaint only 
concerns Covea.
Ultimately the investigator was of the view that Mr Bs complaint  should be upheld  because 
the Consumer  (Insurance Disclosure  and Representations) Act (CIDRA) wasnt complied 
with when Mr Bs policy was cancelled. He said the cancellation should be removed from 
Mr Bs insurance record and Covea should  pay him some compensation.
Mr B agreed, but Covea did not. It said it had given delegated authority to the broker and it 
was the brokers  decision to request the premium  increase and ultimately cancel Mr Bs 
policy when he didnt  want  to pay the increase.
As a result Mr Bs complaint has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
Its the insurer, not the broker who requires  any premium  adjustment if its discovered a 
customer like Mr B, didnt  disclose  something  which affects the rating of the risk and 
therefore the amount of premium to be charged. A broker isnt regulated to underwrite the 
risk and set the premium,  only the insurer is. Covea here is the insurer. The other complaint 
against the broker was correctly not upheld solely for this reason.
Whilst I dont doubt  that Covea  was unaware  of what happened  until some time later,  the 
ultimate responsibility for the premium  increase  and therefore any consequences flowing 
from that, rests with it. It also provided delegated authority to the broker  to deal with things to 
include requesting  payment  of the premium  increase  in such circumstances and indeed to 
also cancel policies for non-payment  of premium. So consequently if it has a problem  with 
how the broker dealt  with things, which ultimately was detrimental to it, it should take that up 
with the broker  direct. Thats  not a matter  for Mr B at all. 
Ref: DRN69685592Here, its quite clear that the provisions of CIDRA  werent followed, which I consider was to 
Mr Bs detriment  and consequently I think thats not fair or reasonable. CIDRA provides 
certain remedies if the consumer made  a qualifying  misrepresentation  in the application for 
insurance. A qualifying  misrepresentation can be careless, reckless or deliberate.
Here, Mr B failed to disclose something  which occurred about four years before this 
application. Mr B was of the view that the question was ambiguous, but I dont think it was. 
So Im satisfied Mr Bs misrepresentation was careless under CIDRA. This is also borne out 
by the fact the premium increase wasnt at all substantial. So in effect, Mr Bs premium 
simply required adjustment due to his non-disclosure, and he still presented an insurable  
risk. 
So given Mr B has no outstanding claims,  the remedy then available to Covea  was to either 
cancel the policy or kept it running  but settle any future potential claims proportionately.  This 
service is also of the view that Mr B needs to be offered the chance to pay the extra 
premium. If Mr B didnt want to do that, as was the case here, then we consider its fair and 
reasonable that Mr B is allowed to cancel the policy himself, if he wants  to in order that there 
is no record of a cancellation on his record which then makes  getting future polices much 
more difficult. Obviously this would be subject  to the usual cancelation  charges.
As Mr B wasnt offered this, I think Covea now needs to put things right. I consider that the 
cancellation notice  now needs to be removed  from Mr Bs record.  It should also write  a letter  
to Mr B explaining his policy was cancelled due to its own error.  This then allows  Mr B to 
show this to his subsequent  insurers in order to get any refund of any premium he may have 
been charged due to the cancellation  of this policy.
I think this also caused Mr B some trouble and upset,  therefore Covea should pay him £100 
compensation. This level of compensation is similar to what  Ive awarded previously in 
similar circumstances. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I uphold this complaint.
I now require Covea  Insurance plc to the following:
Remove this cancellation from all internal and external databases.
Write  a letter to Mr B that it cancelled its policy due to its own error.
Pay Mr B £100 compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 October  2020.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6968559