K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained about the way Covea Insurance  plc has dealt with two claims made 
under his car insurance policy.  
background
Mr G bought a car insurance policy through a broker with the insurer,  Covea.  It received 
notification of a claim  from a third party for an incident involving Mr Gs car in Europe in 
December 2017.  And Mr G reported  a second  incident in May 2018  which  also happened 
in Europe. 
For ease, Ill refer to the December  2017  claim as the first claim  and the May 2018 claim 
as the second claim.
In November 2018 Mr G complained to Covea about  both claims. He was unhappy with the 
way Covea was dealing with them. 
Covea said it was still investigating the first claim.  For the second claim - as Mr G said he 
drove into the rear of the other drivers  car - Covea  decided  to settle this as a fault claim. It 
had received a claim from a third party via its European representative.  
Covea said it could  have  been more proactive under both claims. It apologised for this and 
paid Mr G £100 compensation.  
Mr G remained  unhappy, so he asked  us to look at things for him.
Our investigator thought that Covea  had acted reasonably. Mr G didnt agree. He believes 
Covea shouldnt rely on the Highway  Code and any other UK legislation  when deciding  
liability for the second claim. He believes Covea  should  apply  the countrys road traffic 
regulation for the claims its dealing with.
As Mr G didnt  agree, the case has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
We dont decide  liability. This is the role of the courts.  But we look at whether an insurer  has 
reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. 
Mr Gs policy  has a term that Ive seen in most  if not all motor insurance policies. This term 
allows Covea to settle a claim as it sees fit. We dont have  any objection to this term in 
principle, provided Covea has treated Mr G fairly  when applying  it.
Mr G told Covea that he believed the first claim was fraudulent. He told Covea hed made a 
report to the local police  in the country where  the incident happened and provided Covea 
with documents  to support what action  hed taken and his concerns.
Ref: DRN62009932Covea forwarded  these documents to its European  representatives. Its awaiting a reply. I 
understand Mr G is frustrated and unhappy with the handling of the first claim. But I also 
think its reasonable for cases that are in dispute  particularly if there is an allegation of 
fraud  to take longer  to investigate. 
Covea has explained  that the first claim remains open as its investigation  is ongoing. 
Mr G made  a claim to Covea in May 2018  for damage to his car following a collision  again 
in Europe. Mr G explained that he had collided into the rear of another car. 
Mr G says he has concerns that the other driver  was uninsured.  He believes Covea should 
further investigate  this and apply the countrys  laws and regulation.  He says that  unlike 
England  it isnt always necessarily the fault of the driver  who hits the rear of the car in 
front. He doesnt  believe Covea has properly investigated the second claim.
Covea received a claim from the third party via its European representative. And when  Mr G 
contacted it to report the damage to his car, Covea agreed  for Mr G to have his car repaired 
there  pay for it  and on receipt of the invoice,  Covea would cover the costs minus  the 
excess. 
Mr Gs car according to the main motor trade guides held an average market  value of £6,575 
in May 2018.  The market  value is the maximum amount  Covea will pay in the event of a 
claim under Mr Gs policy. The costs to repair Mr Gs car came to over £8,000.  However, 
Covea covered these  costs as it agreed and reimbursed  Mr G in full (minus the excess).  So I 
think Covea acted very reasonably here.  
I know Mr G believes  that Covea is wrong  to decide that Mr G was at fault for the second 
incident. But I think it reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy. It told Mr G 
that the onus was on him to leave  sufficient braking distance between his car and the car in 
front. Covea said it didnt  consider that the third party might  not be insured, as it received a 
claim from its European representative. In any event, Covea decided  that Mr G was at fault 
for the incident   so it wouldnt look to recover the costs of the claim from the non fault party  
 or anyone else.
I think Covea could  have  been more proactive in progressing the two claims under Mr Gs 
policy. But overall  I think its dealt  with both claims reasonably and in line with the policy. So I 
think the compensation of £100 that it paid Mr G is fair for the poor service it provided.
If  after Covea settles the first claim  Mr G is unhappy with the outcome, he can bring a 
new complaint to Covea   and if hes unhappy  with Coveas reply, he can ask us to look at 
his complaint for him. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN62009933Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6200993