K820x#14complaint
Mr H says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr H took out a mortgage in 1990  and, it seems,  bought  a PPI policy at around the same 
time.
Mr H paid a monthly amount for the policy which wouldve helped with his mortgage 
repayments for up to 12 months for each successful unemployment claim he made  and for 
up to 24 months for each  successful accident  or sickness claim he made.
Mr H says he thought  the PPI was part of the mortgage  and it was presented  as a necessary 
safeguard to protect against losing the income  he needed to pay the mortgage.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Hs complaint didnt uphold it. Mr H disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
Halifax needed to make it clear to Mr H he had a choice about PPI and get his agreement to 
it. From what Mr H says,  the policy was sold in a branch meeting and I dont know  how 
Halifax described the cover to him. Halifax doesnt have any paperwork from the time which, 
given it was so long ago, I dont think is surprising.  And Mr Hs description of what  happened 
isnt detailed.
To uphold  Mr Hs complaint on this point, Id have to think its likely Halifax  didnt give him a 
clear choice about the PPI and get his agreement to it. And his recollections  on their own 
and without anything  else to back them up arent  enough for me fairly  to say I think  its likely. 
From what  we know about how Halifax normally sold these  policies, I think  its more likely 
Halifax discussed Mr Hs insurance  needs with him and, at the time,  he decided  to take it 
out, knowing he didnt  have to. 
Halifax has treated this sale as if it recommended the PPI to Mr H. So it needed  to make 
sure it was right for him. From  what Mr H says of his circumstances at the time and from the 
policy terms Halifax says are likely  to have  applied, I think  it was. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the cover. 
I dont  think thered  have been anything  to stop Mr H claiming the full policy  benefit  had 
he needed to  it seems he wasnt affected  by any of the common restrictions and 
exclusions we tend to see in these policies.
Ref: DRN65887242Although Mr H says he got some  sick pay, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of it and, 
potentially, for longer  than his full sick pay lasted.  And Mr H says he didnt have anything 
else  like savings or other  insurance policies  he couldve used to pay his mortgage if 
things got difficult. A mortgage is a significant  financial commitment, secured on your 
home, which is at risk if you cant keep up with the repayments. So I think the PPI gave 
Mr H useful additional protection.
I dont know what, if anything,  Halifax told Mr H about the cost of the PPI but I havent 
seen anything to make me think he couldnt  afford it.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for him, Halifax also had to give Mr H clear  enough  
information about the PPI for him to decide  if he wanted it. I dont know  what  steps Halifax  
took to do this  and its possible  it didnt  do everything as it shouldve.  But I think its likely 
Mr H agreed to the PPI and I also think it was right for him. So I think  clearer information 
would only have confirmed this to him and is unlikely to have made him change his mind.
I dont think Mr H has lost out because of anything Halifax may have  done  wrong,  so theres  
nothing it needs  to do to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6588724