K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc trading as Halifax acted unfairly  and unreasonably 
when dealing with the deeds  from his property. He wants matters put right.
background
Mr C had a mortgage  with Halifax taken out in 1970,  which he paid off in full in 1995. He said 
that at the time he paid the mortgage  in full, Halifax asked  Mr C if he wanted it to keep his 
deeds, and this was agreed. But in 2018,  Mr C asked for the deeds and he said that Halifax 
had no record of his deeds or the original  mortgage. The lost deeds team failed to find his 
deeds. 
Mr C complained to Halifax. It said that it had no record of Mr Cs mortgage,  but if he could 
provide more information, it was willing to search  further. Halifax  noted that the property 
hadnt been registered with the Land Registry and suggested that Mr C dealt  with that issue;  
it confirmed it had no interest in the property. Halifax paid £200  for the inconvenience and 
frustration caused  to Mr C.
Mr C complained to us. Halifax said Mr C shouldve complained in 1995 when he shouldve 
received his title deeds; Mr Cs point was that he believed  Halifax  was holding the deeds by 
agreement. The investigators view was that as Mr C only wanted the deeds in 2018, he 
didnt think the complaint  had been  brought too late to this service. He said that there  wasnt 
enough evidence  to find that Halifax had kept the deeds, given Halifaxs evidence  that had it 
done so, it wouldve kept a mortgage account  open.  The investigator didnt uphold  the 
complaint and said the compensation paid for the service received when Mr C asked about 
the deeds was fair and reasonable.
Mr C disagreed. He said Halifax shouldve responded to his questions earlier and felt Halifax  
had got away  with losing the deeds.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I have to decide whats  more likely than 
not to have happened.
The issue  in this case is the lack of evidence  due to the passage  of time. Mr C doesnt have 
any evidence showing that a mortgage  existed  between  him and Halifax, other than a 
reference in an abstract  of title. He hasnt provided the mortgage roll number, evidence of 
payment of a mortgage, or evidence from the solicitors involved in earlier transactions with 
the property. There  is a requirement  for complainants to provide evidence supporting their 
complaint, and while I appreciate the passage  of time is probably the main issue, it does  
make the situation  more  difficult. 
Halifax has shown that it has no record of Mr Cs mortgage. From my experience with 
Halifax, it normally can provide records of historic relationships, though less is available after 
a long period of time. Halifax has provided evidence that its policy is that if it agrees to store 
deeds, it keeps  the account open  to enable  it to track the storage  of the deeds. Again, this is 
consistent with my experience.
Ref: DRN61981512The critical point is whether Halifax agreed to keep Mr Cs deeds in 1995. Mr C accepts that 
he has no evidence of this, other  than his memory. Halifax  has no record at all of the 
mortgage and its policy is to keep the account open if storing the deeds. In all the 
circumstances, I cant  find that Halifax agreed  to store the deeds in 1995.
I think though  Halifax couldve  given better  service  to Mr C when he started to ask about  the 
deeds in 2018 and onwards. It accepts  this and paid £200 compensation. Money never truly 
compensates for trouble  and upset, and I can only award compensation for the identified  
failings. I think £200 is fair and reasonable, particularly  as Mr C is understandably more 
concerned about  the missing deeds, something  for which I havent found  Halifax to be at 
fault.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 6 January 2020.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6198151