K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Nationwide Building Society  (then trading  as Derbyshire) mis-sold 
Mr and Mrs S payment protection insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage. The 
mortgage started in 1996 and the PPI was taken out in either 1996 or 1997. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs S disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  In reviewing  this complaint, Ive checked  
the possible ways  in which the PPI might have been  mis-sold. Ive also taken full account of 
the comments made in support of the complaint. 
The sale of the PPI took place around  23 years  ago and its not surprising that none  of the 
original documents  from the time are now available  only basic  records exist of dates and 
amounts paid. Also I wouldnt  expect  someone  to recall in detail  everything  that happened  so 
long ago.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. However, Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint. I will 
explain why.
Mr and Mrs S have  said they were pressurised into taking PPI and made to think it would 
affect their chances of getting a mortgage.  The problem I have, in making a decision on this, 
is that I couldnt know the exact words used  by the adviser and the tone in which  they were  
said. 
Also, it wouldnt be fair for me to conclude this happened unless there was reasonable 
supporting evidence. Where someone  has said another person or organisation has done 
something wrong, fairness  requires that the person making the allegation  should  present 
evidence that this probably did happen. It wouldnt be fair to require someone to prove  they 
didnt do something,  especially when it was such a long time ago. I realise it is pretty  much  
impossible for Mr and Mrs S to supply supporting evidence.  But, without stronger evidence, I 
cant fairly say the PPI was sold wrongly in the way Mr and Mrs S remember it. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply:
Ref: DRN61124512I think it likely Nationwide recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, and this means  it had 
a higher standard to reach during the sales process  it had to make sure the PPI was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs Ss particular  circumstances. But it looks  to me as though  a 
recommendation would have been a suitable  one, based  on what Ive seen of 
Mr and Mrs Ss situation at the time.  Its likely Mr and Mrs S were  eligible for the policy.  
And finding yourself unable to pay a mortgage  can lead to significant  difficulties. The PPI 
would have paid benefits at the same time as Mr and Mrs S received any employer sick 
pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition  to 
any redundancy pay. And it would have  put off the time when they would need  to fall 
back on the savings  or other means they may have had for paying the mortgage and 
other living costs. This all would have  put Mr and Mrs S in a more secure position, if 
theyd eventually lost income due to long term sickness or unemployment. And Ive not 
been told anything  to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when  they took it out. So I 
think the PPI would have been  potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable.  
Its hard to know how well Nationwide explained  the costs  and benefits  of the policy.  But 
I dont anyway think its likely  that full and clear information about the costs would have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs S took the PPI.
Its possible Nationwide didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs S would  have been affected by any of these. And theyd be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their 
situation changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6112451