K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs M say Santander UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  MPPI  policy taken out with a mortgage in 
December 1993.  Mr and Mrs M applied for the MPPI at a meeting.
Mr and Mrs M say Santander have mis-sold them MPPI. They  say they were told they had to 
take out the insurance with their mortgage.  They say they tried to make a claim at a later 
date but were told they would have to wait for 3 months before doing so and they say this 
wasnt made clear to them at the time.
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Santander disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. And Ill explain why. 
Santander says it gave advice to Mr and Mrs M so it had to make sure the policy was 
suitable for them and I dont  think it was. In particular, the policy  had a 12 week waiting 
period. This meant that Mr and Mrs M wouldnt receive any benefit until theyd been 
unemployed or too ill to work until after this waiting period.
I think this waiting period  was particularly important to Mr and Mrs M. I think  its likely 
Mr and Mrs M wouldve quickly struggled to keep up with their mortgage repayments  during 
the 12 week waiting  period. I say this because Mr and Mrs M have said they didnt have any 
savings which might have  helped maintain their payments.
I accept that the policy couldve provided a useful benefit if either  Mr or Mrs M had been  off 
sick - especially  as they say they would have had at least 6 months sick pay to rely on. But 
from what Ive been  told about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances, its likely they wouldve been 
in significant arrears on their mortgage before the policy  wouldve paid out if either of them 
were made unemployed. This could also have had an impact on their credit history.  So the 
policy didnt do what Mr and Mrs M would expect  it to  which  was to give them  peace  of 
mind that their mortgage payments  would be covered.  And Ive not seen anything that 
Santander advised them the policy may not be suitable, and warned  them  the policy  might  
not meet their needs.  
I dont think Mr and Mrs M wouldve bought the policy  if Santander had advised them about 
the 12 week waiting  period. And I dont think the policy it recommended  was right for them.  
So I think theyve lost out because of what Santander did wrong  so it should put things right.  
Ref: DRN60867632putting things right
Santander should put Mr and Mrs M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. Santander  should:
Pay Mr and Mrs M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 15% a year until April 1993 and 8% a year from then on.
If Mr and Mrs M made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Santander  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mr and Mrs M a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint and require Santander UK 
plc to put things  right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 August 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6086763