K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about how Nationwide  Building Society has treated her.
background
Mrs H said that she went into Nationwide to take out some money. She thought that the 
counter staff were paying too much  attention to the ID that shed  shown them, so she 
complained that she felt they were being  nosey. She spoke to a manager, but she said that 
his manner was exactly the same.
Mrs H said that shed  received letters from Nationwide since, and they contained terrible lies 
about her behaviour. She said that she wanted Nationwide  to accept that its staff had told 
lies. And she told us that Nationwide  has since closed  her account. 
Nationwide said that Mrs H became aggressive  with staff while they were checking her ID. 
And it said that she continued when a manager came to talk to her. Nationwide wrote  to her 
after this, and asked  her to moderate  her behaviour the next time she came into a branch. 
Mrs H and her son then sent a number  of letters to Nationwide, which  Nationwide  felt were  
unacceptable. In response, Nationwide said that it was closing Mrs Hs account. It said that it 
has an obligation to protect its staff.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that it wasnt  unreasonable for 
Nationwide to ask Mrs H for proof of identity when she went  into the branch, especially 
because of the amount of money  she was taking out. And he didnt think  it was wrong for 
Nationwide to scrutinise her ID documents, to make sure theyre genuine. He said he 
thought it was most likely  that this was what Nationwides staff member was doing, not just 
being nosey. 
Our adjudicator also said that Mrs H and the branch manager both felt things happened  very 
differently during that branch visit. Our adjudicator  said that he thought  it was more  likely that 
a person in the branch  managers  position would be trying to help resolve Mrs Hs concerns, 
but that wasnt how she felt at the time. 
Our adjudicator said that letters between Nationwide and Mrs H made clear that there  was a 
dispute over what happened. Each  side was putting  forward what they believed  to have 
happened. 
Our adjudicator said that he didnt think that Nationwide acted inappropriately by asking 
Mrs H to provide ID or examining that ID during  her visit to the branch. He said that he would 
never know for sure what was said during that visit, but having considered all the 
circumstances he didnt  think that Nationwide did anything wrong. 
Mrs H didnt agree with that. She said that we had ignored the threats and threatening 
letters, and the lies about her. And she said that if we asked Nationwide  for a time when 
shed made  an alleged second visit to the branch, then it wouldnt be able to give us a date, 
because that was complete lies.
Our adjudicator said that hed talked about the letters  that she and Nationwide  sent each 
other in the last paragraph of his view. He said that Nationwide had said that its staff were 
unhappy about how Mrs H had acted towards  them. This is how the branch staff felt, and 
they had a right to express this. And he said that Nationwide  was saying to Mrs H that, 
Ref: DRN60536652because it felt that her behaviour wasnt acceptable,  it wanted to let her know  the 
consequences if that continued. Our adjudicator didnt think that was threatening. Our 
adjudicator said that he didnt  think that Mrs H had gone into the branch again, the letter  
which referred to continued  unacceptable  behaviour  was referring  to letters  she and her son 
had sent, not a visit to the branch. 
Mrs Hs son wrote to our service, to say that we mustnt have read the letter properly if we 
didnt think that a mistake  had been made. He said it stated  plainly that Mrs H went into the 
branch a second time, and was aggressive.  But our adjudicator still didnt agree. He said that 
he didn't think this letter was very clear, but the comments there were in relation to letters  
that Nationwide had received.
Because Mrs H didnt agree with our adjudicator, this case was then passed  to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive reached the same conclusion  as our 
adjudicator, and for broadly the same reasons.
Theres no dispute that Mrs H went into a branch of Nationwide, and asked to make a large  
cash withdrawal. Theres also no dispute that Mrs H was asked for ID. But from there,  the 
accounts of what  happened differ. Mrs H says that a nosey staff member  was paying too 
much attention to her ID, and looking at details that didnt concern  her. Mrs H said that 
wasnt acceptable. 
Like our adjudicator, I dont think its unusual for someone to be asked  for ID for a withdrawal 
of this size. And Im also not surprised that the staff member would check  both sides of 
Mrs Hs ID. I think thats part of checking that ID is genuine. And, like our adjudicator,  I think 
its likely  that this is what the person behind the counter was doing. 
Mrs H then spoke to a manager.  She said in one of her letters  that she was never  agitated 
and never  passed  any personal remarks to him. But she went  on to say that she told him at 
the time that he was smirking at her. So it seems likely that this was a heated conversation. 
Nationwide then wrote  to Mrs H to say that its staff had felt that she had used verbally  
aggressive behaviour.  It asked her to remain calm in future when using its services. And it 
said that it would close her account  if there  were further problems. 
I know that Mrs H and her son were both very upset by this letter.  But I dont think that its 
unreasonable for Nationwide to set out, if its staff have felt that someones behaviour is 
aggressive, what can happen if that continues  to be the case. I dont think  thats a threat 
from Nationwide. 
 Mrs H and her son then wrote letters, which were sent to Nationwide at its head office and 
to the branch. Nationwide  replied to Mrs H at the end of February,  to say that whilst it 
understood that the situation  in the branch may have been difficult, and she was frustrated, it 
would ask her to remain calm when using its services. 
Ms h wrote again in response to that, and said that Nationwides staff were  just telling lies 
about her. Like our adjudicator, I think  that Nationwide has set out its honest perception  of 
Ref: DRN60536653events. Although I accept  that Mrs Hs perception  was very different, I dont think  that means 
that Nationwide was lying. 
Mrs H then got two letters  from Nationwide, dated 12 April.  One reviewed her complaint, but 
it said that because  she and her son had continued  to write using terms that Nationwide  
considered werent  acceptable, its area director would be reviewing her relationship with the 
business. The other letter, of the same date, came  from the area director. It said that 
Nationwide would be closing  Mrs Hs account.
Nationwide is able to decide who it does business  with, in the same way as Mrs H is able to 
make that decision. It does look to me at this point as if the working relationship  between  
Nationwide and Mrs H had broken down. So I dont  think it was unreasonable for Nationwide 
to close Mrs Hs account. As Mrs H was so unhappy with Nationwides  service, she may 
have closed her account  herself if Nationwide hadnt taken this step.
Mrs H said that this letter referred to another visit shed made to a branch, and she hadnt 
been back. (Her son had written  to the branch, using what Nationwide  considered  to be 
strong terms, to express views apparently held by his mother, and say that she would not 
return there. Mrs H repeated those views in a letter  she sent to Nationwide.)  
Mrs H said that because  Nationwide  said shed been back  into the branch, and she hadnt, 
that was proof it had lied. 
The letter from the area director says you have  again exhibited unwarranted aggressive 
behaviour towards  a Nationwide member of staff in our  branch so it was going  to close  
her account.  I dont think that states  that Mrs H had been back  to the branch. And I think  the 
other letter, sent by Nationwide on the same day, makes clear  that Nationwide was 
reviewing its relationship with Mrs H because of the letters that she and her son had written. 
I dont think that the letter  from the area director provides  proof that Nationwide lied about 
Mrs H. 
I have considered this complaint carefully.  It is clear that views about what  has happened 
differ markedly. But I dont think that I can conclude that its more  likely than not that 
Nationwide has behaved unfairly or unreasonably to Mrs H. And I dont think, for the reasons 
Ive set out above, that its more likely that Nationwides staff have lied. 
I know that Mrs H feels  very strongly  about  this case, so I realise she will be very 
disappointed by my decision, but I dont think that her complaint should be upheld.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 February  2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6053665