K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr R and Mr T say West Bromwich Building Society mis-sold them the MPPI.
background
I sent Mr R and Mr T and West Bromwich Building Society my provisional decision on 
29 March 2019  explaining why I was intending  to decide that the MPPI wasnt  mis-sold, but 
that West Bromwich Building  Society should  pay back  to Mr R and Mr T any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.
I said that before I issued  my final decision, Id look at any more comments  and evidence  I 
received by 29 April 2019.
Since sending  my provisional decision,  I have not received any new points to consider.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr R and Mr Ts case.
Ive reached the same  conclusions as in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. 
Ive explained  my reasons again  below.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think West Bromwich  Building Society made  it clear that Mr R and Mr T didnt have to 
take out the MPPI and that they chose to take it out.
West Bromwich Building Society  recommended  the MPPI to Mr R and Mr T so it had to 
check that the MPPI was right for them  and based  on what Ive seen of their 
circumstances at the time, I think that it was. They werent  affected by any of the main  
exclusions to or limits  on the MPPI  cover. And although Mr R and Mr T have said Mr T 
was unable  to claim under the policy for a broken ankle that happened abroad,  and this 
wasnt made  clear to them when they bought the policy, I can see from a transcript  of the 
sales call in October 2004 that the policy wasnt in force  when that happened. So the 
policy couldnt  be expected to cover  that. The policy was designed to protect 
Mr R and Mr T for the unexpected in the future. And although Mr R and Mr T were  both 
entitled to some  sick pay and theyve  said they had some savings, the policy couldve 
paid out if either Mr R or Mr T lost their job or couldnt  work in addition to and potentially  
for longer  than this  at what  couldve been  quite a difficult time. So I think the MPPI was 
a sensible precaution and that I cant say it was wrong for West Bromwich Building 
Society to recommend  it.
Its possible the information West Bromwich Building Society gave Mr R and Mr T about 
the MPPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks 
like they wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it could have been useful for them if   
Ref: DRN61703502something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better 
information about the MPPI would have  put them off taking out the cover.
Which means West Bromwich Building Society doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the MPPI to Mr R and Mr T.
But West Bromwich Building Society will pay back some of the cost of the MPPI to 
Mr R and Mr T because:
West Bromwich Building Society  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more 
than 50% of the MPPI  premium) - so it should have told Mr R and Mr T about that. 
Because West Bromwich  Building  Society didnt tell Mr R and Mr T, that was unfair.
To put that right, West Bromwich Building Society has basically offered to pay back  the 
amount of commission  and profit share that was above  50% of the MPPI premium  - and I 
think that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr R and Mr T have said. But for the reasons explained above, 
these points dont  change my decision.
what the business needs  to do
West Bromwich  Building Society  has to pay back to Mr R and Mr T any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.  West Bromwich Building 
Society should also pay back to Mr R and Mr T any extra interest they paid because  of that.
West Bromwich  Building Society  should  pay back to Mr R and Mr T the extra  they paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of 
MPPI. West Bromwich Building  Society  should  also pay Mr R and Mr T 8%* simple  interest  
on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr R and Mr T can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The MPPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so West Bromwich Building Society does not have  to pay 
back all of the cost of the MPPI to Mr R and Mr T. 
But West Bromwich Building Society does  have to pay back  to Mr R and Mr T any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the MPPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mr T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Neil Bridge
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6170350