K820x#14complaint
Mrs E complains about the service she received from Hub Financial Solutions Limited when 
using the firm to assist with the purchase  of an annuity. She says that the firm failed to meet  
the timescales that it agreed for the purchase, and that as a result she doesnt think it has 
fairly earned  the fee that it charged.
background
Mrs E held pension savings with a firm that I will call P. These related to an additional 
voluntary contribution policy  that ran alongside her main occupational pension scheme. She 
was entitled to take these benefits when she reached 60 years of age in late October 2018.
On 28 September  2018 Mrs E, and her husband  Mr E, had a phone  conversation  with Hub.  
That call lasted for approximately 45 minutes  and I have listened to a recording of the entire 
conversation. I will refer to that call in more  detail later in this decision. And although  Mr E 
led much  of the discussion on the call on behalf of his wife, for simplicity I will refer in this 
decision to all communication as having  been with, and from, Mrs E.
On the call Hub gathered  some details about Mrs Es circumstances and the type of pension  
income she wished  to receive. It then provided  her with quotations from a range of providers  
about the level of income  she could receive.  Mrs E decided to accept the quotation provided 
by a firm I will call A.
Hub issued Mrs E with the paperwork that she would  need to complete by post.  She 
returned these  forms to Hub, which were received by the business on 8 October. They were 
then sent onto A in order that the annuity  could  be set up. In order  to do that A needed to 
request the transfer of Mrs Es pension savings from P. And P was also responsible for 
paying the pension commencement  lump sum (PCLS),  also commonly  known  as tax free 
cash, to Mrs E.
Mrs Es PCLS was paid to her on 8 November. And her annuity was set up with a start date 
of 9 November  although the first payment wasnt made to her until around  a week  later.  She 
received full details  of the annuity  from A, including the commission  it had paid to Hub, later 
that month.
Mrs Es complaint has been  assessed by one of our investigators. She didnt think  the time 
that had been taken  to arrange  the annuity  had been in excess  of what  Hub had originally 
explained to Mrs E. And she didnt think that the delay of around  ten days  between Mrs Es 
60th birthday, and the first payment being made, was likely to have caused  any significant 
financial loss. So she didnt think the complaint should be upheld.
Mrs E didnt agree with that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt been resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN64764492In deciding this complaint  Ive taken into account  the law, any relevant regulatory rules  and 
good industry practice at the time. I have also carefully considered the submissions that 
have been made by Mrs E and by Hub, and listened to the call that took place at the end of 
September 2018. Where the evidence  is unclear,  or there are conflicts, I have made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities. In other words I have looked at what 
evidence we do have,  and the surrounding  circumstances, to help me decide what I think is 
more likely to, or should, have happened.
I think at the outset it is worth setting  out the service that Hub provided to Mrs E. It didnt 
provide her with any advice about  the pension options open to her. It suggested that if she 
needed advice  she should get in touch with an independent advisor or use the government  
provided PensionWise service. But Mrs E told Hub that she was content with the choices 
she had made, and wished to use her pension savings to take a PCLS and a monthly  
annuity. So Hub simply searched the market  to provide Mrs E with information  about annuity 
rates, and then facilitated the purchase  of the annuity chosen by Mrs E.
After taking details  of Mrs Es circumstances  Hub provided her with quotations  from a range 
of different  providers. Mrs E naturally chose the firm offering the best annuity rate and Hub 
sent her the paperwork she would need  to complete to purchase  the annuity.  On two 
occasions on the call the representative of Hub explained that the application process would 
normally take around four weeks to complete. So he told Mrs E that it was possible  her 
annuity, and the PCLS,  might be in payment by her 60th birthday. But importantly he didnt  
give any guarantees that date could be achieved.
Alongside the application  form for the annuity,  Hub also sent Mrs E written details about the 
service that it provided. In  particular that letter told her that;
The time taken from receipt  of your application to your policy completion is 
dependent on how quickly funds are transferred to your annuity provider. We will do 
our utmost  to ensure  this is as quick as possible, although the time taken to transfer 
the funds remains  the responsibility of your current pension provider(s).  Currently our 
average time from receipt  of your application  to receipt of your completion  documents 
is roughly between 30 - 35 calendar  days.
And the quotation  that Hub sent from the annuity provider explained that Hub would receive 
a commission payment, that had been accounted  for in the annuity rate, for the information it 
had provided to Mrs E.
Mrs Es PCLS wasnt paid nor was her annuity set up by her 60th birthday as shed hoped. It 
took around ten days longer. So I need to consider whether that delay was as a result  of 
something that Hub did wrong.  
I can see that Hub acted  promptly  when Mrs E returned the application form. It forwarded it 
onto the annuity provider  within a couple of days. So I dont  think  that Hub introduced any 
delay into the process  here. And after that point matters were somewhat out of the control of 
Hub. The annuity  provider  A needed to get in touch with P who held Mrs Es pension  
savings, asking it to pay the PCLS and transfer  the remaining  funds so that the annuity could 
be purchased. And it seems that did introduce  a short delay  into the process.  But overall, 
both the PCLS  and the annuity had been processed  within the 30 to 35 calendar days after 
the receipt by Hub of Mrs Es application.
Ref: DRN64764493Mrs E says that she spent  a considerable amount of time chasing  A to ensure that the 
annuity was set up in a timely manner. She says that should have been  the responsibility  of 
Hub. But I wouldnt expect Hub to be chasing  something that was being set up within the 
expected timeframes.  It is impossible to say whether those timescales  would have been met 
without Mrs Es involvement. But I certainly cant say with any confidence that the timescales 
would have been missed, and so Hub has done something wrong.
As well as the actual  set up of the annuity,  Hub was reliant on A to provide the paperwork 
that Mrs E sought to confirm the annuity  had been  processed. That wouldnt be available 
until after the annuity set up had been completed. So once more I dont think it is reasonable 
to expect Hub to be able to help Mrs E until the annuity provider had completed its 
processes.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mrs E. But I dont think Hub has done 
anything wrong  that delayed  the payment of her PCLS  and the set up of the annuity. I 
therefore think it reasonable that it received the agreed commission  taken from Mrs Es 
pension savings and reflected in the annuity  rate she was offered. I dont think this complaint 
should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Hub Financial Solutions  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 November 2020.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6476449