K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains hes lost out because Interactive Investor Services Limited (Interactive
Investor) didnt do what they should  have when a company he held shares in was the 
subject of a corporate action.
background
Mr J held shares in a company (company A) in an ISA with Interactive Investor. 
In August  2017,  company  A was the subject of a corporate action  a proposed  takeover by 
another company (company B).
Interactive Investor  notified Mr J of the corporate action on 11 August 2017. Their  message 
explained that the action  was voluntary and that Mr J should let them know  if he elected to 
receive shares in company B. Interactive Investor sent Mr J a number  of similar messages 
up to November 2017, with the deadline for response being  extended  each time.   
The message Interactive  Investor sent to Mr J on 10 November 2017 told him the offer had 
been declared as unconditional. That meant  the remaining shares would be compulsorily 
acquired. Interactive  Investor didnt receive  a response from Mr J.  
The corporate action  was completed  in December 2017. Mr Js holding  in company A 
continued to show  in his account,  but with a zero value. 
In April 2018, Mr J contacted Interactive Investor to ask what  had happened to the proceeds  
of his shares. He was told Interactive  Investor  could claim shares in company B on his behalf 
from the dissentient  register.  The register was for shareholders who hadnt accepted  the 
takeover offer.
Mr J asked Interactive Investor  to claim the shares for him. They told him the process could 
take six weeks or more  to complete. After that, Mr J called Interactive Investor several  times 
to find out what  was happening. 
Mr Js claim was processed by the registrar  in July 2018 and Interactive Investor  credited his 
account with the shares on 24 July. Mr J sold the shares the following day. 
Mr J complains that it shouldnt have been down  to him to initiate  the claim for his shares.  
He says Interactive  Investor should have  done this automatically, and that dissenting  
shareholders were  put at a disadvantage. Mr J complains  that it took about seven months to 
receive his shares  after the corporate  action  was completed. And he lost out as a result 
because the share price  had dropped by about  20% over that time.
Our investigator looked into Mr Js complaint. He didnt think Interactive Investor  were  
responsible for the delay in Mr J receiving his shares. So he didnt think  they needed  to 
do anything differently to resolve Mr Js complaint.  Mr J disagrees  and has asked for an 
ombudsman to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Js complaint.  
Ref: DRN62495442Im satisfied that Interactive Investor notified  Mr J promptly of the corporate action and gave 
him several  opportunities to respond. Mr J has said he did reply  and voted  against  the 
takeover, but neither he nor Interactive  Investor  have a record of his response.  
I cant be sure whether or not Mr J replied to Interactive Investor. But whether Mr J didnt 
respond, or voted against the takeover, he would have been treated as a dissenting 
shareholder when  the corporate  action was completed.
Mr J complains that dissenting shareholders  were put at a disadvantage  to other 
shareholders. He says Interactive Investor  should  have initiated  a claim for his shares,  
without him needing to instruct them.
Interactive Investor  say that, at the time, they didnt automatically obtain shares for 
customers in these  circumstances.  They would only have  claimed  Mr Js shares once  a 
dissentient register had been set up and hed requested it. 
Interactive Investor  werent required to do anything more. So I cant  say they failed to do 
something they should have. And neither have I seen evidence that they treated Mr J 
differently to how they would have treated any other  customer in the same  position. 
   
Ive also looked  at the time it took for Mr J to receive his shares once he asked  for them  to 
be claimed. Interactive  Investor told Mr J in April 2018 that the process could take six weeks 
or more  to complete. In the event, it took more than three months.  
Interactive Investor  have  said they wrote  to the registrar when they received Mr Js request. 
And when  they hadnt received a response  within six weeks, they contacted the registrar  
again. The registrar told them  they couldnt identify the shareholding and so Interactive 
Investor gave them  more information. On 16 July the registrar confirmed that Mr Js request 
had been processed. They said the delay was caused in part by the number of claims that 
had been made.
Interactive Investor  have  been able to provide  copies of some of their correspondence with 
the registrar. Based  on what Ive seen, I think they contacted the registrar promptly  after 
Mr Js request and then chased  up when there  was a delay.  The process took longer  than 
Mr J would have expected. But I dont think Interactive Investor were responsible for the 
delay, which  was outside of their control.     
I agree  with our investigator that Interactive  Investor  could have done  more to update Mr J 
when he called to find out what was happening. But I dont think this affected  the time it took 
for Mr J to receive  his shares. Although Mr J could have been given more information  by the 
call handlers he spoke  to, Interactive  Investor had asked the registrar  to process his claim 
and were chasing them up. 
Finally, Ive also thought  about whether Interactive  Investor have treated Mr J fairly in view of 
the changes theyve since made  to their processes. They say they now automatically obtain  
shares following  compulsory events. 
I can understand why Mr J is frustrated about  this. If a similar event took place now, its likely 
that Interactive  Investor would automatically  claim his shares. And Mr J says hes lost out 
because of what happened to the share  price  of company B.
Ref: DRN62495443But Ive also thought about  what would  likely  have happened if Interactive Investor had 
claimed Mr Js shares without waiting for his request.  
The corporate action  was completed  in December 2017. Even if Interactive Investor  had 
claimed Mr Js shares automatically,  the process  would  still have taken  some  time. 
The share price of company B fluctuated  significantly between December 2017 and 
July 2018. For example,  it was lower in February  and March  2018 than it was in 
December 2017.  It then rose during April 2018. 
I cant be sure when  Mr J would  have  received his shares if Interactive Investor had claimed 
them automatically. But its quite  likely  he would have received them  at a time when they 
were valued  at a lower  price than they were in in July 2018. And I note that Mr J sold his 
shares almost as soon  as he received  them. So, even if I were  to find against  Interactive 
Investor, I dont think I could fairly  say they should compensate Mr J for any lost opportunity 
to sell his shares for a higher  price.
I understand that Mr J feels strongly  about whats happened, and Id like to reassure  him that 
Ive looked carefully  at everything hes said. 
I realise this wont be the decision Mr J was hoping for, but I wont be asking Interactive 
Investor to do anything more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Js complaint 
against Interactive  Investor Services Limited .
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6249544