K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that he was mis-sold a hire purchase agreement  by Chapel House Motor Co 
Ltd (Chapel House).
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2020.  In that decision I explained  that, unless I 
received additional information that changed  my mind, I was expecting  not to uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. An extract of that provisional  decision is set out below:
Mr B took receipt of a used car in March 2018. He financed the deal through a hire purchase 
agreement that was brokered by Chapel House. The agreement required him to pay 48 
monthly instalments  and a final balloon payment was due at the end of the agreement  if he 
wished to become  the owner of the car.
Mr B says he has a visual disability which means he needs a magnifying  glass  to read and 
he gets others to read for him. So he says he relied on what he was told by the sales  agent 
when he signed  the finance  agreement.  He says he was told that the finance instalments 
were what  he was expecting to pay but he later discovered there was a balloon  payment of 
£4,700 due at the end of the agreement. He says he would not have proceeded with the 
deal if hed know that and that the agreement was therefore misrepresented  to him.
Chapel House didnt  agree. They said hed signed the agreement and that they followed a 
robust process in which all details of the contract would have been read out to Mr B when he 
was asked to sign it. They said that without the balloon payment it must have been clear  that 
Mr B that he was paying less than the value of the car as the 48 monthly instalments added  
up to considerably less than the total sum being  financed. 
So Mr B referred his complaint to this service and our adjudicator  provided  his opinion. He 
was persuaded  by Mr Bs testimony that he probably  hadnt been told about the balloon 
payment because he noted  he had challenged this as soon as hed received  a copy  of the 
agreement through  the post,  about  two weeks after the agreement had started. So he 
thought Chapel  House should put Mr B back in the position he would have been in if the 
agreement hadnt  been mis-sold. To do that he thought they should  cancel the finance  
agreement; collect  the car; refund Mr Bs deposit and any finance instalments hed paid with 
interest, and pay him £200 compensation in respect  of the distress and inconvenience hed 
experienced.
Chapel House didnt  agree with the adjudicator. They therefore asked for a final decision by 
an ombudsman.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr B but I dont currently agree with the adjudicators view of this 
complaint and Im not expecting to uphold  it. Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ref: DRN69374622Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr B financed his car through a hire purchase agreement. This is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to consider complaints about it.
The relevant  law says that the agreement should  not have been misrepresented. If it was, 
and if I was persuaded that Mr B would not have proceeded with the deal if the 
misrepresentation hadnt taken place, then Id think Chapel House were responsible and Id 
ask them  to take some further action.
But here, on balance,  I dont think Ive currently been presented  with sufficient information to 
show the agreement  was misrepresented. I say that because although Ive found  Mr Bs 
evidence to be consistent Ive also found  Chapel Houses  evidence to be similarly 
consistent. I think theres more evidence  that the deal was fully explained than there is 
evidence that it wasnt. I say that because:
Mr B signed the agreement and I think its reasonable  to suggest he would therefore 
have taken time to understand  what he was agreeing to;
I can see that whilst the application  was made on 17 March the paperwork wasnt  
signed until 21 March  2018. I think that would have been likely to have afforded  Mr B 
enough time to clarify what was in the agreement if he was having trouble reading it;
the 48 monthly payments would clearly not cover the total sum to be financed so I 
think its reasonable to suggest this would have raised concerns and have suggested 
there was a missing  piece  of the jigsaw. That, I think, should have led Mr B to 
understand that the deal did not give him ownership  of the car until the balloon  
payment had been made;
there was a maximum permitted mileage  on the contract and it would not make any 
sense to include one if the option to purchase was not a future consideration.
Whilst I have no reason to doubt that Mr B has sight difficulties  Ive not seen medical  
evidence of that on file. But even with that evidence I would have to be persuaded that it was 
most likely the deal would have been inadequately explained and also that Mr B had not 
sought clarification  of what was contained in the contract from someone who could read the 
agreement in the time he had between making the application for finance and signing the 
deal. I dont think Ive seen sufficient evidence that this was the case and Im therefore  
persuaded that the balance of evidence currently suggests it is most  likely the agreement  
was not mis-sold to Mr B.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im not currently expecting to uphold  this complaint.
Chapel House agreed with my provisional  decision, but Mr B didnt. He explained  that he 
had told the dealership about his £200  per month budget when he visited the dealership and 
that at no time was a balloon payment discussed  or explained to him. He said he didnt 
receive a copy of the agreement for a couple of weeks and it was then, when he was able to 
read it using equipment he only had at home, that he raised concerns with Chapel House. 
Ref: DRN69374623He said he had realised  since  hed received my email that it was not his signature on the 
finance document, and he had now reported this to the police as he said it was potential 
fraud. He also disputed whether the sales manager  who had witnessed his signature had 
been present  when  the document was apparently signed.
He went on to explain that he had stopped making  payments  on the vehicle and it had been  
taken off the road. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about what Mr B has had to say and I understand the points hes made  but Im 
afraid its not persuaded me to change my decision.
Mr B has explained that he didnt receive the paperwork  for a couple  of weeks,  but I can see 
there were several days between the application being made and the finance being signed.  I 
think that was sufficient time in which Mr B could have considered whether the deal was right 
for him. Im still not persuaded that it wouldnt have been clear that the monthly  payments 
alone could not cover the amount of credit  being supplied. I think its reasonable to suggest  
this would have  been clear and the need  for a balloon  payment would have  most  likely been 
apparent at the time of application. If the vehicle wasnt subject to an optional final payment 
to take ownership  then it would not make  sense to have a mileage limitation  on the 
agreement.
Mr B has now raised issues about  his signature potentially being  forged. I dont think he ever 
disputed entering  the finance agreement with Chapel  House so, whilst I understand Mr Bs 
concerns about  this and his willingness to discuss the matter with the police, Im not 
persuaded there is sufficient evidence to suggest  he didnt enter into a finance agreement to 
fund his vehicle.  I think similar comments could be made about the sales managers 
signature. Im persuaded there was an agreement  to provide credit.
Mr B has explained that he visited the dealership in response to a TV advertising campaign 
that offered  interest free finance.  He says they should have told him this was not what  was 
being offered  to him. Ive not seen that advert,  but the business werent under an obligation 
to provide what they advertised. The offer of finance would have been made having 
reviewed Mr Bs circumstances  and it was for him to decide whether the terms of the finance 
that was advanced was acceptable to him.
So, whilst I understand  Mr Bs concerns and sympathise with his situation,  Im afraid there 
isnt enough information here to suggest the business has done  anything wrong.
Ref: DRN69374624my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6937462