K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that UIA (Insurance) Limited gave poor service under the home  emergency  
section of his home insurance policy.
background
Mr M had a boiler installed in about May 2010 . It had a burner/ heat exchanger  assembly 
with an attached fan. The fan was bolted or screwed into a screw thread in the heat 
exchanger with a gasket  to form a gas-tight seal.
Since about 2011, Mr M had annual home insurance with home emergency cover. It covered 
breakdown repairs  of his boiler but it didnt  cover annual servicing.
The events in question  took place in 2018.  The policy terms for that year mention an   
insurer syndicate as well as UIA. But UIA is the insurer responsible  for dealing with claims,  
according to its policy administrator. Where I refer to UIA or the insurer  I include engineers,  
claims-handlers and any others for whose actions I hold it responsible.
For home emergencies  the policy limit was two hours labour plus £100.00 parts.
In May 2018  Mr M contacted the insurer because his boiler wasnt working properly. The 
insurer sent an engineer, Mr S. He replaced the seal or gasket and intended to replace the 
ignition electrodes. 
But he said that someone had previously cross-threaded the bolt in its hole - so Mr M was 
going to need a new heat exchanger.
Neither Mr M nor the insurer  realised that the heat exchanger was still under the 
manufacturers warranty. The insurer said that the boiler was beyond economic repair 
(BER).
Mr M complained that  as no-one  else had dismantled that part of the boiler  - the insurer 
was responsible for the cross-threaded bolt.
On about 10 May 2018, Mr M got an engineer  Mr C to install  a new boiler. It cost £1,185.70  
plus a labour charge, a total of £1,585.00. 
our investigators opinion
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that the 
policy excluded previous faulty work but the insurer hadnt demonstrated that the exclusion  
applied to this claim.
The investigator recommended  that UIA should  pay as a claim £1,585.00 less such  
excesses and caps as the insurer would normally apply.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr M 
and to British  Gas on 6 March 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Ref: DRN65364952On balance I found that Mr S fell below a reasonable standard of skill and care,  
damaged the screw-thread and sought  to blame  it on previous engineers. 
Overall I was minded  to find it fair and reasonable to order  UIA to pay Mr M £750.00 
towards the cost of his new boiler. 
As hes been out of pocket since 10 May 2018,  I was minded to order UIA to add 
interest at our usual  rate.
Subject to any further information from Mr M or from British Gas, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint . I intended to direct British  Gas Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr M:
1.£750.00 towards the cost of his new boiler;  and
2.simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from 10 May 2018  to the date of 
payment. If UIA considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr M how much its taken off. It should also 
give him a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Mr M accepts the provisional  decision.
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I accept Mr Ms statement  that he can remember who did what  work on his boiler. Mr R did 
annual services, the last of which was on 25 July 2017. 
And in about 2015 UIA fixed  a loose wire connection  in the junction  box. The insurer was 
going to come back to replace a faulty expansion vessel. But that didnt happen. So Mr M 
got Mr C to replace  it. 
I accept Mr Ms evidence  that none  of this work involved  undoing  the screw on the heat 
exchanger.
I also accept Mr Ms statement that a carbon monoxide alarm installed about  8 feet from the 
boiler had never activated. 
When Mr M called  for help in May 2018,  UIA authorised its engineer  to replace  the seal and 
electrodes. So I dont think  it initially thought the boiler was BER.
 
But later during the visit, the engineer told Mr M that someone had cross-threaded  the bolt. 
So it wasnt  holding a seal and the boiler  needed  a new heat exchanger.
In the meantime the seal would leak, so the engineer  turned off the boiler  and issued a 
warning notice  leaving  Mr M without a working  boiler for hot water  and heating.
Ref: DRN65364953The notice said the cross-threaded  bolt was the result of earlier  work. I see that Mr M signed 
the notice. But I dont think that resolves the question of who had cross-threaded the bolt.
Mr S says the gasket  had been damaged on the side where the bolt was loose and heat had 
been escaping.
In June 2018 Mr M arranged a visit from anther  engineer  Mr O. From his experience, I 
accept him as qualified  to give opinion evidence as an expert. He expressed the opinion  that 
it was the ignition  leads that had failed causing the boiler breakdown. He said the heat 
exchanger gasket had been damaged - but not by heat. 
In June 2018 the manufacturer  said that if the bolt hadnt been  correctly secured it wouldnt 
apply sufficient pressure  to the gasket  to create a full seal. Over time that could lead to 
leakage from the seal and damage the gasket and the electrodes.
Recently the manufacturer wrote to Mr M as follows:
The cause of any premature  gasket failure is always due to lack of servicing or 
failure to follow  the guidance provided  in the lnstallation and Servicing manual.
It will fail is due to excessive temperatures  around the burner area which is usually 
caused by an obstructed  heat exchanger flue-way or because the gasket has been  
disturbed, maybe to inspect electrodes, and not replaced.
The boiler should be serviced annually  at which point a fan depression check  should 
be carried out to determine the level of obstruction within the heat exchanger  due to 
the natural deposits from the combustion process;  if required, the heat exchanger  
must be cleaned at this point.
The insurer  has recently provided a report from another expert Mr H. He expressed the 
opinion that the seal/gasket had perished  and heat had damaged the electrode leads. He 
said as follows:
There  is also no proof to why the bolt was cross threaded, this could  of happened 
when the boiler  was made, when it had been  serviced or when it has attempted  to be 
repaired.
I dont think that the insurer  was at fault for not asking Mr M whether the heat exchanger  was 
still under  warranty. And I think it wouldve been open to the manufacturer to say that its 
warranty didnt cover damage by cross-threading after manufacture.
But there is a conflict  of expert opinion evidence as to whats likely to have gone wrong. And 
I prefer the evidence  of Mr M, Mr R and Mr C to the evidence of Mr S.
So on balance I find that Mr S fell below a reasonable standard  of skill and care,  damaged 
the screw-thread  and sought to blame it on previous engineers.  
In trying to put Mr M back in the position he shouldve been in, I dont find it fair and 
reasonable to order the insurer to pay all the costs of his new boiler.  And in fairness, Mr M 
never asked  for that. His complaint form asked us to consider the compensation cost of a 
new heat exchanger and half the repair costs to offset the £1,585.00.
Ref: DRN65364954The insurer  has estimated  the total cost of supplying a new heat exchanger as around 
£510.00 plus VAT (a total of about £612.00) plus up to three hours  for installation. It 
estimated a total of around £1,100.00.
Mr Ms boiler  was about 8 years old when UIAs engineer damaged  its heat exchanger. If it 
hadnt been for that damage, Mr M couldve expected the boiler  to go on for several years to 
come.
So overall Im minded  to find it fair and reasonable to order  UIA to pay Mr M £750.00 
towards the cost of his new boiler. As hes been  out of pocket since  10 May 2018, Im 
minded to order UIA to add interest at our usual  rate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct UIA 
(Insurance) Limited  to pay Mr M:
1.£750.00 towards the cost of his new boiler;  and
2.Simple interest on that amount at a yearly  rate of 8% from 10 
May 2018 to the date of payment. If UIA considers that its 
required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it must tell Mr M how much  its taken off. It 
should also give him a tax deduction certificate  if he asks for 
one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 April 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6536495