K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains about the amount  Arrow  Global Limited charged him to repay his secured 
loan.
background 
Mr K took out a secured  loan with another company in 2006. The loan was later taken over 
by Arrow, and Mr K repaid  it in full in 2016.  He complains about the settlement figure  Arrow 
charged almost £17,000 to redeem the loan,  and Mr K calculates hed paid around £13,000 
during the life of the loan,  yet he only borrowed £10,000 to start with.
Arrow explained that Mr K had been  in and out of arrears for much of the life of the loan. 
Mr K said that there had been long periods when hed been unwell and in hospital and 
unable to work. But Arrow said that when the loan wasnt paid, additional interest  to that 
originally included was charged. And where  payments were missed, arrears  fees and legal 
fees were necessary to try to recover the arrears. It said the redemption  figure was accurate. 
But it offered  to refund just over £500 of arrears  fees it said, on reflection,  didnt  need  to be 
charged  together with interest on them.
Mr K complained to us. He said the redemption  figure wasnt fair, and it wasnt  right he had 
to pay so much when hed only borrowed £10,000.
Our investigator didnt  think the redemption figure was wrong. But she didnt think  it was right 
that the previous lender  had charged arrears  fees during 2014 when Mr K was unwell. Arrow 
agreed to refund the additional arrears fees charged  during  2014, amounting  to an extra 
£135 plus interest. Mr K didnt think that went far enough, and asked for an ombudsman  to 
review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear of the various  health conditions Mr K has had, and I recognise  it cant  have 
been easy for him.
But I think the loan balance he was charged on redemption was correct. He borrowed 
£10,000 in 2006 at an interest rate of just under 12%. The interest  rate has changed a few 
times since then  it was a variable rate  but it has always been  around that level. 
When Mr K misses a payment, the balance doesnt  reduce  in that month.  So, the next 
month, the balance is higher than expected  and more interest is charged as a result.  
Where several payments are missed, this can result in the balance  increasing fairly quickly.
The original  credit agreement in 2006 said that Mr K was borrowing £10,000 over 20 years.  
The total interest he would have to pay over that period was, the credit  agreement said 
(assuming the interest  rate didnt change, which it later did), just over £17,000. That makes a 
total of £27,000 to repay.
Ref: DRN69725982Mr K repaid  the loan early   after 10 years  rather than 20. In the first half of any long term 
loan, the borrower  mostly repays interest not capital, and in the second half mostly  pays 
capital rather than interest. 
And, as Ive explained,  where payments are missed  the amount of interest payable mounts  
and the missed payments still have to be made.
The previous  lender  also added fees and charges to the balance.  Our investigator explained, 
and Mr K accepted,  that theres generally a six year time limit for making complaints, so we 
cant consider charges  applied before then. 
Having looked  at the loan account, I dont think theres any evidence that the figure Mr K was 
asked to repay his loan was wrong  or wrongly calculated.  That was the outstanding amount  
at that point, and the loan had operated as it should  have done,  taking into account the 
missed payments, to reach that point.
However, I do think that some of the fees and charges should not have  been  added to the 
loan balance. There were  some months where more than one fee was charged. And the 
investigator identified  a time when Mr K was seriously unwell, and the previous lender knew  
that, and it wasnt  fair to add further  charges to the balance. I think  the two refunds  offered 
by Arrow   the £505, plus the later £135 identified  by the investigator   are fair. I think Arrow 
should refund those  fees, with interest. But I dont require it to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct Arrow 
Global Limited to refund the £505 fees it offered, together with all fees charged in 2014 
amounting to £135.
To each  refunded fee it should  add interest. Interest is to be calculated from the date of each 
refund, at the loan rate from time to time to the date the loan was redeemed,  and then at 8% 
simple per year from then until date of settlement. If Arrow considers it should deduct income 
tax from the 8% interest  element of my award it may do so but should give Mr K the 
necessary paperwork,  if he asks for it, to allow  him to reclaim the tax from HMRC if hes 
entitled to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6972598