K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Lloyds  Bank plc mis-sold him payment protection insurance (PPI). 
background
This complaint is about PPI taken out to cover  Mr Ms Visa and Mastercards. The cards were  
issued at the same time when Mr M applied for a credit card account.  The bank cant confirm 
where or when the policies were sold. It assumes it was in 1994 when the credit card 
account was opened, although its records dont show PPI being  charged on the account until 
2000. The policies  gave Mr M protection against accident, sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr M disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where  the evidence is incomplete  Ive made my 
decision based on the balance of probabilities  so, on what  I think  is most likely  given  the 
available evidence and what  we know about  how Lloyds sold PPI at the time.
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Ive thought carefully  about  what Mr M said - that hes sure he didnt willingly take out 
PPI. There isnt much information  to go on in this case, because everything happened  
so long ago. And I dont think its surprising or unreasonable  Lloyds doesnt have Mr Ms 
application form any more. 
From what  we know about how Lloyds sold PPI with credit cards  between 1994 and 
2000, I think its likely Lloyds wouldve made Mr M aware he had a choice about  PPI. 
The sample of the application form hes likely  to have used shows he would have 
needed to tick a box to take out PPI. And the option to decline PPI would have  been  set 
out with equal prominence.
I have taken into account Mr Ms comments,  but I also have to consider how long ago 
the sale was and how that might  affect what he recalls. Overall,  without  stronger 
evidence showing the bank didnt make clear  PPI was optional,  I cant fairly conclude  
Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr M without  giving him a choice,  and him agreeing  to take it. 
Its most  likely Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr M. This means Lloyds had to make 
sure it was right for him. I think  it was suitable based on what  Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. Mr M was entitled  to six months  full pay and six months half 
pay if he was sick, but the PPI would have paid out for up to 12 months for all successful 
accident, sickness  and unemployment claims. Mr M told us he had some  savings but 
the PPI would have allowed him to use these for other living  expenses  whilst not 
working, or to keep  them  intact for his future needs. Mr M also said his wife would have 
helped but thats  not suitable  alternative  protection. Its not guaranteed  and peoples 
circumstances can change. So, overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful to Mr M if 
he was sick or lost his job.
Ref: DRN66898972Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been. However, based  on the policies Lloyds sold during this time, it seems he 
wouldnt have been affected by any of the exclusions  or limitations.  And, given what we 
know about the cost of Lloyds PPI policies over these  years,  the PPI wouldve been  
competitively priced and it was apparently affordable. Mr M was eligible for the policies 
given his circumstances at the time and the policies terms and conditions. So I think  it 
unlikely Mr M wouldve made a different decision if better information  had been  provided. 
On balance I think he would still have taken out the policies.
It follows I dont think Mr M has lost out because of any problems with this sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6689897