K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Cofunds Limited failed to transfer his stocks and shares Individual 
Savings Account (ISA) to his new provider.
background
In May 2018, Mr D requested for his ISA to be transferred from Cofunds to a new provider, 
for the purposes  of this decision Ill refer to the new provider as S. Mr D asked for this 
transfer to be made as cash. Cofunds  couldnt complete the transfer because they can only 
make electronic transfers and S can only accept transfers in by cheque.  
Cofunds said they received a transfer  request  from S on 17 May 2018. They wrote back  
asking for S bank  account details and payment  reference as they couldnt transfer Mr Ds 
funds by cheque. Cofunds said S didnt  respond. They explained they made a business  
decision to change their processes  to only allow electronic payments in 2017 and wrote  to 
their customers to let them know.
One of our investigators  looked into things, he highlighted the relevant terms and conditions  
applicable to Mr Ds account explaining that Cofunds can only make transfers electronically. 
Our investigator acknowledged  Mr Ds frustration  but explained Cofunds werent obliged to 
make the transfer  by cheque.
Mr D disagreed, he said the process  was allowed by HMRC and this wasnt a good  customer 
outcome. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with what our 
investigator has said for much of the same  reasons.
Mr D is in an unfortunate position  here.  Cofunds  and S cannot reach an agreement  on the 
transfer of his ISA account. The terms of Mr Ds account only allow for electronic transfers. 
Its clear that Cofunds have been  in touch  with S more than once  to request their account 
details for an electronic  transfer to be made  I think this was reasonable of Cofunds.
The HMRC  provides guidance  for ISA managers like Cofunds and S. This doesnt provide 
specific guidance on stocks and shares ISA accounts like Mr Ds. It also doesnt require ISA 
managers to accept payments in nor does  it specify the payment method  that should  be 
used. 
Cofunds have  a duty of care to their clients. The Financial  Conduct Authoritys handbook 
includes some  overriding principles for firms. There is one principle that Ive considered in 
relation to Mr Ds complaint. Principle 6 is a firm must pay due regard to the interests of its 
customers and treat them fairly. 
Mr D feels because Cofunds wont make  the transfer by cheque  theyre essentially failing to 
treat him fairly. I think the evidence shows that Cofunds have been in touch  with S to try to 
facilitate this transfer in the only way their systems can  electronically.  Im empathetic to the 
position Mr D is in but I dont think theyre treating him unfairly by not making a cheque  
payment and I think theyve done  what they needed  to by getting  in touch with S. 
Ref: DRN60068362I havent found that Cofunds are required to facilitate Mr Ds transfer  by a cheque  payment. 
Mr D may want to take some advice about a way around this as there  may be ways of 
facilitating the transfer out that he requires without the need  for an electronic or cheque  
payment. But this would of course depend  on his needs.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6006836