K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1993. Mr and Mrs E say Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them the PPI. 
background
In 1993 Mr and Mrs E took out a mortgage with Santander. At the same time they were  sold 
a PPI policy. The policy covered Mr E only. The policy covered the mortgage repayments 
against Mr E not being able to work due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. If Mr E 
had lost his job the policy could pay a monthly benefit for up to 12 months  per claim. If Mr E 
became unable to work due to an accident or ill-health it could have paid a monthly benefit 
for up to 36 months. The cost of the policy was initially £13.90  per month.
An adjudicator from this service didnt think the complaint should be upheld. Mr and Mrs E 
disagreed with the adjudicators findings  so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Santander hasnt  got copies of the paperwork that was completed at the time of the 
mortgage. This isnt unusual and its understandable because it has been over 25 years 
since the sale took place. But where  there  is limited  information, I will make my decision 
based on whats more  likely to have happened, taking  into account the evidence available,  
what both parties have told me and what we know about these types of sale.
From experience I think the paperwork used at the time of the sale would have given          
Mr and Mrs E a choice about whether to take the PPI and the level of cover they required. 
And I note the policy remained in place for many  years until 2017.  The premiums  were taken 
from their bank account by direct  debit separately  from their mortgage repayments. So, I 
think Mr and Mrs E would have been aware  they were paying for the policy.  If it was 
something that had not been discussed or that Mr and Mrs E didnt want, Id expect them to 
have questioned it at an early stage. But Ive not seen any evidence  that they did so.
Santander has told us its representative should have advised Mr and Mrs E to take out the 
policy. And I do think it is likely the advisor told them they should apply for the policy,  but 
thats not the same as telling them they had to. 
All this makes me think that Mr and Mrs E were most likely made aware the PPI was 
optional. And I think they chose to take the PPI knowing they didnt have to  although  I can 
understand why they cant remember this after so many years have passed.
Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs E, so it had to check  that the PPI was right 
for them and based on what  Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
I say this for the following  reasons:
Ref: DRN66575082The policy was set up to cover Mr E. From  what Ive seen he wasnt  affected  by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover, for instance he didnt  have any medical conditions 
that he wouldnt have  been able to claim for.
Mr E has told us hed receive 12 months sick pay if hed become unable  to work. From 
experience it would be rare to receive  12 months  full sick pay but even if Mr E were entitled  
to this amount  of pay the PPI would  have paid him a monthly benefit in addition  to his sick 
pay. And this particular  PPI policy could have paid a monthly  benefit  for up to 36 months per 
claim, which is much longer than his sick pay would last. So, I still think Mr and Mrs E would  
have found it useful, especially if Mr E had become unable to work for a prolonged period of 
time.
The policy would also have paid a monthly  benefit  if Mr E had lost his job. Meaning he could 
use any redundancy pay for other  living expenses and costs  at would likely be a difficult 
time.
Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs E about the PPI wasnt as clear  as 
it shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this type 
of cover.  And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went wrong.         
It also looks like it was affordable. So, I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all the cost of the PPI to                          
Mr and Mrs E.
But Santander will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs E because: 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So, to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium. 
Santander said that the level of commission and profit share  it received did create an unfair 
relationship. So, to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mr and Mrs E paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it received was more than 50% of the cost 
of PPI premium. It also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate Mr and Mrs E 
for any time they were out of pocket. 
One of the things I need to take into account when  deciding what  is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Es complaint is the law. But I also need to take into 
account relevant  regulators  rules,  guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to be good  industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case Santander has made Mr and Mrs E an offer of compensation in relation to the 
level of commission it received that is in-line with the methods set out by the FCA.              
But Mr and Mrs E say they are not satisfied with the resolution offered by Santander.  
Ref: DRN66575083I have looked  at the particular circumstances of Mr and Mrs E and their complaint to see if 
theres anything about  them that would mean  the business should  do something different     
if the remedies  set out in the FCAs rules  dont lead to fair and reasonable redress for them. 
But there isnt anything about  Mr and Mrs Es complaint or circumstances that suggest  the 
redress offered by Santander  isnt fair or reasonable.
In this case I think Santanders offer is a fair way to resolve this case.
what the business needs  to do
Santander has to pay back  to Mr and Mrs E any commission and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Santander  should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs E any 
extra interest they paid because of that.
Santander should pay back to Mr and Mrs E the extra they paid each month  because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Santander should 
also pay Mr and Mrs E 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs E can claim back the tax 
if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs E.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs E any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6657508