K821x#15complaint
Mr Es complaint was about the compensation  Barclays  Bank  UK PLC offered to settle his 
complaint about  mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) associated  with his mortgage.
background
Mr Es mortgage was taken out with a business which is now part of Barclays and alongside 
the mortgage he took out a PPI policy paid for by a monthly premium. When Mr E provided  a 
copy of a letter from July 1991, showing the PPI policy was taken, out Barclays  agreed to 
uphold his complaint the PPI was mis-sold and offered  £101.28 in compensation.
Barclays calculation only included two months premiums, for July and August 1991, as it 
said it had no records of Mr Es mortgage and the PPI. So it had based  its offer on the letter 
Mr E provided, sent in July 1991 and referring  to a premium being  paid in August 1991. But 
without further  evidence of how long the PPI may have been active Barclays  said it wasnt  
willing to refund any more premiums.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in February 2019. Mr E hasnt made  any 
response to my provisional  decision. 
Barclays has responded to my provisional  decision and said it will now make  a new offer of 
compensation to Mr E.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclayss agreed to uphold Mr Es complaint that the PPI was mis-sold so I have only 
considered what  would be fair compensation to settle the complaint.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, Barclays was unable to trace  any records at all about 
Mr Es mortgage or the PPI. The only evidence that PPI was sold was the letter  Mr E 
provided dated 12 July 1991.
This letter enclosed  the Insurance Certificate and stated Your  proposal has been accepted 
and cover commenced on 11/7/91 for a total monthly benefit of £400.00. The monthly  
premium of £18.00  will be collected by direct  debit, the first premium being  due on 
11/8/91. 
The letter was sent was the day after the PPI started, so I am satisfied this showed when the 
PPI started. It was unclear why Barclays said in its final response letter that the PPI ended 
on 5 August 1991. If the PPI had ended on this date then it would appear that no premiums 
would ever have  been  paid as the letter states  the first one would be taken  on 11 August 
1991.
Barclays said it would refund the premiums for July and August 1991 because these two 
months were  mentioned  in the letter  from July 1991. But as I explained in my provisional 
decision, that assumption had no reasonable basis and I didnt think it was fair.
Ref: DRN66235042Mr E had said the mortgage ended before its full term and he recalled this being around 
October/November 2003. But there was no clear evidence as to when the mortgage, and the 
PPI, actually ended.
I said in my provisional decision Barclays should consider making an average offer. In this 
case to start in August 2011 and end at the date in 2001 when its records started.  
However Barclays has responded  to my provisional decision indicating  that it will now use 
Mr Es testimony that the PPI ended  in November 2003 and calculate a new offer of 
compensation using this date.
So Barclays  has said it will now offer a full refund  of the £18.00 per month premium from 
July 1991 to November 2003 and pay compensatory interest, of 15% and 8% as applicable, 
on the premiums paid by Mr E for any time he was out of pocket.   This  compensatory  
interest will be calculated to the date of final settlement.  
Basic rate tax will need to be deducted from the compensatory interest as required by HM 
Revenue and Customs. Mr E should request a tax certificate from Barclays  if this is required.
Barclays has also said a cheque was sent to Mr E for the original compensation offered but 
as this was not cashed it had been  cancelled.  So it would make no deductions from the new 
amount of compensation calculated for any previous payment.
I think this is a fair approach to work out the compensation due to Mr E for the PPI with his 
mortgage. It would refund all the costs Mr E could  have paid for the PPI plus provide 
compensation for any time he was out of pocket.
Barclays has said once it has received a confirmation from Mr E he accepts this approach it 
will issue  its revised offer. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out I think that what Barclays Bank UK PLC has now offered as 
its approach to calculating the compensation due to Mr E is fair.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6623504