K820x#14Complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  amended in 
2001  the original PPI policy was taken out in 1997. 
To be clear I am only looking at the amendment made in 2001  and not the 1997 sale.  Mr S 
says HSBC UK Bank Plc (HSBC) mis-sold him the PPI. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Theres only limited information  and paperwork now available from when  Mr S took amended 
the PPI. Thats unsurprising after so long. Mr S has said he had a meeting  in one of HSBCs 
branches for the amendment. HSBC  cant confirm this  but Ive no reason to think  that isnt 
what happened. So I think its fair to look at this complaint on the basis that Mr S mightve 
spoken to someone  at the bank about PPI  and HSBC mightve recommended him to take 
it out the PPI too. 
Due to the time that has passed  and the lack of information I have about this, there isnt 
anything to say whether  HSBC gave Mr S a choice or not. Mr S has said HSBC  has sent him 
documents for the earlier  mortgage so hes unsure why it cant provide any documents for 
the 2001 amendment.  HSBC has sent me a copy of the electronic  mortgage application 
record which shows PPI was selected   but I dont know how this was presented to Mr S. 
Businesses arent required to keep  information  indefinitely and so it would be unfair  to say 
that HSBC wouldnt  have given Mr S a choice, just because it doesnt have the paperwork. 
While Mr S says he doesnt remember being given an option,  I cant fairly uphold  the 
complaint on this basis.
As I think  HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr S, it had to check  that the PPI was right for him 
 and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Mr S has said as he was self-employed, it would have been  difficult  for him to make an 
unemployment claim and more difficult than if he was employed.  However,  I disagree. Ive 
read the policy document that is likely  to have been the one Mr S would have been given in 
2001. And I cant see that it wouldve been any more difficult  for him to make an 
unemployment claim than someone who was employed.
The PPI policy couldve covered Mr Ss repayments  for up to 12 months per claim if he 
became too ill to work, or if he wasnt able to work. It wouldve paid out in addition to any 
savings he had. And as there couldve been  serious consequences of not keeping  up 
repayments on a debt secured against  his home,  if Mr S couldnt  work then the PPI meant  
Ref: DRN68035612his monthly mortgage  payments wouldve been  met. And any savings he had could be used 
for other expenses. So I think the PPI policy couldve been helpful  to him.
Its possible the information HSBC gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like it was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about  the PPI would have put him off taking out 
the cover. 
This means  HSBC doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S from 2001. But 
HSBC will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S from 2001 because:  
HSBC got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr S about that. Because  HSBC  didnt tell Mr S, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, HSBC has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer from 2001 is 
fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said but these points dont change my decision.
What the business needs  to do
HSBC has to pay back to Mr S any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium from 2001. HSBC should  also pay back  to Mr S any extra  interest 
he paid from 2001 because of that.
HSBC should  pay back to Mr S the extra he paid each month because  the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI from 2001.  HSBC should also pay 
Mr S 8%* simple interest  on each payment from 2001. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr S can claim back the tax if he doesnt pay tax.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so HSBC  UK Bank Plc does not have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But HSBC  UK Bank Plc does have to pay back to Mr S any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium from 2001. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 September 2019.
Sonia Hussain
Ref: DRN68035613Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6803561