K820x#14Complaint
Mr W is unhappy that Madison CF UK Limited,  trading as 118 118 Money  (Madison), didnt 
take a payment from his account online when he tried. Hes also unhappy they didnt contact 
him to let him know  about this.
Background
On 30 May 2018 Mr W tried to make a payment online. He says he didnt  realise this 
payment hadnt  gone through. And he didnt receive notification from Madison that his 
payment hadnt  happened. So he complained to Madison about these issues.
Madison replied to the complaint in August 2018. They  said they didnt hold a valid mobile 
number for Mr W, so couldnt let him know his payment  hadnt  been made. They  added  its 
his responsibility  to keep his contact details up to date with them. And that they couldnt see 
any payment attempts logged between 30 May and the date Mr W contacted  them by phone  
to make the payment  20 June 2018.
Mr W said Madison  held a valid email and postal address, so could have contacted him in 
either of these two methods. And the reason they didnt  hold a valid number for him was 
because hed changed it following nuisance calls hed received since  signing up to a loan 
with them.  So hes asked us to look into things.
Our investigator considered all of the information  Mr W provided, including a video of an 
attempted payment that didnt go through. But she decided  not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. 
She said Madison  did try and contact him, but the number was out of date and thats not 
their fault  and there was no evidence of a fault on their payment systems at the time.
Because Mr W didnt agree with this, the complaints been passed  to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Making the payment
Madison have told us theres nothing to suggest  Mr W tried to make his payment on 
30 May 2018. Mr W says he did log on and their system is faulty, so he thinks he shouldnt 
be held responsible for any late payment.
Madison have told us theyve  investigated  this, and found nothing to suggest Mr W did try 
and log on to make the payment. Ive looked at what theyve sent us, and Ive also seen 
nothing to suggest he did log on. But even if Mr W did go online, as hes argued,  I dont  think  
this piece of information would change  the outcome and Ill explain why.
Mr W has provided a video  which  he says shows issues  with Madisons payment system, 
and has used this to demonstrate the issues he faced in May 2018. Ive looked  at the video. 
The video shows an attempted payment, and says it failed. Its unclear why it failed  as the 
video is edited  for, I assume, sensible security reasons.  Mr Ws video is about making a 
payment which  would usually include typing in your debit card which I dont see on the video. 
Ref: DRN69825802But given it does show the payment as failed I think its more  likely than not that, if Mr W did 
attempt to make a payment on 30 May 2018  using Madisons system, he would have known 
it hadnt gone through. So, it would have been  his responsibility to ensure the payment was 
made after this.
Why didnt Madison contact him by email or post
The terms and conditions  of the loan Mr W signed  up to say Madison will try and make 
reasonable attempts to contact him  and its his responsibility to ensure he keeps his 
contact details updated with them.
Mr W says he updated  his mobile number after taking out his loan  but didnt tell Madison. 
Madison did send out a message about Mr Ws payment not going through, but it only went  
to his mobile. Hes argued they should also have  tried his email or post.
I can understand Mr Ws point, but the key issue here is Madison needed to make 
reasonable attempts to contact him. I think its reasonable for Madison to assume they had 
the correct phone number  particularly  as this was only Mr Ws third payment to his loan. 
So, I think Madison  made  reasonable attempts  to contact him by using  the mobile phone 
hed given them a few months before.
My final decision
It follows I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Jon Pearce
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN6982580