K822xcomplaint
Miss M has brought this complaint on behalf of the Estate of Mrs N. 
The complaint is about the amount of compensation that Financial Insurance  Company 
Limited (FICL) offered to compensate the Estate  of Mrs N for mis-sold  payment protection 
insurance (PPI). 
I know that the card Miss M has complained about  is a store  card for a department store.  But 
FICL has accepted  responsibility for complaints  like this about  those  store cards. So Ill refer 
to FICL for the rest of this decision. 
I can also see that Miss M has brought a number of complaints on behalf of the Estate of 
Mrs N. Just to be clear,  this decision is about the store card for the department store.  
background 
Mrs N took out a store card in December 1998 and PPI was sold to her at the same time. 
The account  was subsequently closed  in August 1999. 
The complaint that Miss M brought on behalf of Mrs Ns estate was initially  that FICL had 
mis-sold PPI to Mrs N. Our adjudicator  agreed  and so FICL agreed to pay compensation for 
that mis-sale. It made an offer of £31.65 to settle  the complaint.  
Miss M did not agree FICLs offer. She said she thought Mrs N would have  used the card 
more frequently.  She also queried  why FICL  had initially offered £100  to settle the complaint  
and had then reduced its offer to £31.65. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the parties agree  that PPI was mis-sold  to Mrs N, I dont need to look at the 
circumstances surrounding  the sale of PPI. I have to consider whether FICL has fairly 
compensated Mrs Ns estate for that mis-sale. 
I appreciate Miss M feels strongly that FICLs  calculations are incorrect.  But having 
considered the evidence  before me, Im satisfied  that FICLs  offer to settle  the complaint is 
fair. Ill explain  why below. 
In making a fair offer,  I would expect FICL to refund all of the premiums Mrs N paid towards  
her PPI policy,  as well as any interest  charged  on those premiums. Id also expect FICL to 
pay some  compensatory  interest for the time Mrs N would  have  been  out of pocket because 
of the costs of the PPI policy. 
FICLs records  about accounts before  2005  are limited. Wed  only expect businesses to 
keep records for up to six years. Its not surprising that it doesnt  have records  from 20 years 
ago, which  is when  this policy  was sold. It does have some records to show  when  the 
account was opened and closed. And it is able to say what  the total cost of Mrs Ns PPI 
premiums was. It has used this figure to work out what Mrs N most likely paid for her PPI 
policy. 
Ref: DRN68843742I can see from the credit card agreement that Mrs N took the PPI policy out on 5 December 
1998. In total,  FICL told us that £10.24  was paid in premiums. FICL has worked out that the 
interest Mrs N paid on those premiums would have been £6.34. 
As the account  was closed in August 1999, Mrs N was out of pocket as she didnt have the 
benefit of the money shed paid for her PPI. And so FICL has offered  to pay some  further  
interest to compensate  for that. The amount of the gross compensatory  interest is £18.84.  
FICL has had to deduct some tax from the compensatory interest, giving a net total of 
£15.07. 
Altogether, FICL has offered £31.65 to settle the complaint. In calculating  its offer,  it has 
followed the approach I would  expect  it to take. So based on the evidence  thats  available,  I 
think that FICLs offer of compensation  is fair. 
I also want to clear  up the issue about  whether  FICL initially  offered £100 to settle this 
complaint and then reduced that down  to £31.65. I havent seen any evidence  to suggest 
that FICL  ever offered  £100 to settle  this particular complaint. But as I said above,  Miss M 
had brought a number of complaints on behalf of Mrs Ns estate  and more than one of 
those complaints was about FICL.  Upon  making  enquiries of FICL, I am satisfied that the 
£100 offer was in relation  to another complaint  not this complaint about the card from the 
department store. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  the offer that Financial Insurance Company Limited has 
made to settle  this complaint is fair. I dont require  it to do anything further. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the Estate of 
Mrs N to accept  or reject  my decision before  28 November 2019. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6884374