K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Wirecard Card  Solutions Limited blocked his Pockit account, leaving 
him without  access to funds. The Pockit card is a pre-paid payment card administered  (along  
with a range  of other similar  products) by Wirecard.
.background
Mr O has explained that his Pockit card was funded directly by his salary, rather than from 
any other account he held.
In March 2018 Wirecard  began a review of Mr Os account.  In the meantime,  it suspended  
the account, meaning Mr O had no access to funds.
Mr O complained to this service in April 2018. In July 2018 Wirecard returned the funds in 
the account to their source - Mr Os employer.  But it wasnt  until December 2018 that he was 
able to retrieve that money from his employer.
One of our investigators  considered Mr Os complaint. He accepted that Wirecard had been 
entitled to carry  out a review of Mr Os account,  but didnt think that it had progressed that 
review as quickly as it should have done. He also noted that Wirecard hadnt told Mr O that 
the account was to be closed. He recommended that Wirecard pay Mr O £200 compensation 
in recognition of that, together with interest  on the money returned to Mr Os employer for the 
time from when the account was blocked  until that money was finally returned to Mr O.
Mr O accepted the investigators recommendations, but Wirecard didnt and asked that an 
ombudsman review the case.
I did that and, because I was minded to reach a different  conclusion  from the investigator,  
issued a provisional decision. I was satisfied that Wirecard was within its rights to review  Mr 
Os account, and that it was reasonable for it to suspend the account while it did so. I also 
took the view that it was reasonable  of Wirecard to return the money on Mr Os Pockit  card 
to its source  which in this case was Mr Os employer. Wirecard wouldnt have known how 
long its review might take, and I thought  it had done enough to help Mr O recover  his money 
from his employer. Overall, therefore, my provisional conclusion was that Wirecard  hadnt 
treated Mr O unfairly.     
Mr O didnt agree, however, and made  further submissions  as Id invited both parties  to do. 
He said that Wirecard hadnt followed its own policy, which as to require withdrawal of funds  
within 28 days, not to return  funds to source;  that had taken five months. It should have been 
easy to trace  the source  of funds, since his employer was the only source.    
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent however changed my overall  
conclusion from that which  I reached in my provisional decision.
I remain of the view that Wirecard was within its rights to review  the operation of Mr Os 
account. It wouldnt have  known at the outset how long that review  might take or what  the 
outcome might be. It couldnt  therefore  have given him an indication  of either of those things. 
Ref: DRN69766522I note what Mr O says about the usual  requirement  to withdraw funds  within 28 days, but in 
this case his account was suspended pending the investigation. Different considerations 
applied; money  couldnt  be withdrawn from the account. I remain  of the view that it was 
reasonable of Wirecard to suspend the account  pending the review and to return  funds to Mr 
Os employer once  the review was complete.  
For these reasons, as well as those  set out in my provisional decision,  I dont  intend  to make 
any award in Mr Os favour. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Wirecard Card Solutions  Limited  to take any further 
steps to resolve  Mr Os complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im 
required to ask Mr O to accept or reject  my decision before 6 June 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6976652