K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that he was misled about  the quality of the parking sensors that were added 
to a new car he acquired under a hire purchase agreement  with Honda Finance Europe  Plc 
(Honda).
background 
In April 2018 Mr W entered into a hire purchase agreement for a new car with Honda 
Finance Europe  PLC.  The car didnt have parking sensors as standard which was a feature 
Mr W wanted to have.  The dealer agreed  with Mr W to fit them  retrospectively.
After Mr W collected  the car he says he realised the parking sensors the dealership fitted 
werent parts supplied  by the cars manufacturer but were  another  make. He found the way 
the sensors worked were different to those that had been in his previous  cars as they dont 
have a visible functionality  and he found the noise, tone and pitch  of the sensors 
unacceptable. 
Mr W complained  to the dealership and said he thought they had misled him about  the make  
of the sensors.  The dealership said that it had fitted the type of sensors  they had fitted in all 
cars for the past 10 years  without complaint. The dealership explained that these sensors 
cost £400 unlike the cars manufacturers  ones which cost over £1000.  They said the greater 
cost wouldve affected the settlement figure for the car at the end of the agreement. 
Mr W was unhappy at the response  from the dealership and complained to Honda. He also 
told Honda that he wished to invoke  his 30 day short term right to reject.  Honda  investigated  
his complaint. It said that there had been  no discussions at the dealership as to the make  of 
the parking sensors that were to be fitted. Nor did the sales invoice state the parking sensors  
were the cars manufacturers own. And that the dealership always  fitted the particular make 
that it had due to the cost issue unless particularly agreed otherwise. It accepted  that on the 
dealerships website there was a mission statement that only genuine parts from the cars  
manufacturer would  be fitted but said this was in relation to services  and repairs only.  The 
mission statement didnt  say that this also applied  to accessories that were fitted 
retrospectively. Honda said it didnt agree Mr W had been misled  and that the dealership had 
offered to exchange  the parking sensors  for those made by the cars manufacturer  though 
the difference in cost would be chargeable. It thought this was a fair outcome. 
Mr W disagreed  with Hondas  view and complained to this service. Our investigator didnt 
recommend that his complaint should  be upheld. She said she didnt think Mr W had been 
mis-sold the car. It was accepted that the dealership hadnt specifically said it would fit the 
manufacturers make of sensors  to the car nor was it recorded on the sales  invoice that the 
sensors would  be the manufacturers.  Mr W had formed the impression this would be the 
case from the dealers website. The investigator said that the website didnt say the 
dealership would only use the manufacturers  parts. 
The investigator said that there was no evidence that a false  statement of fact had been  
made to Mr W. She thought the dealerships offer to exchange the parking sensors was a 
reasonable offer and she wouldnt ask Honda  to do more.
Mr W disagreed  with our investigators view.  He said that hed been clear when hed agreed 
to purchase the car that parking sensors were an important feature to him. He says that the 
dealership never said it would fit another make and not the cars manufacturers own. He 
Ref: DRN67452332didnt think the dealership  had been open and transparent with him. Mr W also disputed that 
any offer to exchange  the parking sensors  had been made to him. He said hed invoked his 
30 day short  term right to reject the car.
As the parties cant  agree the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W says he made it clear that he wanted  his new car to have parking sensors as these 
were an important feature  for him. The car he agreed to buy didnt  have them fitted as 
standard so the dealership said it could fit these for him and Mr W agreed.  Its accepted that 
the dealership  didnt  say it was fitting  the cars manufacturers parts.  But I dont think its 
disputed that the dealership also did not say they were a different make. So the issue for me 
to decide is whether there was a misrepresentation by the dealership and which  led Mr W to 
enter into the agreement.
Mr W says if hed known the sensors werent  the manufacturers own hed either have 
agreed to pay the additional costs for those particular sensors to have been fitted or declined  
to enter  into the agreement for the car.
While I accept the dealerships website states that the cars  manufactured  parts will be used 
I dont think this goes  so far as to say that only these parts will be used for any work 
undertaken. It sets out the advantages of using  the manufacturer parts. Mr W says he 
assumed the sensors would be the manufacturers because the dealership didnt point  out 
that this wasnt the case. But I cant say this was a false statement on behalf of the 
dealership. It was a presumption  made  by Mr W and while  I appreciate Mr Ws 
disappointment I dont think thats enough for me to say the dealership  mis-sold  the car.  
Mr W has said that he invoked his 30 day term right to reject the car. However this isnt an 
absolute right. Under the Consumer Rights Act 2015  goods  must be of satisfactory  quality, fit 
for purpose  and as described. If the goods dont satisfy those criteria then a consumer has 
the right to reject them. But although  Mr W disliked the way the parking sensors  worked on 
the car I dont have  any evidence that the sensors are faulty. So I cant say that the car 
wasnt of satisfactory quality, fit for purpose or as described. So Mr W doesnt  have the right 
to reject it.
Mr W also says the dealership didnt make  an offer to him to exchange  the parking sensors 
for the ones he wanted to be fitted. And while I appreciate this looks  as though it was made 
via Honda when it investigated  the complaint it was an offer genuinely  made. I understand 
that this offer is still open and I think its fair and reasonable  so Im not asking Honda to do 
more. 
So looking  at the evidence Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint. 
Ref: DRN67452333Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6745233