K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold them a Total Mortgage 
Protection Plan (TMPP) policy in 2003,  with a mortgage. 
A TMPP  is a type of protection policy which typically includes mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI) together with other features,  such as life insurance and critical illness cover 
(CIC). The individual elements of the TMPP can be added or taken out as the consumer 
wishes. 
In this particular  case, only Mr G was covered for the PPI element. But both he and Mrs G 
were covered by the life / CIC. 
background
One of our adjudicators has looked at their complaint and told Mr and Mrs G that they didnt  
think the PPI part should be upheld. 
However, for the life / CIC elements of the policy, our adjudicator thought  Mr and Mrs G 
should have been sold decreasing term assurance, instead of level term assurance.  
This is because they had a repayment mortgage which typically reduces over time. So, the 
amount of life / CIC protection that might be needed  to help protect that mortgage  could  / 
should reduce  over time too. And because, broadly speaking, decreasing term life / CIC 
policies are quite  often slightly cheaper for consumers, our adjudicator thought  they 
shouldnt have been sold the level term cover   it should have been decreasing term cover.
Mr and Mrs G still think the PPI element  was mis-sold too so they have asked for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint about being  mis-sold 
the PPI. 
I agree  with our adjudicator about  the life / CIC issue, but Halifax  has since  shown  us that 
on this occasion,  the decreasing term policy wasnt actually cheaper.  In my experience, this 
can happen and unfortunately it means Mr and Mrs G arent due any money back.
did they agree to the TMPP?
I can see Mr and Mrs G have been  fairly specific as to why they think the TMPP was mis-
sold. They  say they never agreed to it and they were completely  unaware  the cover  had 
even been added to their mortgage. Later on, Mr G also produced various  items  of 
evidence to show he had a good  job with good  benefits and some savings. He says that 
these things all show he and Mrs G had no need for PPI either.
Ref: DRN69771192However, these events were a long time ago and whilst I can accept Mr and Mrs G may 
now genuinely believe  the TMPP was mis-sold, we no longer have  much  documentation 
from the sale. Given when  the sale was this isnt unusual because  businesses arent 
required to keep records indefinitely.
Nevertheless Ive looked  carefully at what all the parties have said about  the sale. We also 
have access to Halifaxs computerised  records from the time. And Ill also consider, as Im 
allowed to do, what is more likely to have happened given we dont have everything that 
was documented  on paper at the time.
In doing this, I think the evidence shows that its much more  likely Mr and Mr G agreed to 
the PPI element of the policy. 
I think this firstly because Mr and Mrs G chose the life / CIC elements for both of them,  but 
for the PPI they decided that only Mr G should  be covered. I note he was the higher earner 
so I can see why they may have chosen this. 
Secondly, I also see from Halifaxs records that they were asked specific questions at the 
time about their health and eligibility  for all elements of the PPI cover. The screenshots Ive 
seen therefore  show me that PPI was most probably  discussed and I think  what was keyed 
into the Halifax computer  system would have been contemporaneous  that is to say, done  
at the time of the mortgage  interview.  Ive seen that Mr and Mrs G were  asked about their 
employment status and general health.  The records also show Mr and Mrs G agreed to buy 
PPI cover which protected Mr G, in the event  of losing  his job or being unable to work.
I think these things show they engaged with the sale process and gave thought  about  what 
they wanted to do.
Ive also seen quite  a few very similar sales to this one. Whilst we no longer have records  
from this case, my general experience  is that consumers were  given a choice and they 
were also sent a letter by Halifax outlining which, if any, parts of the TMPP policy  they had 
agreed to buy. I think its more likely  than not that this occurred in this case too.
Finally, the sum Mr and Mrs G were  paying each month for the premium  was was not 
insignificant. So I think Mr and Mrs G would have had to agree to this money leaving their 
bank account  each month and I think theyd have budgeted for that.
So overall, I therefore think they were  given a choice and they decided to set the cover up 
in a way that reflected their financial  situation  and appetite for risk. I think they would have 
been given documentation explaining the different levels of protection  theyd bought and 
given an opportunity to change  their mind during a cooling off period.
In short,  my finding is that they most likely  agreed to the TMPP.
was the PPI element suitable?
As Ive mentioned  above Mr G went on to research his and Mrs Gs financial situation from 
that time period. I recognise this took time and effort and Im grateful for the comprehensive  
picture hes given  me of their financial situation.
But Im afraid none of what Ive seen makes the PPI unsuitable or of no use. 
Ref: DRN69771193He was clearly eligible  for the PPI cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we 
tend to see in these policies. The cost seems  to me to be in line with other policies  Ive 
seen, given what he was protected  against. Their mortgage  was also secured against  their 
home and so the consequences of them not being able to make  the repayments  could  have 
been serious. The PPI policy,  on the other  hand,  was designed to pay a monthly sum for up 
to 24 months if he had needed to claim.  
Relative to other forms of PPI, this length  of cover is quite long and certainly  longer than Mr 
Gs sickness protection with his job. 
I also accept his point  about having a good salary.  But of course losing a good salary  to 
unemployment for example, would be a difficult and unforeseen event and the PPI would 
obviously be of some use in such an event. The data he provided relating to his savings 
post-dates the PPI sale and arent therefore relevant. 
I therefore dont  think recommending  the PPI was unreasonable as it was suitable for them.
were they given enough information?
During the sale Halifax also had to provide information that was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I cant say Mr and Mrs G were told or given all the information they should have 
been but as Ive said I think they would have been  easily able to see how much  the TMPP 
cost and what / who was covered.  I think they would have also been  given  a copy of the 
policy rules.
Having carefully considered this case,  I think its much more  likely that Mr and Mrs G 
tailored the TMPP  cover  to suit their needs  of the time. I think  they probably agreed to all 
elements of the cover because it was something  they thought would be useful to have.  
 
my final decision
I dont think the PPI was mis-sold. So Halifax doesnt need  to refund any money  for this.
I uphold the complaint about the life / CIC but Mr and Mrs G didnt lose any money because 
the type of cover they were  sold was cheaper  than the alternative.  No redress is therefore  
due and I dont  direct Bank of Scotland plc to put any matters  right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 July 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6977119