K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains that Erudio Student Loans Limited  harassed him for the repayment of a loan 
even though he had explained  that he was not liable for the payment. He wants 
compensation for the inconvenience and stress  he has been  caused.
background
Mr C entered into a loan with a finance provider in 1990. Erudio took over the administration 
of the loan in March  2014.
Mr C says that he has contacted Erudio on several  occasions to explain that he was not 
required to make payment. He says his contact was ignored and instead  he was chased  for 
payment. He says this has been ongoing for years and has caused him inconvenience and 
stress.
Mr C says that Erudio has now accepted  that he is not required to repay  the loan but he 
wants compensation for all the trouble and upset he has been  caused.
Erudio says that Mr C emailed it on 26 November 2014 raising  several requests. It says that 
as the email address was unverified it responded asking Mr C to complete security 
questions. Although Mr C responded he did not complete the security  questions.  Erudio says 
it then did not have contact from Mr C until 26 September 2015 when the same issue  with 
the email occurred. This issue  continued  until March 2018  when a complaint was raised.
Erudio did not accept that it had ignored Mr Cs correspondence but did accept that he 
wasnt provided with the service he should have been on a call in March 2018. It also 
apologised for Mr Cs name being  mis-spelt  in a letter in the same  month.  Erudio arranged  
for a cheque for £75 to be sent to Mr C for the distress and inconvenience the issues had 
caused.
Erudio says that although Mr C says his loan had expired due to being  granted  more than 25 
years ago, this was not correct. It says Mr Cs loan did not qualify to be written off as there 
were arrears  on his account. It says it then reviewed Mr Cs account and found it met the 
criteria for being statue barred. Because of this is says it explained to Mr C it would not 
contact him further  about this account.
Our adjudicator thought that Erudio could have done more to deal with Mr Cs 
correspondence. She thought Mr C had suffered unnecessary trouble and upset and 
recommended Erudio increase its compensation offer from £75 to £250.
Erudio did not agree to our adjudicators recommendation. It said that Mr C contacted it 
about the debt being  written off due to its age but Mr Cs account  did not meet  the 
requirements for this. It says that when  it carried  out an investigation  into Mr Cs complaint  it 
looked at the issue  of the debt being statue barred. It says that Mr C had not raised this 
issue previously and so it did not agree that Mr Cs account should have been closed 
sooner. It further reiterated that had Mr C confirmed  security  in his emails  this issue could 
have been resolved sooner.
Ref: DRN63676842my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C entered into a loan in 1990.  The terms and conditions of the loan meant that payments 
could be deferred  if Mr C was not earning  a certain  amount. There was also a cancellation  
clause in regard  to how long the loan has been  outstanding.
There was an issue that Mr C used  an email address that Erudio did not hold and so it 
needed to verify his details. I do not find this unreasonable. Mr C did not answer the security 
questions and had he done so this issue may have been resolved sooner. However  I note 
that in the email chain started in October 2015 Mr C makes it clear he does not consider 
himself liable for the debt and asks for his concerns to be passed to a manager. I appreciate 
Erudio would not reply to the email address but it would have been reasonable to try another 
means of contacting Mr C to establish that the email was from him and to address his 
concerns.
Erudio were corresponding with Mr C by letter at the time but I cannot see that it wrote to 
him about the issues he had raised. Erudio  has provided some  calls on which it was unable  
to get hold of Mr C. The calls I have heard were from before October 2016 or in 2018. 
Therefore I cannot see it tried to contact Mr C by letter or telephone at this time to discuss 
the points Mr C had raised about not being liable for the debt.
Instead of addressing Mr Cs concerns about his payment liability  Erudio kept chasing for 
payment. Mr C had made it clear  in his emails  that he did not believe that payment was due 
and by not addressing this, Erudio then spent many months pursing Mr C for payment. 
Based on the information I have seen Mr Cs issues were not dealt  with as a complaint until 
March 2018. This was many months after he had asked for his concerns to be passed to a 
manager. At this time his account was investigated and Erudio believed it met the criteria for 
being statue barred. I cannot  comment on whether an account should be statute barred but I 
do think that had Erudio investigated  Mr Cs account when he first raised his concerns then 
this issue could have  been resolved much sooner. 
I note the comment that Mr C raised the issue of the loan expiring rather than being statute 
barred. I also accept  that Mr C did not help by not responding to the security questions. 
However, overall I think that Erudio did not provide the service it should have. By not dealing 
with Mr Cs comments about his liability and instead chasing him for repayment,  Erudio 
caused Mr C unnecessary trouble and upset. I note compensation was paid for a call and a 
mistake in a letter but I think that further  compensation should  be repaid to reflect  the time 
taken to address  whether Mr C was liable to make payment.
Because of the above I agree with our adjudicators recommendation that the total 
compensation should be increased to £250.  
Ref: DRN63676843my final decision
My final decision is that Erudio Student Loans  Limited should  pay Mr C a total of £250  
compensation (£175 additional to the cheque it has already issued for £75) for the trouble 
and upset Mr C has been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6367684