K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Society of Lloyds  unfairly declined a claim he made on the farmer 
motor insurance policy  held by him and Mrs R. 
background
In March 2018 Mr Rs all-terrain vehicle (ATV)  was damaged after he had been working in 
an area of deep  snow. He thought  snow around the radiator had blocked it, causing the 
engine to overheat. His local garage repaired the ATV at a cost of about  £2,700.  Four 
months later Mr R claimed on his policy for the cost of the repairs.
Lloyds instructed an independent engineer  (firm S) to inspect the ATV and its retained 
parts. Firm S said in the absence of evidence of a blocked radiator, the most probable  
scenario was that the overheating was due to mechanical failure.  It said a faulty fuel injector  
had caused it and noted that three pistons had expanded due to heat. As mechanical failure 
isnt covered by the policy, Lloyds declined to cover  the claim. Mr Rs garage said a faulty 
injector would  only have damaged one piston, but firm S and Lloyds disagreed.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr Rs complaint. He thought Lloyds had acted 
reasonably and in line with the policys terms. He said it was fair for it to rely on the view of 
an independent engineer.  Mr Rs broker said firm S wasnt independent,  as its report was 
paid for by Lloyds,  whereas in its view his repairer was independent. The broker  also said 
Mr Rs repairer  had long-term specialist experience with agricultural machinery. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.  
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Insurers often use independent  engineers to try to resolve disputes  about repairs. Their  duty 
is to the court, and their reports  dont always support an insurers  initial  view.  I note that 
firm S confirmed at the end of its report that it had complied with its duty. 
Lloyds hasnt suggested that Mr Rs repairer  didnt set out the facts  as he saw them. But I 
think it was reasonable  for it to rely on the independent view it had sought. 
Lloyds offered to review  firm Ss findings if Mr R instructed  an independent engineer.  His 
broker said there was no need for that, as the evidence supported Mr Rs claim. But I think  
given the dispute, another  independent view may well have  helped.  
Lloyds suggested  that the outcome could have been different had an independent  engineer 
been able to assess the ATV quickly, before any stripping of the parts was done. It said at 
that point there may have been  some evidence of the snow having blocked  the radiator. 
Mr Rs broker  said the ATV was essential for Mr Rs work, so he had to have it repaired 
immediately. As there were then further  problems with it, he thought  they should all be 
repaired before  he put in the claim. 
I think it was reasonable  for Lloyds to say that it should have been allowed to inspect the 
ATV much earlier, although I understand why Mr R didnt act more quickly  to start the claim. 
Ref: DRN65531822Unfortunately, I think that has made it harder for him to persuade  Lloyds that his repairer 
was right about the cause of the damage.
Mr R says as his repairer has great experience  and expertise in repairing agricultural 
vehicles, the repairers  view should be accepted. I can see why he put that argument  
forward, but Lloyds  view is that it isnt necessary to be an agricultural specialist in order to 
review the mechanics of an engine. I think thats  a reasonable position to take.  
In any event, Im not persuaded  that the view of Mr Rs repairer should be given greater 
weight than that of an independent engineer. The damage was also considered by Lloyds 
own engineers.  Lloyds says many  of them have spent years  reviewing agricultural claims. I 
dont think Mr R can show there  was a lack of expertise on Lloyds part.  
I think the policy exclusion for damage to a vehicle if theres a failure, breakdown  or 
breakage of mechanical equipment is clear.  And in my view it was reasonable for Lloyds to 
decline the claim based on that exclusion,  following the investigation it carried  out. 
I know Mr R will be very disappointed with my decision, especially as he was able to show 
Lloyds that the ATV was in good  condition and had been looked after. Lloyds says its 
engineers and firm S considered that, and it made no difference to their conclusions.
As I dont think Lloyds acted unreasonably,  I cant uphold Mr Rs complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 June  2020.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6553182