K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint relates  to three  of the four endowment policies Legal and General 
Assurance Society Limited  (L&G)  sold them between 1989  and 1993.  They  say they needed 
business loans  each time they approached the L&G adviser and werent given the option  to 
have an alternative  repayment method. Mr and Mrs T believe this is particularly relevant as 
they didnt want  long-term  loans. 
In addition, the policies extend  three  years  into retirement  there was no need for this as a 
shorter term would have  been affordable. Mr and Mrs T also indicated on the questionnaires 
they completed for L&G that they wouldnt have taken the policies if they knew  the returns 
werent guaranteed.
Background
In late 1989 Mr and Mrs T were buying  a new home  and keeping  their existing property to 
rent out. They had a mortgage  arranged for the new purchase of £132,000 over a term of 
25 years.  
At the time Mr T was 43 years  old and employed  as an accountant earning £20,000 a year. 
Mrs T was 38 and employed as a nurse  earning £7,000 a year. They  had three dependent  
children. It was detailed  they at that time owned two properties worth £100,000 and £50,000. 
They had £30,000 of stock exchange  securities  and £20,000 in unit trusts. They also had 
two existing L&G policies,  one of which appears  to be an endowment policy.
The policy they were  sold was a low start with-profits mortgage  endowment.  It had a sum 
assured/target value  of £132,000 and a term of 25 years. Mr and Mrs T stopped  paying  the 
premiums to this policy at the end of 1994. After 12 months of premiums had been  missed, 
L&G completed a forced  surrender of the policy in January 1996 and the proceeds were paid 
to Mr and Mrs Ts lender under a policy assignment.
A couple of months later at the beginning of 1990  Mr and Mrs T met with the same financial 
adviser. At that point they were looking to buy a mini-market and needed to borrow  £85,000.  
Lending was arranged and a with-profits endowment policy  was sold to them.  Their  
circumstances hadnt changed at this time,  other than they owned three properties, as they 
had completed their new purchase. 
The policy they were  sold was a with-profits mortgage endowment and it started  in 
August 1990.  It had a sum assured  of £85,000 over 25 years.  It was surrendered  in 
August 1994.  Mr and Mrs T have  said they surrendered the policy  when they sold their 
business.
In the late summer  of 1992 Mr and Mrs T sought  advice  again; this time to refinance existing 
loans and raise  business  capital. They were  sold another with-profits endowment  policy as 
the repayment vehicle for the new lending. The policy had a sum assured of £20,000  and a 
term of 15 years. The policy was surrendered in August 1994. Whilst this policy  has not been  
complained about,  I will detail the information  recorded about their circumstances at the time 
for background purposes.  
Mr T was 45 and still employed as an accountant. His income had increased to £24,000  
each year. Mrs T had stopped working and didnt have an income. An additional  income of 
Ref: DRN66948682£4,400 was recorded as coming from investment business, which  Mr and Mrs T have 
subsequently confirmed was the profit from their rental properties and businesses. They had 
three dependent children.  They owned a total of £330,000 worth of property and significant 
savings and investments  - £5,000  in deposit accounts, £11,000 of unit trusts and £10,000 of 
stocks and shares. They added another £1,000 a month to their savings from income.  Two 
existing policies were  recorded (other than the L&G ones) which  were  an endowment with 
another provider  taken  out in 1986  and a decreasing term assurance  taken in 1988 for 
mortgage purposes. Mr and Mrs Ts attitude toward  risk was recorded as balanced.
In early 1993 Mr and Mrs T again sought  financial advice as they were  buying the freehold 
and business  of a shop  for £50,000.  Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances hadnt changed 
significantly since the previous year, other than Mrs T having started working as a nurse 
again. The policy  sold was a low start with-profits endowment policy with a sum assured of 
£50,000 and a term of 25 years. The policy was also surrendered in August 1994.
During L&Gs investigation Mr T confirmed he intended to retire at 65. They  confirmed they 
intended to meet the mortgage  and loan payments and live on the incomes from Mr Ts 
occupational pension, rental  income from residential properties  and income from the shops 
and a hair salon they owned.
L&G didnt uphold  Mr and Mrs Ts complaint. They didnt accept that and referred their 
complaint to this service.  The complaint  was considered by one of our investigators who 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.  Mr and Mrs T didnt accept  her opinion and 
asked for the complaint to be referred  to an ombudsman.
I issued my provisional decision on 28 June 2019 in which I explained my conclusions and 
reasons for reaching them. Below is an excerpt from that document.
I will at this point clarify  that I will not be considering any recommendations or advice 
Mr and Mrs T were  given  in relation to their mortgage and business  loans. Such  activities 
were not regulated at the time and L&G was not a member of any of the voluntary schemes 
which would mean  they did fall within my jurisdiction. As such, I cant consider the suitability 
of recommending interest-only  borrowing.  I will only consider whether the endowment 
policies sold were suitable for Mr and Mrs T at the various times they were sold.  To do so, I 
have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
The sale at the end of 1989  was not for business purposes as Mr and Mrs Ts complaint 
indicated, but rather to support a residential  mortgage. The subsequent sales  were,  
however, for commercial purposes. 
All of Mr and Mrs Ts endowment policies were with-profits arrangements. These were at the 
times they were sold generally considered to represent little risk and be suitable for all but 
those who were completely risk averse.  Having  considered Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances 
and their other investments, which ranged  from with-profits endowment policies to stocks 
and shares, I find it highly unlikely they wouldnt have  understood the policies they were 
taking out or be unsuited  to the risks they represented. 
Mr and Mrs Ts representative  has effectively said the second  and third policy  sales  were 
inappropriate as the borrowing was only needed for a short period of time,  hence the policies  
being surrendered or premiums stopping to them in 1994. There  is no mention in the 
documentation from the time that Mr and Mrs T were entering into relatively short-term 
Ref: DRN66948683business arrangements. Indeed, their own comments regarding payment of the loans after 
retirement would  indicate  that was not the intention, as the income from the properties and 
businesses was to be used to pay the loans and endowment premiums. 
So whilst it does appear that Mr and Mrs Ts plans changed in 1994 and they no longer 
wanted or needed the polices sold, I am not persuaded this was because the original 
intention was to borrow over the short  term. As for Mr and Mrs Ts statement that they were 
told they had no other  choice than to take out 25 year policies, this seems unlikely to be the 
case when in 1992 they were sold a policy with a term of only 15 years.  
The complaint by Mr and Mrs T only discusses the term of the policies covering the business 
borrowing being too long; the policy covering  the residential mortgage  isnt mentioned. As 
such, its unclear  if Mr and Mrs T are indicating this borrowing and policy  should  also have 
been over a shorter term. Given Mr and Mrs T stopped paying the premiums to this policy  in 
1994 alongside the surrender of the other policies, I will consider the situation. 
The mortgage and policy had a term of 25 years, which  at the time was a fairly  standard  
term for residential mortgages.  So there  is nothing unusual associated with the term 
selected. Mr and Mrs T have also confirmed the mortgage  ran for its full term, so that 
wouldnt indicate they wanted  nor needed  a shorter term arrangement. 
The term of the three  endowment policies does  mean they mature after both Mr and Mrs Ts 
expected retirement  ages  when they were  sold. There is nothing  implicitly wrong  with an 
endowment policy and lending arrangement going  past retirement, as long as it is affordable. 
So the fact that a shorter term might have been  affordable doesnt  make the longer term 
unsuitable. 
In the case of Mr and Mrs Ts residential mortgage,  the determining  factor  is whether their 
retirement income was likely to be sufficient  to maintain the mortgage and endowment 
policy. We dont have  any specifics from the time about how much that income was thought 
likely to be. However, Mr and Mrs T have confirmed  they expected to have an income from 
several sources  occupational pensions, state pensions,  and profits from rental properties 
and their businesses.  In 1992  the income  they received from their businesses and 
investments came to £4,400. This would be expected to be considerably more by 2010 when 
Mr and Mrs T were  expecting to retire. I think its likely the residential mortgage would have 
been affordable  throughout its term.
As for the business  loans  ending after retirement, I dont consider this a concern. The loans, 
as with the mortgage on the rental properties, would have effectively been self-funding.  By 
this I mean  the cost of the arrangements  would have  been paid from the rents  or business  
profits. So as long as the business  remained  operational, Mr and Mrs T wouldnt have 
needed to fund these arrangements from their own retirement income.
Overall, I dont  consider  the advice Mr and Mrs T received in 1989,  1990 and 1993 was 
unsuitable given  their circumstances at the times of the sales.
L&G acknowledged receipt of the provisional decision, but had no further comment  or 
evidence to add.
Mr and Mrs T didnt  accept my provisional conclusions. They said the adviser they 
purchased the policies  from mis-sold  numerous  L&G policies and created large numbers of 
complaints, so much so that L&G terminated  his contract.  They said they bought  four or five 
Ref: DRN66948684endowments through the adviser and all of those policies were assigned to the adviser  as 
security for the loans  taken in the late summer of 1992 and early  1993. They  said they 
needed the loans and had no choice, but were  unhappy to be forced to purchase  the 
endowment policies for very short term loans. 
Mr and Mrs T also confirmed the businesses had been sold in 1994/1995  because they had 
run into financial difficulties and Mr T entered into an IVA. They  said the adviser  didnt abide  
by the terms of the IVA and did the dirty  on them and surrendered  all of the endowments,  
which Mr and Mrs T hadnt  wanted to happen. This included the endowment policy for the 
1989 residential mortgage. Mr and Mrs T said they complained to L&G at the time, but didnt 
receive a response. 
Mr and Mrs T reiterated that they felt very strongly they had been mis-sold their policies 
relating to the business loans as they were very short-term loans. 
My findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments, including  Mr and Mrs Ts recent  
comments, to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs T have  raised a new issue in their response to my provisional decision regarding  
the circumstances surrounding the surrender  of the endowment policies. This was not part of 
their original complaint  to this service and as such it has not been  investigated  by either  us 
or L&G. As such,  I cannot  comment on it in this decision. I will, however, ask our investigator 
to telephone Mr and Mrs T to discuss whether they wish to have a new complaint  set up for 
this issue and the way forward if they do. I should warn Mr and Mrs T, however, that the 
issue in question may not be one we can consider  it will depend on whether the adviser 
was representing  L&G at the time he was involved in the surrender or not. If he was not, 
then L&G could not be held liable for the advisers actions.
I have noted what  Mr and Mrs T have said about the adviser who sold them  the policies in 
question. Whilst  I have taken these comments into account when  considering the advice 
they received,  it is only one of the pieces  of evidence I have had to consider. The 
contemporaneous documentation, produced at the time of the sales and detailing  
Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances, needs and requirements, is the key evidence  in this case. 
Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about  the endowments covering business loans was that they 
didnt want long-term  loans and so the endowments werent appropriate repayment vehicles 
for them. This was evidenced by the loans ending and the policies being surrendered in 
1994. However, as I said in my provisional  decision there was no evidence that was the 
intention at the times of the sales. Mr and Mrs Ts response to the provisional decision 
confirms that was the case  too  the loans and policies only ended because  Mr and Mrs T 
got into financial difficulties due to the recession,  not because there was a plan for this to 
happen from the outset.
Having considered all of the evidence  again  I remain satisfied that advice  Mr and Mrs T 
received between 1989 and 1993 wasnt unsuitable for their needs, circumstances and 
future plans  based  on what they were at the times of the sales.
Ref: DRN66948685My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ts complaint about  the suitability of the 
endowment policies sold to them between 1989  and 1993. Under  the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr and Mrs T to accept or reject my decision 
before 5 September 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6694868