K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains Nationwide Building  Societys terms and conditions are poorly  written. And it 
refused to answer  the basic questions hed asked it.
 
background
Mr B said Nationwides  terms and conditions led him to believe he was entitled to 5% 
interest on his current account  balance. He said he complained to Nationwide and asked it 
four very clear questions  on several  occasions.  But it refused to answer  them and he thinks  
this is because answering those questions would  expose the fact that its terms and 
conditions are inadequate.
Nationwide said Mr B wasnt  eligible for the introductory  rate of 5% because hed previously 
held a Nationwide current account with an introductory offer.  It didnt agree the wording of its 
terms and conditions were unclear. And it felt there was nothing further it could add.
The adjudicator didnt think Nationwide had done anything  wrong.  He could see Nationwide  
hadnt directly answered the four questions Mr B had asked. But said itd set out its position 
and that he didnt think itd been unreasonable or unfair. And taking into account 
Nationwides eligibility criteria he didnt  agree  it should pay Mr B the introductory rate.
Mr B was disappointed with this. He said the adjudicator  hadnt  focused on the language 
used in the terms and conditions. And this was what his complaint was about. He said his 
priority was right and fair financial outcome  which is for Nationwide to pay him the 5% 
interest rate.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive carried  out a fresh  and 
independent view on Mr Bs complaint. Ive looked again at everything he and Nationwide 
have said. Having done so, and I know Mr B will be disappointed with this, Im not going to 
ask Nationwide  to do anything more.
Mr Bs main complaint is that Nationwides terms and conditions  are not clear. In looking  at 
this part of Mr Bs complaint our role is limited.  We try to sort out individual  complaints 
between consumers and financial institutions  where the consumer thinks he or she has lost 
out. But we cant  comment  on processes  and procedures  which  apply to all its customers. 
Thats the role of the Financial Conduct Authority.  And the wording of Nationwides terms 
and conditions affects all its customers. But we can look at how Nationwide has applied 
those terms and conditions to Mr Bs account  and see if anything has gone wrong that has 
caused him to lose out.
Nationwide said that clause 6 of its terms and conditions  applied to Mr B which said if you 
have previously held a Nationwide current account you are not entitled to the introductory 
rate or offer (where applicable) for that current account product under this agreement. As 
hed previously held a current account with an introductory offer he couldnt benefit  again. In 
addition to that it said the footnote to the overview box for a FlexDirect account  on its 
website says in bold that if a customer has previously  held a FlexDirect account they would 
not be entitled to new introductory  rate. And it said Mr B had confirmed hed read this before 
taking out the account in February  2008.
Ref: DRN62883482Mr B says that if Nationwide had included that wording in its terms and conditions  he would 
never have  been  misled.  It was only by reading  the full terms and conditions that he then 
believed he was entitled to the introductory rate. 
As Ive already  said I cant comment on the language Nationwide used in its terms and 
conditions. What I can say is that I think Nationwide did what  it reasonably could to bring to 
Mr Bs attention the fact that he wasnt eligible for the introductory  rate. I appreciate he says 
he interpreted the terms and conditions differently but I dont think  that was the fault of 
Nationwide.
Nationwide didnt answer Mr Bs four questions directly and I appreciate he is frustrated by 
that. But I think its reasonably explained its response to his complaint. So Im not going  to 
ask it to do anything  more. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.  
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6288348