K820x#14complaint
Ms F has complained about the quality of a car she financed using a fixed sum loan with 
Clydesdale Financial Services Limited  trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF).
background
Ms F acquired  a car under a fixed sum loan with BPF in January 2015.  The car had covered 
around 30,000  miles when she bought  it. It was three years old and she paid around 
£13,000 for it. Two years  after buying  the car, the manufacturer carried  out a service update 
on it in relation to its emissions software.  Ms F has raised various  complaints about  the car. 
She has complained  that:
The car has had issues  since work  was undertaken  in relation to a recall.  
The turbo failed  in May 2018. 
Warning lights have  illuminated.  
The exhaust emissions are worse  than they should be.
The cars fuel consumption was too high.
Ms F had the turbo fixed free of charge. But she remained unhappy.  BPF has said that Ms F 
has covered over 25,000 miles since she bought the car. It said it would  need  to see 
evidence that the current faults were there or developing  at the point of sale in order  for it to 
uphold the complaint. It said a number of factors could affect fuel consumption.  It also said 
that if the car wasnt working as it should  after the remedial works were carried  out then 
Ms F should speak to the manufacturer.  
As things  werent  resolved, Ms F brought the complaint to our service.  She also settled the 
agreement and sold the car. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint but didnt uphold it. He noted  the car had a service 
update carried  out in relation to emissions  software, but he didnt think this had affected its 
performance. He didnt  think there  was enough evidence  to show  that the turbo failure,  or 
other problems with the car were  linked to the service  update.  He also said that there wasnt  
enough evidence  to show the cars fuel consumption was too high. 
Ms F didnt agree with the assessment,  so the complaint has been  passed to me to make a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F paid for the car using a regulated consumer credit agreement with BPF.  Our service is 
able to consider  complaints about  these sorts  of agreements. 
When considering  if BPF acted fairly  in declining Ms Fs claim, I take into account the 
relevant law. So, in this case, section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  makes BPF 
responsible for a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier  under  certain  
conditions. 
Ref: DRN65974662Legislation was implied into the contract when  Ms F bought her car. There was an implied 
term that the goods supplied under the contract  are of satisfactory quality. Goods would be 
considered satisfactory  if they met the standard a reasonable person would regard as 
satisfactory taking account of any description of the goods, the price paid and other relevant 
circumstances. 
In Ms Fs case, the car was used when she bought it. It had covered around 30,000 miles. 
Id have different  expectations of it compared  to a brand new car. Having said that, the cars 
condition should  have met the standard a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory, 
given its age, mileage  and price.
Ms F was able to cover around 20,000 miles in the car in the first couple of years  that she 
owned it, and before the service update was carried out. From  what  Ive seen, it looks  like 
Ms F didnt have any significant issues in that time. I think its unlikely the car would have 
been able to cover this distance, without significant  issues, if it wasnt  of satisfactory quality 
when it was sold to Ms F. 
Ms F was also able to cover around  10,000 miles in the car after the service  update  was 
carried out, and before the problem with the turbo and warning  lights. Had the service  
update caused problems  with the car, I think its likely this would have become apparent 
relatively soon afterwards. From what Ive seen, on balance, I dont think theres sufficient 
evidence to show that the problem with the turbo, nor the other  more  recent  issues Ms F 
complained about were  linked to the service update, or were  present or developing at the 
point of sale. I think its more likely  than not the faults with the car are down  to its usual wear 
and tear. 
From what  weve  been told by the manufacturer, the service update was optional  and wasnt 
a recall. It shouldnt have had an impact  on performance, including engine  performance.  And 
Ms F hasnt provided us with evidence to show  it did, or that it caused any faults. 
emissions
When looking into this complaint, Ive thought about the impact on Ms F as opposed to the 
wider issues involved.  And from what weve been told, the cars emissions would  only have 
been impacted  during test conditions.  So while  I take on board Ms Fs complaint about  the 
emissions, I dont think the everyday running of the car, and the costs associated  with it have 
suffered as a result  of the emissions software  that was on her car. I think  the service update 
will show  that the emissions software works  correctly and the emissions comply with the 
relevant rules. Therefore, I dont think BPF needs  to take any action in relation to the 
emissions. 
fuel consumption
Like our investigator has said, I simply dont  have enough evidence to show that Ms Fs cars 
fuel consumption  was worse than it should  have been. Ms F no longer has the car, so it 
would be difficult to get evidence to show that it used more  fuel than it should  have. But 
without this evidence,  Im unable to direct BPF to take any action in relation to it. 
All things  considered, I dont think the car was of unsatisfactory quality when Ms F bought  it. 
And I dont  think BPF needs to take any action in relation  to the emissions  or the fuel 
consumption. 
Ref: DRN65974663my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6597466