K820x#14complaint
Mrs R complains about poor installation of carpets she bought through  a fixed  sum loan 
agreement with Close Brothers Limited,  trading  as Close Brothers  Retail Finance (Close 
Brothers). She would  like a refund of the money  she has paid. 
background
Mrs R say she ordered carpets and underlay  in July 2018. She says the retailer arranged a 
site survey. But she says she wasnt advised  at that point  that the doors would need 
trimming when  the carpets  were  installed. So she feels  she didnt have the chance to make 
an informed choice over what to do.
She says when the carpet was fitted  the poor installation led to bumps in the carpet for which  
she has had to take other measures, at a financial cost to herself, to ensure safety in her 
home.
She feels the installation and fitting was of poor quality so under the Consumer  Rights  Act 
2015 she feels she can claim  100% of the value of the goods  as compensation. She says 
she wasnt willing to accept Close Brothers offer to trim the doors at an additional cost.
Close Brothers said its finance only covered the cost of the carpet  purchase  not the cost of 
the carpet fitting.  But it did confirm that the retailer, as a gesture of goodwill, had offered to 
carry out the work on the doors at a reduced  cost. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt  find a breach of contract or mis 
representation that would  allow a claim under  Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
Close Brothers accepted  this but Mrs R didnt.
She said that she had ordered carpets  from the same company in the pas and relied on its 
advice on the type of carpet and underlay that was suitable. She says she is no expert  and 
wouldnt have known  that the underlay  she bought wasnt suitable for the height  of her doors 
and that her doors would  need trimming. She says had she known this she would have gone 
for a free underlay  option.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs R is going to be disappointed  as Ive reached  the same  conclusion as our 
adjudicator.
Close Brothers has made the point that it doesnt feel this complaint is its responsibility. 
Having said that it has co operated with providing information  for us in order for me to reach  
a fair outcome.  
Mrs R has told us that she has bought and had fitted carpets from the same  company in the 
past. So I agree with our adjudicators comments that its not unreasonable to say, that as a 
result, Mrs R would  be aware  of what to consider when  buying carpets.
Ref: DRN62172952As I understand it Mrs R didnt appreciate her doors  would need trimming due to the 
thickness of the products she bought.  The retailer  has told us that, at a site visit, the old 
flooring was still in place  which made it difficult to make a definitive measurement.  That 
doesnt seem unreasonable to me.
The retailer  has also explained, in detail,  its process when on site visits. It has explained 
what the estimator would cover with the consumer which would  include charging  £25 per 
door if it is obvious doors need cutting. If it isnt as clear it offers  an additional service 
payable directly to the contractor as required. It said this discussion isnt optional  since 
customers vary hugely with their requirements  some want  doors cut and old floorings 
taken out, some only want the free element of the service.  I am persuaded from this 
information that at the very least Mrs R would have  been aware the doors might have 
needed trimming.
In addition I am also mindful that the terms and conditions of the sale state  that doors must 
be removed if they interfere with the fitting. And the fitter may remove them but isnt able to 
take responsibility for trimming and replacing  them. So I think from that its clear that some 
work might need to be done to doors and that work  is the responsibility of the customer. 
As I understand it one door was removed. The retailer has offered to trim and replace the 
door at a discounted  rate as a gesture of goodwill. I think that is a fair offer.   I leave it to Mrs 
R to accept that offer or not.
Mrs R has also raised another issue with fitting  saying the carpet has bumps. She has sent 
us some photos but unfortunately  the quality of those  isnt sufficient for me to agree  that 
there are bumps. 
Looking at all the informant I have I dont feel I have  any evidence  to show there  are  any 
grounds to say that there was any breach of contract or mis representation  that would justify  
a claim under Section 75.
Mrs R has also said that she has incurred some  financial cost in making her home safe as a 
result of the poor installation. She hasnt given us any evidence to support this. But even if 
could evidence this I havent found any evidence of poor quality installation. So I dont think it 
would be reasonable for me to say it was fair for Close Brothers  to compensate  Mrs R.
.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 June  2019.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6217295