K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has declined his travel insurance claim for 
the curtailment  of a trip for health reasons.
 
background
On 4 May 2018,  Mr V, whilst on a trip abroad, fell ill with symptoms  of fever and delirium.  He 
initially treated his condition with paracetamol.  He says that at that stage he was in no 
position to visit a doctor, nor to focus on the terms of his travel insurance  policy. He says he 
began to recover on 7 May, and on 9 May,  when  he had recovered sufficiently, he decided  to 
cut short  his trip and travel home.  He says this was to prevent further debilitating illness  and 
insurance claims for repatriation. He didnt contact UKIs assistance team for advice or seek  
any medical attention  before deciding to travel home.
When hed returned  home, Mr V consulted his GP practice and provided a urine sample. His 
GP identified  that he had a urinary infection and gave him a prescription for antibiotics  on 25 
May, which Mr V started to take on 4 June.
Mr V made a claim on his travel insurance  policy with UKI for his lost holiday.  UKI rejected 
his claim on the grounds that any costs associated with a curtailment  claim as a result  of 
illness must have been approved by its assistance service, and Mr V hadnt contacted UKIs 
assistance team or sought  medical attention while on his trip. 
UKI referred  Mr V to the term of his policy which states:
E  Curtailment (cutting a journey short)
What you are covered  for:
1. Curtailment due to early return
We will reimburse up to £5,000 per insured person, for
a) Unused travel and accommodation expenses, and
b) Additional travel  expenses needed  to return you to the UK (repatriation) which have  been  
authorised by the assistance service which you cannot recover from any other  source 
following curtailment of a journey, due to:
1. Death or serious  injury or illness to:
a) you;
What you are not covered for (exclusions):
In addition to anything mentioned in the General Exclusions,  we will not pay for claims 
which are a result of:

15. An accident or illness, unless the treating medical practitioner  on your journey  
confirms in writing that curtailment  is medically  necessary.  (my emphasis added).
UKI noted that Mr V hadnt at that stage  got confirmation from a medical  practitioner  that he 
needed to cut short his holiday.  In its final response letter  to him, UKI said:  
The policy  excludes  claims unless a medical practitioner confirms  in writing that 
curtailment was medically necessary. This information is on pages 26 to 28 of your policy 
booklet.
If youre able to get this confirmation  from your GP, we can ask our claims team to 
reconsider the decision, however you would need to obtain this at your own expense.
Ref: DRN69941882So Mr V obtained  a letter from his GP dated 22 June 2018.  This cost him £18. It stated:
Mr V became unwell  whilst  on holiday with symptoms of fever and delirium.  It was 
medially necessary  to cancel his holiday.
Mr V maintains that in providing a letter from his GP hes provided UKI with what  the policy 
requires and what it asked for in its final response  letter, and so expects UKI to settle  his 
claim. 
UKI considered the letter from Mr Vs GP, but says it maintains its rejection of his claim as 
Mr V hadnt  spoken  to UKIs medical  team prior to curtailing  his trip and hadnt sought 
medical treatment abroad.
Mr V has therefore referred  his complaint to this service. He wants  to recover his holiday 
costs from the date of his illness  together with the £18 paid for the GP letter  and 
compensation for all the time and effort lost by UKI not mentioning the need for a GP letter  
until its final decision, and then still refusing his claim. 
Our investigator didnt  consider that the medical  evidence supported Mr Vs claim and 
considered that UKI had applied its policy terms correctly. Mr V isnt satisfied with our 
investigators view and has asked  that his complaint be referred to an ombudsman, so his 
complaints been  passed to me to make  a decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im not going  to uphold Mr Vs complaint 
and Ill explain why.
The starting point  for any consideration of whether  UKI has acted unreasonably in rejecting 
Mr Vs claim is the policy wording. Ive quoted the relevant policy  wording above,  and Ive 
provided my emphasis  to the words that are particularly  relevant.
I think this wording is clear, and so doesnt  lend itself to interpretation. It requires that in the 
event of illness whilst on a trip, the insured  should consult a medical practitioner and obtain 
from them written confirmation that its medically  necessary for them  to cut short their trip to 
return home. I think its also clear that this confirmation must come from the medical 
practitioner consulted  when still on the trip, and not a medical practitioner consulted after the 
insured has already returned home who isnt in the same position to know  whether it was 
medically necessary  to cut short the trip.
Mr V has provided an extremely brief letter from his GP, written some  six weeks  after hed 
cut short  his trip, saying  it was necessary  for him to do so. But whilst Mr Vs GP could 
confirm that he had a urinary  infection  that needed to be treated with antibiotics,  I dont 
consider that she was in a position  to know the seriousness of Mr Vs medical  condition  as at 
that time he decided to cut short his trip, and whether at that time it was medically necessary 
for him to do so. She wouldve been  relying  on what he told her.
If Mr V had contacted UKIs assistance  team  before he returned home, it couldve advised 
him on his options.  One of these mightve been  that he remain on his trip, in which case  UKI 
Ref: DRN69941883wouldve taken the risk of a recurrence  and any costs arising from it. And if hed consulted  a 
local doctor, he mightve been  provided with appropriate medication that wouldve allowed 
him to continue his holiday.
I think its reasonable for UKI, where  a claim is being made for curtailment of a trip on health  
grounds, to require  evidence that this was necessary. The policy says that this has to be 
provided by the treating  medical practitioner on your journey. This ensures that the view is 
taken at the right point  in time by someone  who has assessed the medical condition  of the 
insured. I also think its reasonable for UKI not to place weight on the view of Mr Vs GP. She 
wasnt in a position to assess his condition  and form a view as to whether it was necessary 
for him to return home until some six weeks later.
So although  Mr V has provided evidence that he was ill at the time, and this isnt contested  
by UKI, he hasnt provided the evidence that the policy  requires that this necessitated his 
return home. I therefore dont think that UKI has acted unreasonably in rejecting his claim. I 
think that in suggesting to Mr V that he got this information from his GP, even though  this 
was some time after his return  home, UKI was being very reasonable. It mightve received 
fuller information that persuaded  it to reconsider the claim. But given the limited information 
provided, I dont think that UKI acted unreasonably  in maintaining its original  decision.  Im 
therefore not going to ask UKI to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  Im not upholding Mr Vs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 August 2019. 
Nigel Bremner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6994188