K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2006. Mr C says Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr C says he was unaware he had PPI. BoS has given me a copy  of the signed credit  
agreement from the time of the sale. In this, there was a separate  section  for PPI 
underneath where  Mr C signed to agree to take out the credit card. Mr C ticked a box 
and signed in the PPI section to agree to take it out. And I think it was clear  he couldve 
left it blank if he didnt  want the policy. So, taking everything into consideration, I think 
BoS made it clear  that Mr C didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out.
BoS recommended the PPI to Mr C so it had to check  that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example he wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Its possible the information BoS gave  Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it 
seems like it would have  been  useful for him if something went wrong.  Mr C wouldve 
received 3 months at full pay followed by 3 months at half pay if he was sick, and he had 
some savings  available to him. But the policy couldve covered him for 12 months per 
claim if he was too ill to work, had an accident or was made redundant. And that 
wouldve been in addition to his sick pay. It also looks  like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Mr C also pointed out that hes received refunds of other PPI policies with BoS. So hes 
asked why we werent  telling  BoS to refund this policy  in full. I understand why hes 
asked this. Its because  we look at each case on its individual  merits. And theres a lot of 
things that affect whether PPI was mis-sold,  like what type of policy it was, what it was 
covering, when it was sold, the sales process at the time, and so on. I explained above 
why I thought that, in this particular case, its most likely  that this policy  wasnt  mis-sold.
This means BoS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But BoS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr C because: 
BoS got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr C about  that. Because BoS didnt tell Mr C, that was unfair.  
To put that right, BoS has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN60155522my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr C.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr C any commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand  it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6015552