K821x#15complaint
Mrs S complains she was misled when acquiring a car under a hire purchase  agreement
with Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VWFS) T/A Audi Financial Services.
background
Mrs S acquired a new car in January 2018. Mrs S says she was led to believe the car
included a Sat Nav, however, when  she went to collect  the car she noticed it wasnt
included.
Mrs S says her previous car had an in-built Sat Nav and as she needed  a Sat Nav for work,
she wouldnt  have acquired  the car without it. Mrs S also says she doesnt remember  seeing
a brochure for the car at the time and says she went into the dealership  knowing what type
of car she wanted. Mrs S says due to the nature of her work and the need for a Sat Nav, she
decided to buy her own Sat Nav after acquiring the car. Mrs S has provided her own
recollection of the conversation she had with the sales advisor at the time about the Sat Nav.
Mrs S has asked  for VWFS  to install a Sat Nav in the car.
VWFS got testimony from the sales advisor who Mrs S dealt  with at the time. The advisor
said when Mrs S viewed  the car upon  collection  which the dealer say would have been
around the time the agreement was taken out - they told her that although the car does have
a Sat Nav button, it doesnt come  with one as standard. VWFS also say that if Mrs S did
agree to buy the Sat Nav, this would appear as a tech pack on the new car sales
invoice. The dealership have confirmed a Sat Nav cant  be retrofitted in Mrs S car.
VWFS say there was no evidence to show Mrs S purchased  a Sat Nav with her car but the
dealership offered Mrs S £1,000 as a gesture of goodwill.  Mrs S didnt accept this.
Our adjudicator looked into this complaint. He said its possible some conversations  may
have happened, but there  was no evidence to show they actually had. And as there  was also
no mention of the Sat Nav on the sales invoice, he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mrs S disagreed. She remains of the opinion she was told the car would come  with a Sat
Nav. So the complaint has been  passed to me for a decision.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint setting out:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is missing or
incomplete, as it is here, Im required to decide matters on the balance  of probabilities. In
other words, on what I consider most  likely to have  happened.
As a starting point,  I have to bear in mind that this complaint is against VWFS. And VWFS is
a separate legal entity to the supplying dealer. I can fairly consider a complaint about  the
antecedent negotiations carried out by the supplying dealer against VWFS because  section
56 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  provides that they can be held liable for these
negotiations.
Ive spoken to the dealership and they said the type of car Mrs S chose was a less
expensive model  and didnt come  with a Sat Nav installed as standard.  The dealership said
there is additional paperwork a sales advisor would run through  with a customer  should they
choose to have optional extras with their car. They also gave some  details about their sales
Ref: DRN65996222methods and the forms that are completed relating to the specification  and extras on the
cars that are sold. I asked  the dealership for this additional paperwork which I think is quite a
key bit of evidence which is missing. However, the dealership  havent  provided any
paperwork when asked.
Ive carefully considered  what both parties have  told me. Its not in dispute  that there was a
conversation between the sales  advisor and Mrs S about a Sat Nav at the time  albeit no
written evidence such as emails to show exactly what was discussed.  However,  Im more
persuaded by what Mrs S has told us.
Mrs S has been clear and consistent that she required a Sat Nav for her job and that her
previous car had one. Ive not seen anything to suggest her previous car didnt have  a Sat
Nav and based on what shes told us about her job and the fact that Mrs S bought  her own
Sat Nav when realising  the car didnt have one, Im persuaded that Mrs S needed  a Sat Nav.
So I dont  think Mrs S would have chosen a car without a Sat Nav fitted.
In addition, both Mrs S and the dealership have said Mrs S went back  into the dealership
again after acquiring the car to reiterate  that she was told the car would come  with a Sat
Nav.
Mrs S has provided us with copies  of emails between her and the dealership about the Sat
Nav from some weeks after she acquired  the car. In one of the emails, I can see Mrs S
mentions she tried previously to contact the sales manager by telephone several times but
hadnt been able to reach him. I can also see Mrs S sent a follow up email to the dealership
expressing her disappointment  at the gesture of goodwill provided  by them.  Mrs S then sent
a further email asking  the dealership for a response  to her complaint. I note Mrs S also
wasnt willing to accept  the £1,000 gesture  of goodwill made by the dealership to settle her
complaint - clearly Mrs S would have been able to buy a Sat Nav for under this gesture of
goodwill offer.  So I believe what Ive explained is representative of someone who has been
misled. Taking all of this into account,  Im satisfied Mrs S did ask for the Sat Nav to be fitted.
I note VWFS  have said had Mrs S asked  for a Sat Nav to be fitted, this wouldve appeared
on the invoice  as tech pack. But this doesnt  mean  Mrs S didnt ask for it for the reasons
Ive explained  above.
On balance, I think Mrs S was given false information and I dont think she would have
entered into the agreement had she been properly  advised. So I think  theres been a
misrepresentation. The usual remedy for misrepresentation is to put the consumer back in a
position had the misrepresentation not happened, which I think is a fair remedy  in the
circumstances. So in this case, I intend to ask Mrs S return  the car to VWFS and for VWFS
to keep the monthly payments made in recognition of the usage Mrs S has had of the car.
Mrs S responded and confirmed she accepted my provisional decision. VWFS responded 
and said:
The price that Mrs S paid for the car is without the tech pack  VWFS  say the request 
to reject the car is disproportionate. 
The original remedy (£1,000 gesture of goodwill)  which  was offered by the dealership  
to Mrs S was more than what would  be expected  under the circumstances. And that 
this gesture of goodwill would have  allowed Mrs S to purchase a Sat Nav that was 
perhaps of even greater  functionality  than the Sat Nav included  in the tech pack.  
Ref: DRN65996223The advanced payment shown on the finance agreement included  £4,000  dealership 
contribution. 
Mrs S has had the car for 25 months  of the 48 month term of the agreement. So 
VWFS say they would  only be looking to refund  a percentage of the deposit 
considering how far into the agreement Mrs S now is.
Any rejection  of the car would be subject  to the usual end of contract charges, 
including refurbishment and excess mileage.
VWFS dont  agree with the recommendation in my provisional decision that they pay 
for the removal of Mrs S private  number  plate as it was Mrs S decision to add the 
plate to her car. 
Following the new information provided  by VWFS about the amount contributed  by the 
dealership to the advance  payment, I clarified the recommendation made  in my provisional  
decision in relation to the refund of the advance  payment with both parties.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note VWFS  comment that they think the remedy I proposed in my provisional decision was 
hugely disproportionate. 
However, as I explained in my provisional  decision,  Im satisfied based  on all the information 
available, Mrs S wouldnt have entered into the contract at all had she not been misled.  And 
because of this I concluded there had been a misrepresentation. The remedy  for a 
misrepresentation is to put the consumer  back in a position had the misrepresentation not 
been made  which in this case means putting Mrs S in the position she wouldve been had 
she not entered contract, irrespective of the fact that she may not have actually paid for a 
Sat Nav. So I dont  think the recommendation I proposed goes beyond the normal  remedy 
for misrepresentation. 
I appreciate VWFS comment that the gesture of goodwill offered by the dealership was 
more than what would be expected. However,  the fact that Mrs S didnt accept this offer 
shows how much  it meant to her to have the Sat Nav included in the car. And as I explained 
in my provisional decision,  I think the rejection of the gesture of goodwill was representative 
of someone who has been misled.  
I think its fair for Mrs S to pay for any end of contract charges, including costs for any non-
fair wear and tear damage and excess mileage. However, I still think  VWFS should arrange 
to remove and return Mrs S private number  plate to her and to cover any associated  costs. 
The reason  I say this is because  Mrs S wouldnt have  incurred costs  at this time relating to 
the removal and return of the number  plate had she not been misled in to acquiring the car. 
VWFS say theyd be willing to refund a percentage of the deposit considering how far into 
the finance agreement Mrs S is now. However,  I think its fair for VWFS to refund  all of the 
deposit less the contribution made by the dealership.  I say this because  it wouldnt be fair for 
Mrs S to be at a loss especially as Ive decided that she was misled. In addition  to this, Mrs 
S now finds herself in a position where  shed have to effectively start again  she wouldnt 
have the option of buying this car at the end of the term. This isnt like a hire agreement 
where Mrs S wouldnt have that option  - this is a hire purchase  agreement,  so being able to 
buy the car at the end of the agreement wouldve been a viable option for her.
Ref: DRN65996224As I explained in my provisional decision,  I think its fair for Mrs S to pay for the usage shes  
had of the car. And I find the monthly payments Mrs S paid to be a fair payment in 
recognition of the usage shes had. In all the circumstances of Mrs S complaint, I dont think  
she needs to pay more for the usage from her deposit.
my final decision
For these reasons, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Volkswagen  
Financial Services (UK) Limited T/A Audi Financial Services to:
End the hire purchase agreement.
Collect the car at no cost to Mrs S and at a time convenient for Mrs S.
Refund Mrs S the whole advance payment less the dealership contribution and 8% 
simple interest* per year from the date Mrs S made payment to the date of 
settlement.
Remove any information about the agreement from Mrs S credit file.
Arrange to remove and return Mrs S private number plate to her and to cover any 
associated costs.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Leanne McEvoy
ombudsman
* If Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited  T/A Audi Financial Services  thinks  that 
theyre required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct income tax from that interest, they 
should tell Mrs S how much theyve  taken off. They should also give Mrs S a tax deduction 
certificate if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax if appropriate.
Ref: DRN6599622