K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.  Mr G says 
American Express Services Europe Limited  (AMEX) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
In December 1999 Mr G completed a postal application form for a credit card. At the same time he 
was sold a PPI policy.  The policy wouldve  paid a monthly benefit  for up to 24 months if Mr G 
couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or involuntary unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. AMEX  disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion so the complaint was passed  to me.
In March 2019 I issued my provisional findings on this complaint and invited both parties to 
comment and send  me any additional evidence  they wanted me to think  about.  A copy  of my 
provisional decision is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional findings were that I was not intending  to uphold Mr Gs complaint, my main 
reasons were:
AMEX showed  us a copy of the original application form for the credit card,  signed  by Mr G. 
It looks like the type of application  form that wouldve been posted  to Mr G for him to 
complete and return to AMEX.  It has Mr Gs name and address printed on it, and 
instructions to return the form to AMEX. I can see there is a section that invited Mr G to tick 
a box if he wanted PPI to be added to the account. And I can see the box has been ticked.
Taking everything into account  I think AMEX made it clear  that Mr G didnt have to take out 
the PPI and he chose to take it out.
As Mr G completed the form himself I dont think AMEX gave him advice. So it didnt need 
to make sure the policy  was right for him. But it did have to give Mr G enough clear 
information for him to decide  whether to buy the policy.
Its possible the information AMEX gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But I dont  think better information about  the PPI would have put him off taking  out 
the cover. 
The policy did contain terms and conditions which I think wouldve made it very difficult  for 
the self-employed to make a claim.  I dont think AMEX made these terms and conditions 
clear. So if Mr G was self-employed  in December  1999  I dont think  he would have bought  
the policy if hed been given clearer information. It was for this reason that the adjudicator  
recommended Mr Gs complaint be upheld.
But, taking everything into account  everything  I thought it most likely  Mr G was employed. 
Which means I dont think the policy was mis-sold to him.
Which means AMEX doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But AMEX  does have  to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
Ref: DRN67670452AMEX got a high level of commission  and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - 
so it shouldve told Mr G about that. Because AMEX didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair.  
To put that right, AMEX has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  thats fair in this case.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Gs case. 
Neither AMEX nor Mr G have replied with any new evidence  or points for me to consider. 
Therefore I see no reason  to depart from the findings I set out in my provisional decision in 
March 2019.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited doesnt have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr G any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
copy  of my provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a credit card payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy. Mr G says American  
Express Services Europe  Limited (AMEX) mis-sold him the PPI. 
background
Ref: DRN67670453In December 1999 Mr G completed a postal application form for a credit card. At the same time he was sold 
a PPI policy. The policy wouldve paid a monthly benefit for up to 24 months if Mr G couldnt  work due to an 
accident, sickness or involuntary  unemployment.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. AMEX disagreed  with the adjudicators  opinion so 
the complaints  been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on 
our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.
Ive currently thinking the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
AMEX has been able to show us a copy of the original  application form for the credit card, signed by Mr G. It 
looks like the type of application form that wouldve  been posted to Mr G for him to complete  and return to 
AMEX. It has Mr Gs name and address  printed on it, and instructions  to return the form to AMEX.
So I think Mr G most likely  completed the form himself. I can see there is a section that invited     Mr G to tick 
a box if he wanted PPI to be added to the account.  And I can see the box has been ticked.
Taking everything into account I think AMEX made it clear that Mr G didnt  have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out.
As Mr G completed the form himself I dont think AMEX gave him advice. So it didnt need to make sure the 
policy was right for him. But it did have  to give Mr G enough clear  information  for him to decide whether to 
buy the policy.
Its possible the information AMEX gave  Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. But he 
chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful 
for him if something  went wrong. For example  he has told us he had no other resources with which to pay 
the monthly repayments if he was unable  to work or lost his job. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont 
think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.  
The policy did contain terms and conditions  which I think wouldve made  it very difficult  for the    self-
employed to make a claim.  I dont  think AMEX  made these  terms and conditions clear. So if Mr G was self-
employed in December  1999 I dont think he would  have bought the policy if hed been given  clearer 
information. It was for this reason that the adjudicator  recommended Mr Gs complaint be upheld.
But when he originally complained to AMEX via his representatives, Mr G said he was employed as an IT 
Person and gave the name of the business  he worked for.
Mr G later told us he was self employed.
I can see the adjudicator asked Mr Gs representatives for details  of his employment  circumstances on a 
number of occasions. From the file I can see they have been  asked on at least  five separate  occasions. On 
21 February 2019 Mr Gs representatives  told us Mr G could not recall  where he was working  in December 
1999 because of the time thats passed.
The outcome of this case hinges on whether Mr G was employed or self-employed. If Mr G was employed I 
think he still would have bought the policy  even if AMEX had given  him all the clear information it should  
have.
But if Mr G was self-employed  in December  1999 I dont think hed have bought the policy.
Ref: DRN67670454Taking into account everything I currently think its most likely Mr G was employed. Which  means I dont 
think the policy was mis-sold  to him. If in response to this provisional decision Mr Gs representatives  send in 
some persuasive  evidence  that Mr G was self-employed Ill look again at this point.  For example I am aware 
that details of historic National Insurance contributions can be obtained free of charge and these are likely to 
show if Mr G was employed or self-employed.   
Which means AMEX doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But AMEX does  have to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
AMEX got a high level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium)  - so it 
shouldve told Mr G about that. Because AMEX didnt  tell Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, AMEX  has basically  offered to pay back the amount of commission and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think thats  fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, but subject to both parties responses to this provisional  decision, Im 
intending to issue a final decision along the following  lines:
 
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American Express Services  Europe Limited  doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But American  Express Services Europe Limited does have to pay back  to Mr G any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6767045