K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about Cabot Credit  Management Group Limited  (Cabots)  management of 
a debt they say he owes  them.
background
Mr K has been represented  by his solicitors in this complaint but for ease I will refer to Mr K 
throughout this decision.
Mr K says that:
a debt Cabot  say he has with them is unenforceable as Cabot havent been  able to 
supply the original agreement;
theyve made charges  to his account  and should not have  done  so;
theyve been  aggressive in their pursuit of the debt;
theyve reported  the unenforceable debt to the credit reference agencies and should  
not have done so.
In response to Mr Ks complaint Cabot  said:
the debt was a credit  card debt with a company Ill call B. It was originally sold to 
them in February  2013;
they accepted that the debt was currently not enforceable  by a court but didnt accept 
that the debt didnt  exist. They said Mr K had made payments towards it and that 
they had provided  him with the necessary Notice  of Assignment when they took over 
the debt from B in February 2013. They said this demonstrated Mr K accepted the 
debt was his; 
they explained they hadnt made charges  or added any interest to the debt;
they didnt  think theyd been  aggressive  in their pursuit of the debt;
they hadnt reported a default to the credit reference agencies.
Mr K was still dissatisfied with Cabots  response. So he referred his complaint to this service 
and our investigator provided  her opinion. She explained that it wasnt for this service to 
decide whether  a debt was enforceable and that only a court could do that. She didnt think  
Cabot had made any charges or added  interest  to the debt. She asked Mr K for a copy of his 
credit file so she could review if markers had been applied.  But as a credit file wasnt  
provided she explained that it wasnt possible for her to provide any further comment.
She reviewed the correspondence that had taken place between Mr K and Cabot but she 
didnt think there was evidence that Cabot had been  aggressive. Theyd simply stated  the 
debt owed and had asked Mr K to reach  out to them if he was experiencing financial 
difficulties. She went on to consider if Cabot hadnt considered Mr Ks financial difficulty  but, 
having reviewed  the limited communication there  had been, she could not find evidence  that 
Mr K had explained his financial difficulties to the business. She noted that Cabots 
correspondence with him had explained  they may be able to agree to a repayment plan and 
that theyd signposted Mr K to relevant debt charities. So, overall,  the investigator didnt think 
Cabot needed  to take any additional action.
Mr K disagreed with the investigators opinion.  He said that Cabot were not in a position  to 
assure themselves  any debt was due as they didnt have a copy  of the original agreement. 
Ref: DRN66228702He said the debt had negatively affected his credit rating  and he therefore asked for a final 
decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view. I know that will disappoint Mr K so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
The appropriate forum  to decide  technical  arguments as to whether a credit agreement  is 
enforceable is not the Financial Ombudsman  Service, but a court. But we are able to decide  
whether Cabot is being fair in pursuing Mr K for the debt.
Mr K made a request to Cabot under  section  77/78  of the Consumer  Credit  Act (1974). This 
legislation says that the creditor (in this case Cabot)  needs to supply the debtor (in this case 
Mr K) a copy of the executed agreement.
But as Cabot has not been  able to provide this, the legislation says that until they can, the 
debt isnt enforceable. Cabot hasnt been  able to provide this information as the original 
lender cant locate it. So they accept  that the debt cant be enforced.
They argue that Mr K is still potentially liable so they should be allowed to continue to hold 
the debt against him. But there  may be implications for Mr K if his credit  file is damaged by 
the debt.
is Cabot being  fair in pursuing Mr K for the debt?
I think theres enough evidence here to suggest  that the debt in question  is Mr Ks. I say that 
because Ive seen  Mr K has made payments  towards  the debt when it was held by B. Hes 
also made payments  to Cabot through a company who are managing repayments to his 
creditors. I think its unlikely this company would make payments if there  was any concern 
the account wasnt Mr Ks
Im required  to decide if Cabot are being fair in pursuing Mr K for the debt and I think, given 
the evidence Ive detailed above, they are being.
charges and interest
I cant see that Cabot  have applied charges or interest to the debt since it was transferred to 
them so I dont uphold  this part of Mr Ks complaint.
reports to credit reference agencies
Ref: DRN66228703Mr K has not provided a copy of his credit  file for me to review  so its not possible for me to 
make any findings here. I note that Cabot have  explained they havent reported a default but 
Ive not seen evidence either way.
have Cabot been aggressive  in their pursuit  of the debt?
I dont think theres evidence of this. Ive reviewed the correspondence  Cabot  have sent and 
their system records. They sent statements of the debt that was owed and letters offering 
discounts on the account balance. In some of those letters Cabot explained  that Mr K should 
contact them  if he was experiencing  difficulty paying his debt. Ive not seen correspondence,  
or been referred to communication, that appears aggressive. 
So I dont  think theres evidence here that Cabot have done  anything wrong and Im not 
asking them to take any further action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6622870