K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains about the price that RAC Motoring Services quoted her to renew her 
breakdown cover.
background
Mrs H had purchased breakdown cover from RAC in 2000 through  an intermediary. She 
became a direct RAC customer a few years later and has maintained this relationship with 
RAC ever since, paying monthly for her cover.
In 2017 her notification  of renewal showed a new premium of £222  which  Mrs H was 
unhappy with. When renewing her motor insurance she was offered RAC breakdown cover,  
through her insurer, for only £83. That cheaper  price included home start which wasnt  part 
of her direct policy. She accepted that offer and cancelled her direct policy with RAC. She 
complained to RAC about the difference in price and felt that shed been taken advantage of 
for many years, paying more for her breakdown  cover than was necessary.
RAC felt that the price  it had charged  Mrs H had been fair. It explained that it had 
arrangements with third parties, like insurers, to offer its services but that it didnt control the 
price that was charged. It felt that the price it charged Mrs H was the right cost of the 
protection, while accepting that discounts  could be obtained if bought  through other  
companies.
Unhappy with the response Mrs H brought her complaint to this service. One of our 
adjudicators considered the complaint but felt that RAC had acted fairly. Unhappy with that 
outcome Mrs H has asked that an ombudsman review her complaint.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I agree with the outcome reached by the 
adjudicator that RAC hasnt been  unfair  in how its priced this policy.
Ive seen the records that are available of how much  Mrs H has paid for her breakdown  
cover since  she became an RAC direct customer. At that time the price was £118 and its 
risen on renewal by a few pounds each year. When Mrs H was quoted £222 to renew her 
cover that was a £7 increase on what shed paid the previous year.
RAC has explained that in 2004 the price it charged included  a new customer  discount. It 
routinely uses initial  discounts to get new business.  It said that renewal  prices  are liable to 
rise gradually to recover that discount  and to reflect changes  in costs such  as inflationary 
factors. It also adjusts prices to reflect the risk that each member  presents in terms of use 
and likely use of its services.  I note that Mrs H is reported to have used RAC assistance 3 
times; in 2003, 2010 and 2011.
That seems  like a reasonable explanation for why costs might  rise and I note that those rises  
have been very gradual. But I would be concerned if the prices rose to such  an extent that 
they eventually  became  unrepresentative of what we might see as the true cost of the cover.  
This is a difficult issue to judge as there  is no real normal price  for policies providing forms 
of insurance cover. The provider makes decisions about the prices it charges based  on lots 
Ref: DRN62237942of factors and particularly  how it spreads  costs  across a pool of customers and assesses 
shared and individual risk in terms of its likely outlay on services.
To get some idea of how the costs  are being  apportioned and what might  represent a fair 
price we asked RAC to clarify what it would charge a new customer for the service which it 
provided to Mrs H. It confirmed that with a new customer  discount the price for cover would 
be around £150 per year.  I have also checked  that through its website myself. RAC explains 
that the discount includes an introductory  offer which adds home  start.  
Mrs H has compared what she was paying to RAC with what  she was charged  by her insurer  
to add breakdown  cover  to her insurance policy. I dont  think thats the right comparison for 
me to consider whether  RAC has treated her fairly. RAC sells policies to insurers for them to 
sell on to insurance customers. Understandably there are commercial  arrangements  
involved which allow the insurer  to purchase the cover in bulk at lower  prices than could be 
obtained by individual consumers. The insurance  companies then bundle  those services in 
with their own. The price they charge to the consumer for these add-ons is entirely at their 
own discretion. So I dont think RAC is treating  Mrs H unfairly for having  a different price for 
a direct customer.
I would consider it unfair if Mrs H was paying a price  for her cover which was unnecessarily 
high and had been caused by what could be seen as her loyalty to the company by renewing 
for many years. I dont believe thats  the case here. Im satisfied that the price Mrs H was 
paying direct  to RAC was a fair reflection of the cost that RAC  charges consumers for its 
services. My view on that is informed by the evidence Ive seen of RACs direct price for new 
customers and its explanation about how prices  then rise to recover the discount  and have  
adjustments that reflect the personal  circumstances of the specific  consumer. The 
discounted prices  offered  through  third parties  arent  a reflection of what RAC charges 
consumers. A member is free to accept  a renewal offer each year or to decline it and seek 
alternative cover elsewhere, either through a number of other  service  providers or, as Mrs H 
did here, by some discounted  offer in a package of services through  a third party. 
 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
John Withington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6223794