K821x#15complaint
Mr B has complained about instalment  loans  Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 
118 118 Money) provided to him in 2015,  2017  and 2018.  Amongst other  things, hes said 
that he was given these loans when  he was already struggling and in great  financial 
difficulty. 
background
I attach my provisional decision of 16 April 2019, which forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out why I was intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint and 
invited both parties to make any final comments ahead of my final decision. 
Following this, 118 118 Money  responded confirming  that it accepted my provisional 
decision and that it would  pay compensation to Mr B and Mr B didnt provide anything further 
for me to think about either. 
my findings
I have reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im pleased to see that 118 118 Money  has agreed with my provisional decision  and that it 
will pay compensation to Mr B. And, in the absence of any further  arguments,  I see no 
reason to change  my conclusions.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  of 16 April 2019, Im upholding    
Mr Bs complaint. Madison CF UK Limited  (trading as 118 118 Money)  should  put things right in 
the way set out in my provisional  decision. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 June 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67906692COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr B has complained about instalment  loans  Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 
118 118 Money) provided to him in 2015,  2017  and 2018.  Amongst other  things, hes said 
that he was given these loans when  he was already struggling and in great  financial 
difficulty. 
background
Mr B approached 118 118 Money  for his first loan in December 2015. He was provided with 
a loan of £1000 and this was to be repaid over 24 monthly instalments of £79.53.  I 
understand that this loan was settled  early. Mr B was then given a second loan in July 2017 
for £1100.  This was also due to repaid in 24 monthly instalments. And the monthly 
repayment was £86.21.  
Mr B then asked for a further £500 in January 2018. As he was still making payments to loan 
two at this stage and 118 118 Money  doesnt  allow borrowers to have more than one 
outstanding loan at a time, Mr B was advanced a total of £1443.64.  £943.64  of this amount 
went towards settling loan two. Loan  three  was also due to be repaid over 24 monthly 
instalments. And the monthly repayments  for this loan were £113.69. As I understand it Mr B 
ran into difficulty  paying  loan three and 118 118 Money sold the outstanding balance to a 
third party debt purchaser.  
One of our investigators  looked at what 118 118 Money and Mr B said. She didnt think that 
118 118 had done anything wrong at the time of either of the applications and so didnt  
uphold Mr Bs complaint.  Mr B disagreed with our investigator and as he did so the complaint 
was passed to an ombudsman.
the regulatory framework
118 118 Money lent to Mr B while it was authorised and regulated  by the Financial Conduct 
Authority (FCA).
the FCA Principles  for Business (PRIN)
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with.
PRIN 1.1.1G, says
The Principles apply  in whole or in part to every firm.
The Principles themselves are set out in PRIN 2.1.1R. And the most relevant principle here 
is PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
the Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC)
Ref: DRN67906693This sets out the rules  which apply to providers of consumer credit  like 118 118 Money.  
CONC 5 sets out a firms obligations  in relation to responsible lending. And CONC 6 sets out 
a firms obligations after a consumer has entered into a regulated agreement.
Its clear there is a high degree of alignment between  the Office  of Fair Tradings (OFT) 
Irresponsible Lending Guidance (ILG) and the rules set out in CONC 5 and CONC 6. As is 
evident from the following extracts, the FCAs CONC rules  specifically note and refer back  to 
sections of the OFTs Irresponsible Lending Guidance on many occasions.
Section 5.2.1R(2) of CONC  sets out what a lender needs to do before agreeing  to give a 
consumer a loan of this type.  It says a firm must consider:
(a)the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to adversely 
impact the customers financial situation, taking into account  the information  of which  
the firm is aware  at the time the regulated credit agreement is to be made; and
[Note: paragraph 4.1 of ILG]
(b)the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of the 
regulated credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments  within a reasonable period.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 of ILG]
CONC also includes guidance  about  proportionality  of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) says:
A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  on, for 
example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought and the potential  risks to the customer.  
The risk of credit not being sustainable directly  relates to the amount of credit  granted and 
the total charge for credit relative to the customers financial  situation.
[Note: paragraph 4.11 and part of 4.16 of ILG]
CONC 5.3 contains further guidance  on what a lender should bear in mind  when thinking 
about affordability. 
CONC 5.3.1G(1) says:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R 
(1), a firm should take into account more  than assessing the customers ability  to repay the 
credit.
[Note: paragraph 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then says:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) should 
include the firm taking  reasonable  steps to assess the customers  ability to meet repayments 
under a regulated credit  agreement in a sustainable  manner without the customer  incurring 
financial difficulties or experiencing significant  adverse  consequences.
Ref: DRN67906694[Note: paragraph 4.1 (box) and 4.2 of ILG]
CONC 5.3.1G(6) goes  on to say:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated credit 
agreement can be made by the customer :
(a)without undue difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments;  and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments ;
(b)over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within a reasonable  period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having  to realise security  or assets; and
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
[Note: paragraph 4.3 and 4.4 of ILG]
In respect of the need to double-check information disclosed by applicants,  CONC 5.3.1G(4) 
has a reference  to paragraphs  4.13,  4.14, and 4.15 of ILG and states:
(a)it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the 
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
And CONC 5.3.7R says that:
A firm must not accept an application for credit under  a regulated  credit  agreement where 
the firm knows or ought reasonably to suspect  that the customer  has not been  truthful  in 
completing the application in relation to information supplied by the customer  relevant to the 
creditworthiness assessment or the assessment required  by CONC 5.2.2R (1).
[Note: paragraph 4.31 of ILG]
other relevant publications  
CONC set out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers have to 
adhere to. But they represent a minimum standard for firms. And as Ive explained, Im also 
required to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice,  and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice.
the FCAs Portfolio  Strategy Letter to firms providing  high cost lending products
On 6 March 2019,  The FCA wrote  a Dear CEO letter to the Chief Executive Officer  of all 
firms allocated to the High  Cost Lenders  portfolio. The letter  set out the FCAs view of the 
key risks that High Cost Lenders pose to consumers  and the markets they operate  in. On 
page two of this letter,  the FCA sets out its view of the key causes of harm. It says:
Ref: DRN67906695To assess how firms  in the High Cost Lenders portfolio could cause harm, we analysed  
their strategies and business models.  We considered a wide range of information and data, 
including firms regulatory histories, the number  and nature of complaints, and findings from 
the HCCR. We also carried out diagnostic work on guarantor lenders, which involved issuing 
a data request  to firms  in October 2018.
Following our analysis, we see two key ways that consumers may be harmed across  the 
High Cost Lenders  portfolio:
a high volume of relending, which may be symptomatic  of unsustainable lending  patterns
firms affordability  checks  may be insufficient,  leading to loans that customers  may not be 
able to afford.
On page three of the letter, in the section entitled Complaints it says:
We expect firms  to fulfil all relevant  obligations, including  analysing the root causes of 
complaints and taking  into account  the Financial  Ombudsman  Services relevant decisions. 
We gave further detail about what we expect from firms complaint-handling procedures in 
the Dear CEO letter we issued to HCSTC firms in October 2018. This is equally relevant to 
all firms in the portfolio.
the FCAs Dear CEO letter on affordability  of High-Cost Short-Term Credit (HCSTC)  loans
On 15 October 2018, the FCA wrote a Dear CEO  letter  to the Chief  Executive Officer of all 
HCSTC providers. The letter was about  the issues surrounding the increase  in complaints 
about unaffordable lending.
The third paragraph  of this letter said:
We note that the Ombudsman has recently  published four examples of determinations of 
individual complaints about payday loans to illustrate its approach to the issues  raised in 
those complaints (see: https://www.financial-ombudsman.org.uk/publications/technical.htm ). 
If relevant,  firms  should take these examples of determinations into account  as part of 
establishing their own effective procedures for complaints handling (see DISP  1.3.1R).
Paragraph eight of the letter went on to say:
We would highlight  in particular the risks in relation to repeat borrowing. These were flagged 
in our price cap proposals in CP14/10, in July 2014,  in which we said that we were 
concerned that repeat  borrowing could indicate  a pattern of dependency  on HCSTC that is 
harmful to the borrower. We noted  that rigorous  affordability assessments  were key to 
avoiding harm in this area, and firms  should ensure they are making responsible 
assessments of the sustainability of borrowing.
my provisional findings
I have read and considered all the evidence and arguments available to me from the outset, 
in order to provisionally decide what is, in my opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the case.
Ref: DRN67906696Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are two overarching  questions (as well as two potential sub-questions), I need  to 
consider in order to provisionally decide whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances  of 
this complaint. These questions are:
Did 118 118 Money complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that 
Mr B would be able to repay his loans in a sustainable way?
oIf so, did it make  fair lending  decisions?
oIf not, would  those checks have shown that Mr B wouldve been  able to do so?
Did 118 118 Money act unfairly  or unreasonably in some  other  way?
If I determine that 118 118 Money  didnt act fairly  and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr B 
and that he lost out as a result, I will go on to consider what is fair compensation.
Did 118 118 Money  complete  reasonable and proportionate checks  to satisfy itself that Mr B 
would be able to repay his loan in a sustainable way?
The rules  and regulations in place  at the time 118 118 Money  lent to Mr B required it to carry 
out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether Mr B could afford to repay his 
loans in a sustainable manner. This is sometimes referred to as an affordability 
assessment or affordability  check.
The affordability checks had to be borrower-focused  and shouldnt  have just been 
concerned with 118 118 Moneys credit risk. So 118 118 Money had to think about  whether 
Mr B would be able to repay the loan sustainably.  In practice this meant  that 118 118 Money 
had to ensure  that making the payments to the loan wouldnt  cause Mr B undue  difficulty  or 
adverse consequences. In other words, it wasnt enough for 118 118 Money to simply think 
about the likelihood of it getting its money  back,  it had to consider the impact of loan 
repayments on Mr B.
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the loan application. 
In general, what constitutes  a proportionate affordability check will be dependent upon  a 
number of factors including  but not limited to  the particular circumstances of the borrower 
(e.g. their financial history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications of vulnerability 
or financial difficulty) and the amount  / type / cost of credit they are seeking. Even for the 
same customer, a proportionate  check could look different for different loan applications.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an 
extended period);  and 
Ref: DRN67906697the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve be for a given loan application  including (but not limited  to) any indications  of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive thought 
about all the relevant factors in this case.
Before I look in more  detail at whether the checks that 118 118 Money completed for Mr Bs 
loans were proportionate, I have some  overall  observations about its defence of its case.
118 118 Money says it carried  out a number of checks before it decided  to lend to Mr B. It 
says that it carried out a credit check and this together  with the income and expenditure 
information provided by Mr B was reviewed by its systems  and assessed  against its 
scorecard. It says it used industry standard verification checks  to validate the information 
provided by Mr B on the application. Finally it has also referred to the information contained 
on Mr Bs loan agreement.
From what  I can see, 118 118 Money appears  to be relying on heavily on Mr Bs applications  
having been assessed by its systems  and against  its scorecard. But it hasnt provided any 
specific details about its scorecard  or its industry standard  checks - I get the impression 
that it expects us to simply  accept  its scorecard and industry standard checks  resulted in a 
fair lending  decision. 
To be clear, 118 118 Money is responsible for the lending approved by its systems.  This 
service cannot and will not search  through dozens  of pages of coded  information looking for 
evidence to support  118 118 Moneys  defence of its scorecard and Mr Bs complaint. Id also 
point out that the use of industry  standard software isnt in itself demonstrative  of the fact 
that 118 118 Moneys scorecard leads to fair lending decisions. 
Given 118 118 Money insists that Mr Bs loan was responsibly lent, it ought to know  and 
have explained   how it interpreted the information it gathered and how its scorecard led to a 
responsible lending decision being  made in this case. Without  this explanation from 
118 118 Money, I cannot and will not take it as read that its decisions to lend were fair simply 
because the scorecard didnt trigger a manual review of Mr Bs application.
Were 118 118 Moneys checks reasonable and proportionate?
Having carefully thought  about what 118 118 Money  has said, I dont think that its checks  did 
go far enough.
As Ive set out above, CONC 5.2.4G(2) provides some guidance on the proportionality of 
assessments. And it makes it clear that the risk of credit not being sustainable directly  
relates to the amount of credit granted and the total charge  for credit relative to the 
customers financial situation.  
The credit check 118 118 Money carried out before Mr Bs first loan indicated that Mr B had, 
at least, four accounts that had defaulted.  And hed been in default for the three  previous 
years. Equally  he was at nearly  90% of the limit on his existing credit. 
Ref: DRN67906698The credit check at the time of loan two showed  an improved position in relation to defaults. 
But it also showed that Mr B was now at 96% of the limit on his existing credit.  And his total 
balances had increased from almost £8000 at the time of loan one to almost £22000 at the 
time of loan two. So while  the lack of defaults  may arguably have presented an improving 
picture, 118 118 Money ought fairly and reasonably to have realised that Mr B was further 
indebted. 118 118 Money hasnt provided  the results of any credit  check that mightve been 
carried out at the time of loan three.
All of Mr Bs loans required  him to make  payments  for around  two years. And the APR on   
all of Mr Bs loans was 99.9%. So I think its fair to say that 118 118 Money ought to have 
realised that at the time of the respective applications, it was providing Mr B with expensive 
credit at a time where his finances may already have been stretched and when his finances  
gave the appearance, at least, that they may have been deteriorating.
Taking all of this into account,  I think that 118 118 Money needed to get a thorough 
understanding of Mr Bs financial  position. So as well as asking Mr B about the details of his 
income and expenditure, I think that 118 118 Money  needed to take steps to verify what it 
was being told by Mr B. It could have done  this by asking for information such  as bank 
statements, copies of bills, or even proof of Mr Bs income. 
118 118 Money has said that it was entitled to rely on what  Mr B declared and he was told 
about the importance of providing accurate information during the welcome call it had with 
him just before  he was provided with loan one. This may be the case.  But, in any event, 
CONC 5.3.1G(4)(b) says that where  it takes  income or expenditure into account, it is not 
generally sufficient  for a firm to rely solely on a statement of those matters made by the 
customer. So the regulators guidance indicates that when firms  are relying  on income and 
expenditure information, they have to take steps  to verify what the borrower is declaring. 
118 118 Money might have carried out credit searches.  But I cant  see that it properly 
scrutinised what the credit  search  showed.  For example, I cant see that it asked Mr B for 
explanations regarding his defaulted accounts before giving him loan one. And given the 
credit search before loan two flagged up an increased amount of existing debt and higher 
utilisation (at least in percentage terms) of the maximum available  balance,  I also think  that 
118 118 Money ought to have asked Mr B why his finances appeared to be deteriorating.  By 
failing to do so, 118 118 Money  ran the risk of increasing Mr Bs debt unsustainably. 
As theres  no evidence  that 118 118 Money did properly scrutinise the information on the 
credit checks, or that it asked Mr B to provide documentary  evidence to support the income 
and expenditure  declarations made, I dont think it completed reasonable and proportionate 
affordability checks before providing Mr B with his loans.
Would reasonable and proportionate  checks have indicated to 118 118 Money  that Mr B 
would have been unable to sustainably repay  his loans?
As proportionate  checks werent carried out for these loans, I cant say for sure what  they 
wouldve shown. So I need to decide  whether it is more likely than not that proportionate 
checks would have  shown  118 118 Money  that it was unfair  to offer these loans to Mr B. 
Mr B has provided us with evidence  of his financial circumstances  at the time he applied  for 
these loans. Of course, I accept different checks might show  different things. And just 
because something  shows up in the information Mr B has provided,  it doesnt mean it 
wouldve shown up in any checks 118 118 Money  mightve carried  out. But in the absence of 
Ref: DRN67906699anything else from 118 118 Money  showing what this information  would have  shown, I think  
its perfectly fair and reasonable to place considerable weight on it as an indication  of what 
Mr Bs financial circumstances were  likely  to have been like at the respective times.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that 118 118 Money  was required to 
establish whether  Mr B could sustainably make his loan repayments  not whether  the loan 
payments were technically affordable on a strict  pounds and pence calculation.  Of course  
the loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  that a consumer 
could sustainably make  the repayments.  But it doesnt automatically  follow  that this is the 
case.
This is because CONC defines sustainable  as being  without undue  difficulties  and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time, while meeting other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without having  to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that if a lender realises, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  the information  Mr B has provided in light of this. 
Having looked  at Mr Bs income and expenditure at the time of the applications, I can see 
that Mr B was regularly  overdrawn by a substantial amount. I can also see that he was 
taking out substantial amounts of payday  and instalment loans every month. So a substantial 
proportion of his monthly  income was going towards repaying existing creditors.
Indeed it looks  as though  Mr B was having  difficulty repaying his existing creditors   Ive 
already explained about the defaults at the time loan one was provided - and he was 
borrowing from a number  of high cost credit providers and other unsustainable sources, 
throughout the period  Im looking at, in order to repay other creditors and to make  ends 
meet.
So Im satisfied that if 118 118 Money  wouldve ascertained Mr Bs actual financial position 
as it ought to have  done  if itd carried out proportionate checks  it wouldve seen that he 
couldnt sustainably  make the payments to these loans once his expenditure was deducted  
from his income. And in these circumstances, I think that reasonable and proportionate 
checks would have  alerted 118 118 Money to the fact that Mr B would not be able to 
sustainably make the repayments to these loans.     
Did 118 118 Money  act unfairly  or unreasonably in some other  way?
Ive carefully thought  about everything provided.  Having done  so, Ive not seen anything here 
that leads me to conclude 118 118 Money acted unfairly or unreasonably towards Mr B in 
some other way.  
Overall and having carefully thought  about the two overarching  questions,  set out on page 
three of this decision,  I think that 118 118 Money  unfairly and unreasonably provided Mr B 
with all of his loans  because it failed to carry out reasonable  and proportionate  checks  and 
its more likely than not that such checks wouldve shown 118 118 Money  that Mr B wouldnt 
be able to sustainably  repay the loans. So 118 118 Money shouldnt have provided the loans 
to Mr B. 
Ref: DRN679066910As Mr B has paid and is being expected to pay interest and charges on loans proportionate 
checks would more  likely than not have shown hed be unable to sustainably repay, I think  
that he lost out because  of what 118 118 Money did wrong. 
So having  carefully thought about  everything, Im intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint and 
say that 118 118 Money should put things right.
      
fair compensation  what  I think that 118 118 Money needs to do to put things right  for 
Mr B.
Having carefully considered matters, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mr Bs complaint for 118 118 Money to put things right in the following way:
refund  all interest and charges Mr B paid on loan one;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the interest and charges from the date they 
were paid by Mr B to the date of settlement;
Mr B had to borrow more for loan three because he had to repay interest  and 
charges on loan two. So 118 118 Money needs to add up the total amount of money 
Mr B received as a result of having  been given loans  two and three (£1600). The 
payments Mr B made to loans two and three  should be deducted  from this amount. 
Any payments  made, if any, after the total amount Mr B paid exceeds the amount of 
money he was given should be treated as overpayments;
add interest at 8% per year simple on the above overpayments  from the date they 
were paid by Mr B, if they were, to the date of settlement;
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Bs credit file as a result  of this loan.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires 118 118 Money  to take off tax from this interest.  118 118 
Money must  give Mr B a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
118 118 Money has sold the balance that was outstanding on loan three. So it needs to do 
one of the following: 
buy the debt back from the third party  purchaser  and reduce it to ensure that Mr B 
doesnt pay any interest and charges; or 
make  a payment  to the third party  purchaser so that the outstanding debt is reduced 
to ensure Mr B doesnt pay any interest and charges; or
make  a payment  to Mr B to reflect any interest and charges that hell now have to 
pay the third party  debt purchaser  as a result of the outstanding balance having been  
sold. 
It is up to 118 118 Money to decide which of the above options if would prefer  to take. But it 
needs to ensure that Mr B doesnt  pay back any interest and charges on loans two and 
three. And it should  let me know its proposed  course of action in response to this provisional 
decision.
Ref: DRN679066911my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold Mr Bs complaint and tell                 
Madison CF UK Limited (trading as 118 118 Money) to put things right in the way set out 
above.
So unless the comments and evidence I get by 14 Days changes my mind,  thats  what Ill tell 
118 118 Money to do in my final decision.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6790669