K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Miss C says Capital  One (Europe) Plc (Capital One)  mis-sold her the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received  any response from Capital One.  Miss Cs representatives  confirmed they 
have no further  comments to make. As I havent received any new information which 
requires comment,  I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 November  2019
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN68614562copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2000. Miss C says Capital  One (Europe) Plc (Capital One)  mis-sold her the PPI.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Cs case.
I currently dont think this policy  was mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Capital One had to make it clear that the policy was optional  and Miss C had to agree to 
take it out. Ive been  given  a copy of the credit card application form that was completed at 
the time and on this form there is a section about PPI. In this section  there are boxes to 
tick to accept or decline  the cover  and I can see that a tick has been placed  in the yes 
box. If Miss C didnt  want to take out the PPI she could have ticked the no box. Miss C 
has also signed the overall form which suggests  she agreed with everything that had been 
entered.
In addition to this, Ive also seen copies of Miss Cs credit card statements and the charge 
for PPI is shown as a separate entry. If Miss C didnt  know  what  this extra  charge was for, or 
hadnt agreed to take out the PPI, I think she would  have  questioned at the time.
So, based on everything Ive seen and been  told, I think Capital One made  it clear  that the 
policy was optional and that Miss C agreed to take it out, knowing she could refuse  it if 
she didnt want it.
Capital One didnt recommend the PPI to Miss C so it didnt have  to check  if it was right for 
her. But it did have  to make sure Miss C got the information she needed to decide  for 
herself if it was right for her.
Miss C originally told us that she was entitled to six months full pay, followed by six months 
half pay from her employer  if she was too ill to work. And she said she had a small amount in 
savings. Our adjudicator  upheld this complaint as he felt that, had she been  made  fully 
aware of the costs of the policy,  she would not have considered it value for money based on 
the employment benefits and other  means  she had available. Capital One responded to this 
view to say it had spoken with Miss C at the time of the complaint being raised and she said 
she was entitled  to less than three  months sick pay. So it does appear that there  is a 
discrepancy surrounding the benefits and other means Miss C had in order to pay her credit 
card if she wasnt  working. Our adjudicator asked Miss Cs representative for clarification on 
this point but, at the time of writing,  no further  information has been received.
Ive thought very carefully about this point and, having taken  into consideration Miss Cs job 
role, along  with her length of service, I think she may have received some sick pay, but I 
dont think its likely  she would have received six months full pay. And so I think  the 
information provided to Capital One is more  likely  to be correct. As this policy would have 
Ref: DRN68614563paid out for up to 12 months if Miss C was unable to work due to accident or sickness  or 
was made  unemployed, I think it could have  provided a useful benefit to her.
Its possible  not all the information  Capital One gave Miss C about the PPI was as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI by ticking  the box on the application form 
so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
at the time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
PPI cover - so it would have been useful for her if something went  wrong. Whilst Ive noted  
Miss C has said she was financially stretched, Ive not seen anything which shows it wasnt  
affordable. So I dont think  better  information about  the PPI would have put her off taking out 
the cover.
So when taking  everything into account,  I dont think Miss C has lost out as a result  of 
anything that Capital  One may have done  wrong.  It therefore follows I dont currently  require 
Capital One to repay any of the premiums it received for the PPI policy.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I currently dont  intend to uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN6861456