K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that Tesco Personal Finance Plc (trading as Tesco Bank)  didnt calculate  the 
interest on his credit  card account correctly, and couldnt explain how it had been  calculated. 
He also complains that the business  failed to deal with his complaint promptly.
background
Mr F didnt  consider Tesco Bank had calculated his credit card interest correctly. He wasnt  
happy with the banks  explanation of the calculation, and didnt consider it had dealt with his 
complaint promptly.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld.  She found  that 
Tesco Bank had given a satisfactory explanation  of how the credit card interest  was 
calculated, and there was nothing  to suggest  this was inaccurate.  
In addition, the adjudicator didnt find any unacceptable delay by Tesco  Bank in dealing  with 
Mr Fs complaint.
Mr F responded to say that he still considered the bank  had been  too slow in dealing with his 
complaint. He asked  for the matter  to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Like the adjudicator,  Im satisfied that Tesco Bank gave a satisfactory  explanation  of how it 
calculates interest on Mr Fs credit  card account. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that the 
interest its charged isnt in line with the accounts  terms  and conditions.
Mr F still considers Tesco Bank  didnt  deal with his complaint  promptly. I understand Mr F 
called the bank from overseas on 24 December 2018. The bank acknowledged  Mr Fs 
complaint on 3 January 2019.  Given the time of year, Im not persuaded that the time taken 
to acknowledge  Mr Fs complaint was unreasonable.
I understand that Mr F chased  for a full reply  when the time frame  referred to in 
Tesco Banks initial acknowledgement  had expired.  But I note that the banks final response 
letter was written on 30 January 2019.  This is within the regulatory eight week  period that the 
business has to respond to a complaint. So again, Im not persuaded that there was an 
unnecessary delay by Tesco Bank in dealing with Mr Fs complaint.
Overall, from what Ive seen and been told, Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to uphold Mr Fs complaint.
Ref: DRN63151422my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6315142