K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) charged him the Standard Variable 
Rate (SVR) when the fixed  rate on his mortgage  ended. 
background
Tesco made Mr O aware that the fixed rate on his mortgage was coming  to an end. They 
told him that unless he changed the product by 26 April 2019,  he would be charged the SVR.
Mr O went online to change product, but didnt complete the switch  at that stage. There were  
some conversations  with Tesco but ultimately  Mr O didnt complete the full switch by the 
deadline, and he was charged the SVR for one month. This resulted in a higher repayment 
than normal for that month.
Mr O complained to Tesco. They said that as Mr O hadnt completed the switch  by the 
deadline, the amount charged for that month  was correct. However they felt this wasnt 
explained clearly  to Mr O when he questioned it after he had switched the product, so they 
offered £50 compensation. As Mr O was unhappy with Tescos  response he approached this 
service.
Our investigator looked at everything  but didnt uphold the complaint. She said that Mr O 
was given notice  that the SVR would be charged  if he didnt switch in time, and as the 
deadline had passed, Tesco hadnt acted  unreasonably by charging the higher amount. She 
also thought the compensation offered was fair in the circumstances.
Mr O didnt agree with the investigator and asked  for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having considered all the information  provided by both parties, Im not upholding the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Tesco wrote  to Mr O in February 2019 and said that his fixed rate mortgage was ending  in 
May 2019. They said if Mr O wanted  a new product, the application would need to be 
completed and the signed  offer returned by 26 April 2019. They also said that if it wasnt,  
then the SVR would apply, and what the monthly  payment would increase to.
In March 2019 Mr O started  an online application  for a new product, but this wasnt 
completed. Mr O then contacted Tesco to arrange an appointment to discuss his mortgage,  
and this was booked.  Mr O was also sent a further  letter by Tesco  at that stage saying what 
the new interest rate and payment would be if Mr O didnt switch  in time.
The arranged telephone  appointment went ahead and Mr O asked  if the rates available  
could be negotiated, but Tesco said this wasnt  an option.
At the end of April Mr O queried the change in available rates online, and asked if the 
original rates  from February could be honoured. Tesco said this wasnt possible.
Ref: DRN69938082Mr O completed  the application  online to switch  on 30 April 2019  which  was just before the 
product ended on 1 May 2019. However  whilst the application was completed online, this 
was only an agreement in principle. Online it said that Mr O would be sent the offer by post,  
which he needed to sign and return.  
Whilst the agreement  in principle online didnt specifically say the switch  wouldnt happen 
until these signed  forms were returned,  Mr O had already been made aware of this, and the 
deadline, previously. I agree that this could have been clearer  online, but this doesnt mean it 
specifically resulted in Mr O being  charged  the higher amount. This is because whether it 
said it specifically or not, Mr O was already past the deadline, so he would  always  have been 
charged the SVR.
Mr O was made aware that the mortgage would revert to SVR unless the switch was 
completed by 26 April 2019. As it wasnt completed  by this date, I dont think  Tesco acted 
unreasonably by reverting to the SVR.
The new product was in place by 15 May 2019, but Mr O was charged the SVR for the whole 
month. This is because  Tesco is unable to change this mid-month. However, the extra  
interest Mr O paid in the second half of the month  was taken off Mr Os balance  the following 
month. I dont think Tescos position  here is unreasonable.
Tesco has paid Mr O £50 compensation as they didnt explain clearly  why the higher amount 
was charged when he questioned it. Whilst I dont think  Tesco  acted unreasonably by 
applying the SVR, I agree that they gave Mr O unclear information when questioned. But I 
think the £50 Mr O has been offered for this is reasonable in the circumstances. This is 
because it didnt have  an impact on the sequence of events, or the reason why Mr O was 
charged the SVR.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6993808