K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, kept increasing his credit  limit without 
checking he could  afford the payments. And that they wrongly sold his account to a debt 
collection agency before  helping him.
background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached my earlier  provisional decisions,  
which form part of this final decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my second provisional conclusions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
response to my second provisional findings
Mr H said that hed preferred that his whole debt was cancelled  but accepted my second 
provisional findings. NewDay also accepted my second provisional  findings.
NewDay lent to Mr H through a sequence  of increases in his credit card limit. After  a certain 
time, the checks it conducted about  his creditworthiness were  in breach of the requirements 
laid out in CONC.  
I would reiterate that I consider the individual circumstances at play in Mr Hs case  make this 
an appropriate way to resolve his complaint, though  that does  not set a precedent for other  
cases appearing to share similar features.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here, and in more detail in my provisional  decisions, I uphold 
this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require NewDay Limited to:
1) liaise with the owners of the account to ensure Mr Hs debt is reconstructed,  
removing interest, charges and capital to leave  his debt standing at £800, with no 
further interest to be applied
2) if that is not possible, take back ownership  of the account to effect the 
reconstruction in 1)
I encourage Mr H to co-operate with the owners of his account and agree with them  a 
suitable repayment arrangement for the remaining balance,  based on his current  
circumstances. Mr H could also place a Notice of Correction on his credit file held by credit 
reference agencies.  In this notice he can explain the circumstances in which his debt arose.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Ref: DRN61460192Adrian Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN61460193Copy of my second provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, kept increasing his credit  limit without 
checking he could  afford the payments. And that they wrongly sold his account to a debt 
collection agency before  helping him.
background
I recently issued my provisional  conclusions setting out the events leading  up to this 
complaint, and how I thought best to resolve it. Ive attached a copy  of my first provisional 
decision, which forms part of this second  provisional  decision.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  comments they wished to make in response 
to my first provisional conclusions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
response to my provisional  findings
Mr H provided  no response to my provisional findings.
NewDay said that they considered the credit  limit increase from £600 to £800 to be 
responsible lending. They said that before that increase, Mr H had not in fact missed a 
payment in one particular  month but paid it late. Although they charged a fee of £12 for this 
late payment, it was paid one day after it was due. I understand they are making a distinction 
between Mr H missing a payment and not paying  at all, and not missing it but paying late 
within the same calendar month it was due. I understand the distinction  theyre  making is 
that in their assessment of Mr Hs payment history they consider his late payment as less 
significant to them than a payment not paid at all. And as such  they didnt think theyd  not 
taken into account  a sign that Mr H was experiencing, or had experienced financial difficulty.
At the time NewDay  increased the credit limit to £800, the Financial Conduct Authority 
(FCA), under CONC rule 5.2.3, said The extent  and scope  of the creditworthiness 
assessment or the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1), in a given case, should be 
dependent upon and proportionate to factors  which  may include  one or more of the 
following:
(1) the type of credit;
(2) the amount  of the credit;
(3) the cost of the credit;
(4) the financial position of the customer at the time of seeking  the credit;
(5) the customers credit history, including any indications  that the customer  is
experiencing or has experienced  financial difficulties
I can understand that the payment referred  to was late by one day, and that on this occasion  
would not necessarily on its own indicate to NewDay that Mr H was experiencing or had 
experienced financial difficulties.
Ref: DRN61460194They said that Mr Hs use of cash advances  was simply  a use of that feature of his account.  
And that he had withdrawn £200 in cash from a total spent of around £600  before the limit 
was increased to £800.
I dont think it follows that, just because the ability to take cash  advances  is a feature of an 
account, a lender doesnt need to have regard for the number and size of such  advances. 
After all, such activity has for many  years been identified  by the Office of Fair Trading (OFT)  
and the FCA as a potential  indicator of possible  financial  difficulty. However, in the absence 
of other  signs that Mr Hs circumstances warranted closer examination before lending  
increased, I think this use of four cash advances totalling £200 in around  six months  would 
not necessarily indicate  to NewDay  that they needed to know more about  his circumstances 
to ensure they could lend to him responsibly.
NewDay also said that the monthly payment  Mr H would have to pay on a balance owed of 
£800 would  be £8.28 more than the payment due on a balance of £600. They  said Mr H had 
demonstrated with his previous payments that he could afford to pay a sum at least  
equivalent to the proposed new payment amount. And they referred  to the CONC guidelines 
around the proportionality of a lenders creditworthiness checks.
Ive considered NewDays view that in Mr Hs case he had shown, before the increase in 
limit to £800,  he could  afford the minimum payment  due on a debt of £800.  And Ive 
considered the regulation prevailing at the time, under CONC 5.2A.27, which said the firm 
must assume that the customer draws  down the entire available balance up to the increased 
credit limit at the earliest opportunity and repays by equal instalments over a reasonable 
period.
In Mr Hs case, Ive thought about whether NewDays  assessment of his creditworthiness 
considered whether by paying  his minimum payments  that theyd seen as affordable to him 
 also showed  that the debt could be repaid in a reasonable  period. Had Mr H paid the 
minimum payment required each month,  the £800  debt would  have taken several years to 
repay. So, whilst NewDay say they assumed Mr H would  draw down the entire  available  
balance up to the increased  credit  limit, they appear  only to have considered the monthly 
affordability of the new level of borrowing  and not the reasonable time period over which  the 
debt must  be repaid.
NewDay has highlighted that the increase in Mr Hs limit from £600  to £800 was only £200. 
While that may not appear significant  in those terms, put in a different light it equated  to a 
credit limit increase of 33%.
In light of this, Ive considered the regulation prevailing at the time, under  CONC 5.2A.4, 
which said A firm must  undertake a reasonable assessment of the creditworthiness of a 
customer beforesignificantly  increasing a credit limit for running-account credit under a 
regulated credit agreement.  Ive considered the significance of the monetary amount of the 
limit increase, but also the increase expressed as a percentage. Whilst it could be 
considered to be significant in some customers circumstances, I think, in Mr Hs 
circumstances at the time, the increase of £200  doesnt represent a large  increase. But in 
percentage terms, it could  be viewed as a significant  one.
And Ive noted  CONC rule 5.3.1 (9), prevailing at the time, said For a regulated  credit  
agreement for running-account credit  the firm should set the credit limit based on the 
creditworthiness assessmenttaking into account the matters in CONC 5.2.3 G, and, in 
Ref: DRN61460195particular, the information it has on the customers current disposable  income taking into 
account any reasonably foreseeable future changes.
When NewDay increased Mr Hs credit  limit from £600 to £800 theyd seen how hed 
maintained his account during the seven months  hed had it. Theyve said that his use of 
cash withdrawals for £200 in total was not an indication to them that Mr H was experiencing 
or had experienced financial difficulties. And they said hed paid at least the minimum 
monthly amount  due on time with the exception of one which was paid a day late. This too, 
they said, was not an indication  that Mr Hs circumstances  warranted additional scrutiny.
I think NewDays assessment that Mr Hs disposable  income was sufficient for him to afford 
the credit  limit increase from £600 to £800 appears to be based on his payment performance 
on his account  in the seven months hed had it, along with a credit report  that they felt didnt 
show them  any signs that they should examine Mr Hs circumstances  any closer. Based on 
Mr Hs payment performance and account use, I think  that NewDay  didnt  act unreasonably 
in deciding to increase  the credit limit some seven months after they originally lent to him. 
And that their decision to lend at that time was not irresponsible or in conflict  with their 
CONC responsibilities mentioned  earlier.  But I do not think the same could be said for the 
increase in 2016 and those after that point.  And each of those  increases  could  be viewed as 
both significant  in monetary terms and in percentage terms.
With the information available to NewDay when  they increased Mr Hs credit limit to £1,600, 
to meet  the CONC  requirements referred  to above, they should have checked Mr Hs 
circumstances and his creditworthiness  more than they did. Had they done  so, they would 
have found that hed been off work with illness for prolonged  periods of time, affecting  his 
income. These absences  had resulted  in Mr H using  payday borrowing, and other borrowing, 
to meet  his expenditure commitments. And he says hed also been maintaining his NewDay  
payments by not paying other commitments  he had.
The credit that NewDay  made available to him from late 2016,  when  they increased his 
credit limit to £1,600,  and the additional  credit made available to him in all subsequent credit  
limit increases, was credit that they should  not have made available to him. They  didnt know  
what Mr Hs circumstances were, though if theyd made suitable enquiries, this information  
would have been available to them. So had NewDay made a proper creditworthiness  
assessment at this time, they should have known the impact Mr Hs circumstances would 
likely have had on his ability to afford  further increases.
Mr Hs circumstances, particularly his medical  diagnosis, mean that his capacity to work and 
earn an income have  been reduced. This means  the debt he currently  has with NewDay is 
likely to take many years  to repay. Its likely too that Mr H may be caused distress 
throughout this long period as he manages  this debt.
In ordering NewDay to reduce a significant proportion of Mr Hs outstanding  balance, I have 
considered the combined circumstances of Mr Hs ability to repay the debt he has with 
NewDay, and the irresponsible  lending decisions NewDay  made  in granting him the credit 
above £800. That Mr H has used the money  NewDay made available to him doesnt mean it 
is any more affordable for him to repay  it, even if it waives interest on that borrowing.
Ultimately, NewDay must recognise  that, on this occasion, its decision to make credit 
available to Mr H without  adequate assessment of his creditworthiness means  that it wont  
be able to recover all the money it lent. I have decided that some of the debt that Mr H still 
Ref: DRN61460196owes should be removed  by the reconstruction  of his account.  This will give Mr H an 
opportunity to repay his debt in a reasonable time,  depending on his ability to do so.
The evidence I have  shows  Mr H owes around  £3,432 on his account.  From the time 
NewDay increased Mr Hs credit  limit above £800, Mr H has repaid around  a further £2,196.  
For the reasons  Ive given, I think Mr Hs debt should be reconstructed  so that he owes  
£800- the amount he owed when  NewDays decisions to lend to him became irresponsible. 
This means  that NewDay  should reduce Mr Hs debt by approximately  £2,632.  He has 
already repaid around £2,196 of that figure.
I consider the individual circumstances at play in Mr Hs case make this an appropriate way 
to resolve his complaint, though that does not set a precedent for other cases appearing to 
share similar features.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained here and, in more detail in my first provisional decision,  it is 
likely that I will uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement, I require NewDay Limited 
to:
1) liaise with the owners of the account to ensure Mr Hs debt is reconstructed,  
removing interest, charges and capital to leave  his debt standing at £800, with no 
further interest to be applied
2) if that is not possible, take back ownership  of the account to effect the 
reconstruction in 1)
I encourage Mr H to co-operate with the owners of his account and agree with them  a 
suitable repayment arrangement for the remaining balance,  based on his current  
circumstances. Mr H could also place a Notice of Correction on his credit file held by credit 
reference agencies.  In this notice he can explain the circumstances in which his debt arose.
Ref: DRN61460197copy of my first provisional decision
complaint
Mr H complains that NewDay Ltd, trading as Aqua, kept increasing his credit  limit without 
checking he could  afford the payments. And that they wrongly sold his account to a debt 
collection agency before  helping him.
background
Mr H opened a credit card account  with NewDay in 2014. He was given a credit  limit of 
£300. Two months later his limit was increased  to £600, and five months after that it was 
increased to £800.  In September  2016, NewDay increased Mr Hs credit  limit to £1,600.  After  
that, they increased his limit twice more,  finally being set at £3,600.
On each occasion, NewDay sent a letter to Mr H giving  him notice that 40 days later, the 
proposed limit increase would happen, unless he contacted them telling them  not to. He 
didnt ask them not to increase his limit on any occasion.
Mr H contacted NewDay in 2018  to discuss his financial  difficulties. They  looked at his 
income and outgoings. And he could only afford a much lower  amount each month  than 
required on the contract.  They stopped interest and charges on his account and Mr H paid 
the lower amount each month until they sold his account to another  company.
Mr H complained to NewDay that they had entrapped him into debt without knowing his 
financial circumstances, and wrongly  sold his debt on to a debt collection company  before 
helping him.
In NewDays final response  letter they said theyd done all the necessary  checks each time 
they increased his limit. And that each time, hed had the choice to say no to the increase.
They did not uphold  his complaint.
Mr H didnt agree and complained to us.
An investigator looked at the evidence and said that the credit  limit increases done from 
September 2016 were not responsible lending. She said NewDay  had enough information  
available in September 2016 to cause them to check Mr Hs financial circumstances more 
closely. And that by checking, they would  not have increased his credit  limit. She thought 
that NewDay should take back ownership of the account from the owning company and 
reconstruct Mr Hs account to the time it had an £800 limit.
Mr H didnt agree with the investigators view as he said he was entrapped into the whole 
debt. And NewDay disagreed they had lent irresponsibly, so the matter has been passed to 
me for a final decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN61460198NewDay were required  to lend responsibly.  Before agreeing to do so, they shouldve 
assessed the affordability of the credit  to ensure that Mr H could afford to repay what  he was 
borrowing.
Its up to NewDay which checks they carry out. But they must be proportionate to things 
such as the amount borrowed, the cost of repayment and Mr Hs borrowing history.  While 
there isnt a required set list of checks, the relevant  regulations  - set out in section 5 of the 
Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) - indicate that a creditworthiness assessment should  
consider the ability  of a customer to afford and sustain payments - with particular regard  to 
the information it has on the customers current disposable income.  Ive borne that in mind 
when looking at what NewDay  considered when it offered Mr H the credit  limit increases.
credit limit increases
I am mindful  that the first credit limit of £300 was described by NewDay  at the time as within 
affordability. But their decision also recognised  that Mr H had a low income  and he had 
high indebtedness. They also said the £300  limit was appropriate  to his circumstances. 
Within two months of opening his account, NewDay  offered an increased  credit limit, 
doubling it to £600. They used credit  reference  agency information and their own experience  
of Mr Hs payment history on his new account to decide how appropriate the increase was.
As the amount of credit  theyd given to Mr H was still relatively low, I can see why the 
increase was considered to be responsible by NewDay. And why they felt the checks  they 
did were proportionate. I agree with that decision.
But just five months later, in 2015, they increased the credit limit again. Since the last 
increase, Mr H had missed one payment, incurring a £12 charge, and he had withdrawn 
cash, incurring  a fee each  time.  NewDay did the same checks  theyd previously done for an 
increase in limit. And they considered  it a responsible decision as Mr Hs payment record  
with them  was acceptable to them. And they said he didnt have any other  borrowing  in 
arrears, and no court judgments.  But hed already  missed a payment and withdrawn cash. I 
believe that should have caused NewDay to have checked Mr Hs disposable income-  to 
meet the CONC requirement to do so. But I havent  seen any evidence they did. So it is this 
increase, and those  that followed, that I find dont meet NewDays obligations to lend 
responsibly.
Compounding the situation, 20 months  later, NewDay increased  his credit limit again. They 
wrote to him, as they had on each previous credit  limit increase, asking  him to contact them  
if he didnt want the increase.  Again,  Mr H didnt contact them. But the CONC regulations 
dont make it Mr Hs responsibility to check he can afford the new borrowing. And the 
regulations also dont make it Mr Hs responsibility to choose not to have the increased credit 
limit by opting out. Its NewDays  responsibility, under the regulations,  to check  Mr H could 
afford and sustain payments. From early  2016, NewDay  were  using extra  information  from a 
credit reference agency to help them make their decision  to lend. They  were  receiving  more  
details than for the previous limit increases about Mr Hs borrowing from other  lenders. Ive 
seen that when they increased Mr Hs limit to £1,600 in September 2016, doubling it from 
£800, they knew hed had many  payday loans and his total borrowing on credit  cards was 
several thousand pounds.  This was a sharp  rise from the level of under £1,000  when theyd 
increased his limit from £600  to £800.  And the payday loan information was new to NewDay.
NewDays own account records showed them that Mr H had withdrawn cash on his card. On 
one day hed withdrawn  very small sums, each with a £3 fee. Although this was over 
Ref: DRN61460199eighteen months prior to increasing the limit to £1600, if NewDay had considered that, along 
with the much higher level of credit card indebtedness,  and the high level of payday loan 
borrowing in the recent  past, they could  have taken a different view on whether it was 
responsible to lend to Mr H again, and checked  his disposable income. They had not 
checked it since they opened  his account in 2014.  This increase in limit was the second 
NewDay did where I think they should  have  checked  Mr Hs ability to pay- a regulatory 
requirement in CONC.
The UK Cards Associations  best practice guidance  said of Unsolicited Credit  Limit 
Increases- Risk Indicatorspotential examples include  evidence of;
- paying the minimum  payment over an extended period
- a significant increase in overall outstanding  balances over time
- making use of cash advances
Mr Hs total indebtedness  was much higher than it was when NewDay  previously increased 
his limit. And he had been making  payments of the minimum amount due, or a sum similar 
but just above that sum, for many months.  And he had used  cash advances. All these 
factors indicate that NewDay should  again  have checked Mr Hs disposable income.
Mr H has said he made some payments  from money hed borrowed from payday lenders. 
And hed also had long periods of illness absence from work. And if NewDay had carried out 
proportionate checks as a result  of the new credit  reference agency information available to 
them, and the way Mr H was running his account  with them,  they would have discovered a 
fuller picture of Mr Hs circumstances. And that he wasnt in a position to take on more credit, 
so they wouldnt  have lent to him.
In light of this, I find that NewDay  failed to act responsibly when it increased Mr Hs credit 
limit in (and after) 2015.
So I believe  that NewDay need to do something to put things right. This will include reversing 
interest and charges added to the account  from the time the lending  was irresponsible.
I recognise Mr H has spent on his account,  and has shown that whenever  NewDay  made 
credit available to him he used it. But the debt should be reduced by an appropriate amount 
to reflect  the irresponsible lending that happened.  The debt Mr H owed at the time the limit 
was first increased irresponsibly was around £600.  And Mr H has had the benefit of the 
spending that he did on the account after that time. But he has made repayments against a 
lot of this spending. Because of this, I think the debt Mr H should now have  to repay is £600.
NewDays decision to sell Mr Hs account to another company
When Mr H contacted NewDay  in May 2018, the result of the income and expenditure check 
NewDay did with him was that he could afford  a much  lower payment than NewDay  
required. When a consumer is in financial hardship,  a lender should consider  those  
circumstances fairly.  NewDay recognised Mr Hs hardship- he had been  out of work since 
early that year- and agreed to stop interest  and charges, and for him to pay a much-reduced 
payment each month. This was positive and sympathetic to his circumstances and NewDay 
acted fairly  and responsibly in this respect.
His unemployment, his medical circumstances and his level of debt suggest his financial  
difficulties would be long-term. As NewDay had a much fuller  picture  of Mr Hs 
Ref: DRN614601910circumstances as a result of him contacting them, they were  entitled to sell his debt on to a 
company better able to deal with his circumstances that were,  in all likelihood,  going to last a 
long period of time. I dont consider NewDay acted unfairly in doing this.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I uphold  Mr Hs complaint. To settle it, NewDay Ltd should 
take the steps outlined  above, which for clarity  are:
1) liaise with the owners of the account to reconstruct Mr Hs account, removing 
interest, charges  and capital to leave his debt standing at £600, with no further 
interest to be applied;
2) if that is not possible, take back ownership  of the account to effect the 
reconstruction in 1)
I encourage Mr H to co-operate with the owners of his account and agree with them  a 
suitable repayment arrangement for the remaining balance,  based on his current  
circumstances. Mr H could also place a Notice of Correction on his credit file held by credit 
reference agencies.  In this notice he can explain the circumstances in which his debt arose.
Ref: DRN6146019