K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Coventry  Building  Society mis-sold  them  a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a joint mortgage in 1991.  
In 1997, they took out PPI to protect the mortgage monthly repayments in the event Mr H 
was unable to work  as a result of accident, sickness or unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr and Mrs H didnt agree with this 
view. Theyve told us that the sale took place in a Coventry Building Society branch office 
and they didnt realise that they were being  charged  for PPI. Mr and Mrs H say that they had 
ample other  means to rely on if Mr H wasnt working.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Coventry Building Society couldnt provide any original paperwork from the time of sale so 
Ive seen nothing  signed by Mr and Mrs H from then. But I wouldnt reasonably  expect 
Coventry Building Society or Mr and Mrs H to have  kept this after so long.  
And I cant know what was discussed when Mr and Mrs H took out PPI. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  them to recall exactly what was said so long ago. This means  that what 
theyve told us isnt enough on its own for me to be able to uphold  their complaint.
I must look at all the available information  and take into account the wider circumstances. 
Mr and Mrs H didnt opt for PPI when  their mortgage started  and their mortgage had been 
running without  PPI for some years. So I think that they wouldve understood that PPI was 
available as an optional  extra and it was up to them to say if they wanted  it with their 
mortgage. 
To get the cover Mr H wouldve had to complete a separate application for the PPI. Coventry 
Building Society has sent me an example of the sort of form that was in use around the time 
PPI was added to Mr and Mrs Hs mortgage account. So I think its likely that they wouldve 
had to fill in something  similar to take out PPI. This required them to say who was to be 
insured and they wouldve  had a choice of cover  type and been  able to say how long they 
wanted benefit to be paid for. They wouldve also had the option to choose the monthly debit  
date and say how much benefit was required. Mr H had to sign a declaration  confirming that 
he wanted to take out the insurance before the policy could start. 
Ref: DRN69748202The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, repayable over a substantial number of 
years. Mr and Mrs Hs home wouldve been  at risk if their mortgage payments  werent  kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable cover and - based on what theyve told us about their 
situation - better protection than they had otherwise.  So, I can see why Mr and Mrs H 
mightve felt PPI was useful to have  even  if they didnt choose to take it out at the start of 
their mortgage. 
I can completely understand if theyve forgotten these details as this happened  such  a long 
time ago. But based  on the information  Ive seen,  I think its likely that Mr and Mrs H decided  
they did want the benefits that PPI offered. And, on balance, I find that they chose to buy the 
policy to cover Mr H, knowing it was up to them to say if they wanted to take it out.
Coventry Building Society didnt recommend PPI to Mr and Mrs H personally . But it still had 
to make sure that it gave  them enough information to make a proper decision about whether  
PPI was right for them.
Mr H was eligible for the policy. The policy wouldve paid out the monthly benefit amount 
theyd chosen  for up to 12 months  per claim.  Looking at what Mr H told us about his sick pay 
arrangements I think PPI couldve provided  a useful benefit at whats likely to have been a 
difficult time if Mr H had been off work sick - especially if Mr and Mrs H faced extra  costs  as 
a result of Mr H being unwell or disabled. 
And the policy wouldve also paid out if Mr H lost his job unexpectedly and was out of work.  
Having a redundancy entitlement  wouldnt  have helped if Mr H was off work  sick. And other 
insurance Mr and Mrs H mentioned provided a different sort of cover  and paid out in different 
circumstances to PPI.
I dont know if Mr and Mrs H wouldve always had savings they couldve relied  on if theyd 
needed to make a claim - or what their savings mightve been  intended  for at the time. 
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs H could keep savings intact to spend on other  things or 
provide them  with financial security for the future.  
And they wouldnt have been forced  to sell any shares which I think  Mr and Mrs H probably 
wouldve either preferred  to keep as a long term investment and/or sell when they could be 
sure of getting a good price. I think that having  cover  in place so they couldve continued to 
make their monthly  mortgage repayments without having to sell investments wouldve 
provided a useful extra benefit  if Mr H couldnt work.  
Mrs H wasnt in paid employment  at that time. And relying on other people to help out in the 
event of money problems  isnt as dependable  as PPI as everyones  circumstances can 
change unexpectedly. So I can see why Mr and Mrs H mightve  wanted  the security  that 
having PPI gave them and I cant fairly say they couldnt have benefitted from having it.
Ive taken into account Mr Hs employment situation. But I dont find that it wouldve been 
any harder for him to make an unemployment claim  than it wouldve been for anyone  who 
was employed. And it doesnt look as if Mr H was affected by any of the other  main  
conditions that mightve  limited the policys benefits  to him. So, I think it unlikely that better 
information about the policys exclusions and limitations wouldve  put Mr and Mrs H off 
taking out the cover .
Ref: DRN69748203I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs H when they bought the policy. 
But the application they filled in to have it made it clear the insurance had to be paid for  
and I think they wouldve  understood this. Ive seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable  
for them. They made a separate application  to have PPI when they didnt have to take it out. 
So it looks  like they were  happy to pay to have  this cover at the time.  
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs H still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  if theyd been better informed as 
it gave them useful protection in their particular situation. I dont think  its likely that better 
information wouldve  put them off buying it. So I dont find theyve lost out as a result of 
anything that Coventry  Building Society mightve  done wrong.  
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 April 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6974820