K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with Nationwide Building  Societys decision to not refund transactions  he 
says he didnt make or authorise in August and October 2017.
Mr H has another complaint with this service relating to other disputed transactions,  
beginning in February 2018  and running  through to April 2018.  Ill issue a separate  decision 
for that case, but may refer to it in this decision.
background
One of our investigators  provided his opinion  on this case in March  2019 and both Mr H and 
Nationwide have had the opportunity to see and respond to it. The investigator  set out the 
background to the complaint and the available  evidence  in great detail. Theres  been no 
dispute raised about what was set out. So I wont  go on to repeat all of the detail here. The 
reason for this final decision is that Mr H disputes the investigators findings in not upholding 
his case. 
The key facts are as follows.
Mr H disputes a large number  of transactions made from 1 to 5 August 2017. 
They involve the use of his bank card for chip and PIN and contactless  
transactions at various merchants as well as cash machine withdrawals. 
There are 21 such transactions  in dispute, totalling £770.61.
Mr H confirmed some genuine chip and PIN card spending amongst the disputed 
transactions.
Mr H further disputes all online payments  to an online gambling company.  There are 
22 such payments totalling £515. The payments  are made  from 2 to 4 October 2017.
Mr H said he did gamble but not online.
Mr H says he never  noticed his card missing and he still had it in his possession 
when he noticed  the disputed transactions. From  the bank records, it appears he 
initially said there was no record of his PIN. He later told us there  had been  a 
record kept with the card.
Nationwide  said it wouldnt  refund Mr H as it thought it was more  likely than not he 
authorised the transactions.  It didnt  believe a third party  had carried them out 
without Mr Hs knowledge  or consent.
Nationwide  said the August 2017  transactions were all made with Mr Hs genuine 
card and in many  instances  the PIN was used as well. It couldnt see how a 
fraudster could  have  obtained both.
Nationwide  found out from the gambling company that the account  held there had 
been set up using all of Mr Hs genuine  information  including name,  address, 
phone number  and date of birth. The only thing that didnt match  its records  was 
the email address  used.
Ref: DRN67703252When Mr H reported the disputed transactions he asked Nationwide  to block any 
further online spending. This didnt  happen and forms  part of Mr Hs other 
complaint. Ive made reference to it here as it becomes  important to Mr Hs 
response to our investigators  opinion.
Mr H has said he cant remember where  he was living at the time of the disputed  
transactions.
Our investigator considered all of the available  evidence and information. He didnt uphold 
Mr Hs complaint and thought Nationwide had acted fairly and reasonably.  He couldnt  see 
how someone other than Mr H had carried out the transactions.  He said:
there was no explanation for how someone could have taken, used and replaced 
Mr Hs card without  him noticing. He noted  this would  have had to have happened  
at least three times given Mr H used  the card genuinely between the disputed  
transactions.
Mr Hs account wasnt fully utilised by whoever was carrying  out the transactions; 
there was money available  to spend  but it was left in the account.  And there were 
numerous low value  transactions  which didnt  point to a fraudster being in operation.
some of the disputed  transactions  were made at places Mr H had genuinely 
withdrawn cash  or spent money,  which seemed  unusual and unlikely
he couldnt see any benefit to a fraudster carrying out online gambling  transactions 
as there would be great difficulty in them obtaining any winnings 
the details held by the gambling  company did match  Mr Hs information so he 
thought it was more likely than not he did set up the account himself.
Mr H disagreed with the investigators opinion. He said:
the outcome was based on opinion not evidence.
it was for Nationwide to prove  he had carried out the transactions  and it hadnt 
done so.
if Nationwide  had applied the block on his account as requested,  the spending 
wouldnt have  been possible.
The investigator explained how we consider cases.  He told Mr H that we gather all of the 
evidence we can and use that to inform  our view of what  we think is more  likely than not to 
have happened. And he confirmed he thought the evidence showed it was more  likely than 
not Mr H authorised the transactions himself.
He also pointed out the transactions subject to this complaint were unaffected by the request 
to block online payments as theyd happened  before that.
Mr H remained  unhappy and asked  an ombudsman to review his complaint.
Ref: DRN67703253my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. Ill 
explain why.
The relevant  regulations  here are the Payment Service Regulations 2009 (applicable at the 
time of the transactions). They set out the circumstances in which a bank can hold a 
customer responsible  for spending on their account and when they need to provide a refund. 
They essentially say that a customer can only be held responsible, in most circumstances, 
when theyve authorised transactions themselves. 
Before I go on to set out my reasoning  for not upholding  Mr Hs complaint Id like to confirm  
for Mr H that what our investigator has said in terms of how we consider cases is correct. We 
ask for evidence and information from both parties  and use that in our investigations.  We 
base our findings on that evidence.
Sometimes we wont have all the evidence wed like. And so we have to use what is 
available to say what we believe is, on the balance of probabilities, more likely than not to 
have happened.
Mr H has said Nationwide  has to prove that he made the transactions  himself. Thats true, to 
an extent. We expect  account providers to show how payments have been made and also to 
consider what the customer has said about them in cases like this. But the evidence  or proof 
that a customer carried  out a transaction can be varied. And it doesnt have to come in the 
form of CCTV  footage which actually shows a transaction happening, for example.
Instead, the available evidence will be pieced  together to see what  we think  is more likely  
than not to have  happened.  In cases like this it generally means looking to see if theres  a 
reasonable explanation  for how the disputed transactions could have taken place without the 
customers involvement. If there  is no reasonable explanation then the finding must be made  
that its more likely than not the customer did authorise the transactions,  despite what  
theyve told us.
Its from here we then consider that a current account provider has acted fairly and 
reasonably in holding its customer responsible for any disputed  transactions.
My review  of Mr Hs case is independent  of our investigators findings.  Ive considered 
everything afresh. But Ive reached the same  outcome and for broadly the same reasons.
I note Mr H hasnt raised  any specific objections to what our investigator said about  the 
outcome; theyre  limited to saying Nationwide has to prove  it was him and a reference to the 
requested block on his account.
I see no reason to depart from the outcome  and explanation given by the investigator.  It 
remains the case that theres no reasonable explanation for how someone other  than Mr H 
carried out the transactions. I cant see how someone would be able to take, use and 
replace Mr Hs card without him realising. Mr H has identified  no possible opportunities 
himself and Ive not been able to identify  any from the evidence we have.
Ref: DRN67703254Even setting  that point  aside for a moment,  I cant see why someone in possession  of Mr Hs 
card and PIN  either with or without his permission   would  limit their spending  in the way 
that has happened here. Its not the account usage of an opportunistic fraudster. 
I think its also worth noting here that Mr H has said he did keep a record  of his PIN with his 
card. If thats true, and its how someone  was able to use his card without his authority, then 
hed almost certainly still be responsible for any chip and PIN purchases  and cash  machine 
withdrawals. I dont  think this is likely  what happened here.  But Ive briefly  covered the point 
for completeness. The same outcome would likely  be reached  if Mr H had given his card and 
PIN to someone else.
Our investigators findings around the gambling transactions are also fair and reasonable. Its 
true that a fraudster wouldnt be able to access any winnings  made on the online account.  And 
so its difficult to see what purpose theyd have had in carrying out any spending. 
Whoever it was would also have needed to know a good deal of information about Mr H, 
along with having obtained  his card details. I dont  believe this would  have been  easily  
obtainable, along with Mr Hs card details.  I also note Mr H has genuinely spent money with 
other gambling companies, both online and in betting shops.  And so the transactions appear 
to be in keeping  with his normal spending.
I believe its more likely  than not Mr H authorised the transactions hes disputing.  And so 
Nationwide doesnt  have to refund them.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6770325