K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains (through her daughter Ms M) that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  plc 
(RSA) is responsible for poor service in connection  with a home emergency insurance  
policy.
background
Mrs M had a home emergency  policy branded  with the name of a bank. RSA was the insurer  
responsible for dealing  with claims. Where  I refer to RSA I include its home assistance 
contractor, engineers, call-handlers, and others for whose  actions  I hold RSA responsible.
Mrs M is over eighty  years old and in ill health. For many years  she and her daughter have 
lived in the same house. In the loft there  was a hot water cylinder containing an electric  
immersion heater that supplied their hot water. When it stopped  working in September  2018 
Ms M called RSA for help.
RSA replaced the immersion heater  element but the cylinder started leaking. RSA stopped 
the leak but left Mrs M with no hot water. Ms M complained.
Mrs M and Ms M were  without hot water  for about  six days before a private  plumber installed 
a new cylinder and immersion heater at a cost of £630.00.
In a final response dated 18 December 2018,  RSA said the policy didnt  cover  the repair  due 
to wear and tear. RSA said it was sending Mrs M a cheque for £25.00 for delay in 
responding to her complaint and for her postage  costs.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He thought that the 
policy covered the repair  work. He said that declining the claim under wear and tear without 
a pre-assessment of the water heater was unfair.
He said that contact centre agents  hung  up on Mrs M. She was vulnerable due to her old 
age and ill health and left without hot water for six days but not offered alternative  
accommodation. The investigator recommended that RSA should  pay Mrs M:
1.£630.00 towards the repair works;  and
2.£100.00 towards the trouble and upset the matter had caused her.
Ms M agreed  with the investigators opinion.
RSA disagreed with the investigators  opinion.  It asked  for an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint. It says, in summary, that:
The home emergency policy doesnt  cover  wear and tear. 
Its simply not possible to carry out a pre-assessment on this type of cylinder-  theyre 
a sealed unit. 
When RSAs engineer replaced  the element this highlighted weakness within the 
unit. 
Ref: DRN68100102Had the component  been replaced  in a cylinder that was not suffering wear and tear, 
its fair to say no leak would have  happened.
A photo of the cylinder shows it was clearly corroded.
The fact that the cylinder was worn out is the reason  it leaked.  
If RSA treated the leak as a further emergency  it wouldnt  replace  the cylinder to deal 
with this emergency because of the policy exclusion of wear  and tear.
Its final response confirmed that the insured could provide a report  from her own 
engineer regarding the damage - but this was not forthcoming. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy covered a temporary repair  or - provided it could be effected  during the visit and 
at a similar expense  a permanent repair. The policy was subject to a maximum limit of 
£1,000.00 for each  claim.
The policy excluded the following:
 Any system,  equipment  or facility having  reached the end of its expected  working 
life
Wear and tear: any loss, damage, liability, cost or expense of any kind caused by or 
resulting from wear and tear, depreciation, corrosion, rusting,  damp, insects, vermin, 
fungus, condensation, fading, frost or anything which  happens gradually, the process 
of cleaning, dyeing, repair, alteration, renovation or restoration
RSA has said that the cylinder was ten to twelve years old. And Ive seen a photograph of a 
cylinder with adhesive insulation, some of which has been scraped off. The photograph 
shows some  corroded  metal. But I accept Ms Ms statement that he cylinder hadnt been 
leaking.
I accept Ms Ms statement that it was difficult to get a response when ringing RSA. But she 
hasnt given enough detail of the first time she says a call-handler terminated  her call.
In response to a report of no hot water, I dont find it unreasonable that RSA sent a heating 
engineer rather  than an electrician. 
I consider that RSA has the burden  of showing that the cylinder  failed due to reaching  the 
end of its life or due to wear and tear. But the nearest we have  to a statement from its 
engineer is as follows:
Cylinder element  required, failed due to fuse spur failed, got new element to replace 
(and if you spell replaced then the process  of changing the element). As the cylinder 
has found a weakness and obviously,  that is now leaking for its now the whole 
cylinder would need  to be replaced as (its) exposure witnessing the copper of the 
cylinder this needs  to be done as soon as possible elderly person in the property.
Ref: DRN68100103In my view thats not a clear statement of what happened. And it indicates that the engineer 
expected RSA to replace the cylinder. So Im not at all persuaded  that the cylinder failed due 
to reaching the end of its life or due to wear  and tear.
RSA hasnt provided call recordings. But its file shows that a call-handler terminated a call 
with Ms M on 29 September 2018  without appropriate warning.  So I accept Ms Ms 
complaint that she found the call-handler rude.
After Ms M complained, RSAs final response  was due within  eight weeks,  that is by early 
December. So its final response on 18 December 2018 was late. And I dont find its offer of 
£25.00 appropriate.
As RSA hasnt shown  that the cylinder  failed due to reaching the end of its life or due to wear 
and tear, I find that RSA shouldve replaced  the cylinder. As Mrs M paid £630.00  for her 
plumber to replace  it, I find it fair and reasonable to direct  RSA to reimburse her  with 
interest at our usual  rate.
I dont doubt that RSA caused Mrs M distress and inconvenience by declining  to replace the 
cylinder and by the way it dealt with Ms M on the telephone. So I find it fair and reasonable 
to direct RSA to pay Mrs M  in addition to its cheque for £25.00  a further £75.00  for 
distress and inconvenience. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance plc to pay Mrs M:
1.£630.00 in reimbursement of her plumbers invoice; and
2.simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from the date of the plumbers 
invoice to the date of its reimbursement.  If RSA considers that its required by HM 
Revenue & Customs to withhold  income tax from that interest, it must tell Mrs M how 
much its taken  off. It should also give her a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for 
one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate; and
3.in addition to its cheque for £25.00   a further £75.00  for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 December  2019.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6810010