K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that PDL Finance  Limited  (trading as Mr Lender)  gave her loans 
irresponsibly.
background
Between 2012 and 2014 Miss C borrowed 12 loans from Mr Lender, as follows:
Loan No Amount Date  lent Date repaid
1 £200 3.2.12 24.2.12
2 £450 29.2.12 23.3.12
3 £500 26.3.12 25.4.12
4 £500 25.4.12 26.6.12
5 £500 27.6.12 25.7.12
6 £400 31.7.12 23.11.12
7 £170 10.5.13 24.5.13
8 £300 30.5.13 25.6.13
9 £500 27.7.13 24.1.14
10 £400 29.1.14 23.5.14
11 £600 28.5.14 25.7.14
12 £450 29.7.14 25.9.14
All of the loans  were repaid in full.
Miss C believes  that it shouldve been  apparent to Mr Lender that she couldnt  afford  to 
repay its loans without borrowing further.  She points out that she had a CCJ at the time and 
also had recurring  loans with another payday lender  this, she feels, shouldve  indicated to 
Mr Lender that she was struggling  financially.
In response to Miss Cs complaint, Mr Lender  felt that it did carry out proportionate checks in 
relation to loans  one to nine, and had satisfied  itself that the loans were affordable to her. 
But, as loan nine was extended by Miss C on a number of occasions, it offered to refund all 
interest paid on the subsequent loans, 10 to 12.
Our adjudicator considered that Mr Lender wasnt wrong to provide loan one. However, she 
felt that it shouldnt have agreed  to the subsequent  loans two to twelve.
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Lender  should refund all interest and charges  that 
Miss C had paid in respect  of loans two to twelve  together with interest on the refunds. And 
she said it should make  appropriate  amendments to the associated entries about those 
loans from Miss Cs credit file.
In response, Mr Lender agreed to uphold Miss Cs complaint in relation to loans two to six 
and, accordingly, offered  suitable redress in relation to these loans. Miss C didnt wish to 
accept that offer and so asked that the complaint be referred to an ombudsman for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
Ref: DRN67951762complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Miss C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think  less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Mr Lender should  fairly and reasonably  have  done more to establish that any lending  was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think its important for me to start by saying that Mr Lender was required  to establish 
whether Miss C could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments 
were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.  
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication that a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that 
this is the case.  This is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  
sustainable as being without undue  difficulties and in particular the customer should be able 
to make repayments on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments; as well as 
without having  to borrow to meet the repayments. 
So it follows  that a lender  should realise, or it ought  fairly and reasonably  to realise,  that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Cs complaint.
Mr Lender has shown  us that, before each loan,  it asked Miss C for details of her monthly  
income and expenditure. It also carried out some  credit checks and, whilst  I havent seen the 
results of these, its records show that Miss C had no defaults recorded, nor any insolvency 
arrangements.
loan one
Ref: DRN67951763Compared to the income  and other  information  provided to it by Miss C, I think  that the 
amount due to be repaid to this loan wouldve appeared,  to Mr Lender,  to be affordable.  This 
was the first loan between  the two parties and I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender to rely 
upon the information given to it by Miss C. As such,  I think that Mr Lenders  checks were  
proportionate and so I dont think it was wrong to provide this loan.
loans two to six
Loan two was given just days after the prior loan was repaid  and was for a higher amount.  
Similarly, loans three to five were  for a higher  value  again, and they too were provided a 
matter of a couple  of days after the previous loan repayment. Each  of these loans required a 
single repayment  from Miss C of around, and above, £600, which represented a significant 
proportion of her monthly income.
I think that Mr Lender should  reasonably have seen  that Miss C was unlikely to have been 
able to make  the required  loan repayments  in a sustainable manner for loans two to six 
because:
the repayments for these loans took up a significant proportion of her income. In these 
circumstances, there  was a considerable risk that Miss C wouldnt have been able to 
meet her existing  commitments without having  to borrow again;
Miss C was provided with new loans  shortly after having repaid previous  ones.  I think 
that Mr Lender ought to have realised it was more likely  than not that she was having to 
borrow further to cover holes in her finances left by the repayment  of her previous loans.
I think that Mr Lender shouldve recognised that this further lending was likely to be 
unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, for Miss C.
loans seven to twelve
There was a gap of almost six months  between repayment of loan six and Miss Cs 
application for loan seven.  But, having  considered the particular circumstances of this case 
carefully, I dont believe  its appropriate  to regard  this as a separate  loan chain. This is 
because:
for her first six loans,  Miss C had been borrowing from Mr Lender almost constantly  for a 
period of around nine months  without  any substantive breaks;
loan four had been extended  by one month  from when it was originally  due for 
repayment. And loan six, which was originally scheduled for repayment over two months,  
was extended  twice before being fully repaid  after four months;
this evidence of loan extensions and prolonged borrowing  is a strong  indicator  that 
Miss C was struggling to meet her obligations.  I dont consider that the duration of the 
gap between loans  six and seven is sufficient, in these circumstances, to justify  an 
assumption that her financial  circumstances  may well have  changed appreciably, for the 
better, during the intervening period;
I acknowledge that loan nine was for a reduced  amount compared to Miss Cs previous 
loan, but it was for a short duration  (13 days) and was followed by loan eight,  for a higher 
Ref: DRN67951764value, after just another six days;
Mr Lender  has already conceded, in its final response to Miss Cs complaint, that it 
shouldve carried out further affordability  assessments prior to giving loans ten to twelve. 
And it offered  to refund interest accordingly.
Here again,  in all of these circumstances,  I think  that Mr Lender shouldve  seen that this 
further lending  was likely to be unsustainable, or otherwise harmful, for Miss C.  
Excluding the gap between  loans  six and seven, Miss C was borrowing from Mr Lender for 
an aggregate period in excess two years. The loans provided were intended for short term 
use but, in reality, Miss C wasnt  making any substantive inroads to the amount she owed 
Mr Lender.
I think that Miss C lost out because Mr Lender  provided these loans  as:
they had the effect of unfairly prolonging Miss Cs indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use over an extended period of time;
the extended period of time Miss C owed Mr Lender money  was likely to have had 
negative implications on her ability to access mainstream credit  and so kept her in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
So Im partially upholding this complaint and Mr Lender should put things right.
putting things right
To put things right, Mr Lender should:
refund  all interest and charges Miss C paid on loans two to twelve;  
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on all refunded interest and charges from the date they 
were paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any negative information  about loans two to six from Miss Cs credit  file;
the period  of time Miss C owed money to Mr Lender for loans seven to twelve means 
that any information still recorded about these loans on her credit file is adverse. So all 
entries for loans  seven  to twelve should be removed from Miss Cs credit file.
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partially uphold  this complaint and require  PDL Finance Limited 
(trading as Mr Lender) to put things  right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Ref: DRN67951765Richard France
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6795176