K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that he received confusing information from Santander  UK Plc which  led to 
him paying for an extra flight he didnt need. 
background
After a close family member passed away Mr S had to travel to another country  to attend 
their funeral.  On 2 February 2019 he booked a flight via a third party website.  The flight was 
booked to leave  on 4 February  2019  and return two days later.  The flight cost £532.86. 
On 4 February 2019 Mr S received a text message from Santander asking him to confirm 
whether hed purchased a ticket with the same airline hed booked  his flight  with. The price 
noted for this ticket  was £560.64.  Mr S confirmed the transaction was genuine  but it was 
then declined by Santander because there wasnt enough money available in his account. 
As a result, Mr S purchased another ticket to travel. When  he retuned home  it came  to light 
that someone had attempted  to purchase a second  ticket on 4 February  2019,  in addition to 
the one hed bought  via the website.  Mr S has explained he thought  the payment for his 
original ticket had been  declined after he received the text from Santander which  is why he 
bought a replacement.
Mr S complained and Santander responded on 12 February 2019 but didnt agree it had 
made a mistake.  Santander  said its systems had raised concerns about a transaction  on 
4 February 2019.  Despite  Mr S confirming it was genuine, it wasnt paid because  there 
wasnt enough money in his account. 
Mr S asked our service  to look at what happened  and it was passed to an investigator. 
The investigator didnt  agree that Santander  had made any errors.  Mr S asked to appeal so 
his complaints been passed to me to make a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that this situation has come about due to a genuine  misunderstanding.  And I 
understand that Mr S booked his flight after a close family member  passed away. But, as the 
investigators already  said, for me to uphold this complaint  and tell Santander  to compensate  
Mr S Id have to be satisfied it made a mistake  that led to the loss. And I havent been 
persuaded thats the case. 
Mr S bought his first ticket via a third party website to the airline  he was due to fly with. 
The transaction of £532.86 was completed  on 2 February 2019.  On 4 February 2019 
Santander identified  a suspicious transaction. The transaction was for a similar but different  
amount of £560.64.  It was also for a different business, the airline  Mr S was due to fly with 
later that day. I appreciate the amounts were similar and the airline for the second 
transaction was the same  as the one Mr S was due to fly with, but he booked his ticket via a 
third party. He didnt  book direct. 
Santander declined  the payment because of insufficient funds in the account. Again, I 
appreciate that meant Mr S incorrectly thought his original ticket  had been  cancelled. And 
Ref: DRN68330692whilst I appreciate why there  was confusion,  I havent found anything  to show Santander  
made a mistake.  It made the original payment on 2 February 2019 as directed and later 
correctly identified a second transaction as potentially  fraudulent.  
Mr S purchased another  ticket at the airport and I appreciate hes lost out as a result.  Im 
sorry to disappoint  Mr S but I havent found that Santander was responsible for him 
purchasing the second ticket. I have to take into account that the businesses  involved, the 
dates of the transactions and the amounts were different for both transactions.  Santander 
has acted in line with Mr S instructions throughout. As I havent found any evidence of a 
mistake by Santander Im not telling it to take any further action to resolve  this complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 September  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6833069