K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains about Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  (SLOC).  Hes 
unhappy with the advice  he received to transfer  benefits from his occupational pension  
scheme (OPS) to a personal  pension policy (PPP)  with Sun Life. Mr F considers that the 
advice was unsuitable.
background
Mr F received the advice  hes complaining  about  in 1995 when he met with a SLOC  adviser. 
At the time,  the adviser completed a Financial Planning Profile  for Mr F which  noted  the 
following:
Mr F was 32 years  old, married and his wife didnt work. They had no children
Mr F had been working  as a stock-broker  for eleven years, earning £75,000 a year 
and had recently moved to being self-employed
Mr Fs regular monthly income was around  £3,000 with outgoings of £1,813.33. He 
had £1,000 in credit card debt
Mr F owned  a house with an outstanding  mortgage of £83,000 and had a mortgage 
endowment policy
Mr F had around six years worth  of preserved OPS benefits with his former employer
Mr Fs primary focuses and motivations  were family, financial stability, retirement 
provision and capital
Mr F wanted  to retire between age 55 and 65 with 80-100% of his current income
under  Risks and Expected Returns  Mr F was rated 4/5 on a 1-5 scale  of low to high 
Mr F had the following additional investments and retirement provision  in place at the time:
a Capital Builder  unit-linked savings policy SLOC  had advised  him to take out in 
October 1993
a Free Standing  Additional Voluntary Contributions  (FSAVC) policy  SLOC had 
advised him to take out in December  1993
SLOC later completed a Fact Find and prepared a Transfer Analysis Report setting  out its 
advice to Mr F. In summary both documents said:
Mr F had around 33 years to retirement  at age 65
Mr Fs attitude  to risk (ATR) was 5 (speculative)
given the period of pensionable  service and the % of final earnings this benefit 
represents (..) the Risk Rating for this transaction (..) was high  5
if [Mr F] were to transfer  [his] preserved  benefits  to a [PPP] the growth  rate required 
to match  the benefits  from [his] previous scheme would be 11.06% p.a. () [and] 
although quite high the growth  rate was only in relation to a small portion of his 
overall pension  planning
regarding taking  early  retirement with a PPP versus Mr F taking early  retirement  via 
his OPS the report said: Under a [PPP] you may draw  benefits at any time between  
age 50 and 75. However the Protected  Rights  part of your fund cannot  be paid until 
state pension  date of 1 September  2028.  You will not therefore be able to access all 
of your fund on retirement at 1 September 2018 ()
Ref: DRN69163872it is understood that this transfer  moves the likely retirement income  from a 
guaranteed [OPS]  to a unit-linked,  market performance related pension  investment 
and this is acceptable to [Mr F]
SLOC sent Mr F a follow up letter in September 1995 confirming what  was discussed with its 
adviser previously.  It said:
1. Your previous  employers scheme  ()The  benefits available () were explained to you 
()
3. Pension benefits  at normal  retirement  ()You have advised us that your attitude  to 
investment risk rating  is Speculative.
As your transfer is estimated to be less than 15% of your overall pension provision, you have  
decided that this is not significant enough  to change your risk rating.
Your adviser explained () you could not take all of your transferred pension  benefit [early], 
however this did not affect your decision to transfer because the Protected Rights only 
represent a small proportion of your overall  benefit
4. Early retirement () You have  stated that you wish to retire  early and have decided to 
transfer to a [PPP] because the proportion of benefit to be deferred to state  pension  age is 
not significant to you ()
6. Tax Free Cash (TFC)() Based on your risk rating and the term to retirement,  you were 
advised that a higher TFC amount is possible by transferring
7. Overall conclusion  () Based on your Speculative risk rating combined with the long term 
to your expected  retirement age, there is a chance that you will achieve  better  benefits at 
retirement by transferring.  
In addition youve  stated that you value  the ability to select your own retirement  age, 
investments funds and have all your pension planning with one provider. Therefore a 
transfer to [SLOC]  has been recommended ()
Mr F accepted SLOCs recommendation and his PPP was set up on 16 October 1995. It 
comprised of two unit-linked Personal Transfer Accounts (PTAs) designed  to receive  the 
transfer value  from Mr Fs OPS, with one receiving the transfer in respect of non-protected  
rights (NPR) and one for protected rights (PR).  PTA ending 91 had a selected retirement age 
(SRA) of 55 and had £8,623.90 transferred to it in respect of the NPR  value  of the transfer.  
PTA ending  06 had an SRA of 65 and had £3,147.07 transferred to it in respect of the PR 
value. Mr Fs PTA ending 91 was invested 50% in SLOCs Perpetual  Fund and 50% in its 
International Fund. Mr Fs PTA ending  06 was invested 50% in SLOCs Perpetual  Fund  and 
50% in its Property  Shares Fund.
In 1996 Mr F made an investment switch  with his PTA ending 06 so he ceased  to be 
invested in SLOCs Property  Shares Fund. He switched  to the Schroders Fund.  
In August  2018,  with the assistance of a claims management company (CMC),  Mr F 
complained to SLOC. The CMC set out why it thought SLOCs advice had been unsuitable. 
In summary  it said:
Ref: DRN69163873there was no compelling evidence to indicate Mr F was made  aware in a meaningful  
way of the benefits hed be giving up by transferring away  from his OPS or the level 
of risk he was exposing himself to
the 11.06% growth rate required to match Mr Fs OPS benefits had been  
underplayed. In moving away from a guaranteed environment  and taking on the 
inherent risks involved, Mr F wouldve  been seeking to significantly exceed his 
existing benefits  and this wouldve required a rate of return  comfortably in excess  of 
11.06%
SLOCs risk profile  information appeared contradictory. The fact find noted Mr Fs risk 
profile as 4/5, but the funds he was placed  in appeared to be at the top of the risk 
scale
SLOC responded to Mr Fs complaint and in summary said:
to help Mr F decide what was appropriate,  its adviser wouldve discussed  his 
circumstances, including  whether  he had any preserved benefits and the type of 
investments he wanted to make
as Mr Fs PPP was unit-linked his contribution purchased units  that were invested in 
managed funds. Unit prices could fall and rise so the value wasnt guaranteed
a full transfer analysis was carried out which included a comparison of benefits and 
expected returns.  Mr F was aware he was transferring out of a guaranteed  pension 
the rates of return required to match all benefits  in all forms, including early  
retirement were explained to Mr F.
Mr F was aware the amount hed get from a PPP depended on fund performance 
and that there was no guarantee
it was explained  to Mr F that a PPP allowed him to retire  anytime  from age 50 and 
that there was the potential for greater growth  and therefore greater benefits
Mr F selected  a PPP, in part, so he could have  an earlier  retirement age, selecting 
age 55 on one of his PTAs. The adviser explained Mr F couldnt take all of his 
benefits at this time but this didnt  affect his decision to transfer  because  the amount 
being transferred   to a PTA with retirement  age of 65 only represented  a small 
proportion of the overall benefits  he was transferring
the transfer was recommended  because, due to Mr Fs speculative risk rating and 
long term until his expected retirement, there  was a chance hed receive  better 
benefits at retirement by transferring
as Mr F was a self-employed Stockbroker it felt he wouldve understood the risk of 
transferring and been prepared to take that risk
it couldnt uphold  Mr Fs concerns 
Unhappy with SLOCs  response  Mr F with the assistance of his CMC referred  his complaint 
to our service. 
One of our investigators  considered the matter and in summary said:
standard industry projections at the time indicated that the 11.06% growth rate 
required from Mr Fs PPP to match his OPS  benefits was close  to the upper rate of 
12%, meaning the customer wouldve needed to be an aggressive  investor  to 
possibly achieve  a benefit from the transfer
although Mr F may have had the capacity to take risks he didnt think this meant his 
ATR was aggressive.  He didnt think there was enough to suggest Mr F was an 
aggressive investor
Ref: DRN69163874he didnt think there  was much real benefit in Mr F transferring his OPS  and felt his 
complaint should be upheld
Mr F agreed  with our investigator and accepted his findings. SLOC  disagreed and in 
summary said:
Mr F was clearly  an aggressive investor  and pointed to the fact that he was a 
stockbroker and had previously been an investment  analyst  
although advising on the transfer SLOC couldnt  provide advice on the funds Mr F 
chose to invest in. But Mr F had selected  two aggressive funds in respect of his NPR 
transfer and one aggressive fund for his PR transfer, evidencing he was an 
aggressive investor
although the PR part of Mr Fs transfer couldnt be taken  until age 65, the transfer 
allowed him the opportunity to take the NPR part of his transfer at 55
the transfer represented  a very small proportion  of Mr Fs overall pension planning
Mr F wouldve been aware of the required growth rate prior to transferring. He 
wouldve been provided with illustrations showing potential growth and based on his 
occupation would have been in a position to understand the risks involved in moving 
to a performance related environment
it wasnt unreasonable for Mr F to take the risk in order  to try to achieve a greater tax 
free lump sum and early  retirement fund, in respect of part of the transfer
Our investigator considered SLOCs comments but said he still thought  Mr Fs complaint 
should be upheld.  In summary he said:
although Mr F chose to invest in aggressive  funds this didnt necessarily mean  he 
was an aggressive  investor. Mr F wouldve  chosen these funds because  he was 
advised he needed to invest aggressively  to benefit from the transfer
he accepted  Mr F had the capacity to take risks but didnt think this meant  his attitude 
to risk was aggressive. It wasnt safe to assume all stockbrokers were aggressive  
investors
he didnt think there  was a significant  benefit to Mr F transferring- especially where  
there was a very high risk, with a relatively small reward
SLOC replied and in summary said:
Mr Fs market knowledge and understanding due to his occupation lead it to 
conclude an aggressive attitude  to risk was not unreasonable
Mr Fs circumstances would have  meant  the guarantees offered by his OPS (and the 
low level of income it would provide) was not of interest to Mr F and so the starting 
point of assuming  Mr F would  be better  off staying in the scheme had been proven 
to be inaccurate in his case
As no agreement could be reached  the matter was passed to me for a final decision
 
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  in order to decide what  is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, Ive come to the same conclusion  as the 
investigator, and for broadly the same  reasons. 
Ref: DRN69163875The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching 
them.
The two main issues that need to be considered  when looking at an OPS transfer are:
whether the transfer value represents  good value for the deferred pension benefits  
that are being given  up 
whether the individual can afford to take the risks that the transfer  will involve
I should begin by saying  that OPS typically have significant benefits and guarantees. Giving  
up the benefits and guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension 
income to the risks associated with unpredictable  investment returns should only be done  
where it can be shown  that it was clearly in the best interests of the consumer.
The COBS  rules in the Financial Conduct  Authoritys Handbook state:
When  a firm is making a personal  recommendation for a retail  client  who is, or is eligible to 
be, a member of a pension scheme  with safeguarded benefits and who is considering  
whether to transfer, convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by assuming that a transfer, 
conversion or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should only consider a transfer, conversion 
or opt-out to be suitable  if it can clearly  demonstrate, on contemporary  evidence, that the 
transfer, conversion or opt-out  is in the retail  clients best interests.
So my starting point is that a transfer wont usually  be suitable. There will need  to be good  
reasons why a transfer will be in the consumers best interests.  Generally a transfer will only 
be in the consumers best interests if theres  a reasonable prospect that the new 
arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will also need to be suitable, 
taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances.  
SLOC has argued  that based  on Mr Fs speculative risk rating combined with his term to 
retirement there was a chance hed achieve better  benefits by transferring his OPS to a 
PPP. 
I agree  that there was a relatively long period before Mr F intended to retire and this 
increased the possibility for growth on the transfer and the likelihood  it might ultimately be 
only a small part of the pension provision he built up overall. However, Im not entirely 
persuaded by SLOCs  argument that Mr Fs speculative  risk rating meant he had the 
capacity to take on the risk that transferring entailed. Indeed I dont think Mr Fs 
circumstances at the time indicated he was necessarily a speculative and therefore high risk 
investor with the capacity  to take on the risks the transfer wouldve presented. 
Its not precisely clear  what  SLOC meant by speculative  or how that risk assessment was 
reached. But I can see the Financial Planning Profile completed by the adviser noted that 
Ref: DRN69163876Mr F was 4/5 on a Risks and Expected Returns  rating scale  of 1-5. And that in the Fact Find 
completed by the adviser recorded  Mr Fs attitude to risk (ATR) as 5 (Speculative).  
Im mindful however that at the time of the advice in 1995 Mr F had recently  started working 
on a self-employed  basis. He was married but his wife didnt work so they were both solely  
reliant on Mr Fs income and any other pension/investment provision he had or chose to put 
in place. As a newly established self-employed individual Mr Fs income and general 
financial security were  arguably even more  important than they previously were. There  was 
the possibility  Mr Fs new venture might fail and that this could impact  the contributions he 
would need to make into a PPP until retirement.  I cant see that this was taken into account  
by SLOC  when advising Mr F on what to do with the guaranteed  benefits hed accrued with 
his OPS.
In my opinion if SLOC  had properly taken into account Mr Fs circumstances it should have 
advised Mr F not to transfer his deferred benefits  to a PPP in 1995 but should instead  have 
recommended that Mr F wait and see how his self-employed endeavour progressed. Once it 
was known how the new business  was progressing the decision about whether to transfer  
out the OPS benefits could have been be looked at again.
In 1995 the only preserved OPS benefits Mr F had were the six years service  hed accrued 
with his former employer.  The only other pension provision Mr F had in place  was the 
FSAVC policy SLOC had advised him to take out less than two years  earlier. I think  these  
circumstances made  Mr Fs OPS benefits  even more valuable- they were the only 
guaranteed pension benefits he had in place  at the time. SLOC should have investigated  
whether Mr F was able to take a risk with transferring his OPS benefits  given that his future 
employment and level of future pension provision was uncertain.  Im also not aware that 
there was any particular urgency necessitating  that Mr F transfer  out of his OPS. 
Its worth  noting that in 1993, less than two years prior to concluding Mr Fs ATR was 
speculative, SLOC assessed Mr Fs ATR as balanced. Its not clear what  specifically SLOC 
considered changed in Mr Fs circumstances in this relatively short  period of time which  led 
to such a dramatic change in what it deemed  Mr Fs ATR to be. From what  Ive seen, the 
only change was that Mr F became self-employed. And as Ive explained above, I dont think  
this ought to have been  a factor which led SLOC to conclude that Mr Fs ATR would  
significantly increase.  Indeed I think  it shouldve arguably led to SLOC  exercising more  
caution with the advice  it gave.
In the advisers  notes  regarding Mr Fs financial objectives in 1995,  Mr Fs number 1 priority 
is documented as being pensions- planning  for retirement, whereas the advisers  priority  
is noted as being income in the event of illness or disability () [and] family protection in the 
event of early death- these are, respectively, noted as Mr Fs number 2 priority and not even 
listed as a priority at all for Mr F. Theres no evidence to suggest  this difference in 
opinion/priority was explored or discussed at the time. But I think it indicates there may have 
been a disconnect between what Mr F and his SLOC adviser thought the focus and 
importance was regarding the advice  Mr F was seeking at the time, and perhaps that 
sufficient weight wasnt put on Mr Fs OPS benefits  and concerns  about his pension  
provision.
SLOC has sought  to rely on Mr Fs occupation  as a self-employed stockbroker and former 
financial analyst to justify  it classing him as having  a speculative ATR and therefore an 
aggressive investor. Specifically it says:
Ref: DRN69163877based on the clients occupation as a self-employed stockbroker ()he would have 
understood the risk of transferring to a unit-linked [PPP]  () he would be prepared to take 
some risk () the risk rating for the transfer  of aggressive was therefore believable ()
() [he] would have been in a position to understand  the risks entailed  in moving to a 
performance related  environment ()
I dont agree with SLOCs  position here. Although a stockbroker the only other  noted  
investment products Mr F had personal  experience  of at the time were his FSAVC policy and 
unit-linked Capital  Builder savings policy which SLOC had also recommended  to him prior to 
its OPS transfer recommendation. Mr F didnt appear to have taken a significant risk with 
other investments he had at the time. And it doesnt  necessarily follow,  even if he had, that 
he would  have wanted to take the same  approach  to risk in relation to his pension.
Mr F relied  on SLOCs advice. Whilst I accept,  given his occupation that Mr F may have had 
some understanding of investments and a reasonable degree  of financial acumen, theres no 
suggestion he was a pensions expert and knowledgeable about other types  of pension 
arrangements. Indeed  this is supported by the fact that Mr F sought advice from SLOC.
SLOC has suggested  that the funds  Mr F chose to invest  in when his OPS benefits  were 
transferred supports his speculative risk rating. I dont agree. I think  Mr F choosing  to invest  
some of his PPP funds in what  SLOC classed as aggressive funds is more  likely to be an 
indication that he may have been given the impression  this investment strategy was 
necessary to try to secure the high level of investment growth/performance required to make  
the transfer worthwhile.  
SLOC has said:
advice could not be provided in respect of the funds  [Mr F] would  select; only information 
about the available funds  from which he primarily selected aggressive funds ()
Its not clear to me why SLOC says its adviser  couldnt provide advice about where the funds  
it advised him to transfer in the first place should  be invested. Nevertheless  I dont consider 
the overall merits of the transfer  couldve been  adequately considered  by the adviser without 
taking into account  the wider  investment  approach following  the transfer. Indeed I think it 
wouldve been essential for this to be discussed.  
I should say that although  I dont think SLOCs rating of Mr Fs ATR as speculative was 
accurate, I do think Mr F was in a position to take some risk in 1995. However,  I do still think 
the transaction presented  a higher degree  of risk than he ought to have been advised to take 
with what I consider to be a very valuable asset- his guaranteed pension  benefits  in respect 
of around six years  membership of a final salary scheme. 
In terms of the investment risk Mr F was taking, SLOC carried  out a transfer value analysis 
(TVAS). The TVAS showed the critical yield (rate of growth)  required (from  Mr Fs new PPP 
arrangement) to match the income level provided  by Mr Fs OPS  in the future. SLOC  
determined the growth  rate required was 11.06% pa. So Mr Fs OPS transfer value needed 
to grow at a rate of around 11.06% for him not to be financially worse off by transferring. But 
Ref: DRN69163878if the transfer was only going to match the benefits  given up thered be little point in 
transferring there needed to be a reasonable prospect Mr F would be better off. So a return  
closer to 12 per cent would have been  required for Mr F to gain any advantage. The higher  
rate of projected  returns used in SLOCs  illustrations was 12 per cent. So even  at the time, 
Mr Fs investments would have needed to perform consistently at the highest rate for him to 
be better off. Whilst that may have been  anticipated  as possible at that time, I think  it was a 
relatively high risk strategy. And not one Mr F was in a position to take.
By way of background, in October 1994, the then regulator, the Securities and Investment 
Board (SIB), established  an industry-wide review of particular pension business  transacted 
by authorised firms between 29 April 1988 and 30 June 1994. It was generally known as the 
"Pension Review".  It aimed to address  concerns about the possible widespread mis-selling 
of PPPs  during this period. The regulator  set down the broad methodology that firms who 
had sold these PPPs were required to follow when carrying out the review. Where  mis-
selling was identified,  the regulator  set down the method and assumptions that firms  had to 
use to determine  the level of any redress due. 
Although Mr Fs OPS transfer was outside of the Pension Review dates,  I think its 
reasonable to assess the suitability of the advice in-line with the Pension  Review Guidance. 
The regulator set out a financial viability test which  recorded upper limits of investment 
returns that were considered viable at the time.  The rate of return  determined  to be 
reasonably achievable/appropriate varied depending  on an individuals  circumstances, 
especially their time to retirement  and when the transfer took place. For the circumstances of 
this case the investment  return required  to match the OPS at retirement  was 11.06% pa. 
This compares with the discount rate figure of 10.7% pa for around 33 years to retirement in 
this case. As a higher  investment return than this figure was needed  I think Mr Fs OPS  
transfer to would represent  a high risk transaction only suitable  for a high risk investor with 
enough additional drivers  for the transfer  to mitigate  the risks involved. I dont think there  
were in Mr Fs case. I therefore consider that at the time that Mr F was advised to transfer 
the critical yield of 11.06% wouldnt have been an entirely  reasonable expectation.
It seems  that SLOC understood the critical yield established at the time was beyond  the 
realms of reasonable. The advisers notes  from the time said Careful  consideration required 
because [the] growth  rate, though achievable is considered  as high.  The critical yield 
required should have  made SLOC think very carefully about whether the transfer was 
suitable for Mr F. With the marginal possibility of improving Mr Fs OPS pension  benefits 
after a transfer,  I dont think it was reasonable to consider moving them.  
In this context, Im satisfied the transfer wouldve presented  risks above what  Mr F was 
willing to take.  There was an appreciable risk that the benefits  payable from the PPP were  
likely to be less than if Mr F stayed in his OPS.  
Ive also looked  at the additional benefits  SLOC has outlined for Mr F transferring. In addition 
to potentially securing  greater  benefits at retirement SLOC has also referred  to other  
contributing factors  to its recommendation. This included the potential for early  retirement  on 
the PR element of Mr Fs fund, having fund choices  and keeping [Mr Fs] pension  planning  
together. I appreciate  the perceived benefits of these factors  but I dont  think they can be 
considered significant enough  incentives to justify  the risk involved in going ahead with the 
Ref: DRN69163879transfer. As Ive already  mentioned, Mr Fs number one objective was planning for retirement 
and safeguarding his pension provision. I think this could have been achieved by Mr F 
staying in his OPS. 
I can see from the available evidence that SLOC did to some degree make  Mr F aware of 
the risks of the transfer it was recommending (i.e. that pension  income  wasnt  guaranteed 
and depended  on investment performance). But Im not satisfied these warnings went  far 
enough. In my view they were brief and general  at best when they shouldve  been extensive 
and explicit given the significance of the transaction SLOC was recommending.  I cant  see 
that SLOC adequately explained the potential implications of the OPS  transfer  for Mr F 
specifically. Crucially, that Mr F would be giving  up benefits  from a scheme that included  
some degree of security  and guarantee for a pension which was reliant of uncertain factors 
such as investment returns and annuity  rates. 
Based on everything  provided to this service  I dont think the advice for Mr F to transfer out 
of his OPS was necessary or suitable here. Overall, Mr Fs circumstances dont suggest  he 
was in a position to be able to take the risk of transferring his OPS benefits. As Ive 
explained, the perceived benefits of doing  so did not justify  the transfer at this time. I do 
accept that SLOCs recommendation did very generally cover some  of the transfer  risks but 
in my view it shouldntve  gone on to recommend the transfer to Mr F. If it hadnt done so 
then I dont believe its likely that Mr F wouldve gone ahead  with the transfer.
what the business must  do to put things right
My decision  is that I uphold the complaint,  and that a fair and reasonable outcome would be 
for the business  to put Mr F, as far as possible, into the position he would now be in but for 
the unsuitable advice.
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited must undertake a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in October 2017.
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of this decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions published at the date of this decision.  In accordance with the 
regulators expectations, this should  be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider 
promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Fs acceptance of the decision.
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited may wish to contact  the Department 
for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain Mr Fs contribution history  to the State Earnings 
Related Pension Scheme (SERPS or S2P). These  details should  then be used to include a 
SERPS adjustment in the calculation, which will take into account the impact of leaving the 
occupational scheme on Mr Fs SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation in respect of any past loss 
(i.e. extra net income or tax-free cash Mr F would already have received from the 
occupational scheme) should be paid to him as a lump sum.
The compensation in respect  of any future loss should, if possible, be paid into Mr Fs 
pension plan. The payment should allow for the effect of charges and any available tax relief. 
Ref: DRN691638710The compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If the future loss payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance  
implications, it should  be paid directly to Mr F as a lump sum after making a notional 
deduction to allow for future income  tax that would otherwise have been paid.
For example, if Mr F would have been  yet to take a tax-free cash  sum from the occupational
scheme, 25% of the future loss would be tax-free  and 75% would have been taxed 
according to his likely income tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making  a 
notional deduction  of 15% overall from the future  loss adequately reflects this.
But if a tax-free  cash sum from the occupational scheme has already  been taken into 
account in the payment for past loss above, the remaining future  loss is in respect of taxable  
income only. So it would be appropriate to make  a notional deduction of 20% in full.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr F
within 90 days of the date Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  receives 
notification of his acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must be added to the 
compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my final decision to 
the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days, that it takes Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  to pay Mr F this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In order to resolve  this matter I order  Sun Life 
Assurance Company  of Canada (U.K.) Limited  to calculate and pay any redress due as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Chillel Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6916387