K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Advantage Insurance Company Limited  cancelled  his motor insurance  
policy from the start (voided it) and declined his claim for the theft of his car. He wants it to 
pay his claim.
background
Mr Ts car was stolen. Advantage validated his claim and found  that he hadnt told it about 
motor convictions  when he bought the policy. It said it wouldnt have offered cover  if it had 
known of these.  So it voided the policy, declined the claim and refunded the premiums. 
Mr T thought Advantage should  have  made  better checks that hed given the correct  
information. He thought  the convictions  had expired  so he neednt  disclose  them. He thought 
it should pay the claim as it had told him the settlement amount. He said Advantage had sent 
claim letters to his previous address. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  
Advantage had asked  a clear question about previous convictions which Mr T had answered  
incorrectly. She saw that it wouldnt have offered  cover if he had answered correctly.  So she 
thought it was entitled to void the policy and decline the claim. She thought it had fairly  
refunded the premiums  as it thought Mr T had made a mistake. She also thought  its offer of 
£25 compensation  for sending a letter to the wrong address was fair and reasonable as it 
didnt have an impact  on the claim.
Mr T replied that he didnt recall the question asked about convictions. He said he took out 
the policy over the phone. He said the theft wasnt related to driving, so it was illogical  to 
decline the claim. He didnt  recall receiving the policy documents so he couldnt have 
checked them. He said another insurer had increased his partners premium and dealt with 
the claim.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I was sorry to hear about the burglary of Mr Ts home and the consequences  for him. I can 
understand that Advantages  decision will have a severe  financial  impact for him. Mr Ts 
complaint centres  on Advantages  decision to void his policy  and decline his claim because  it 
said he didnt disclose  previous motoring convictions for himself  and a named driver on the 
policy. 
Where a complaint  arises  from non-disclosure of information important  to an insurer, we take 
into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear  question when the 
policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  whether a policy  was 
offered. And we check whether  the informant has acted carelessly  or deliberately  in making  
the non-disclosure.
From what  I can see, Mr T took out his policy online through Advantages website. Mr T 
recalls making a phone  call to complete the sale, but I cant  see any record  of this in 
Advantages file. I cant see any reason why Advantage  wouldnt have told us if there had 
been such a phone call. 
Ref: DRN69463802So, based  on the evidence I have, I think Mr T bought his policy online. And so Ive looked  at 
the questions  Mr T was asked online when he took out his policy. 
I think Mr T was asked  a clear question about  any previous driving related convictions, 
endorsements, penalties,  disqualifications and bans within  the past five years  for himself and 
any named drivers. None  were disclosed  here or at renewal. From  the information Ive seen, 
I think Mr T should  reasonably have  told Advantage of his and a named drivers motoring 
penalties. Mr T thought theyd expired. But I cant see why he thought  this as some  were 
quite recent. Mr T was asked to check that his information  was correct, but I cant  see that 
he told Advantage of the mistake.
Mr T said he hadnt received his policy documents. But Advantage has provided evidence  
that they were  downloaded from its website at inception. I cant see that Mr T downloaded 
them at renewal, but I can see that they were made  available  to him. So I cant  say that 
Advantage didnt  provide the documents for Mr T to check. 
Mr T also said his personal circumstances prevented him from checking the documents 
thoroughly. I can understand this, but I think it was for him to ensure his information was 
correct. I cant  reasonably hold Advantage responsible for Mr Ts circumstances.  
So I think Mr T was asked  a clear question about previous motoring offences and he 
answered this incorrectly.  Ive seen from Advantages  underwriting guidelines that if hed 
answered the question correctly, cover wouldnt have been provided  in the first place or at 
renewal. 
Mr T referred to the online question  where  it is advised that cover  may not be provided if five 
or more  convictions are declared. But I think this is advice for consumers and not the 
underwriting criteria that Advantage  used.  Our investigator has explained that we cant  share 
this information  with him as its commercially sensitive.
So I think that, under the relevant legislation, Advantage was entitled  to void the policy as it 
wouldnt have offered cover in the first place if the question had been answered  correctly. 
And as no cover was in place, it was entitled to decline  the claim.  I can see that Advantage 
decided to refund Mr Ts premiums in full since it was persuaded that hed thought  the 
convictions had expired  and he hadnt kept track  of them. I think  thats very fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. 
Mr T said another insurer had agreed a proportionate settlement with an additional  premium  
for another  claim. But I think its for each insurer to decide the risks it wants to cover. Here, I 
can only consider  Advantages decision.
Mr T thought the theft wasnt related to the motoring convictions and so it was illogical for 
Advantage to void the policy. But I think its entitled  to do this under the relevant  legislation  
as Mr T hadnt reasonably  disclosed information important to it when taking out and 
renewing his policy.  
Mr T found other  decisions made by this service  where he says we found that it would be 
unfair for the insurer  to decline a claim. But we decide each complaint on its merits and 
these examples are where an insurer would still have provided cover, albeit for a higher 
premium, if the consumer had disclosed material facts. This isnt the case with Mr Ts non-
disclosure as cover wouldnt have been provided at all. 
Ref: DRN69463803I can see that Advantage sent one claim letter to Mr Ts previous address after hed notified  
it of the change. I can understand that this must have been  frustrating,  but I cant  see that it 
affected the outcome of Mr Ts claim. So I think Advantages offer of £25 compensation for 
the trouble and upset caused was fair and reasonable and I dont require it to increase this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6946380