K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Canada Square  Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold payment 
protection insurance (PPI) alongside  a credit  card in 1999.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Ive first looked at whether Mrs H was given a choice to buy the PPI. Mrs H says shes  
unhappy with the policy because she never asked for it. She says PPI wasnt  discussed 
during the account application, and she didnt  know it had been applied to her account. And 
she didnt know that the PPI was optional and could have been refused.  So Ive thought 
about what Mrs H said alongside  the other information Ive seen about the sale.
Canada Square  says it sold the PPI when Mrs H applied  for the credit card online  and 
based on the records Ive seen, I think thats  right. Canada Square  has also sent us 
examples of the online screens it says Mrs H would have seen when she applied for the 
policy. This suggests that to apply for the policy, Mrs H needed to select the option  Yes, I 
would like to protect my repayments against  accident, sickness and unemployment. There 
was a separate option Mrs H needed to select if she didnt want  to buy the insurance. So 
based on what Ive seen, I think Mrs H knew she had a choice about whether or not to buy 
the policy  and that she chose to buy it.
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs H  so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for her. But it did have  to make sure Mrs H got the information she needed  to decide if it was 
right for her.
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been. But she chose to take out the PPI  so it looks like she wanted this type 
of cover.  Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the cover   so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong It also looks like the PPI was affordable.
Mrs H says she had an alternative income protection  insurance  policy  which she says she 
could have used  to meet her repayments if she was off work  sick  though she says she 
doesnt have any paperwork  as she retired in 2013. We asked Mrs H if she could get any 
further information about the policy. But her representatives told us that we should proceed  
without this information, as Mrs H wasnt able to get it. 
As such,  though I accept that Mrs H may have had some insurance, I cant say based on the 
limited information Ive seen that this would have affected her decision to buy this PPI policy. 
Im mindful that, for the reasons  Ive already explained, that Mrs H chose to buy the policy 
even though she didnt need to - which means  its possible that even with this other cover 
she still thought  some cover for this credit  card was useful. The PPI would repay 10% of 
Ref: DRN67629712Mrs Hs credit card statement balance for up to 12 months if she couldnt work. So I dont  
think better information about  the PPI would  have put her off taking out the cover.
This means  Canada Square doesnt have  to pay back all the cost of the PPI to Mrs H,
But Canada Square has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:
Canada Square  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mrs H about that. Because Canada  Square 
didnt tell Mrs H that was unfair. 
To put that right, Canada Square has paid back the amount of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything else Mrs H has said. But this doesnt change my conclusion.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. 
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs H any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this so I dont award  any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6762971