K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the service  he received from his business relationship  manager  at 
National Westminster Bank Plc.
background
Mr M had business borrowing with NatWest. In 2015 he discussed extending this with his 
relationship manager. He was unhappy  to be told that NatWest would not agree to this. That 
decision has already  been considered by NatWest in a separate complaint  from Mr M in 
2015. Mr M accepts that he did not refer that in time to us. But he complains here that the 
relationship managers  decision  was a personal  one and that he had threatened to cancel 
Mr Ms cards.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that NatWest  do more than it had already and which  was 
to pay Mr M £250 in compensation. There was no evidence to support what happened. And 
the relationship  manager, who had now moved  on, has said he had no knowledge of any 
personal issues at the time with Mr M. That manager says that the cards  were not restricted 
and nor was any threat made to cancel them.
Mr M did not agree and wanted his complaint to be reviewed.  He asked for more time to 
provide further  comments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that this was a difficult time for Mr M. He wanted his facilities  to be extended  but 
NatWest was expecting  him to refinance them. I can understand that he took this personally.  
I know our adjudicator asked NatWest  for a recording of any calls with Mr M from that time 
but it was not able to locate anything. And although Mr M said he had his own call recording  
and wanted to provide more comments and evidence he has not done so. I consider hes 
had a reasonable period  of additional  time for this.
As a result I dont have  anything to support there being any unprofessional behaviour by the 
relationship manager towards  him. Or to support that there  were  threats  made to remove his 
card facilities. Mr M was clearly dissatisfied  with the service he received at the time.  In 
recognition of that NatWest has paid him £250. Im afraid I dont have a basis to find it 
should do anything  more.
Ref: DRN63981552my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint in the sense that National Westminster  
Bank Plc need  do no more than it has already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 May 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6398155