K820x#14complaint
Mr M isnt happy with how Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has offered to resolve his 
complaint about  a payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  policy attached to his loan.
background
In 2018 Mr M complained  that the PPI policy had been mis-sold. Barclays  initially  said to 
Mr M that it couldnt locate any record of PPI. Mr M provided a copy of his original loan 
agreement to Barclays which showed that he had taken a loan that had PPI.
Mr Ms loan agreement showed that in 1995  he took out a loan with Barclays for £7,000  with 
a term of 60 months. The loan, if it ran to term, would have attracted a further £3,150.80 in 
interest. So Mr Ms total cost for the loan was £10,150.80.
The loan had PPI attached. And the PPI was paid for upfront by Mr M borrowing more.  This 
type of policy is called a single premium  PPI policy.
The PPI cost a further £1,427.37 and would have  cost more with interest over the full term of 
the loan. The PPI, if it ran to term, would have attracted a further £642.63 in interest. So 
Mr Ms total cost for the PPI was £2,070.
In total, the amount Mr M had to pay back for the loan and the PPI was £12,220.80.
Mr Ms combined monthly payment for the loan and PPI was £203.68. So £169.18 was for 
the loan and the interest the loan attracted. And £34.50 was for the PPI and the interest the 
PPI attracted.
Barclays had received a copy  of Mr Ms loan agreement, but it explained it was poor copy 
and illegible. So it considered that it didnt  have enough information  to work out Mr Ms 
compensation. It therefore offered  to pay Mr M an average amount of compensation that it 
had paid consumers  who held a similar PPI policy for a similar  amount  of time.
Barclays offer of compensation was for £3,880.87. Unhappy  with the amount Barclays was 
offering, Mr M brought his complaint to our service.
Mr M had worked out his own calculation of what he thought he was owed for being mis-sold 
the PPI policy. Mr M thought the compensation should be in the region of £11,500.
While the complaint was with our service, a clearer copy of the loan agreement was provided 
to Barclays. Barclays responded advising that with the clear  copy of the loan agreement  it 
could now work out Mr Ms actual  compensation for being mis-sold PPI. 
Barclays also explained that it could have done  more to obtain  a clearer  copy  of the loan 
agreement when it was investigating Mr Ms complaint. Because  it hadnt,  it offered £100 to 
recognise the inconvenience  caused  to Mr M in being provided an incorrect  compensation 
amount initially.
Barclays explained that having  worked out Mr Ms full compensation, Mr M was entitled  to a 
further £921.25 towards the PPI compensation on top of the £3,880.87 that it had already 
offered. And also £100 for the trouble and upset it had caused. So in total it said Mr M was 
owed a further £1,021.25.
Ref: DRN67282252Our adjudicator looked at the complaint and thought  Barclays latest offer was fair and 
placed Mr M in the position as if he hadnt been  sold PPI. She also considered  that Barclays  
offer of £100 for its initial  error in not trying to obtain a clearer copy  of the loan agreement 
was fair.
Mr M again disagreed  with the amount, as he considered he was entitled to a lot more.  This 
is because Mr M considers that Barclays should  calculate part of the compensation using a 
compound interest  method. 
As the matter hasnt  been resolved, its been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The financial  regulator   the Financial Conduct Authority (FCA) through its handbook, sets 
out how businesses  should handle complaints about  PPI. And this includes how businesses 
should go about compensating consumers if a PPI policy has been mis-sold.
Broadly speaking, when  I decide, or a business  agrees,  that a PPI policy  has been mis-sold, 
the resolution to putting that right would be to put the consumer in the position they would 
have been in had they not taken out the PPI policy, as far as is possible. 
This can be found in the FCAs handbook within  the Dispute Resolution: Complaints 
section. A copy is available online.  The relevant section is DISP App 3: Handling Payment 
Protection Insurance complaints. 
And more  specifically, DISP App 3.7.2 which says:
DISP App 3.7.2
Where the firm concludes that the complainant would not have bought the payment protection  
contract he bought, and the firm is not using the alternative approach to redress (set out in DISP App 
3.7.7 E to 3.7.15 E) or other appropriate redress (see DISP  App 3.8), the firm should,  as far as 
practicable, put the complainant in the position he would have  been if he had not bought any payment 
protection contract.
Mr M was sold a single  premium policy. So Barclays, having decided that it had mis-sold 
PPI, had to put Mr M in the position he would have been in had he not taken out PPI. 
With a single premium policy, this generally  means  refunding the amount paid for the PPI 
premium, refunding the interest charged  on that premium and adding 8% simple interest to 
compensate the consumer for any time they have  been without that money.
Ref: DRN67282253The method  for this, for when the consumer has taken a single premium PPI policy,  is set 
out in DISP App 3.7.3.
DISP App 3.7.3
...In such cases the firm should pay to the complainant a sum equal to the total amount paid 
by the complainant in respect  of the payment protection contract including  historic interest 
where relevant (plus simple  interest on that amount). If the complainant  has received any 
rebate, for example if the customer cancelled a single  premium payment protection  contract  
before it ran full term and received a refund,  the firm may deduct the value of this rebate from 
the amount otherwise payable to the complainant.
The FCA has also further defined "simple interest". Its definition says:
"simple interest" means a non-compound  rate of 8% per annum;
Mr Ms main  complaint  point  is that he thinks he is owed more. And he has calculated his 
compensation using a compound rate of interest.  But taking into account  the above,  the 
rules say that a business should  use simple  interest and that is set at a non-compound rate 
of 8% per annum.
Barclays offer  is it fair and in line with rules  and guidance?
Barclays initially offered  £3,880.87, which was an average amount it had paid other  
consumers. Barclays accepted that this was incorrect and the loan agreement meant it could 
work out the compensation accurately. In doing  so it said a further  £921.25 was owed.
So in total,  for being mis-sold  PPI, Barclays says the compensation owed is £4,802.12. And 
Barclays has said that its offer is in line with the FCA rules and guidance.
Looking at Barclays total offer, I have to be satisfied  that it has refunded the amount Mr M 
paid for the PPI premium, and any interest  charged on that premium and then finally adding 
8% simple  interest to compensate Mr M for any time he has been without that money.
Mr Ms loan agreement shows  that the PPI cost £1,427.37 and the PPI, if it ran to term, 
would have attracted  a further £642.63  in interest. So Mr Ms total borrowing for the PPI was 
£2,070. So Mr M needs  to get that back and Im satisfied it is included in Barclays  offer. 
So of Mr Ms total compensation (£4,802.12), £2,070  is for the premium  and the interest that 
premium attracted over the life of the loan. 
That leaves an amount of £2,732.12  and this is what  Barclays has offered as 
compensation for Mr M being out of pocket on the overpayments he made. The reason 
businesses award  this compensation is because had Mr M not had the policy  then he 
wouldnt have made those additional  monthly payments for the PPI and interest. So he is 
out of pocket for those  payments he made. The FCA set the rate of this compensation at 
8% simple  interest per annum (not compound).  
Barclays knows Mr M paid a monthly  amount £34.50 for the PPI (so the PPI and the interest 
the PPI attracted) and it could therefore work out the 8% simple interest compensation Mr M 
was owed on each  overpayment he made.  
Having looked  at what Barclays has offered Mr M as 8% simple  interest  compensation, Im 
satisfied that Barclays  has calculated it in line with the FCAs rules and guidance.
Ref: DRN67282254Overall, having looked  at Barclays offers of compensation,  Im satisfied that Barclays offers  
now place Mr M in the position he would be in had he not taken out the PPI. And I think the 
offers that have  been made are a fair way to resolve  this complaint. So I wont be telling 
Barclays to do anything  more.  
Im also satisfied that Barclays additional  compensation  offer of £100 for it not obtaining a 
clearer copy of the loan agreement when it was investigating  Mr Ms complaint is fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Barclays Bank UK PLCs  two offers of compensation place Mr M in the position  he would be 
in had he not taken out the PPI. 
I am also satisfied that Barclays Bank UK PLC additional compensation offer of £100 for it 
not obtaining a clearer copy of the loan agreement when investigating Mr Ms complaint  is 
fair. 
I understand that Mr M has been paid the compensation amounts,  so Barclays  Bank UK 
PLC doesnt  need  to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 March  2019.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6728225