K820x#14complaint
Mr A has complained that Fairway Financial  Consultancy wrongly advised him to transfer  his 
personal pension  into a self-invested personal pension (SIPP),  to invest  in a studio 
apartment in a Harlequin overseas property  development.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  were set out in my provisional 
decision of 12 May 2020, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final decision.
Fairway confirmed receipt of the provisional decision but we didnt receive any further 
comments. Mr A responded as follows:
Mr N and his business partner mentioned Fairway at the same time as they 
presented the Harlequin opportunity. So there  was a clear business  relationship  
between Mr N and Fairway, although he didnt meet anyone from Fairway.
Mr N told him that he had himself invested in Harlequin, which  he took as a 
demonstration of the level of confidence  he had in the venture. 
At the time he trusted Mr N as hed facilitated  a mortgage transfer and administered 
his company pension for several years  beforehand.
He was also briefed  by Mr N about  the letters he would receive from Fairway which 
would warn of the potential  investment  risks.  He was told this was standard  process 
to protect  the adviser, but Fairway  would still do what he needed it to do. 
Its crucial  to establish if there was some form of introducer agreement between  
Fairway and Mr N, how long they had worked  with him and how many  other  
investment products  they assisted Mr N's clients with investments  in. Mr N seemed to 
know that Fairway would  facilitate the transfer  regardless  of its suitability for him.
The £8,000  loan was to compensate for the penalty fee he incurred when Fairway 
transferred his pension to the SIPP. If it was an incentive why would he have agreed  
to repay  this upon completion of the Harlequin  property?
He did not introduce  any further investors to Mr N or receive incentives for doing so, 
as the one investor Fairway has specifically referred to also had a pre-existing 
relationship with Mr N. It was not true and is total speculation  that he stood to gain 
£20,000 from such introductions. If Fairway had suspected this at the time, would this 
not have made him a less suitable  candidate  for this investment?
His LLP business was set up to administer the proceeds from the investment and 
[obtain and] pay the mortgage  and the ongoing management fees when  [the] Hotel 
complex was operational. But it wasnt used for its intended purpose.  
He didnt receive extensive  risk warnings from Fairway about self-catering  
apartments. The apartment didnt have a kitchen in any event.
Another complaint  submitted to our service against Fairway has been  upheld and 
shows that there is a pattern in how clients attitudes to risk were  misrepresented.
Fairway was negligent in accepting information  provided on a fact find from Mr N. 
Hes never  been a sophisticated  investor or a risk-taker, and doesnt know  anyone  
who would rather risk losing £100,000  rather than an £8,000  loan. 
He never  said at the time that he would have found another  financial adviser  to assist 
if Fairway could not. If he wasnt  an insistent  client Fairway shouldnt have helped  
him make the investment.
my findings
Ref: DRN66180672Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  Mr As response  to my 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. I know this will be very disappointing for Mr A but I havent  been persuaded to 
depart from the overall conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
At the outset I should say that Mr A appears to believe that the likely status of Harlequin  as 
an unregulated  collective investment scheme  (UCIS) has led me to reject his complaint, 
when this status was not apparent at the time of advice. My reference to this in the 
provisional decision was to address a point being  made by his representative, as I agree the 
status of the investment wasnt fully clear  at the time. In any case, I wasnt persuaded  that 
Fairway promoted  Harlequin to Mr F (whether it was a UCIS or not), so it hadnt committed 
the offence the representative alleged. I therefore reached my findings on the wider 
circumstances of the advice Fairway had provided to Mr F.
Mr A made a similar  point about the status  of the FSA Alert in 2013.  He thinks Ive 
suggested Fairway developed its advice process  during 2011 to take into account this Alert.  
Again I was answering a point here made  by Mr As representative, who mentioned  the Alert.  
But I was referring to Fairway basing  its advice on the underlying  rules on which the alert 
was based (which have been in existence since 2007);  not the Alert itself.
In my view the further comments  Mr A has made  demonstrate the stronger connection  he 
had with Mr N than with Fairway, which I explained in my provisional decision was 
problematic for this case. That included Mr N briefing him on what  responses to expect from 
Fairway about the risks of transferring and encouraging  him to go ahead  regardless. 
I dont disagree with Mr A that theres  a pattern here in Mr Ns behaviour  in referring clients 
to Fairway. I also understand Mr As concerns that he didnt meet Fairway. However the 
number of clients involved were  not in my view so substantial that Fairway should have done 
anything other than what I said in my provisional  decision. I considered  it should  have  taken 
the time to get to know Mr A as a client directly (whether that was by meeting or phoning 
him), rather than accepting answers  on a fact find Mr A had completed with Mr N. 
Mr A disagrees with the assessment  on the fact find, particularly  of his attitude to risk, and 
has referred to negligence.  What Im considering is whether Fairway acted fairly and 
reasonably and followed the regulators rules.  In my provisional decision I went  on to 
consider what Fairway  should have done in the circumstances,  and that meant  concluding 
Mr A lacked the capacity  to take the risks of the Harlequin investment. 
Here Im still persuaded  that given the extent of the risk warnings Fairway did provide, an 
unequivocal recommendation not to transfer is unlikely to have altered Mr As inclination  to 
proceed  because of the involvement  of Mr N. Mr A suggests that he would not have risked 
£100,000 for a £8,000  incentive, had he been  reliably advised not to do so. But the fact 
remains that he was given a stark indication by Fairway of the risks,  and didnt question  
anything Fairway told him. (The warning about self-catering apartments was provided by his 
SIPP provider  but I agree it was only an issue if there was a kitchen.) Its Mr As reaction  to 
the risk warnings Fairway provided, and the extent to which  he trusted  and was influenced  
by Mr N, that are at the heart of this case.  Theres no evidence  Mr N was an employee or 
agent of Fairway. So I dont consider my looking at the wider  business relationship between 
Mr N and Fairway  will change this. 
Fairway doesnt seem to have suspected that incentives were being paid until several  years  
after the transfers. For instance  when  it also became aware  the clients had entered into 
further business arrangements such as LLPs. So it couldnt have acted on suspicions it 
Ref: DRN66180673didnt have at the time of advice. Mr A in any case denies that these  wider  business 
arrangements are what they seemed  to Fairway.
I appreciate Mr As assurances  that he didnt intend to mislead regarding  receipt  of an 
incentive. It hasnt  been demonstrated that he received the sum of £20,000 for introducing  
other investors, and I agree that both he and his former colleague who invested  at the same 
time were equally known to Mr N. Nevertheless,  there was no mention of a loan of £8,000 
when his representative first submitted the complaint.
Mr A spoke to the adjudicator previously and told her that the loan was for his daughters 
education. There was no reference to this sum being connected  to the similar penalty  of 
£7,960 payable on transferring out of Mr As Aegon pension. Mr N was offering similar loans 
to other  investors, many of whom did not have such a penalty on their pension. So I find it 
more likely that the loan was generally  an incentive  to give the impression that Mr N would 
continue to ensure  Mr As interests were  represented until the property was built.
It seems  Mr A is suggesting that the LLP Mr N established for him wasnt  used as part of the 
Harlequin investment.  So I must again  emphasize  that it held the 70% contract  for 
completion of the Harlequin property, and appeared to mitigate  the risk of Mr A personally 
being liable for 100%  of the contract. Mr A had signed that contract and his representative 
provided a copy of it to the Financial Ombudsman  Service. 
At the ombudsman service we look at each case on its own merits, so if other  complaints 
have been upheld that wont affect  my assessment of Mr As case  on its own particular 
circumstances. My conclusions arent  dependent on being able to demonstrate that Mr A 
actually said, at the time of the advice,  that he wanted to transfer  come  what  may. Instead  I 
found that in view of the close involvement  of Mr N, he would have been sufficiently keen to 
invest notwithstanding Fairways advice. Mr As comments in response to my provisional 
decision reaffirm that in my view this is what would most likely have happened.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 July 2020.
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN66180674Provisional decision  of 12 May 2020
background 
In July 2011 after receiving a Harlequin sales presentation Mr A completed  a reservation 
form for his apartment, which I understand would  involve paying a non-refundable  fee of 
£1,000. He did this having spoken  to Mr N, a friend who had previously been his (regulated)  
adviser and was now an unregulated agent  for Harlequin through  his own Limited Liability 
Partnership (LLP). 
Fairway has told us that it was then approached by Mr N to assist a number of clients  who 
wanted to establish SIPPs in order to invest their pensions in Harlequin  properties  as Mr N 
was an unregulated appointed representative of another network  and didnt have 
authorisation to advise  on pension transfers. In Mr As case, this was to transfer an existing 
personal pension  plan. Hed also completed a form of authority for Fairway to contact his 
pension provider.
Fairway says it was given  the following documents which Mr A had already completed  and 
signed on 28 July 2011:
-A completed Confidential Financial Review (fact find)  bearing Fairways own name.
-The first three pages of an Attitude to Investment Risk Questionnaire. On this the 4th-6th  
of six risk categories  had all been ticked, but 100% was entered alongside the 6th 
category. The 4th category was that Mr A accepted  a risk of a moderate loss to his 
money, and rarely could lose quite a lot of his money.  The 6th category was that he 
accepted the risk of losing most or all of his money although  there was the potential for 
substantial long-term  growth. This involved Mr A making the following declarations:
oI can afford to lose a large proportion  of money without my financial security  being 
affected
oI am prepared to accept a very high degree of risk
oMy earning capacity is such that I can absorb this risk
oI am prepared to invest for the long term and do not require access to my money in the 
medium to long term
oI have existing investments and have a good understanding of how investment markets 
work
-A SIPP appropriateness document the SIPP provider (Guardian Pension  Consultants) 
had required  Mr A to complete alongside  his SIPP  application form (which named 
Fairway as his adviser). He signed  below a declaration  saying, amongst other things:
I understand and am comfortable with the level of risk of this investment,  there  is no 
guarantee that higher  risk leads to higher returns, and I may get back less than I have  
invested.
I understand that I may not easily be able to sell the investment and that this could  impact 
on my ability to take pension  benefits from my plan if I do not have sufficient liquid assets 
held elsewhere and that this in turn increases the risk to my retirement  planning
Attached to the appropriateness document were  Guardians Harlequin property purchase 
notes. These stated this was an unregulated  investment, and Guardian would only allow 
Harlequin property  units in the SIPP if they had no kitchen units, as Harlequin  had reassured 
Guardian they did not. This would otherwise constitute residential property which  would 
attract penal  tax charges.  
Ref: DRN66180675Guardians notes also warned  Mr A that if the SIPP was used to place only a deposit on the 
apartment, any borrowing  within the SIPP to purchase the remaining share was limited to 
50% of the net value of the SIPP. It explained that Harlequin was endeavouring to obtain 
such finance but there was no guarantee it would be available   and recommended Mr A 
appoint his own solicitor  regarding such matters.
The fact find recorded  that Mr A was aged 47, married with two dependants, and employed 
as a technology Project Manager  with a gross annual income of £70,000. They  had net 
monthly disposable income of about £1,500, about  £150,000 equity in their own home and 
holiday apartments abroad worth £100,000. Their net savings in bank accounts  (after credit 
card liabilities) were  about £4,000 which they considered sufficient for emergencies. Both 
Mr and Mrs A were  members of their employers pension plans. Mr A had joined his 
employer about  a year earlier.  Mrs As was a public sector  defined  benefit scheme and she 
had worked for that employer since 1993 (but was on a much lower  income   Mr A has since  
confirmed that shed also had periods of part time work).
Some handwritten notes on this document, which appear to be when Fairway took over and 
completed the advice  process, referred  to Mr As capacity for loss based on disposable  
income and equity in property.  However  it appears  Fairway nevertheless  concluded, Advise 
client of risk of significant proportion  of retirement income [affected].
Fairway initially  wrote to Mr A on 17 August  2011  setting out its fee of £1,000 to advise on 
whether a transfer of his existing pension  to the SIPP was suitable.  It set out in this letter that 
it was only in a position to advise  on a SIPP, not the investment property.
By 15 September 2011 Fairway was in a position to issue its suitability letter  to Mr A. 
Fairway has explained to this service that having  taken compliance  advice, it realised  it 
would need to comment on the suitability  of investing in a property  development such as 
Harlequin in this letter. But it only commented in general terms as it did not wish to be seen 
to endorse Harlequin  over any other  commercial  property  investment. Fairway said:
we cannot  provide specific advice in relation to your proposed investment however we 
would suggest that investing in one particular  investment of this nature should be classed  as a 
high risk investment approach.
It went on to say that Mr As proposed investment was highly speculative,  and there  is the 
potential for you to lose the entire  investment within your pension  scheme  as a worse  
possible scenario.  It added,  The Attitude to Risk questionnaire highlights a number of 
issues that we feel you should consider prior to completing this particular investment.
This appears  to be a reference to some  supplementary pages  specifically about Harlequin, 
which were added to the attitude to risk questionnaire and sent to Mr A with the suitability 
letter. These included  the following comments:
We agreed that you have this investment risk profile  because ...: You understand  that by 
investing your entire  fund within one specific  investment sector and gearing the advance  to 
include a significant  proportion of borrowing  you are taking a relatively high risk/high  possible 
reward investment stance. 
Risks involved  include  the risk that demand for this type of rental accommodation  may fall due 
to factors such as economic recession, geographical  influences, exchange rate fluctuations 
and the nature of the loan facility agreed  and the terms and conditions of the advance as well 
as Political risk.
Ref: DRN66180676This attitude to risk addendum set out that Harlequin  appeared to be acceptable  for inclusion  
in a SIPP, but was not guaranteed to perform  as expected:
As advised within the attached letteryou  should not proceed with an investment of this 
nature unless you are prepared  to take a highly speculative investment  approach. This could 
result in the loss of part or all of your savings.  We would  class your current  investment 
structure within your existing scheme to be of balanced risk investment approach.  
... Although we understand you have  invested on this basis before we need to ensure your 
understanding that whilst this does provide  you with the potential to achieve greater  
investment returnsit also significantly  increases the risk to your savings.  overseas 
property investments, especially those in development  do carry a significant  investment risk.
In view of the nature  of the investment you should also give consideration to the adverse  
effect this would have on your income  in retirement if this proposition were to fail and this 
element of your long term savings were lost. This is an important issue and requires  careful 
consideration as it is apparent from your existing savings that apart from your existing 
overseas property investment you have not taken this degree of investment  risk to date.
on the basis that you understand the specialist nature of the Harlequin investment 
proposition and importantly  the associated riskand in view of your previous overseas  
property experience and your objective of securing  the potential  for high investment returns  
we are content to recommend establishment of a Guardian Self Invested Personal Pension 
Plan to allow  you to complete your requested  investment. 
If you have any doubts  about the nature of the Harlequin proposition or any aspect of 
the risks involved  you should not proceed.
The enquiries  we have made on the projected investment returns appear to be very enticing  
showing high-quality  hotels  and resorts. The forecast  investment  returns  appear extremely 
attractive. From an investment return perspective  the income projected through rental  of the 
rooms indicates investment  returns in excess of 10% per annum with associated potential 
capital appreciation on the investment of over 20% per annum.
We cannot substantiate these figures and whilst they appear to be very attractive, we would 
recommend caution as we have been unable to substantiate how these projections have  been 
calculated. The projected investment returns are by no means  guaranteed.
Fairway Financial Consultancy  does not benefit from specialist knowledge in the Overseas 
Property market and we wish to make  it clear  that [we are] not in a position  to confirm the 
potential investment returns advertised within the Harlequin sales material
We have  been advised that the funds you wish to utilise for investment  within the Harlequin 
proposition will be used  to invest  within the Quin 2 development which we understand  from 
our enquiries  is an upgrading of an existing Hotel. We understand  that the development 
should be completed by next year We recommend that you ensure if possible  that any 
funds released  to Harlequin will be used directly to complete your individual  unit
The sales information  we have indicates that an investors funds can be repaid  when required 
to SIPP  investors.  We would  suggest caution here as this is rarely seen with investments held 
within Direct Property /Land investments. We would question whether  Harlequin will retain  
sufficient cash reserves to facilitate significant  withdrawals if demand arises.  
This could result in any investment being very illiquid  i.e. your funds  being tied up and 
unavailable for a significant time period.
Fairway warned that if Mr A couldnt: fulfil the requirements to understand the nature  and 
risks of the investment; afford to lose a large  proportion of money without his financial 
security being affected; have earning capacity to absorb this risk; and avoid needing to 
access the money in the medium to long term; then:
 
Ref: DRN66180677we cannot  recommend the establishment of the [SIPP] on your behalf  and would not be in 
a position to proceed to act for you in establishment of this. If this is the case  you should 
contact us at your earliest opportunity Should  you wish to discuss  any of the issue [sic] 
raised within this document  then please contact us at the number at the head of our 
correspondence. Please think  carefully before committing your savings.
The suitability letter itself disclosed a transfer  penalty of 6.8% on Mr As personal pension,  
but no other ancillary benefits (eg Guaranteed  Annuity Rates)  would be lost on transfer. As 
alternatives, Fairway discussed other funds with Mr As existing provider,  a stakeholder  
pension which would  charge less than his existing scheme or a transfer  to his current  
employers occupational scheme  which it recommended Mr A investigated and offered him 
assistance to do so. The suitability letter gave details of Guardians costs which at least in 
the first year,  will significantly exceed those charged  under your existing scheme . The letter  
had a recommendation section, which said:
Your existingscheme offers  access to a broad range  of investment funds. However, the 
contract does  not provide  you with the facility to self-invest within investments  such as the 
Harlequin Planthe Guardian Pension  Contract is recommended as it provides  a 
competitively charged contract,  with the flexibility  required, in order to allow you to take 
forward your proposed investment.
In view of this, we are happy to recommend your existing benefits be transferred
We would  reiterate that you should understand that by transferring benefits from a more 
conventional pension arrangement utilising the expertise of your selected Fund Managers, to 
a more specialist contract, your pension savings will initially incur greater charges which could  
ultimately result in a lower level of pension  being  available to you at retirement.
In addition, in view of your proposed investment  within your new scheme, you will be 
significantly increasing the investment risk nature of this element  of your savings.  Therefore,  
you should  not proceed with this transfer, unless  you are prepared to take a more speculative  
investment approach with this element  of your retirement  provisions.
Fairway requested Mr A sign and return a copy of this suitability letter. Its not clear  he did 
this, but my understanding is he expressed no concerns about making the transfer or the 
issues highlighted in the attitude to risk questionnaire  and the transfer proceeded.
Guardian SIPP updated their Harlequin appropriateness test on 21 September  it appears 
out of concern they couldnt be sure there were no self-catering facilities  in the apartments.  
Mr A returned a further form, which Guardian had sent directly to him, to confirm that his 
apartment did not have a kitchen and he would be using further lending  arranged by 
Harlequin on completion of the property.
A little over £110,000 was transferred from Mr As pension to the SIPP  on 21 September 
2011 and £99,000 of this was invested  in Harlequin several weeks later. That was paid 
under a contract signed between Mr A, his SIPP and Harlequin  for the 30% deposit  of the 
total purchase price  of a studio room in Barbados.  The remaining 70% (or £231,000) was 
payable at the completion/handover dates (scheduled to be on 30 April 2012) under a 
separate contract between Harlequin and Mr and Mrs As new Limited  Liability Partnership 
(LLP), which  theyd founded in July 2011. There was no mention of self-catering facilities in 
these contracts.
The property development subsequently  encountered well-publicised  problems  by 
September 2013 Guardian was giving  the investment a value of £1. Much  of Mr As 
investment is thought  to be lost.
Ref: DRN66180678Mr As complaint
A claims  management company (CMC) complained on behalf of Mr A in February 2016. The 
representative asserted,  amongst other things, that:
-Fairway had breached  the Financial  Services  Authority (now Financial Conduct 
Authority)s Principles for Businesses in its dealings with Mr A. 
-It didnt advise him in detail on the Harlequin  investment, even if the documents  it 
issued contained  various disclaimers.
-An FSA Alert on 18 January 2013  set out the factors it required authorised  firms to 
consider when Harlequin investments  were  involved.
-The CMC  believed  Harlequin amounted to an Unregulated Collective Investment 
Scheme (UCIS) and Fairway  didnt establish whether Mr A fell into a category of 
investor to whom this could be promoted.
-Fairway didnt check Mr A understood the advice it was giving, and he received 
advice from no-one  else apart from friends and relatives acting informally.
-He was an unsophisticated investor  of relatively  modest means and should not have 
been taking risks with his pension  savings.
-A basic amount  of due diligence on Fairways part would have  established that the 
Harlequin proposition  was fundamentally flawed, or at least  were  [sic] highly 
questionable. It was on a FSA watch list from early 2011.
-Mr As only means of paying  the 70% balance when the apartment was completed 
was a mortgage. It would always have been  impossible to obtain a mortgage  outside 
the SIPP because  the mortgage  provider wouldnt have recourse  to the 30% of the 
property held in the SIPP. A mortgage obtained  within the SIPP  would have 
breached the SIPP  borrowing limits (33% of the total investment value).
-There was a significant possibility that, when the development was complete, he 
would be holding  residential property in his SIPP, and thereby liable to a tax charge  
because the apartment  had full self-catering facilities.
Fairway responded  to the complaint as follows:
It disputed that there were any concerns about Harlequin in the public domain at the 
time Mr A invested: the FSA didnt issue its Alerts until January  2013.
There was also no judicial  determination  at the time that Harlequin  was classified as 
a UCIS; Harlequin appeared to have advice to the contrary. Nevertheless Fairway 
gave its advice to Mr A on the basis that it was a high-risk non-standard investment.
The close and long-standing friendship  connection between  Mr A and Mr N was 
fundamental to the outcome of this complaint. Mr A conceded in his complaint that 
friends and relatives acting informally  gave him advice. 
The initial documents and payment of a reservation  fee were  completed by Mr A 
several weeks before he was first put in contact with Fairway.
Guardian SIPP permitted Harlequin investments on the understanding  they were  not 
self-catering units. The Guardian appropriateness test Mr A completed confirmed this 
and said there was no guarantee a future mortgage would  be available.
Given Mr As occupation and prior experience  of investing in overseas property, it 
disputed whether he would not be regarded as a sophisticated individual,  capable of 
understanding the extensive warnings provided.
He was set on his objective  of investing in Harlequin and wasnt  deterred by the 
suggestion of alternative investments,  including in his employers pension scheme.
Fairways  file showed it did research  into Harlequin, and warned extensively of the 
risks - including charges he would incur - contrary to the CMCs assertions.
It understood Mr A was enrolled  as an introducer  for Harlequin and had a website to 
assist him with marketing. He received  significant rewards in the form of commission 
Ref: DRN66180679payments for the introduction of at least one other  investor; as well as a significant  
rebate of commission from Mr N, who stood to receive £28,000 on this sale.
Fairway had no such incentive  as it would have charged its £1,000  flat fee for 
recommending a SIPP provider whether Mr A went ahead with the transaction or not.
It considered the attention it paid to ensuring  Mr A was appropriately  cautioned about 
the risks involved, showed it complied with the FSA Principles for Businesses.
It told him, If you have any doubts about the nature of the Harlequin proposition or 
any aspect of the risks involved  you should not proceed. Mr A asked no further 
questions and it was entitled to assume a person of his background had understood 
the warnings (which should have been  clear  even  to an unsophisticated  investor).
I note that the CMC  maintained its position in reply  to Fairways final response,  and therefore 
did not deny the specific allegations made  in relation to Mr A benefiting  from an incentive on 
his own sale, as well as commission payments for the introduction  of at least one other  
Harlequin investor. 
our investigation
Mr As representative referred  his complaint  to this service. Fairway told us that as a result  of 
other complaints it had become aware  of the extent of investors  such  as Mr As past 
advisory relationship  with Mr N. Combined  with the offer of financial incentives this made 
Fairway think  they would  have transferred  into SIPPs  in order  to invest  in Harlequin  no 
matter what more it might have done  to deter  them from doing  so. In Mr As case, his 
willingness to accept  the transfer penalty of nearly 7% or £8,000  also spoke to this.
Fairway also thought  it was notable that Mr A had even acknowledged  in his submissions to 
this service that prior to taking forward the investment, Fairway advised  me in general terms 
against Non-standard Investments. It noted  that the same representative was also making a 
complaint to Fairway about a friend/colleague of Mr A whom he himself introduced to 
Harlequin, and benefited financially from that introduction. 
It has told this service  more generally  that it was also aware of the regulators expectations 
in respect of transfers  from personal  pension schemes to SIPPs.  In view of the way investors 
had been introduced, Fairway considered it had a moral and ethical duty of care to highlight  
in clear and concise terms the investment  risks involved  rather than agree to process the 
transactions on an execution-only basis or to put investors in a position where they would 
have sought to do this elsewhere.  Given the warnings it provided, it considered investors  
should have been in no doubt what the key risks were.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. No further information or explanation 
was requested from Mr A or his CMC  at this time but she concluded on the basis of the 
evidence available  that the complaint should  succeed. Noting that Mr A was apparently  
introduced to Harlequin (and Fairway) by a personal friend, the adjudicator confirmed that 
the Conduct of Business Sourcebook (COBS) 9.2.2 had required Fairway to consider the 
suitability of the Harlequin investment  as part of evaluating the transfer to a SIPP.
There was some apparent  confusion  in the view issued regarding  the Guardian 
appropriateness document suggesting  Mr A had not received advice from Fairway. The 
adjudicator also suggested that it was not reasonable that Fairway  could have no opinion 
about the suitability of the Harlequin investment.  Ive indicated above where Fairway did 
offer such  opinion and this was also accepted  later in the same view by the adjudicator. 
The adjudicator also commented that Mr As ownership of a holiday  home  abroad would 
have no similar complexity to Harlequin.  And she felt that his attitude to risk document  
Ref: DRN661806710showed a conflict  in his risk profile.  She raised that Fairway had the option  to decide not to 
facilitate the investment, because Mr A had limited  personal savings and no other  pension  
savings. On that basis she considered the complaint  should  be upheld  and compensation 
paid to restore to Mr As SIPP the value of the lost investment.
Fairway didnt agree,  highlighting a number of factual  errors in the view about the nature of 
its advice and saying,  amongst  other  things, that Mr As close  personal  relationship  with 
Mr N hadnt been  explored in any depth.  It said that it also understood verbally that Mr A 
stood to benefit from £20,000  as a result of further  introductions he made  to Harlequin  but 
these matters should properly be established  by this service  before reaching an adjudication.
It added that COBS 10.3.3  made  it clear that it was for a regulated firm to consider whether it 
should proceed with a transaction  it had warned a client against carrying  out. And in this 
case it felt that after putting Mr A in a fully informed  position, given also his existing 
investment experience, it would assist him with his request. In any event regardless of the 
manner in which it could  have proceeded, it thought Mr A would have pursued the 
investment by any means.
Mr As representative also made  some  comments on Fairways response.  It said Mr N 
manifestly gave advice to Mr A under the regulators definition of advice as a regulated 
activity, however Mr N wasnt authorised to give such  advice.  As such,  Mr Ns alleged 
friendship with Mr A, or the suggestion he shared part of his sales  commission with Mr A 
was irrelevant.
Consequently it believed Fairway was liable under s.27 of the Financial Services  and 
Markets Act (FSMA)  2000. This dealt with the situation in which an authorised entity 
engaged in a regulated activity enters an agreement with a client,  as a result  of a third party  
being engaged in a regulated activity  for which it is not authorised.  In such a situation  the 
agreement with the client is not enforceable, so the client  is entitled  to receive compensation 
from the authorised  entity for any losses suffered as a result of the agreement. The 
representative admitted  that a defence was available to Fairway under s.28(6) if it didnt 
know Mr N was giving advice, but in its view Fairway admitted it did know.
 
The adjudicator then spoke to Mr A to clarify the following:
-Hed known Mr N for some years but he wasnt really a close friend. Mr N had been 
the adviser to his previous  employers  pension scheme. He later arranged a re-
mortgage for Mr A, and a previous pension transfer. 
-Mr N wasnt  acting formally as his adviser  at the time (I note on a questionnaire  he 
completed for this service Mr A does consider he received  advice from Mr N). But 
Mr N contacted him and told him about  the Harlequin investment.
-He wasnt an agent for Harlequin and didnt receive an incentive for investing. He 
couldnt remember if he had paid a £1,000 deposit.
-Mr N told him that he would get a standard reply from Fairway that Harlequin was 
high risk, but only because this was not a typical pension investment. 
-The LLP hed established with his wife on 21 July 2011  was an intended  vehicle for 
project management work  when hed been  made  redundant.  
-He received a loan for £8,000 but this wasnt anything  to do with Harlequin. He 
received it from Mr Ns company and it was for his daughters education. (Mr A said 
hed sent the documentation for this, but we havent received  it from his CMC.)
The adjudicator relayed  to Fairway  that Mr A had confirmed he didnt  receive an incentive, 
which Fairway  found it difficult to accept  given in particular the evidence it had of a further  
investor Mr A had introduced. The adjudicator obtained bank statements for two accounts  
Ref: DRN661806711from Mr A for the year beginning September 2011.  They do not confirm  the payment of 
£8,000 Mr A mentions, but I appreciate  there will be some confusion  here  given that the 
adjudicator suggested Mr A hadnt  received an incentive when he had admitted receiving a 
loan. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be very disappointing  
for Mr A but my current view differs from that of the adjudicator: I dont consider his 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill set out my reasoning  under a series  of headings below.
did Fairway commit  specific offences  under FSMA giving Mr A a cause  of action against it?
Mr As CMC  has named  two specific offences  here which I shall address first. It states that 
Harlequin appears to be a UCIS.  Thats also the Financial  Ombudsman Services  view  
although it is of course  with the benefit of further  research. Yet I note Fairway didnt believe it 
was a UCIS  at the time of advice and this was a view informed, in part, by the Harlequin 
literature.
But in any case the offence the CMC is referring to is the promotion  of UCIS to retail  
investors, which is prohibited under FSMA unless specific exemptions  apply.  And in my view 
it was Mr N who promoted the Harlequin investment to Mr A initially, not Fairway.  So Fairway 
went on to advise Mr A whether or not he should make an investment that had already been  
promoted by another  party. Given it was not clear Harlequin was a UCIS at the time, Mr N 
may not have been aware that it was unlawful to promote it. But that is a matter for Mr N, 
and not Fairway.
The CMC went on to say that Mr N manifestly gave advice to Mr A under the regulators 
definition of advice  as a regulated activity. Given that promotion is not the same as advice, 
and is not a regulated activity, I dont think there is a strong weight of evidence  either  way on 
this. Mr N may have given advice to Mr A  in other words, recommended  he invest in the 
Harlequin scheme in addition  to promoting  it. As we consider Harlequin is a UCIS, that would  
amount to regulated advice. 
But if all the parties  at the time believed this was a form of fractional property investment 
rather than a UCIS, then it wouldnt have appeared unusual for Mr N, who I understand ran a 
commercial property business, to be advising on this investment. And he evidently referred 
Mr A to Fairway for advice on whether he should invest  his pension in it (something  which  
would always have  been regulated and therefore  necessary,  whether the investment was a 
UCIS or not). So I dont  necessarily share  the CMCs view that something  was obviously 
wrong here,  with the understanding Fairway had at the time. 
I think it would have  appeared  to Fairway  that the precise reason Mr A was referred to it was 
so that it could provide the regulated advice Mr N couldnt provide. Im not satisfied this 
amounts to an arrangement that is unenforceable in consequence of something said or 
done by another person  as described under s.27 of FSMA. What needs  to be assessed  
here is what Fairway said and did  because Mr A was referred to it for advice on his 
pension. There are various rules under the COBS rulebook that govern  how that advice 
should be provided.
Ref: DRN661806712what are the regulators  rules applying to this case?
Fairway initially  undertook  to provide advice to Mr A on the transfer of his personal pension 
to a new SIPP provider.  But it appears  to have  correctly recognised before the conclusion  of 
its dealings with Mr A, that it was responsible  for considering the suitability of the overall 
transaction including the destination  of his funds once they arrived in the SIPP (Harlequin). 
The reason  for this is in chapter 9 of the COBS rulebook, which  applies to a firm making  a 
personal recommendation in relation to a designated investment. Whether  or not Fairway 
realised Harlequin was a UCIS, both the transferring personal pension and receiving SIPP 
were designated investments.
COBS 9.2.2R required Fairway to obtain the information necessary to have  a reasonable 
basis for believing its recommendation meets his investment objectives; that Mr A was able 
to bear any related investment  risks; and that he had the necessary experience and 
knowledge to understand those risks.
Mr As main objective was to invest in Harlequin  property. The SIPP  was recommended  
specifically for that purpose.  So it follows that the risks Harlequin entailed were  related  to 
the recommended product. The FSA alert in January 2013 about Harlequin  and other  
unregulated investments, which  the CMC mentions, was published to draw attention to the 
fact that a significant number of firms werent  following  these existing rules. Indeed, 
Fairways position seems  to be that it revised its approach whilst dealing with Mr A to ensure 
that it did comply with those rules.
COBS 9.2.2R is effectively setting out the requirement for any regulated firm to carry out a 
fact find. Im concerned  in this case that the fact find process seems to have been initiated  
by Mr N, rather than independently by Fairway. In respect of Mr As attitude to risk, Fairway  
was supplied with Mr As view (likely reached  in conjunction  with Mr N) of the risk he was 
willing to take.  
I dont think its necessarily unusual that Mr A ticked three boxes (between  4-6 out of 6 on 
Fairways scale), as a consumers attitude  to risk can vary for different portions  of their 
assets. The 100%  entered  alongside  the 6th category nevertheless suggests that Mr A was 
prepared to accept  the risk of losing most or all of his money  on the Harlequin investment. 
Fairway appears to have  accepted  this assessment without  question,  despite the fact that it 
involved a substantial part of Mr As pension provision  something it noted  at that time.
COBS 2.4.6R suggests that Fairway  could be taken  to be in compliance with the rules  
requiring it to obtain information to the extent it can show it was reasonable for it to rely on 
information provided to it in writing by another person . But COBS 2.4.7E implies  an 
assessment of whether the other  person is competent to provide the information,  and 
COBS 2.4.8G suggests it would be reasonable for Fairway to rely on information  provided by 
an unconnected authorised person or a professional firm. 
Fairway has commented about Mr Ns status  as an unregulated appointed representative of 
another FCA-regulated  firm in 2011. Im not sure what  status  Fairway is envisaging here, as 
even appointed representatives are regulated  via their principal under s.39 FSMA. And Mr N 
is not listed on the FCA register as an appointed representative at that time. He hadnt  
carried out regulated  financial services activities  since  2003.  (After the events involved in this 
complaint, he went on to work as an appointed representative of a different firm in 2012.) 
Despite the confusion here, Fairway  says that it understood (correctly) that Mr N didnt have 
authorisation to advise  on pension transfers  and it doesnt appear  he was in an otherwise  
regulated profession. As an agent for Harlequin,  it was also in his financial interests for the 
Ref: DRN661806713investment to proceed. Taking  all of this together, I think Fairway  shouldnt have accepted  
Mr As assessment as a high risk investor where it was likely Mr N had been involved in that 
assessment. It should have carried out its own assessment, and then proceeded to assess 
the suitability of the transaction based  on this.
This doesnt mean Fairway needed to be expert in overseas property schemes, particularly 
given that this was not an investment proposition  it brought to Mr As attention itself. There  
were almost  certainly other parties with a more detailed understanding  of how the scheme 
worked, so I dont think it was wrong  of Fairway to warn Mr A that it didnt specialise in these  
types of investments. There  is essentially a similar situation with any client  approaching an 
adviser with their own idea for esoteric  investment  within  a SIPP.  The financial adviser may 
not be particularly  familiar  with an investment  they arent accustomed to selling,  but they can 
still draw the key risks as they see them to the clients attention  and say whether they 
recommend it on that basis.
In this case I think Fairway made a reasonable effort to identify the key risks involved in 
Harlequin, which went further than just property-related risks as it was an investment 
scheme. And given  the steps it took I think Fairway was in a position  to make a clear 
recommendation as to whether or not Mr A should invest. Part of this involved issuing a 
suitability letter, which under COBS 9.4.7R (amongst other things) had to explain why the 
firm has concluded that the recommended transaction  is suitable  for the client . 
However as Ive noted in a number of places above, Fairways recommendations were 
qualified by such statements as:
-On the basis that you understand the specialist  natureand importantly the associated 
riskwe are content to recommend
-Therefore, you should  not proceed  with this transfer, unless you are prepared to take a 
more speculative  investment approach
In my view this had the effect of shifting the implications of the adviser giving potentially 
unsuitable advice  from Fairway to Mr A. The regulators  rules required Fairway to explain  
whether it could justify  a decision for Mr A to transfer his pension  and invest  in Harlequin  
based on such things  as his attitude to and capacity for risk  and if not, why not. 
Mr A would still have been free to disregard a clear and unequivocal recommendation and 
act as an insistent  client. But I dont think he fits the definition of an insistent client here,  
given the way Fairway  qualified its recommendation. Fairway made  a recommendation to 
Mr A, which in my view was to proceed  (albeit  with caveats) rather than not to proceed.
The FSA didnt have a specific  rule in COBS 9 on insistent clients at that time. Fairway has 
referred to COBS 10.3.3, which  addresses  non-advised  sales  where a firm had warned a 
client that the product or service they had asked to carry  out was inappropriate for them.  
Nevertheless that rule does suggest  the firm still had a choice whether to facilitate a 
transaction on an insistent  client basis having regard to the circumstances. 
COBS 2.1.1R required a firm to act honestly,  fairly and professionally in accordance with the 
best interests of its client. Insistent  clients had also previously arisen in the case  of opt-outs 
or transfers  from defined  benefit pension schemes,  for which  purpose  there  had been a rule 
in the previous COB handbook (5.3.25R) requiring a firm to make and retain a clear record 
of both its advice  against, and the clients instructions to proceed. And then to provide a 
further confirmation and explanation, in writingthat the firms advice is that the [client] 
should not proceed.
Ref: DRN661806714In regard to record-keeping, the regulator  had previously suggested during the industry-wide 
review of pension  transfers and opt-outs  that a note in the clients own hand provided more  
compelling evidence  of their insistence  to proceed. The regulator has since  published further 
guidance on insistent  clients  more generally,  but this post-dates Mr As transfer.
What I will go on to consider now is:
-what Fairways  advice to Mr A should have been;
-if it had given advice  not to transfer,  whether this would have made  a difference to 
Mr As decision; and
-whether Mr A could  fairly have been treated as an insistent client.
what Fairways  advice to Mr A should have been 
Whether Fairway  knew  that Harlequin  met the criteria  to be a UCIS or not, its clear that this 
was a high risk, non-mainstream investment. The addendum  to Fairways attitude to risk 
questionnaire highlighted,  amongst other things, that Mr A was investing within one specific 
sector; the scheme involved gearing  (borrowing);  there were economic, geographical, 
political and exchange rate risks; and the projected returns  couldnt  be substantiated. It 
added that his investment might be pooled with other sums, not necessarily used to 
complete the development hed selected, and that it was unclear how Harlequin would be 
able to repay the investment if required.
All of these points, which I agree with, suggest  to me that the Harlequin scheme  could only 
have been suitably recommended to investors  who were  experienced in making unregulated 
or more  esoteric investments and who could also afford to take the multiple  risks involved. I 
note Mr and Mrs A had already invested  in holiday property overseas. I dont necessarily 
agree with the adjudicators suggestion  that this would  have  involved  no similarities to 
Harlequin at all  many of the same economic, geographical, political and exchange rate 
risks applied. However Mr A worked  in the UK as a project manager with, it appears, no 
specialist knowledge  of overseas property markets. I couldnt  fairly say he was experienced 
based on the single previous property investment hed made.
Its not completely  clear  what  proportion of Mr As eventual  pension at retirement he was 
transferring, because he had significant ongoing earnings and was already  in a subsequent 
employers scheme. However  it would  appear  he was transferring almost  all of the pension 
provision hed built up to that point in conventional  insured  funds. What  savings Mr A and his 
wife had were not exposed  to risk. Mr A did tick a box on the attitude  to risk questionnaire to 
say he had a very  good understanding of how investment markets work,  and I agree  this 
comment is likely to have applied to some extent to his understanding of his existing 
personal pension.
However this doesnt speak much to making  an investment in an off-plan overseas property 
scheme which also involved borrowing, which is the way Harlequin  was intended to operate.  
The location  of the Harlequin development would also have  made it relatively difficult  for 
Mr A to get information  on it  other than via the developer. And having already invested  in 
property overseas, making  further  such investments would also mean that Mr A lacked 
diversification in how he was planning for his retirement. In fact the concentration  of his non-
pension assets  in property, leaving only enough for a rainy  day fund, suggested he was 
overexposed to risk here as well.
As COBS 9.2.2R makes  clear, it is not only Mr As preferences  regarding risk taking  
which Fairway  needed to assess; but also whether he could bear any related investment 
risks. In other  words,  his capacity to take risk was just as relevant  as his attitude  to risk. Mr 
A appears  to have  confirmed on the attitude to risk questionnaire that for this particular 
Ref: DRN661806715Harlequin investment  he was willing  to take a high risk for a potentially  higher reward.  He 
also indicated that he had the capacity  to take this risk because his financial security would 
be unaffected if he lost most or all of the money,  as a result  of his earning  capacity and 
being willing  to invest for the long term.
Despite this answer I consider it should  have  been  apparent to Fairway  that there was a 
problem with Mr As capacity to take this risk, whether or not he considered  himself  to be a 
risk taker. Whilst  he was contributing to his then employers pension,  it would take many  
years to accumulate another fund of £110,000,  and Mr A was putting a sum of that size at 
considerable risk by investing in Harlequin.
Im satisfied that the only suitable advice Fairway could reasonably have  given to Mr A in 
these circumstances  was not to transfer his pension to a SIPP  to invest in Harlequin.  It could  
have explored, as it did highlight at the time, whether he could improve the potential  returns 
by varying the fund choice  or switching to his then employers  scheme.  But Mr A in my 
view had limited scope  to significantly  increase  the risks he was taking, as he would be 
reliant on these funds to a significant degree in retirement. 
Whether Fairway  advised  on no transfer at all, or to switch  between insured funds or to his 
employers scheme, the COBS rules required it to give this advice without any qualifications  
 so that Mr A was in no doubt that Fairways view was that he should  not transfer to a SIPP  
or invest in Harlequin.  This could have been  achieved relatively easily  by Fairway simply not 
including the caveats in either of its letters which transferred the risk of unsuitable  advice to 
Mr A. 
whether clear advice  not to transfer to a SIPP would have altered Mr As decision
Fairway says that an unequivocal  recommendation not to transfer would  have made no 
difference due to the greater level of confidence Mr A evidently had in what  Mr N was 
saying. I can see its point  of view, and we now have  the benefit of Mr As answers to the 
questions the adjudicator  posed to him directly about this.
We know that Mr A did have a long-standing existing relationship  with Mr N, whether  he 
considered him to be a friend  or not. This contrasted with the brief dealings he had with 
Fairway, which were  of necessity due to Fairways  role as the only regulated  adviser. Mr A 
believed he was getting advice from Mr N and suggests Mr N even prepared him for the 
response he was likely to get from Fairway.  Mr A seems to have had faith in what Mr N was 
telling him, as a result  of the relationship  they built up over the years.
Mr A has also disclosed  a financial  incentive  he received from investing in Harlequin, and Im 
concerned that he doesnt consider this to be an incentive. In the event of the failure of the 
investment (which was always  a possibility and was strongly warned about in Fairways 
suitability letter), I dont  think  it likely  that Mr A would  have expected to have to pay back  the 
loan he received. This was effectively a loan against  future remuneration Mr A would  get 
from taking out the investment  or indeed referring other people to Mr N. We know Mr A 
made one such referral and I think its likely that this affected how much he got as an 
incentive, or would  stand  to get in future.
I accept Mr A wouldnt necessarily have been  unresponsive  to advice not to transfer having 
only paid a Harlequin reservation  fee (which I think its likely he did pay), but £8,000 is not an 
insignificant sum. Mr A had a sizeable pension fund, but after taking into account his 
liabilities almost all of his non-pension assets were  tied up in his existing overseas property. 
He wouldnt be able to access  his pension until 2019, so this loan appears to have been  a 
Ref: DRN661806716quite significant  in being able to pay for his daughters education. And Ive found no 
evidence that Fairway  was aware  that Mr A was receiving this incentive. 
Im also troubled by Mr As answer  to the adjudicators question  about the LLP he set up in 
July 2011. This mirrors arrangements Mr Ns company set up for other individuals  he 
referred to Fairway  and, essentially,  the LLP was used to buy the residual contract for 70% 
of the Harlequin  purchase price. Yet Mr A is saying that the LLP was set up for an unrelated 
business reason.  This doesnt bear scrutiny, given that it was set up at the same time and by 
the same  agent  as the other Harlequin  investors.
This does  in fact show some consideration by Mr N of the issues  Mr As CMC has raised  
that the SIPP wouldnt be able to borrow the full 70%, and Mr A would be unlikely to obtain a 
commercial mortgage with no security. The LLP seems to have been established so that 
Mr A wasnt  personally liable for funding the remaining 70%. Proceeding  to set up this LLP 
structure is further evidence of Mr As willingness to act on Mr Ns advice.
Ive also considered the extensive risk warnings  both Fairway and Guardian provided,  
including about  the issues the CMC is now specifically highlighting in the complaint  such  
as warning that financing for the 70% wasnt guaranteed, and that the property couldnt 
contain self-catering facilities to be eligible as a SIPP investment. Ive found no evidence  that 
Harlequin was on a FSA watch list in 2011, however the potential problems with this 
investment were in any case considered in some  detail by Fairway.
I think Fairway  is right to question  why Mr A didnt query these  issues  when they were 
highlighted  in fact he specifically confirmed when this was flagged up that his property did 
not have a kitchen. I dont  think  this can be entirely  explained simply by the fact that Fairway 
did recommend the transfer but with caveats. The caveats  identified  significant concerns 
which, if Mr A had been intent on relying  on Fairways (rather  than Mr Ns) advice, I think  he 
would have acknowledged and discussed  with Fairway further. 
In the end, although Fairways recommendation should have been clearer, I think Mr A 
would still have made his own decision to disregard advice not to transfer because of the 
strength of the relationship he had with Mr N. In addition if Fairway had warned Mr A that he 
would be overexposed to overseas property  given his existing asset, I doubt Mr A would 
have been deterred  as he would have had more  confidence  than some  investors  having  
bought property overseas before.
It would have been a significant  retreat  not only to cancel the reservation of the property, but 
also lose the £8,000 amount of the (interest-free)  loan which appears to have been needed 
at the time  and would have cost a lot more to borrow commercially. That was coupled with 
the prospect of missing out on the advertised  returns on the investment  which, despite the 
note of scepticism added by Fairway,  looked very enticing indeed.
Fairway appears to have  assumed Mr A was intent on proceeding  as its letter ensured that 
his inaction would result  in the transfer  going ahead. In order to act in Mr As best interests, it 
should have provided a report  explaining  why the transaction shouldnt go ahead  and then 
left the ball in Mr As court if he wanted to get in contact to explain why he wasnt  deterred  by 
what Fairway  had said.
From the evidence Ive considered, as set out above, I cant  safely conclude that the 
outcome would have  been any different, had Fairway given its recommendation and then 
awaited contact  from Mr A. Faced with the prospect  of losing the investment, it seems likely 
to me that Mr A would have got back in contact, stating his intention to proceed  nonetheless. 
Ref: DRN661806717And that would then have meant  Fairway needed  to consider if it should treat him as an 
insistent client.
whether Mr A could  fairly have been treated as an insistent client
As a result of Mr A asking to make  the transfer despite its advice, Fairway would have had a 
record of those instructions. That would be consistent with the regulators previous 
expectations on insistent  clients,  for example in COB 5.3.25R. As COBS 10.3.3  indicates  
whilst in a chapter about non-advised sales it is supported by subsequent regulatory 
guidance  it would  then be a matter  for Fairway to decide if it was willing to process his 
case as an insistent client. 
Fairway mentions it did decide not to act for another investor. But each case is different and 
this investor may not have been in the same  situation as Mr A. I accept that there  might  be 
limiting cases  where the transaction was so clearly not in the clients  best interests that a 
business should, on any fair and reasonable basis, not have carried it out. That might 
perhaps be where there was clear evidence of undue influence, or a severe lack of 
understanding on the consumers part. I dont think thats the case here,  particularly given 
the efforts Fairway would  still have  gone  to in its advice to highlight  the key risks, and it didnt 
know about the incentive Mr A was receiving.
Its not surprising  that investors often first learn  of schemes like Harlequin through 
unregulated individuals. But based  on what Fairway knew of Mr Ns involvement I dont 
consider it would have had a strong  reason to believe when embarking on its advice, that 
Mr A wasnt  open to considering that advice  seriously and carefully. 
However I will say for completeness here that even if Fairway had refused to act for Mr A, 
which I dont think it had to do in this case, there  is strong evidence of an intent to invest his 
pension in Harlequin in any event. Mr A could have done this by acting as an insistent client 
through another firm or by opening a SIPP  with a number of providers as an execution-only 
client. Whilst it would perhaps  be unusual for a consumer to identify such  a route 
themselves, I have to take into account that Mr A wasnt acting alone but had the resources 
of Mr N at his disposal. So that also gives me reason to say it wouldnt be fair to hold 
Fairway responsible for his loss.
Naturally, Mr A will regret having decided to invest in Harlequin, but he played  a key part in 
that decision. In my view it isnt fair and reasonable to hold Fairway responsible for the 
consequences of the shortcomings  in its advice, when Mr A would likely still have transferred 
and invested in Harlequin, but for those shortcomings.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I dont  uphold Mr As complaint. 
Gideon Moore
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6618067