K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy because Paragon Bank Plc (Paragon) set up his individual  savings account 
(ISA) at a lower interest rate to what he originally applied for.
background
On 5 December  2018, Mr S applied online for Paragons two year fixed rate ISA with a rate 
of 1.82%.  On his application, Mr S said he wanted the funds of his current ISA account  with 
another provider,  who I will refer to as D, to be transferred to this new account. 
On 12 December 2018, Mr S called  Paragon for an update  about  his application. He was 
told that D doesnt accept electronic ISA transfer  requests so a paper transfer form was 
needed. Mr D said he was not aware  of this. Paragon sent the postal transfer  form to 
Mr S that day. During the call, Paragon told Mr S that to secure the rate of 1.82%, money 
must be paid into the account within 14 days of his application  by 19 December 2018.  
They told Mr S if money was not received  by this date, the rate would revert to the 
advertised online rate, which was 1.76%.
On 19 December 2018, Mr S called  Paragon to check whether they had received the ISA 
transfer form. During the call, Paragon told Mr S that receipt of the form would be sufficient 
to secure the 1.82%  rate. The form was received later that day and the request was 
processed. On 24 December 2018,  Paragon received a cheque  from D. Mr Ss ISA was set 
up and a rate of 1.76% was applied.
Mr S complained to Paragon because he hadnt  received  the 1.82% he expected.  Paragon  
Bank said this was because money hadnt  been  received in the account within 14 days of 
the application. They said they didnt  receive the ISA transfer form until 19 December 2018 
and it can take up to 15 days to transfer ISA funds from a previous provider. 
Paragon acknowledged  Mr S was given incorrect information during his call on 
19 December 2018 because he was incorrectly told the receipt  of the ISA transfer form was 
sufficient to secure the rate. They  apologised  for the error and offered £15 compensation.
Unhappy with their response, Mr S referred the complaint to our service. The investigator  
didnt uphold  the complaint as she believed the requirements to secure  the 1.82% rate were 
made clear to Mr S. She felt although incorrect information was given to Mr D, this didnt 
make a difference to the overall circumstances because he had been told the correct  
information on two prior occasions, most  notably during the call on 19 December 2019. She 
also believed he had time to arrange for funds  to be in the account. 
Mr S responded that he was only told by Paragon  that a postal ISA transfer  form was 
needed when  he called  for an update about  his application. He also said it would be difficult  
to arrange for the transfer of ISA funds within a 14 day period if a postal transfer form was 
needed. He said he should receive compensation for the time and inconvenience in bringing 
the complaint.  
As the matter remains in dispute, the complaint  has been referred to me to decide.
Ref: DRN68024542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Mr Ss complaint  and I will explain why.
Firstly, it is not my role to ask Paragon to change their process  for opening  ISAs.  I must 
consider whether they have followed their terms and conditions and treated Mr S fairly in 
doing so.
Mr S said he was only made unaware  he needed to print and return  an ISA transfer form 
when he called Paragon  on 12 December 2018. However Paragon said this was made clear 
at the time of application. 
Paragon has provided screenshots  of a dummy  application  which  shows  what  Mr S wouldve 
seen online when applying  for the account.  On the page concerning  the transfer of ISAs,  it 
says The following  cash ISAs will be transferred as part of your application.  Please  note that 
you may be required to complete and return a cash ISA transfer form for some  or all of your 
records. We will tell you at the end of your application if you need to do this. This is the first 
indication from Paragon  that a postal transfer  form may be required.  
The screenshots show at the end of the application  there is a section titled Your  print ready  
ISA transfer. Under this section it says that provider D doesnt allow electronic ISA transfers. 
It directs  Mr S to download,  sign and print a form and to return  it to Paragons  freepost 
address. It goes on to say once in receipt of the form they will write to request the transfer. 
We provided Mr S a copy of the screenshot for his comments. He said due to the passage of 
time, he doesnt recall  the precise screens.  However he said he doesnt believe enough 
prominence was given  to draw attention to the fact a postal transfer  form was needed. 
However I disagree and based on the above,  I am satisfied Paragon made Mr S aware  of 
the need to return a paper ISA transfer  form at the time of application. I can understand why 
Mr S may have assumed everything would be carried out electronically given he had applied  
online but I cant say Paragon has have done  anything wrong here. 
In regards to opening  the account, Paragons account terms say:
You have up to 30 days from the date of your application to make your opening deposit.
Provided you make your opening deposit  within 14 calendar days of your application we'll 
guarantee the interest rate shown when we received your application  or if higher, the rate on 
our website at the time you make your opening  deposit.
If rates change after 14 calendar days and you haven't made  your opening  deposit,  we'll pay 
the rate advertised on the day we receive  your deposit.
You can only make new subscriptions by electronic  transfer or cheque  from the nominated 
bank account  you choose during your application. This account  must be in the name of the 
Paragon account  holder.
Transfers from an existing ISA provider  are also permitted.
Ref: DRN68024543You can make additional deposits and transfers into your new account for 15 business days 
after your opening  deposit. Once  this time has passed you will not be able to make any 
further deposits or transfers into your account.
I believe Paragon has clearly set out what is required to open  the ISA account. They  said 
Mr S wouldve  been  provided  with this information  at the time of application and the 
subsequent welcome pack  sent thereafter.  I have  no reason to doubt this was the case. 
I have listened  to the call between Mr S and Paragon on 12 December 2018. Paragon 
explained to Mr S that in order to secure  the 1.82% rate, some funds need to be paid into the 
account by 19 December 2018.  Paragon  also said after the initial deposit had been made, 
Mr S had 15 business days to pay in more money.  Paragon corrected Mr S when he 
incorrectly summarised what was required and he was able to repeat back the correct 
information. So I am satisfied he ended the call knowing  what  was needed  to secure  the rate 
 that is, the need to make a deposit  by 19 December 2018. During the call, Mr D indicated 
he would  try to arrange an electronic transfer of money, separate from the ISA transfer from 
D, and I believe he had a fair amount of time to do so. However  Mr S didnt make the 
transfer.
Having returned  the transfer  form by post,  Mr S called Paragon  on 19 December 2019 to 
check whether it had been  received.  There is no dispute he was given incorrect information  
during the call because the receipt of the transfer  form was not enough to secure the rate of 
1.82%. However  although an error  had been  made, I must consider whether Mr S wouldve 
done anything  different  had he been  given the right information. On balance, I dont think  he 
would. The reason I say this is because up to that point Mr S had been told some money 
needed to be paid into the account. Mr S called on the last day of the 14 day period to check 
whether the transfer form had been  received.  He was initially told it hadnt, but Paragon said 
they hoped  it would  be received later that day to which Mr S asked them  to confirm once it 
had been. 
On balance, I believe this shows  Mr S had no intention of making  alternative  arrangements  
to fund the account such as making an electronic payment transfer as he previously 
mentioned. He was solely  relying  on the transfer  of the ISA to do so. So Im not persuaded, 
even if Mr S was told the correct information by Paragon, he wouldve  made  an electronic 
payment before close of business  that day. 
It is disappointing Mr S received the incorrect information during the second phone call with 
Paragon and I can appreciate how important it was for him to receive this rate. However  for 
the reasons I have  outlined above,  I am satisfied Paragon Bank treated Mr S fairly  and in 
line with its terms and it was fair for them to apply the 1.76% rate to his ISA account.
Lastly, Paragon  has offered  £15 compensation to Mr S for the incorrect  information he was 
given and I believe this amount is fair. 
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I have decided  not to uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 January 2020.
Ref: DRN68024544Simona Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6802454