K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Bank of Scotland  plc is holding him liable for a cash  machine 
withdrawal that he says he neither made  himself  nor authorised anyone else to make. Bank 
of Scotland trades in this case under its Halifax brand.  
background
Mr G used his Halifax  debit card to make a small cash machine withdrawal early in the 
morning of 30 November  2018. The following evening  that is, around 16 hours  later  it 
was used to make a much  larger withdrawal about  25 miles from his home. Mr G says he 
neither made the second withdrawal, nor did he authorise anyone  to make it or use his card. 
Halifax investigated Mr Gs claim but didnt agree to refund it. It thought he was responsible  
for the withdrawal. 
Mr G referred  the matter to this service, where one of our investigators considered it. He 
broadly agreed  with the bank. He said that the genuine card had been used with the correct 
PIN; and there was no plausible explanation as to how someone  could have taken Mr Gs 
card and known his PIN. He noted  too that there was a significant delay between  Mr Gs last 
use of the card and the withdrawal he was disputing.  
Mr G didnt accept the investigators  findings  and asked that an ombudsman review them.      
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  outcome  as the investigator did, and for similar reasons.
The banks records indicate, and I accept, that the disputed withdrawal was made using Mr 
Gs genuine card and the correct PIN. It wasnt  made  using, for example, a copy or cloned 
card, since  the chip embedded  in it was read by the cash  machine. 
Its unlikely that someone could  have correctly guessed the PIN associated  with the card;  the 
PIN isnt kept on the card in unencrypted form. 
A card issuer  shouldnt  hold a customer liable for a transaction solely  on the ground that the 
genuine card was used with the correct PIN. I have therefore considered carefully  whether  
someone else could  have used Mr Gs card without his authority. I believe however thats 
most unlikely. 
Mr G has said that the last time he used his card was about 16 hours before the disputed  
withdrawal. He had, he says, been  out and had been drinking. But he also said there was 
nobody else at the cash machine he used. He suggested he might have had his card taken 
then, but he has no recollection of that. So, whilst I cant rule out the possibility that someone 
watched him use the machine and then took his card, theres no evidence  (even Mr Gs own)  
to support that. 
I note too that it was many hours before  anyone  used the card.  Whilst thats not conclusive, 
it would  be unusual for an opportunist thief to wait that long before trying  to use a stolen 
card. That would carry the risk of the cardholder identifying the loss and reporting  it before 
the card could be used.  
Ref: DRN64734732On balance, therefore, I think the most  likely explanation is that Mr G either made the 
disputed withdrawal himself or authorised someone  else to do so. Whichever is the case, it 
wouldnt be fair to make  Halifax provide a refund. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr Gs complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required 
to ask Mr G to accept or reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6473473