K820x#14complaint
Miss A has complained  Bank  of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax, wont  refund  two disputed 
transactions made online.
background
Miss A complained to Halifax when she noticed two transactions left her account on 20 May 
2019. These were  for £500  and £750 and made to a new recipient. Halifax felt the evidence  
showed Miss A had made  these  transactions so wouldnt  refund her.
Miss A brought her complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator considered all the evidence. This included online banking logs.  This showed 
these two transactions had been made either  side of a payment Miss A admitted shed 
made. The evidence  also showed Halifax operated an automated message system after a 
new payee was set up. A call made  on Miss As home phone  as opposed  to her mobile  
confirmed this was done by her.  
Our investigator felt there was no other explanation for what happened. She told Miss A she 
couldnt uphold  her complaint.
Miss A disagreed with this outcome. Shes asked an ombudsman to review  her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  for roughly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  but 
nothing thats  had an impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions  
themselves, as well as what both Halifax and Miss A have told us.
The issues  that I believe are relevant include:
Halifaxs evidence shows the transactions made  at 11:37 on 18 May and 12:04 on 
19 May were made using  the same  IP address as the transaction Miss A told us she 
made at 23:55  on 18 May.
Miss A didnt notice  the first transaction made earlier on on 18 May when she made 
the later transaction to her mother at 23:55.
Miss A hasnt explained  who could have known her online banking  data to access 
her Halifax  online banking  arrangements. Miss A has confirmed shed not shared 
these details with anyone.
Ref: DRN63799782The two transactions were made  to a new payee set up on Miss As account.  This 
arrangement was validated by someone using Miss As home phone to give over the 
relevant code. Miss A hasnt been able to tell us how this could have happened.
IP address evidence  admittedly isnt fool proof  but I dont have any reason why I 
wouldnt accept the evidence Halifax has shared. The IP address is one that Miss A 
uses for most  of her online banking activity.
It was transactions  out of Miss As savings account and into her current  account  that 
alerted her to these  two disputed transactions. Shes  disputed these too. I can see 
from the history of Miss As account  usage that she does transfer money between 
these two accounts regularly. As her current account occasionally  dips into overdraft, 
Miss A transfers money from her savings  to cover  this. From reviewing  this I think  the 
evidence shows Miss A keeps a keen eye on the state of her finances.   
Im surprised  therefore it took her two days to dispute the transactions  of £500 and 
£750. Halifaxs online banking  logs show Miss A accessed her online banking 
regularly on 18, 19 and 20 May at a variety of times during those three days.
Its not my role to decide who else could have done  these transactions or to investigate  any 
potential fraud. I need to review what the evidence  shows. I did consider whether anyone 
else could have done these transactions but it could only have been someone Miss A knows 
using the same IP address.  And someone that knew Miss A well enough  to be able to 
access her online banking  with her data. Im also aware the 18 and 19 May were a Saturday  
and Sunday so Miss A wasnt at work.  Taking  this all into account  I believe on balance  its 
unlikely someone  else did this.
In the absence of any other plausible explanation and looking at the existing evidence, I 
think its most likely  Miss A consented  to these disputed transactions. It is therefore unfair to 
ask Halifax to do anything  further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Miss As complaint against 
Bank of Scotland plc, trading as Halifax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 31 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6379978