K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that Provident  Personal  Credit Limited, trading as Satsuma, gave her loans 
she couldnt afford to pay back.
background
Between August 2015 and March 2017  Ms W borrowed  five times from Satsuma, she repaid 
all of the loans  except the last one which still has a balance outstanding.
loan 
numberdate taken amount 
borrowedrepayment 
termsmonthly
repayment 
amountdate repaid
1 18 August  2015 £25013 weekly 
instalments£116.6527 November 
2015
2 12 October  2015 £45026 weekly 
instalments£143.6125 November 
2015
310 December 
2015£45030 weekly 
instalments£129.35 15 July 2016
4 12 March 2016 £30013 weekly 
instalments£143.0925 March  
2016
5 12 March 2017 £5008 monthly 
instalments£125.00 Outstanding
Ms W doesnt think that Satsuma carried out proper checks  to see if she could afford  the 
loans before it agreed them.  She says that the checks carried out werent thorough  and 
Satsuma should  have seen she was in difficulty and had defaults  on her credit file.
Satsuma said it had performed affordability  checks and carried out a credit reference agency 
check for the loans.  Ms W was employed  and its checks showed she had enough disposable 
income to make the repayments when they fell due without financial difficulties.
The adjudicator didnt think this complaint should  be upheld. She thought that Satsumas 
checks didnt go far enough and Satsuma  should have done more checking  for the loans. 
But she said better checks wouldnt gave  made  any difference because  proportionate 
checks would have  showed that Ms W had enough  disposable income to meet the 
repayments so it wasnt  wrong for Satsuma to agree the loans.
Ms W didnt  agree. She still thought the loans werent affordable and she has now entered  a 
debt management  plan to repay them. She said that other loans with other companies had 
been upheld  as unaffordable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Satsuma was required to lend responsibly. Before  agreeing to lend to Ms W, it had to check  
that she could  afford  to make the repayments  without it adversely impacting  on her financial 
situation. It had to gather enough  information  so that it could make an informed decision on 
the lending. 
Ref: DRN60879602The guidance and rules dont set out compulsory checks but they do list a number of things  
a lender might wish to take into account before agreeing  to lend. But any checks need  to be 
proportionate and should take into account a number of things, including  things such  as how 
much is being lent and when whats being  borrowed is due to be repaid.
Ms W was given  loans where  there was an expectation shed repay  what  shed borrowed 
plus the interest due over different  timescales. As a result, the checks Satsuma carried out 
had to provide  enough  for it to be able to understand whether Ms W could afford  to make all 
of those repayments when they fell due. 
Satsuma has told us that it asked Ms W each  time about her monthly income  and normal  
expenditure before agreeing to lend to her. It relied  on the information she gave  to it. It also 
carried out a credit check, which it also used to examine her other credit commitments. But it 
hasnt provided  us with a copy of the credit  check that it says it did.
Ms W has given us a copy of her credit  report so Ive been  able to look at this to see what 
the credit  checks Satsuma carried out were likely to have shown. I think its credit check  was 
likely to have shown  that Ms W had defaulted on two credit agreements  a few months before 
the request for the first loan. This doesnt automatically mean that Satsuma  should  not have 
given Mrs W the loan but I do think it should have  done better checks  to see if she could  
afford to repay what she was asking to borrow. Because of this I think  Satsumas  checks  
should have gone further and it should  have  asked Ms W about any other short term lending 
she may have had in addition  to her normal monthly outgoings.
Ms W said she was earning £3000 and her expenses were £1350. Satsuma says from its 
review of the credit check it added  an additional £1059.06 to Ms Ws total outgoings  figure. I 
think it was reasonable  for Satsuma to rely on these figures. Ms Ws credit report doesnt 
show any outstanding  short  term loans so even if Satsuma had carried out a check for this 
borrowing it was unlikely  to have made  a difference to the decision to give Mrs W the first 
loan as Ms W had around £600 in disposable income which  allowed  for additional 
expenditure that she hadnt declared.  On these figures the monthly repayment is easily 
affordable.
The position  is the same  for loans two to four. I think that Satsuma should  have taken care to 
check whether Ms W had other short term lending given her pattern of borrowing and her 
earlier defaults. Looking  at Ms Ws credit file for this period there are no outstanding short 
term loans. Ms W declared her income  as £3000 for all of these loans and her outgoings as 
between £1150 and £1250. Satsuma  again  added an extra amount to her declared 
outgoings after reviewing  her credit check of between £1353  and £522.  So in these 
circumstances I think better checks were unlikely to have made a difference to the decision 
to lend.
Ms W applied for loan 5 almost a year after repaying loan 4. I think  it was reasonable for 
Satsuma to think that her financial situation had improved. There  had been  no difficulties in 
repaying the previous loans and no additional defaults were  recorded on the credit  file. Ms W 
said her income was £3000 and her outgoings  were  £1050. This left her with £1950 in 
disposable income. Satsuma reduced  this by £522.82 to reflect the results of its credit  
search. The monthly repayment of £125 appeared affordable  against  a disposable income of 
£1427.
I appreciate that Ms Ws actual circumstances may not have been  accurately reflected in the 
information she provided to Satsuma and her other financial commitments  may have been 
Ref: DRN60879603higher than she had declared. But Satsuma could only base its decision to lend on the 
information it had available  to it at the time and it didnt have any reason to disbelieve or 
doubt what Ms W declared given the other  information available. So, on balance, I think the 
checks it did for these loans were proportionate  and I dont think  Satsuma was wrong to lend 
to Ms W.
I know that Ms W has referred to other  loans provided by other lenders that have been found 
to be unaffordable.  Each lending decision is different and is taken on the information  
available at the time. I can only deal with the checks that I think  Satsuma needed to make  
and what those checks would have likely  revealed. This may be different for another  lender 
at different  points in the lending chain.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6087960