K821x#15complaint
Mr T acquired household  electrical items in July and August 2017,  by hire purchase  with 
Caversham Finance Limited  (trading as BrightHouse). He complains  that both items were  
faulty. He is also unhappy  with the quality of customer  service  provided by BrightHouse.  
The first item was replaced, but Mr T said the problem had not been resolved and the 
replacement was returned to BrightHouse in August  2018. He wants  to receive  a full refund. 
The second  item was also replaced, and Mr T is satisfied with the replacement.
 
background
The background to this complaint, and my initial conclusions, were set out in my provisional 
decision dated 22 October 2018  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this final 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I agreed with our investigators view 
that the complaint should be upheld in part, but I disagreed with his recommendations for its 
settlement.
Both Mr T and BrightHouse agreed  with my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In the absence of other arguments or evidence to the contrary,  I continue  to think  that the 
conclusion reached  in my revised provisional decision is correct.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. In 
full and final settlement  of it, I order Caversham Finance Limited  (trading as BrightHouse):
1.To refund 10% of all weekly payments required under Mr Ts July 2017 hire purchase 
agreement, plus interest at 8% per annum simple  from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement
2.To refund £20 of the installation charge applied to Mr Ts agreement account
3.To remove  any adverse references  it may have recorded on Mr Ts credit file, relating 
to this account
4.To pay compensation of £50 for distress and inconvenience directly to Mr T.
If BrightHouse  considers it has to deduct  tax from the interest  element of my award,  it should  
send Mr T a tax deduction certificate  when it pays him. He can then use that certificate to try 
to reclaim the tax, if he is entitled  to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN67639902COPY  OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
22 October 2018
complaint
Mr T acquired household  electrical items in July and August 2017,  by hire purchase  with 
Caversham Finance Limited  (trading as BrightHouse). He complains  that both items were  
faulty. He is also unhappy  with the quality of customer  service  provided by BrightHouse.  
The first item was replaced, but Mr T said the problem had not been resolved and the 
replacement was returned to BrightHouse in August  2018. He wants  to receive  a full refund. 
The second  item was also replaced, and Mr T is satisfied with the replacement.
background 
first item
Mr T took out a hire purchase agreement  in July 2017, and received delivery and installation 
of an electrical item. He complained to BrightHouse that an important feature for him of this 
items installation was not working, and it replaced  this item in August  2017 with another  
from the same manufacturer.
Mr T complained again that the same  feature was still not working, and the item was 
inspected by a BrightHouse engineer. BrightHouse said:
A replacement part was ordered, and four service  calls were arranged, but nobody  
was home on the first three occasions
The part was fitted during the fourth call in November 2017
But Mr T complained straight  away that the same feature was still not working
BrightHouse offered to exchange  this item for another from a different manufacturer
Mr T initially accepted its offer, but nobody was at home on two dates  in 
December 2107 when it attempted to make  this exchange
Mr T cancelled two further dates in January  2018, which  had been arranged  for this 
exchange
Mr T complained to BrightHouse in February 2018 about a different problem with the 
replaced item  it arranged two service calls to Mr Ts home, but nobody  was at 
home on either occasion
Mr T then told it that he no longer wanted accept its offer to exchange
Mr T said:
BrightHouse was unwilling to reduce  his payments, to reflect the offered items  
smaller capacity (compared with the item he originally acquired)
He wanted  to return this item, but on the basis that he received a full refund of the 
payments (required under his agreement)  that he had already made
second item
Mr T took out another  hire purchase agreement in August 2017, and received delivery of a 
used electrical item. He complained to BrightHouse in January 2018 that this item was faulty. 
The item was inspected by a BrightHouse  engineer,  and a replacement part was ordered  
which turned  out to be the wrong  part. 
Ref: DRN67639903BrightHouse said:
As a result  of the delay caused by ordering the wrong part, and as a goodwill 
gesture, it replaced the used item with a new item from a different manufacturer  in 
April 2018
Mr T returned  the used item
It thinks that, by promptly attempting to resolve  Mr Ts complaints, and by providing  
replacements where appropriate, it more than fulfilled its obligations to him
Mr T disagreed, and referred  his complaint to us. He also told us that he had health 
problems, which required him often to be away from home accessing medical services.
our investigators  conclusions and recommendations
Our investigator noted Mr Ts personal  situation,  and appreciated that Mr T would have 
found the entire situation distressing. But our investigator also said that he had to consider 
whether BrightHouse had done  what he would have expected in these circumstances. 
Our investigator concluded that BrightHouse had tried to resolve Mr Ts problems with the 
quality of goods provided. He felt that its goodwill  gesture  was a very positive action. He said 
as well that a full refund of hire purchase payments would not generally be appropriate, 
where a consumer had made use of the goods  concerned.
But our investigator thought that BrightHouse should have done more  sooner to resolve 
Mr Ts issues, and that Mr T should  have  received compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience he was caused. Our investigator recommended that BrightHouse  should:
Refund £20 of the installation charge  applied  to Mr Ts July 2017  agreement account
Pay £50 directly  to Mr T in compensation for distress and inconvenience
BrightHouse accepted our investigators  recommendations,  but Mr T did not. He asked 
whether BrightHouse would be willing to refund 50% of his payments for the first item. 
BrightHouse declined this proposal, and so the complaint was referred for review by an 
ombudsman.
The first item was subsequently returned,  and the July 2017  hire purchase agreement  was 
terminated in August  2018, with nothing owing on the agreement account.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is incomplete, 
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  in other words, what I consider most likely to have happened in light of the 
available evidence and wider circumstances. 
I agree  with our investigators view that the complaint should be upheld  in part. But I 
disagree with his recommendations for its settlement.
BrightHouse has a responsibility to ensure that goods of satisfactory quality, and 
corresponding to their description, have been supplied. This means  that a reasonable 
person would have regarded  the goods  as satisfactory,  taking  into account all relevant 
circumstances, at the point of supply.
Ref: DRN67639904BrightHouse appears  to have accepted that both electrical items were not of satisfactory 
quality at the point of supply. It has replaced both items, and Mr T is not seeking to return  the 
item replaced in April 2018.
BrightHouse also appears to have accepted that the replacement it provided in August 2017 
for the first item was not of satisfactory quality. Mr T initially accepted an exchange of this 
replacement item  but then he was unavailable to make the exchange. Then  he changed 
his mind and asked to return  this item,  after complaining about a different problem with it. 
I can understand that BrightHouse might be unhappy about the above series  of events. But 
they only occurred  because an item was apparently not of satisfactory quality. And so I am 
pleased that this item has now been returned  to BrightHouse.
It is clear, though, that Mr T has made  reasonable use of the item (even without access  to 
the feature  that was important to him, and about  which he made  his initial  complaint). And so 
I agree  with our investigator that a full refund (or a 50% refund) of payments made would not 
be appropriate. 
But I find it would be fair for Mr T to receive  a 10% refund  of payments made to his July 2017 
agreement account,  to reflect the reduction  in expected benefit from this item that he 
experienced. Also, for the same reasons as our investigator, I find that Mr T should receive:
£20 part refund of an installation charge
£50 in compensation for distress and inconvenience
my provisional decision
For the reasons  explained above, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive 
from Mr T or Caversham Finance Limited  (trading  as BrightHouse) by 22 November 2018, 
my provisional decision is that I uphold  this complaint in part. 
My provisional recommendations for settlement  of this complaint are that BrightHouse  
should:
Refund 10% of all weekly payments required under Mr Ts July 2017 hire purchase 
agreement, plus interest at 8% per annum simple  from the dates of payment to the 
date of settlement
Refund £20 of the installation charge  applied  to Mr Ts agreement account
Remove any adverse  references it may have recorded on Mr Ts credit file, relating to 
this account
Pay compensation of £50 for distress and inconvenience directly  to Mr T.
Roy Mawford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6763990