K821x#15complaint
O, a limited company,  complains that Santander UK Plc lost a foreign currency cheque it 
paid into its account  causing it financial loss and inconvenience.
background
O received a cheque  for $2,925 drawn  on an overseas  bank. The director went  to a branch 
of Santander on 3 September 2018  to pay it into its account. But he was told to post this to 
an office of Santander. He did so and had proof this was signed for the next day. But the 
money was not credited to the account  and Santander was not able to say what  happened 
to the cheque. On 3 October 2018  it gave O a temporary interest free loan of £1,000  which 
O used. O referred its complaint to this service  as the cheque was never  credited to the 
account. Santander offered to pay O £200 for the inconvenience but said that this would 
need to be taken from the balance of the interest free loan.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint be upheld in part and in addition to the 
£200 reduction to the loan O be paid £300 in compensation for inconvenience. Santander 
said it had no record of what  happened  to the cheque but that it had sent this off. The issuing 
bank had not responded to its requests. O had now received  a replacement cheque  and paid 
this into a different  bank  account. Although O needed this money to pay staff if had said in a 
phone call with Santander on 3 October  2018  that this cheque in itself was not sufficient for 
this. So he didnt think O should receive compensation for any loss of business.
O did not agree and said that this had a dramatic effect and wanted to claim losses  of £350 
per day for three months and also the lifetime value of a client  that it did not manage to 
retain. The director said that the business had been in development for four years.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There is no clear  information about what happened  to this cheque  and whether it reached 
the issuing bank or not. But it was not paid and settled to Santander as it did not receive  the 
money. And as the director has said O was issued with a new cheque which it has now paid 
into an account at a different bank.
I note that the original  cheque was dated 15 August 2018. And O must have expected  to 
receive this payment to its account sometime in September 2018. But I cant  see there were 
any guarantees on payment with a cheque  sent for collection in this way. Clearly  O was 
relying on this money in its cash-flow  and not having  the funds caused difficulties for it. 
Santander agreed to an interest free loan at the maximum level it was prepared to lend O. 
And I accept  that it had been trying to contact the issuing  bank but without any response.
I need to decide what is reasonable compensation for what happened and I take into 
account that if Santander had, for example, been able to say straightaway that the cheque  
was lost then O could have asked for a replacement  much  sooner. Not knowing where the 
cheque was added to the uncertainty  here for O. Its evidence is that it was not in a position 
to get a replacement and I dont  know whether it had asked to receive the money any faster 
the second time - say by electronic means  - to help mitigate the impact.
Ref: DRN68792452I cant agree  that Santander can reasonably be held responsible for the many tens of 
thousands of pounds in compensation that O wants.  I cant  say how its business would have 
otherwise developed or that Santander either foresaw or reasonably  accepted any such 
consequences. And nor could it guarantee when O would receive funds.
In my view the step Santander took to provide  at least some of the funds in advance  was a 
reasonable one. And I think O is fairly required  to repay this. Having considered  all the 
circumstances I consider that the recommendation made by our investigator was a fair one 
and I wont be requiring Santander  to do more than this.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and require Santander UK Plc to:
1)Credit £200 to the interest free loan provided to O.
2)Pay not credit O with £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6879245