K821x#15complaint
Mrs B has complained about AXA Insurance UK Plcs handling  of a claim against her motor 
insurance policy.
Reference to AXA includes its agents.
background
Mrs Bs car was around a year old when  she was involved in a low speed accident. She said 
that before the incident, as she was turning right, she heard a bang and lost control of the 
car and it bumped  into another  car. There was significant damage to her cars  suspension  
but very little damage to its bodywork. Both Mrs B and AXA were concerned that the car 
might have suffered  from a manufacturing  defect causing the suspension to fail and the 
accident to happen. AXA appointed independent engineers  to investigate that possibility. 
And Mrs B separately took the matter up with the cars manufacturer,  which  Ill refer to as 
M.
Eventually the independent  engineers  concluded that the suspension  failure was caused  by 
an impact and not a manufacturing defect. So AXA dealt with the claim under the terms of 
Mrs Bs policy. Mrs B was unhappy  with a number of aspects of AXAs  service. In particular, 
that it had misadvised her about whether or not it would be dealing  with the claim and 
whether or not she could remain entitled to a hire car or courtesy  car until the issue  with her 
car was resolved.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us. I issued a provisional decision on 20 July 2020.  For ease  
Ive copied my provisional findings below. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so its likely  Ill partly uphold 
it.
In bringing this complaint Mrs Bs made a number of detailed  points.  I've considered 
everything she's said but in this decision I will focus  on what  I see as being  the key 
outstanding issues  following  our investigator's assessment.
Usually, where a car's been  involved in a road accident and theres an effective policy in 
place the insurer  will deal with a claim on the policy to repair  any damage to the 
policyholders car. But in this case the severity  of the damage to Mrs Bs cars suspension, in 
what was otherwise a fairly minor accident, led AXA and Mrs B to be concerned  that the 
cause of the damage was a manufacturing  defect rather than an impact.  And if that were  the 
case it would  fall to M, rather than AXA, to put things right with Mrs Bs car. 
AXA didn't  immediately take steps to investigate the cause of the cars suspension  failure. 
As it seems its approved repairers were  concerned  that the cause of the damage might  have 
been a manufacturing defect. As a result  AXA left it to Mrs B to take the matter up with M. 
But given Mrs Bs car had been  in an accident  I don't think that was the appropriate 
response, as at that point  there was no conclusive evidence of a manufacturing  defect but 
there was no doubt an accident had happened. And AXA only began investigating the issue 
after M told Mrs B it would  no longer provide  her with a hire car. At that point AXA gave 
Mrs B a courtesy  car while it investigated.  But I think it should  have done that from the 
outset.
Ref: DRN67201012AXA appointed independent engineers to examine the car. The engineers initial  report  was 
inconclusive. So, to establish exactly what had caused the suspension  to fail, they forwarded 
their provisional findings together  with the damaged suspension component  to an 
appropriate expert to do a forensic  investigation. The expert  concluded that the component  
had failed as a result of an impact.  He said there  was no evidence of a manufacturing defect. 
On that basis AXA went ahead and dealt with the claim under the terms of Mrs Bs policy.
But in the meantime some  of AXAs  communication  was confused.  It appears that at one 
point AXA misunderstood  the initial engineers report and conclusively said that a 
manufacturing defect  had caused the cars suspension  to fail. And as such it said that 
Mrs Bs policy didn't cover the incident. But thats not what the independent engineers  report  
said. In fact - at that time - AXA was still waiting for the experts report to determine  why the 
part had failed.  So, Mrs B was misadvised about who was responsible for dealing with her 
claim and why. And as she was told the policy didn't cover her she had to return  her 
courtesy car at short notice. Mrs B then had to again ask M to provide  her with a hire car. 
But later, once it became clear that AXA didn't  have  a report  that said a manufacturing 
defect was to blame, she had to give the hire car provided by M back and ask AXA to 
provide another courtesy car.
Also, I can understand that the mixed messages about her cars  suspension  failure was a 
source of immense frustration for Mrs B. Thats because she was told that M was 
responsible for sorting things out, then AXA, then M again and back  to AXA. And in all, the 
whole process took a number of months  to sort out. I accept that not all of that delay was 
AXAs responsibility, particularly because it had to commission an experts forensic report, 
which understandably took time. And I've noted  that - after AXA received that report  - Mrs B 
told AXA she didn't  want it to deal with the claim. However, she later changed her mind.  But I 
can understand that the mixed messages Mrs B received as well as having to change 
hire/courtesy cars and chase AXA for updates was a source of expense  as well as distress 
and inconvenience  for Mrs B. So, in order to put things  right I think AXA should pay her £300 
compensation to cover  any additional out of pocket costs as well as to address her distress 
and inconvenience.  Im aware  that Mrs B doesn't think that's enough, and she's suggested  a 
figure of £500  might  be appropriate. But Im satisfied  that £300 is a suitable sum, as its 
similar to awards  we make in cases of similar  seriousness. 
developments
Mrs B said that while she didn't think the redress I provisionally awarded was enough to 
address the stress  and abuse she suffered, she would reluctantly  accept it. AXA didn't 
provide any further  comments. 
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to uphold it. 
As Mrs B accepted my provisional  decision and AXA didn't object to it, I see no reason  to 
change it.
Ref: DRN67201013my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay 
Mrs B £300  compensation for her costs and distress  and inconvenience. It should  pay the 
compensation within 28 days of us telling  it that Mrs B has accepted my final decision. If it 
pays later than this, it must  also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final 
decision to the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.1
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If AXA pays interest and considers its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax 
from that interest, it should tell Mrs B how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs B a certificate 
showing this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN6720101