K820x#14complaint
Mr E complains that Nationwide Building Society blocked a number of online transactions he 
attempted to make.
background
Mr E says he made a number of online transactions that were  blocked by Nationwide.  He 
says a number  of the transactions were for example  for train tickets  and as the transaction  
was blocked he ended  up paying  more  as the price  increased. Mr E says that he managed  
to buy tickets for a concert that were intended  as a present for his wife but this transaction 
was also blocked  which meant he lost out on those tickets. He says he complained about 
what took place  but was incorrectly told the problem was not Nationwides but that of the 
verified service.
Mr E says he was offered  £25 compensation but that is not enough. He would like 
Nationwide to accept  it made a mistake and pay him about £350 compensation and £50 for 
his expenses in bringing the complaint.
Nationwide doesnt  accept making  a mistake about Mr Es main complaint. It says it has 
security systems in place  to protect its customers accounts but has apologised for the 
incorrect information about responsibility  for blocking  a transaction. It also says the offer of 
compensation is still available.
Mr E brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold it. The investigator 
thought it was not our role to tell a business what its security and fraud measures should be 
or that we could  ask a business to reveal  details  of those policies and measures. The 
investigator thought  the account terms and conditions allowed Nationwide to block  a 
transaction where it had concerns and that the compensation  offer for the wrong information 
was appropriate.
Mr E doesnt  accept that view and in summary  says these  transactions were to companies 
he regularly used and Nationwides  systems  dont  work. He says the text message system 
also doesnt work and has found  out why. Mr E says Nationwide  made a mistake  entering 
his mobile telephone on its systems which he has now corrected and this has solved the 
problem.
Nationwide says it had recorded the same number Mr E used when he opened the account 
until it was recently changed.  It says it has no record  of any change  in the intervening  time.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr E will be disappointed  by my decision.
I have looked  at the account terms and conditions which  I think Mr E would have  agreed  to 
when the account was opened. And I can see that those terms and conditions  make clear 
that in certain  circumstances  Nationwide may not authorise a transaction  if it has security or 
Ref: DRN61753522fraud concerns. So I dont  think Nationwide acted unfairly by blocking certain transactions 
and I think such steps are taken to protect its customers  money. I appreciate that any 
security or fraud measures can cause customers of a legitimate transaction inconvenience.  
But I also think banks and building societies  have a difficult  balance  to manage.
I appreciate Mr E says that some of the transactions were  to companies he regularly used. 
But I dont think that matters and in any event  I cant fairly tell a business what  its security 
measures should  be or that it provides details of it to its customers. I think  such  matters are 
for a business to decide upon  and that such information is commercially sensitive.
So whilst I appreciate  Mr Es frustration as these  were  his transactions  I dont think 
Nationwide acted unreasonably. But I accept Mr E was given incorrect  information  about 
why the transactions were blocked. I can see that Nationwide has apologised for that and 
whilst its not clear if its offer of £25 compensation is for that mis-information I think that offer 
is fair and reasonable and I dont think in any event that is Mr Es main complaint.
I think the main problem here was on balance caused by Nationwide having the wrong  
telephone number for Mr E. I think it likely text messages were sent to that number to 
authorise the various transactions. But I dont know why both sides  didnt check that 
information at a far earlier stage as I think it clear that was always  likely  to be the problem.
The key question is where responsibility  for that wrong number lies. I can see that when 
Mr E opened  the account, details of a telephone  number were  included and those details 
were changed  by Mr E online in June 2019 with two digits being changed. I have listened to 
the call between the parties  and I dont think its clear what  the two numbers are. So I cant 
fairly hold Nationwide responsible for an incorrect number being  recorded in these 
circumstances as I think a mistake was likely to have been  made  as the telephone line was 
not particularly  clear. I have made it clear that I would  have expected both sides  to this 
complaint to have  checked the telephone details far earlier than they did. But I think  a 
genuine mistake  has taken place that neither party  could have realised  at time without either 
one of it checking.
As I dont think Nationwide has made a mistake or acted unfairly then I cant order it to pay 
the compensation Mr E would like. It remains open  to Mr E if he wishes to accept the £25 
compensation offer.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 April 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6175352