K822xcomplaint
Ms S has complained about her home  insurer U K Insurance  Limited (UKI). She isnt happy  
with the repair offer it has made for her damaged  sofa.
background
Ms S made  a claim to UKI when a cat came through her window and scratched her sofa. 
UKI accepted the claim  and said it would repair the sofa by replacing the leather on the one 
affected cushion. It said there would likely be a mismatch in colour but it could spray the 
remainder of the sofa so it would match.
Ms S wasnt convinced that this was a suitable remedy. She asked an upholsterer for an 
opinion. The upholsterer confirmed that such a repair wouldnt last  the painted areas of the 
sofa would  wear and scratch  quickly because the new paint wouldnt  adhere properly to the 
already previously colour treated  leather.  Ms S asked UKI to re-cover the whole sofa.
UKI said its expert had assured it the repair could be done. Therefore, it said it wouldnt offer 
to do anything more. Ms S complained to this service.
Our investigator felt that as UKIs expert had confirmed the repair  could be done its offer was 
fair and reasonable. Ms S remained unhappy  and asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
I considered the complaint and felt it should be upheld. Both parties  acknowledged  receipt  of 
my provisional decision. Ms S said she accepted it. UKI didnt object to it. As neither  party  
made any comment that gave me cause to change  my mind Im now issuing my final 
decision, the findings of which  are set out below and are the same  as those issued 
provisionally. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ms S has provided  an email direct from an expert.  It says:
We have been in this business for over 30 years,  and we are convinced  the way your 
insurer wants this to be done  will not work. You will never match the leather and it is not 
possible to paint your existing cushions  as they have  been already painted from the 
beginning therefore paint will not hold to it and will start coming off quite quickly.  As we 
suggested before,  to match the colour you will need  to re-cover the whole sofa.
UKI hasnt provided anything direct  from its expert.  But a UKI claim handler recorded  the 
following note after talking to a representative  from its upholstery  company:
I spoke  to [X]. She advised that the supplier is happy that they can get a match to the PH's 
existing leather on the sofa. I asked  realistically how long it would last - is there a concern 
about old and new leather  wearing  at different rates. She advised that no-one can say how 
long it would look good.
For UKIs  remedial offer to be fair and reasonable it has to be most likely that it will be a 
long-lasting and effective remedy. Based on the two pieces of evidence above Im not 
Ref: DRN61218422convinced that would be the case here. On the balance of the evidence available it seems to 
me that the suggested repair is actually fated to fail, and in the fairly short term too. It isnt 
fair to expect Ms S to accept that. Im satisfied that UKI now needs  to consider other remedial 
options.
Ms S has provided  a quote for re-covering the sofa  £2,373  plus VAT. UKI can either pay 
her this sum or arrange to re-cover the sofa itself.  Alternately if it can offer a replacement 
item at a lower price,  I think  that would be a reasonable remedy.  If UKI offers to re-cover the 
sofa but Ms S wont  allow it to do so then it will only have to pay Ms S what  it will cost it to do 
that work.
Im not going  to make UKI pay compensation. Ms S has had to live with damage but it is only 
some scratching on her sofa and I havent  seen that any particular distress or inconvenience 
has been suffered.
my final decision
I uphold  this complaint. I require U K Insurance Limited to settle Ms Ss claim by:
Paying her £2,373 to re-cover her sofa, and VAT on this sum once a VAT invoice is 
provided; or
Arranging to re-cover  Ms Ss sofa; or
If it wishes to, replacing  Ms Ss sofa.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6121842