K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs E are unhappy that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) wont  pay their 
home insurance claim for storm/accidental damage  to their roof.
background
In March 2018, during some very heavy weather, some coping stones were blown off Mr and 
Mrs Es roof. They  made  a claim to RSA who sent out a surveyor  to look at the damage. The 
surveyor said that there was no damage  that related to a one off storm event. He further  said 
that the copings werent fixed securely  or correctly  and that they were not fit for purpose, He 
said they should have been  pinned but there was no evidence  of that.
Mr and Mrs E, through their broker, had an independent builder look at it. He said the coping 
stones were pinned  pointing out that the stones had grooves in them where the pins went. 
His view was that the stones had blown  off. In particular he said there were several days  of 
extremely high winds not reflected by the weather station readings which werent  in the area 
where the property  is,
RSA referred the matter  back  to its surveyor, who said the pins were corroded. RSA 
declined the claim  as it said there was no storm event. It also said that the claim wasnt 
covered as accidental  damage as the damage  had happened gradually and that the policy 
had an exclusion for faulty workmanship/materials.
Mr and Mrs Es builder  said the pins werent  corroded and that the build quality was as good 
as he had seen.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that there wasnt  any storm event. However 
she said that RSA should have covered the claim as accidental  damage.  She didnt think it 
had shown that the damage was gradual or due to wear and tear.
RSA disagreed. It said that we had accepted that there were no storm conditions,  and it 
would expect coping stones not to be affected simply by high winds.  They  should be 
expected to have been fixed  in place or secured in such a fashion  that they would withstand 
the elements.  It its view itis highly unlikely that they would have failed of their own accord.
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
storm
As our investigator has advised, the cover is in respect of a one-off storm event, not general 
bad weather over a few days. Theres no particular  definition of storm in the policy  but we 
consider that a storm generally involves violent  winds, usually accompanied by rain, hail or 
snow. Around about the time of the damage, there were  winds  of between  37 and 43mph at 
a weather station  13 miles away. I appreciate that Mr and Mrs Es property may have 
suffered higher winds but theres no particular evidence that it did. I dont think  that the 
Ref: DRN65131172windspeed quoted is sufficient to constitute a storm. And, even if the damage was due to the 
wind if there were no storm conditions it isnt covered under the storm section in the policy.
accidental damage
This is defined in the policy  as:
Sudden, unexpected and visible damage  which has not been caused  on purpose.
On the face of it, the damage comes within that definition. RSA says our investigator 
appears to have simply agreed with the comments by the customer's own roofer. But to do 
so is to accept that simply high winds were responsible for dislodging the coping  stones. 
This suggests that they were  not sufficiently well attached to the building  to perform their 
intended function. It went on to say that their surveyor had said the pins were corroded. It 
concluded that the damage was caused by wear and tear to the pins holding them in place. 
And there is an exclusion for damage  caused  by wear and tear or anything which happens 
gradually. 
Theres also an exclusion for damage caused  by or from poor or faulty  design,  workmanship 
or materials And it is suggested by RSA that this applies.
Theres a conflict between  what RSA s surveyor says and what Mr and Mrs Es builder says.  
The latter says the pins werent corroded  and that the build quality was good.  But it appears 
that the surveyor on his site inspection said that there were no pins in place and, when later 
saying they were corroded (or rusty), he was relying on photos. It also appears to me that 
the surveyor only ever came to his conclusion based on whether or not there was storm 
damage.
I think it likely that the coping  stones were  kept in place  by pins (as they should  have been). 
Its also likely that strong  winds were the reason  for them blowing  off. And I would  think that 
once one stone  came off then then the other stones were exposed and it was more  likely 
that others  would come  down. The house  wasnt very old (about 13 years  at the date of the 
claim) so I think it unlikely  that there was wear and tear to the area around the coping 
stones. And I think it reasonable to accept the builders view that the build  quality was good. 
So I dont  think that the damage  could have been  expected.
This just leaves the point of whether the pins were  corroded. The property is quite near the 
coast, so its possible. Although the builder says they werent.  I appreciate that the matter  is 
finely balanced but I think its most likely  that the damage was caused suddenly  by high 
winds and not by gradual damage to the pins. And I dont think  theres  sufficient evidence  of 
poor design or workmanship. 
So I think that RSA should pay the claim.  I  understand that Mr and Mrs E have had the 
repairs done. So RSA should pay the reasonable cost of those repairs  (less  any excess) 
together with interest at 8% from the date of loss to the date of payment.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to settle 
Mr and Mrs Es claim by paying their reasonable  repair costs (less any excess) and add 
simple interest* at 8% from the date of loss until the date of repayment.
Ref: DRN65131173*Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc is required by HM Revenue  and Customs to deduct  tax 
from any interest paid. Should  Mr and Mrs E request it, Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc 
should provide  them  with a certificate  showing how much tax has been taken off so that, if 
appropriate, they can reclaim it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs E to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 March  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN6513117