K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) withdrew cover for Mr Js medical  
conditions under their travel insurance  policy. Mr J has brought  the complaint on behalf of 
himself and Mrs J. 
background
In April 2018 Mr and Mrs J arranged to upgrade  their existing bank  account  to a packaged 
bank account,  which amongst  other  things included travel insurance. Mr J explains theyd 
not been able to continue  their policy with a different company due to his age. They  told the 
insurers medical helpline about their medical conditions. For Mr J this was high cholesterol 
and high blood pressure (both of which he explained he controlled  with medication). In 
addition to the monthly fee he paid an additional  premium to cover  these two declared 
medical conditions for a one-year period, and for an age upgrade.  
In early July 2018  Mr J called UKI to tell it that, following hospital tests, he wanted to add a 
new medical condition  called TIA (transient ischaemic attack).  But UKI wouldnt cover  the 
TIA, or his other declared medical conditions. It said the policy  still covered any non-related 
conditions, but Mr J explained this was no good to him as he couldnt travel abroad without 
medical travel insurance. UKI offered Mr J a partial refund (£48) of his policy  upgrade 
premium. He and Mrs J didnt accept this and they came to us.
Our first adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs J didnt consider their complaint 
had been resolved. Following an initial review the complaint was passed to a second 
adjudicator (due to staff changes). She asked Mr and Mrs J for some  additional  information.  
In response to her request Mr J send a copy of the policy  certificate for the additional £79.35  
he paid for single trip travel insurance to cover him for the trip booked  before his TIA. Our 
second adjudicator upheld  the complaint in part. In summary she said:
UKI didnt have to anticipate that Mr J might suffer a TIA, so didnt have  to tell him 
that it might not cover that condition in the future. UKI did explain that it might not 
cover newly  diagnosed conditions. 
Mr J was required to tell UKI about a significant change in health, such  as a TIA, and 
he properly did contact UKI about this. Unfortunately this meant  Mr Js health 
conditions combined increased the risk beyond the risk UKI was prepared to cover,  
so it wouldnt cover him for any of his medical conditions.
Where UKI withdraws cover, we think it reasonable it offer to pay for the cancellation 
of any pre-booked  trips. In this case,  Mr and Mrs J decided  to travel  on their booked  
holiday, and Mr J took out new insurance costing £79.35. This is a lot less than the 
cancellation costs  for the holiday so it was fair for UKI to pay this additional  premium,  
less the £48 pro-rata payment if already refunded.  
Our adjudicator reassured Mr and Mrs J that if hed suffered a TIA while he was on 
holiday his UKI insurance would  have covered him, as it would have been a new  
medical condition  at that point. 
Mr and Mrs J accepted  the proposed settlement but UKI didnt agree. So the complaints 
come to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78563322This decision is confined  to Mr and Mrs Js complaint about UKI. I make no findings  about 
their complaint about their bank account provider as that complaint is the subject of a 
separate complaint. 
Ive read UKIs very detailed comments about  this case, and why it thinks our second 
adjudicators approach  was unfair.  But I think she recommended  a fair settlement to this 
complaint. Ill explain  why, and in doing so Ill focus on what  I consider are the central issues. 
UKI didnt  have to warn  Mr and Mrs J about any possible  medical  conditions  Mr J might  
suffer in the future due to raised  cholesterol  levels and high blood pressure. The policy  terms 
did explain  that it might not continue to offer cover if  before they left on their holiday  they 
were diagnosed with a new medical  condition. It explained in the policy  the types of 
conditions they had to tell it about.
Mr J quite properly told UKI about  his TIA. I think it was a significant change  in health which 
was, in turn, a significant change in risk for UKI. So it was entitled to tell them  that it wouldnt 
cover Mr Js medical conditions any longer. To be clear, if Mr J had experienced a TIA for 
the first time while he was away on holiday then it would have been treated as a new 
condition so wouldnt  have been excluded  under  the policy terms. 
Where an insurer withdraws cover for medical  conditions altogether,  including  for any 
pre-booked trips, I think it is both fair and reasonable for the insurer to offer to pay the 
cancellation costs  of any pre-booked trip. This is the case  even if the consumers new 
medical condition  doesnt prevent them from travelling at that point. The reason for this is 
that the consumer  has booked  the trip in the knowledge that they have  travel  insurance, 
including for their medical conditions, both for cancellation in the lead up to the holiday and 
in the event they are ill abroad. They might not be able to obtain or afford new travel 
insurance, and if that happens they would be in a difficult position of either  cancelling  their 
holiday (without being able to make  an eligible claim) or travelling uninsured. 
UKI says that Mr J was still covered under the remaining policy terms. But I dont think  its 
reasonable to expect  him to travel  without cover for his medical conditions, not least when 
hed already paid an additional premium to cover  his medical  conditions.  UKI says that Mr 
Js intention was to take out new cover, not to cancel the holiday,  so we are basing our 
argument on a liability that did not exist. 
I dont agree with UKIs point. In this case Mr and Mrs J decided that they would travel.  Mr J 
was able to buy new travel insurance at an additional cost. But this cost was far less than the 
amount it would have  cost UKI had they cancelled their holiday and it had paid their 
cancellation claim. Effectively  theyve reduced UKIs exposure to a far greater claim, that we 
consider it would have been fair for UKI to offer to cover at the point it withdrew medical 
cover for Mr J. So I agree with our adjudicator that the fair and reasonable outcome is for 
UKI to pay the additional cost of the travel insurance  Mr J purchased to cover  the trip theyd 
booked while covered by UKI and before Mr J suffered a TIA. 
If UKI has already made a pro-rata  refund of premium to Mr J then its fair for UKI to deduct 
that premium refund  from the new travel  insurance premium. This is because  if Mr and Mrs J 
had made  a cancellation claim, UKI would have been entitled to retain that premium.  
Its for UKI to decide how it will deal with similar situations in the future, as I can deal only 
with the individual circumstances of this complaint  in this decision. 
Ref: DRN78563323my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold this complaint in part. I require U K Insurance Limited 
to pay Mr and Mrs J £79.35, being the amount Mr J paid for additional single trip travel  
insurance. If it has already made a pro rata premium refund then UKI is entitled to deduct 
that amount  from the £79.35 payment. UKI must add interest* to the resulting  payment at the 
simple rate of 8% per year from the date of claim to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If UKI considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs J how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and 
Mrs J a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7856332