K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W have  complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS)  mis-sold an 
Ultimate Reward Current Account (URCA) packaged bank account to them in 2010.  
background
Our adjudicators looked at Mr and Mrs Ws complaint and didnt think BOS had mis-sold the 
URCA. Mr and Mrs W disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think BOS  mis-sold the URCA to 
Mr and Mrs W. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
Ive firstly  thought about whether Mr and Mrs W were given a clear  choice in taking this 
account. At this point,  I should explain that I have to make my decision based on what  I think 
is most  likely  to have happened. When the parties to a complaint disagree about what 
happened (such  as here) and theres a lack of evidence  from the time,  I have  to think about  
what I have been  provided with, what  I do know and the wider  circumstances at the time. In 
other words, what l have to do, in this case, is decide what I think is likely to have happened 
having weighed  up what both Mr and Mrs W and BOS  have  been  able to provide me with.  
Mr and Mrs W upgraded to a fee paying  URCA from a free account  theyd  had for a number 
of years.  So I think Mr and Mrs W wouldve  known  that BOS  did free accounts and they 
couldve had one of those if thats what they wanted.  Mr and Mrs W say they were told they 
had to have the URCA to have an overdraft. I dont know what Mr and Mrs W were told. But 
Mr and Mrs W already  had an overdraft on their free account. But one of the benefits  of the 
URCA was that consumers didnt have to pay the £1 a day overdraft usage fee (which free 
accountholders had to) to use an agreed overdraft  as long as they werent overdrawn by 
more than £300. 
So if a consumer used  an overdraft up to £300 the URCA was the best account for this.     
Mr and Mrs Ws account statements in the period  after the upgrade  show that they were 
using their overdraft at around  the £300  mark even though their overall  limit was higher.       
Mr and Mrs W using  their overdraft in this way suggests to me that they knew  having the 
URCA gave them preferential overdraft  terms rather than it being the case  that it was 
needed to have an overdraft of any description.   
Overall having thought  about everything  Ive seen, I think its likely  Mr and Mrs W were  given 
a clear choice on taking the URCA. I think its most likely they agreed  to the URCA as they, 
at the time at least, thought the benefits package as a whole might prove useful to have.  
Ref: DRN70807152Having looked  at everything provided, I havent seen anything  to suggest BOS  carried out an 
assessment of Mr and Mrs Ws demands  and needs  before selling the URCA, which is what  
shouldve happened  if the account  had been recommended.  So I dont think  that the URCA 
was recommended to Mr and Mrs W. And this means BOS didnt have to check if the URCA 
was right for Mr and Mrs W - it was up to them to do this instead.  But BOS  did have to give 
Mr and Mrs W clear enough information to do this. 
When Mr and Mrs W were sold their URCA (as well as the preferential overdraft terms which 
they benefitted from) a couple of the main benefits  included were travel  insurance and home 
emergency cover. Mr and Mrs W contacted the travel insurance  provider and used the home 
emergency cover on more than one occasion.  So I think  that they had a need  for these 
benefits and found having them useful.
Ive seen what Mr and Mrs W have said about having this cover on another  packaged 
account with a different bank. But I think Mr and Mrs W were told what  the URCA included 
and their use of some  of the benefits supports this. So it was up to them to address any 
duplicate cover. Equally while I accept Mr and Mrs W might  not have needed all the benefits 
on the URCA, it wasnt possible to have some of them  without having  others  too. Id also 
point out that not needing  all the benefits doesnt  mean the account was mis-sold.  
I think Mr and Mrs W used some of the main benefits on the URCA and they were eligible for 
and couldve  used  others too. So while Im open  to the possibility  Mr and Mrs W werent told 
everything they needed to know about each and every one of the benefits, I think  they most  
likely received enough to know what they were agreeing to. And as I havent seen anything 
in their circumstances  to suggest they wouldve been affected  by any of the main  limitations 
or exclusions on the insurance  benefits (at the time the account was sold),  I dont think  
clearer information wouldve stopped them from taking the URCA in the first place.  
Mr and Mrs W may now, with the benefit of hindsight,  think  they shouldnt have upgraded. 
And given  what they mightve read or heard about packaged accounts in general, I can 
understand why they believe their URCA mightve been mis-sold.  But I think Mr and Mrs Ws 
actions after the sale suggest they chose to take the URCA having  an appreciation of what it 
included. So I want to reassure Mr and Mrs W that having looked  at the information provided 
and thought about everything theyve said, I dont think the URCA  was mis-sold to them.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7080715