K821x#15complaint
Mr Ss representative, a claims management  company (CMC), complains on his behalf that 
he was mis-sold four savings plans and a protection plan by a predecessor business of 
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited.  
The CMC says:
Mr S didnt  require long term savings products. 
He didnt have  adequate deposit  based emergency savings  which should be an 
absolute minimum of three months income.
The terms of the policies were misrepresented as being appropriate for medium  term 
savings needs.
He was single with no dependents and didnt need products containing life cover.
He was in his twenties, and whilst the plans may have been affordable at the time, 
there was a strong likelihood  his circumstances would change over time.
background
In my provisional decision of May 2019,  a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision, I upheld  the complaint as I didnt think the advice  was suitable. 
The CMC replied and accepted my decision. 
Sanlam also replied and rejected my decision.  It maintained the recommendation was 
suitable, saying:
although the client was not married at the time of sale,  and there may not have been 
insurable interest, on balance I consider that life cover would have been required.  We 
therefore cannot say that this policy was wholly unsuitable and did not provide a benefit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, and in light of no new submissions,  I uphold this complaint. 
Ive covered the points I consider to be relevant to my decision and therefore I dont feel it 
necessary to go over the points again in detail.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  should pay the following redress:
For the protection plan Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited should refund the premiums, 
with 8% simple interest, from the date of payment  of each premium, to the date of 
settlement. 
Ref: DRN72321642For each of the four savings policies, I require  Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited to pay Mr 
S redress of D + E, where:
A = the premium(s) he paid to the date the policy was surrendered;
B = a return on each  premium at Bank of England base rate, plus one per cent, 
compounded yearly, from the date it was paid to the date the policy was surrendered;
C = the surrender value Mr S received;
D = A + B - C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender and
E = interest at eight per cent per year simple on D from the date of surrender to the 
date redress is paid.  
Compensation for capital growth on the policy premiums in B is not usually subject to 
income tax. Mr S may be liable to pay capital  gains tax on it, but this will depend on his 
financial circumstances. I dont require  Sanlam Life & Pensions  UK Limited  to deduct capital 
gains tax.
But, if it considers its legally obliged to deduct  income tax from the interest calculated in E, 
it should send  a tax deduction  certificate  with the payment. Mr S may reclaim any tax 
overpaid from Her Majestys Revenue  and Customs, if his tax status allows him to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72321643COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Mr Ss representative,  a claims  management company (CMC), complains  on his behalf that he was 
mis-sold four savings plans and a protection plan by a predecessor business  of Sanlam Life & 
Pensions UK Limited. 
The CMC says:
Mr S didnt require long term savings products.  
He didnt  have adequate deposit  based emergency savings  which should  be an absolute 
minimum of three months income.
The terms of the policies were  misrepresented as being appropriate  for medium term savings 
needs.
He was single with no dependents and didnt need products containing life cover.
He was in his twenties, and whilst the plans  may have been affordable at the time, there was 
a strong likelihood  his circumstances would  change over time.
background
Between 1988  and 1990, Mr S was advised to take out four savings  plans. In 1990,  he was advised to 
take out the protection plan. The plans  were surrendered in 2006. 
One of our adjudicators  considered the complaint but didnt think it should  be upheld.  In summary, he 
said:
Whilst there was no record  of any specific objective or a required  term for the savings plans,  
the diagram in the fact find suggested  there was some   discussion  about what Mr Ss longer 
term objectives might  be. 
He was satisfied  that Mr S wanted to build up capital  for the future, and on that basis he 
considered the savings plans reasonable for longer term savings.
The plans were designed to give their optimum return after around 25 years. As Mr S would 
have been aged 52 when  the first plan reached this point, this was a reasonable 
recommendation, particularly because he remained invested for between 16 and 17 years.
The cost of the life cover attached to the plans was only a small proportion of Mr Ss monthly 
premium and there was nothing to suggest  they were unaffordable or that they prevented  him 
from building up a larger emergency fund from his remaining disposable income.
Mr S was living with his girlfriend at the time of the sale, and it was likely they were financially 
dependent on each  other, which  would  suggest there was a need for the savings  plan.  
Whilst Mr S didnt yet own his home, or have children,  this was recorded as one of his short to 
medium term aspirations.
For the reasons  above, Mr S had a need for life cover  to protect his partner and any future 
dependents. So, overall the adjudicator considered  this policy to be suitable for Mr S as it 
provided life cover with the flexibility to increase that cover in the future. It also allowed him to 
use the policy  to accrue a surrender value.
The CMC disagreed with the adjudicators conclusion. In summary, it said:
The Life Assurance and Unit Trust Regulatory  Organisation (LAUTRO)  required that firms 
recommend not possibly  suitable  policies  but rather the most  suitable products from their 
product range. 
Mr S was recommended long term policies  with accompanying charges reflecting their long 
term nature. Alternatively, at premium  levels above a certain amount, consumers could  
access 10 year term policies  with an entirely charge free extension at the 10 year point 
making them  open ended  if clients  required.
Ref: DRN72321644On a 'like for like' investment return basis, over any length of time, the business 10 year term 
policies would have  provided significantly higher returns than the policies in question.
Unfortunately for customers,  the commission  generated by the business  long term policies 
were generally twice that generated by the business 10 year term policies. And since the 
business representatives were remunerated purely on commission, given the choice between  
providing clients best advice or themselves 'best  advice'  in terms of commission generated, 
the firm's representatives  routinely  sold inferior  products, which  was the case  with Mr S. 
The qualifying  premium  for a 10 year policy when Mr S purchased his first savings policy in 
December 1988 was £50 a month, matching  his allocation, but he was instead recommended 
an inferior  exclusively  long term policy.
The qualifying  premium  for a 10 year policy when Mr S purchased his second  savings policy 
in June  1989,  was still £50 a month. Although  Mr Ss allocation for his second policy was £20 
a month, the best advice  would  undoubtedly have been to stop the previous policy,  and 
combine the premiums of both, to access a 10 year term policy.  The same principle applies to 
Mr Ss subsequent two policies.
The business cant dispute that a consumer with the option  to access its 10 year term policies 
should always have  been  recommended over the policies in question.
If the adjudicator received Sanlams  questionnaire  its unclear on what  basis the adjudicator  is 
rejecting the protection  aspect of the complaint.
Even if the adjudicator  assumes that Mr S was living with his girlfriend and it was his intention 
for her to benefit from his death, for this to happen, there would have needed to be a Will 
expressing the client's wishes or the policy itself placed in trust. This clearly was not the case.
As agreement  couldnt be reached, the complaint has been referred to me to be reviewed.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Having done so, subject  to any further submissions, provisionally Im minded to uphold this complaint. 
Im mindful of what the CMC says about LAUTRO, but Im not looking  at what would have been the 
most suitable option or if the recommendations were possibly suitable  for Mr S. Im considering 
whether or not the recommendations  were suitable. On the face of the evidence, and on balance,  
despite what  the business  says, Im not persuaded that they were. 
As theres  little evidence from the point  of sale which confirms Mr Ss personal and financial 
circumstances and the discussions he had with the adviser at the time,  Im bound  to say that this case  
is finely balanced.  
Its difficult to be certain about what Mr Ss specific objectives were for the four policies and whether 
the adviser offered  him alternatives to decide  if the policies did constitute suitable  advice. 
In these circumstances, I need to consider  what, on the balance of probabilities, is the most  likely 
version of events and whether the four savings policies  and the protection policy was suitable for Mr 
S. In doing so, I must take into account  the law, procedure and best industry  practice, but Im not 
bound by this. 
Based on the limited information available  from the point of sale,  Im satisfied that Mr S wanted to 
save. The issue is whether  he wanted policies that needed  to remain  in force over the very long term 
to give him worthwhile returns.
I appreciate the regulatory  rules from 1988 to 1990 required financial advisers to exercise  reasonable 
care and skill to know  your customer and to give recommendations that were suitable for the clients 
circumstances. At that time, advisers may not have  completed  factfinds,  and reason-why  letters  
werent obligatory until 1995.  
Ref: DRN72321645In fact, Mr S did complete a factfind  and three factfind updates for the policies sold between 1988 
and 1990, which confirmed that the 1988 plan was a savings plan and the latter were savings  top up 
 all invested  in managed funds.  
It would seem Mr S was single, in his early  20s, at some  point living with his girlfriend, and wanted to 
save for the future.  But I dont think just because he was looking to save  for his future, the 25 year 
policy was suitable. 
As an aside, even if I was to decide a 25 year plan was suitable, I would  question  Mr S being sold four 
plans in the space of two years, even if the premiums were comparatively low. But this isnt necessary 
at this time. 
On balance, theres  no obvious reason why Mr S would  want to commit  monthly premiums to savings 
plans that needed to be retained for at least 25 year to show  a worthwhile return over other shorter 
term priorities. 
   
Im aware that the product  literature for these plans  does suggest that the policy  could be used to 
meet potential financial needs in the short, medium and long term. 
Im also mindful  of the comments  made about the handwritten diagram, which purportedly  shows a 
medium term return possibility as well as the longer term. If so, I think its likely Mr S was given the 
impression he would get something back after 10 years, when it was very unlikely he would do so. I 
note the plans  were  designed to give their optimum return after around 25 years. 
From 1990 onwards it would seem reasonable to foresee  that Mr Ss circumstances would change in 
the short  and medium term, such that he would  need access  to his savings  earlier than in 25 years  
time. I note in the 1988 factfile, its recorded that Mr S hoped  to buy a property in the next two to three 
years. 
So, while Im satisfied that Mr S could possibly afford to put aside the monthly contributions  for 
savings, I dont think these policies were structured to meet  his likely needs over a shorter term than 
25 years.
Accordingly, I think  he should  be compensated  by comparing  the performance of the policies over the 
time he held them with a benchmark rate existing  in between  1988 to1990,  to reflect  that he was 
prepared to accept a degree of risk with his premiums.
Just because Mr S kept the policies for 16 -17 years  isnt evidence that he knew what he thought he 
had at the point of sale.  If he knew what he was paying into, arguably  he wouldve kept it longer as it 
only really  starts to make  good returns in around 20 plus years. 
In terms of the protection policy, I dont  think  just because Mr S was in his 20s the policy was 
unsuitable. Its just one of the factors  Ive taken into consideration.  Im conscious that despite having a 
girlfriend; he didnt have  any financial dependents, or any outstanding  significant financial liability. I 
note he lived with his girlfriend   although she wasnt mentioned  in any of the applications for the 
savings plans  or the protection plan. Its possible  they depended on each other to some extent, but I 
dont think in this instance this justified a protection policy. And Ive seen no reason  for Mr S to have 
£90,000 worth of cover.  
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, subject to any further submissions, provisionally I uphold this 
complaint. 
Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  should pay the following redress:
Ref: DRN72321646For the protection plan Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited should  refund the premiums,  with 8% 
simple interest,  from the date of payment  of each premium, to the date of settlement.  
For each  of the four savings  policies,  I require Sanlam Life & Pensions UK Limited  to pay Mr S 
redress of D + E, where:
A = the premium(s) he paid to the date the policy was surrendered;
B = a return on each premium at Bank of England base rate, plus one per cent,  compounded 
yearly, from the date it was paid to the date the policy was surrendered;
C = the surrender value Mr S received;
D = A + B - C, representing the investment loss at the date of surrender and
E = interest at eight  per cent per year simple on D from the date of surrender  to the date 
redress is paid. 
Compensation for capital growth on the policy premiums  in B is not usually subject to income tax. Mr 
S may be liable to pay capital gains  tax on it, but this will depend on his financial circumstances. I 
dont require Sanlam  Life & Pensions  UK Limited to deduct  capital gains tax.
But, if it considers its legally obliged to deduct  income  tax from the interest calculated in E, it should 
send a tax deduction certificate with the payment. Mr S may reclaim any tax overpaid from Her 
Majestys Revenue  and Customs, if his tax status  allows him to do so.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7232164