K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr C bought the policy in 1992 sometime after he took out a store  card. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint because:
 I think FICL made Mr C aware  that he had a choice about buying  the PPI, and that he 
chose to take it. The PPI was taken out over the phone almost  a year after the store  
card account was opened.  So Mr C wouldve known he didnt have to have  the PPI to 
have the card.   
 Its unclear if FICL recommended the PPI to Mr C, but it seems to have been right for 
him based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time.  While he had some  sick 
pay through his work, the PPI wouldve paid out on top of this for up to 12 months. This 
is longer than hed have  received sick pay for, and wouldve  left any sick pay available 
for other things.  It also covered  unemployment and Mr C didnt have  any other way of 
keeping up with his repayments if he couldnt  work. 
 Its possible the information FICL gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Mr C doesnt appear  to have been affected by any of the main 
things the policy  didnt cover  and based on what I know about  his circumstances it 
looks like the policy couldve been  useful to him. So I dont think  better  information  
wouldve stopped  him buying it. 
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 May 2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7286218