K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms unhappy with the way Advantage Insurance Company Limited has dealt with a claim 
on his motor insurance policy.
background
Mr Ms car was stolen. And he made  a claim on his Advantage policy. Hes unhappy  with 
Advantages valuation of his car and that hes been  left with £4,100 to pay on the finance 
agreement. He wants Advantage to pay this amount  off.
Advantage accepted in its final response  that it had failed to provide Mr M with a good level 
of service since he reported his car stolen. It didnt proactively  update him and left him to 
chase for updates. It apologised  for this. But it didnt mis-advise him of the revaluation time 
frame as he suggests. Its paid him £100 compensation for failing to provide an acceptable 
level of service, the distress caused  and the resulting delays.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
The outstanding  £4,100 is owed  to the finance  company so we cant look into it.
Mr Ms policy says that if the car is damaged by loss or theft Advantage will pay for 
the necessary  repairs, replace  the car or give him the market value. Here  it chose  to 
pay him the market  value.  That is the cost of replacing it at the time of loss with a 
similar one. Thats  reasonable.
Advantage obtained a number of valuations from the main trade guides of between  
£18,001 and £18,620. And it eventually offered him £19,205. Mr M isnt happy  with 
this.     
He has consulted four trade guides. One valuation is £21,271 and the other three are 
lower at £18,790, £18,000 and £18,040. The average of these three valuations is 
£18,276 which is lower  than Advantages final offer.  And even if the highest fourth 
offer is considered  the average of all four is still less than has been offered. So 
Advantage wasnt wrong in offering £19,205.
Advantage identified that the insured drivers had undeclared convictions which would 
if declared have increased  the premium. As a result  its entitled  to pay only a 
proportion of the claim.  
Mr M also says he shouldve  been  given the opportunity to buy the car back  once it 
was recovered.  But by then Advantage had already paid the finance company before 
it was aware the car had been located.  And it was unlikely  it couldve recovered  that 
money from the finance company. So it had acted reasonably.
He isnt going to ask Advantage  to do anything more.
Mr M doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review.
Ref: DRN72503672my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mr Ms policy says one of the ways  Advantage will settle the claim is by paying  him the 
market value of the car at the time of loss. And that is the cost of replacing  it with a similar 
one at that time. That sum isnt necessarily  the same amount that he bought the car for or 
the cost to him of actually replacing it.
Advantage is also entitled to pay the settlement money to the finance company  towards  what  
is owed on any finance agreement on the car. And theres no guarantee that the amount 
owed to the finance company will all be paid off in full by the settlement money.
When Advantage identifies that the insured  drivers have undeclared convictions  which  
would, if declared, have increased the premium it is also entitled to pay only an appropriate 
proportion of the claim. 
Mr M is unhappy  with the valuation  Advantage made  of his car. He originally said it was 
worth £21,000.
We dont provide a precise valuation of a car. We consider  if the offer being made is 
reasonable. We normally base this on the various  trade guides  and we will also look at any 
other evidence produced  including adverts. But I place most weight on the values  in the 
main trade guides as theyre based  on likely  selling  prices  rather than advertised prices,  
which allow  a margin for negotiation.
Trade guide prices  are by their very nature averages  and variations in actual figures may 
occur from place to place. Nevertheless  I think its fair and reasonable to use them to assess 
Advantages offer. 
In this case its clear Advantages base valuation of £19,205 is higher than the valuations it 
obtained from the trade guides. And its also more than the average of the valuations the 
investigator obtained from four guides.
Taking everything into account,  although  Im aware of Mr M frustration, I dont therefore think 
I can reasonably require Advantage to increase its valuation. I also dont think I can fairly ask 
it to pay off the remaining £4,100 owed to the finance company as thats Mr Ms liability  and 
a debt hes responsible for. 
Advantages payment of £100  compensation for the poor service  it provided is also fair and 
reasonable.
Overall I think  Advantage has acted  fairly  and reasonably and in line with the policys terms 
and conditions. And I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed  outcome in 
this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN72503673Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 December  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7250367