K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  didnt pay him 
quickly enough when  his investment matured.
background
Mr V had an endowment  policy with Sun Life that matured  in 2017. He was given, and 
accepted, the option  to leave part of the matured investment  with Sun Life for a further  year. 
Sun Life said payment  would be due on 21 November 2018.
Shortly before the year was up, Sun Life wrote to Mr V to ask for details of the account  he 
wanted the proceeds to be paid into. He wrote back with his bank details.
After 21 November 2018 came and went, Mr V called Sun Life to complain hed not received 
his money yet. Over  a number of phone calls Sun Life explained it generally expected to 
make a payment  for a matured policy within  3-5 working days of maturity.  And that once it 
had issued the payment through BACS it could take a further  3-5 days  to reach  his account.
In Mr Vs case, Sun Life said the payment was raised the day after the policy matured,  
checked the following day and then authorised for payment the working day after that. The 
payment reached  Mr Vs account  three working days  after it was authorised, on 
29 November 2018.
Sun Life said it had paid Mr V his money  within its own timescales, which it thought  were  
reasonable. Our investigator agreed, and didnt think Sun Life had unfairly delayed paying  
Mr V. 
Mr V disagreed, and asked for an ombudsman to decide the matter. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
I appreciate Mr V feels strongly  about his complaint,  but Im not persuaded Sun Life took 
unreasonably long to pay him after his policy matured. 
The maturity  date marked the end of the investment term. In other words, the point at which 
Mr Vs money would stop accruing  any benefits under the policy  (in this case, it was earning 
interest). 
At that point Sun Life needed to send the money  to Mr V. In order to do that it needed to 
check everything was in order and then have  the payment  itself authorised.  I dont think the 
three working days that took was unfair or caused Mr V any detriment. 
I appreciate Mr V thinks this all could have  been  done quicker.  But I cant see that Sun Life 
promised hed get the proceeds on the maturity date. And I think  theres a reasonable 
expectation that processing  and making  this kind of payment might take a little bit of time for 
a business to carry out. In all the circumstances Im satisfied  Sun Life hasnt done anything 
wrong in the way it has dealt with the maturity of Mr Vs investment.
Ref: DRN75002132From the time Sun Life made the payment, it took a few days  more  to reach Mr Vs account. 
He says it would have been quicker  had it used a payment method like CHAPS rather  than 
BACS. Sun Lifes explained it uses BACS as it feels it is the most secure and cost effective 
way of managing  bulk payments. The choice of which payment system  to use is a matter of 
Sun Lifes commercial judgement and not Im not persuaded its something  it would  be fair 
for me to criticise it for.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2019.
Luke Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7500213