K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs L have complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold them  mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) in 2002.
background
The policy was in Mr Ls name only, and sold in a bank branch.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L disagreed with these findings.  In responding to the adjudicators view, they 
have provided  details of another policy they state they had when the PPI was taken out. 
In their view, they did not have a need  for PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  
to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account  in 
deciding Mr and Mrs Ls case.
Mr and Mrs L have stated  that they were told they needed to take out the PPI in order for 
the mortgage to be granted.  Clearly  I cannot know for certain  what discussions took 
place at this time. I am also mindful that, with the sale taking  place a number of years 
ago, it might be difficult to recall the full discussions that took place  in 2002 in detail.
In the mortgage  application that was signed  by Mr and Mrs L, there was a section 
relating to PPI. Two boxes were  available for ticking. One confirmed that the applicant  
wished to apply  for PPI, and the other stated that the applicant  did not want  PPI. On the 
form signed by Mr and Mrs L, the box selecting  PPI was ticked.
I have carefully considered Mr and Mrs Ls description of the meeting that took place  
when they were sold the policy. Based  on the weight of evidence  available, and in 
particular the details shown on the mortgage application form, my view is that it is more  
likely than not that Mr and Mrs L were given  the option whether or not to take out PPI. As 
Mr and Mrs L signed a PPI application  form, I consider  that they also agreed  to take the 
policy out.
Lloyds advised  Mr and Mrs L to take out PPI. It therefore had to take reasonable steps to 
ensure the advice it gave was suitable. It also had to give clear,  fair and not misleading 
information about the PPI so that Mr and Mrs L could make a properly informed choice.
Having looked  at their circumstances when  the policy was sold,  my view is that the 
policy was suitable  for the following reasons:
Mr and Mrs L have confirmed their entitlement to pay in the event of sickness  or 
redundancy, and also that they had savings. They have provided details of a policy  
they state was in force at the time that they were sold PPI. I note however that this 
policy provided cover in the event of death  or critical illness. The PPI policy provided 
them with different insurance cover.
Ref: DRN79102982The PPI policy would  have paid out an amount to help cover the mortgage 
repayments if Mr L had been unable to work  due to disability  or unemployment, and 
this would have  been in addition to any other  benefits he received. On balance, 
bearing in mind the importance of meeting mortgage  repayments, my view is that 
PPI did provide a useful  benefit to Mr L if he was unable to work  because of disability 
or unemployment.
Mr L was eligible for the cover, and wouldnt have been affected by any of the main  
things not covered  by the policy that might make  it unsuitable for him.
Ive not seen sufficient evidence to conclude that the PPI premium was unaffordable 
when the policy  was sold.
There might  have been other areas  in which Lloyds  didnt give Mr and Mrs L as much  
information as it should have done. But for the same reasons that Ive decided the policy 
was suitable, my view is that better information  would not have put them  off taking out 
the PPI. My conclusion is that Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs L about that. Because Lloyds didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs L, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs L.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs L any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L 
to accept or reject my decision before 7 April 2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7910298