K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold her payment protection  insurance  (PPI)  
in connection  with her mortgage.
background
In 2000 Ms G took out a mortgage with Halifax - which later became part of Bank of Scotland  
- to buy a house and pay for some  home  improvements. At the same time Ms G took out PPI 
to cover her income and protect  her mortgage payments in the event she couldnt  work 
through accident, sickness or if she lost her job.
The policy to cover the house purchase loan on its own cost £8.06  a month and it provided  a 
benefit to approximately match Ms Gs monthly payment of £152 per month. It started  in 
February 2000.
The extended policy to cover the house  and the home improvements cost £10.29 a month to 
cover the £194.17  repayments on the whole mortgage, and this started  a month later in 
March 2000.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for both accident/sickness and 
unemployment for up to 24 months per claim.
Ms Gs mortgage and the PPI policy ended in 2005.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Ms Gs complaint. The adjudicator  said the evidence  showed 
that Ms G chose to take out the PPI and there  was nothing to indicate shed lost out as a 
result.
Ms G disagrees so the complaint  comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Bank of Scotland says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Ms G with 
enough information about the policy so she could make an informed decision about it. It also 
had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for her based on her needs  and circumstances  
at the time. Ive taken this into account  in my consideration of the case.
This isnt an easy complaint to decide.  There is limited evidence  available  from the time of 
the sale, around 19 years ago. So, I must  carefully  weigh  up what  is available  to me when  
reaching my decision.
did Bank of Scotland make it clear to Ms G that she had a choice about PPI?
The PPI policy started in February 2000  and was extended  in March 2000.  I dont know  what  
Bank of Scotland said to Ms G but I do have the mortgage application forms from the time. 
The first mortgage application  form she filled in to buy her house was dated November 1999. 
Ref: DRN75684512It shows that Bank of Scotland  recommended  the PPI to Ms G, and Ms G has answered a 
series of tick box questions about her eligibility and circumstances. The form is also marked 
please send  out a quotation and she has signed the form. I cant  see anything on the form 
to suggest that the PPI is not optional. 
The second  form Ms G filled in, also in November 1999, was to extend  her mortgage to 
cover some home improvements  for the house  she was buying. It shows  that she has ticked  
a box to say that she has already applied for PPI to cover the repayments on the house  and 
wants to extend  the PPI to cover the repayments on the additional borrowing. Ms G has 
signed the form and again, I cant see anything on the form to show that the PPI was not 
optional.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Ms Gs complaint) it is more likely 
than not Bank of Scotland presented the policy to Ms G as compulsory or that it didnt tell her 
about the policy at all. So I think Ms G understood she had a choice and chose to take the 
PPI.
did things  happen  as they should have done  was Ms G properly  advised and 
informed?
if not  has Ms G lost out?
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Ms G. I also 
dont know what information Ms G was given about  PPI, for example, whether she was told 
about the significant exclusions  and limitations of cover. I find it unlikely Ms G agreed to take 
the cover  out without  knowing  anything about  it, but I dont know if she received everything 
she needed to know to allow her to make  an informed  decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when 
Bank of Scotland recommended to Ms G that she take out PPI. I accept Ms G may not have 
been treated fairly and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Ms G has lost out as a result. I say this 
because, given Ms Gs circumstances and needs  at the time,  I think  the policy  cover  was 
suitable for her. And I find it unlikely that Ms G would  have  acted differently and not gone 
ahead with the cover if Bank of Scotland had given her more  information. My reasons are as 
follows:
Ms G was eligible  for the cover and all its benefits
Ms G was employed and in good health at the time,  and it doesnt  appear she would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of the cover.
Ms G was buying a house and improving it on her own. I note that Ms G may have 
had up to 3 months of sick pay entitlement from her employer, which could have 
helped her make the mortgage payments if Ms G was off work ill. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition  to Ms Gs sick pay and for longer than her employer if 
necessary  up to 24 months for each claim.  Ms G had limited  savings and had no 
other means to help her if she lost her job. So, although she believes her family and 
friends may have  helped her if she had financial difficulties, I think Ms G had a need  
for cover and that it would have been useful to her if Ms G found she was unable to 
work. It could have helped  her at what would be a difficult  time - it could have helped 
her protect her home.
I find it unlikely Ms G would have agreed to something without having some 
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely she would  have declined  it solely  
Ref: DRN75684513on the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to her. Ive already said she had a 
need for it and at approximately £8-£10  per month  it appears to have been 
affordable.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and 
Ms G may not have been treated fairly and reasonably by Bank of Scotland in its dealings 
with her, I find shes not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons  Ive detailed 
above, I think Ms G would have been  in the same position if Bank of Scotland  had done 
more and properly  advised and informed  her - I think she would have still taken out the PPI.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Ms G and Ive taken into account all of her other  
comments, but these  points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Ms G has not lost out as a result  of taking out 
PPI with her mortgage, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms G to accept 
or reject my decision before 16 May 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7568451