K821x#15Complaint
Mr K is seeking to recover £7,000 from Lloyds Bank PLC, which  was stolen from his bank 
account as a result of a third-party scam.
Background
On 26 February 2018, two payments  of £7,000  at 11.27am and £4,500 at 11.55am  were  
made from Mr Ks account, after he received a phone call from a fraudster claiming to be a 
BT engineer. The fraudster told Mr K that he was due a refund. But that hed made a mistake 
and overpaid Mr K by £7,000. So, Mr K followed the fraudsters instructions, not realising he 
was giving the fraudster remote access to his computer  and used a security token to transfer 
£7,000 to the fraudsters account with another bank, which I will refer to as Bank B. The 
fraudster kept Mr K on the phone and made a second payment of £4,550  from his account. 
Mr K realised hed been scammed  and alerted  the bank at around  1pm.  
Lloyds accepted Mr K had been  the victim of a scam. It contacted Bank  B and managed to 
recover the payment  of £4,550 which it refunded to Mr K. Bank  B told Lloyds that the £7,000 
payment had already been  spent  by the fraudster.  But Lloyds says it is not liable for the 
£7,000 loss because Mr K unwittingly  authorised the payment  and it could  not reasonably 
have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money from the payee bank. 
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said as follows:
Im currently  minded to uphold this complaint for the following reasons:
1.Its common ground that Mr K authorised the scam payment of £7,000. He was duped by 
the fraudster into instructing  Lloyds to transfer that sum to their fake account with Bank 
B. They deceived  him over the phone into thinking  that hed been overpaid  a refund and 
told him he needed to return the money.  The fraudster blocked Mr Ks computer screen  
with a BT security sign, which meant  Mr K wasnt able to see what was happening. 
2.I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr K was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used his security credentials to request the payment. So, 
although he didnt  intend the money to go to the fraudster, under the Payment  Services  
Regulations 2017, Mr K is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance.
3.However, taking into account,  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Lloyds should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter  
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems  in place to look out for unusual  transactions  or other signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.  
Ref: DRN78079932Conduct their business with due skill, care and diligence (FCA Principle for 
Businesses 2) and to pay due regard to the interests  of its customers (Principle  6). 
Look to identify and help prevent transactions  particularly unusual  or out of 
character transactions  that could involve  fraud  or be the result  of a scam  
something also recognised by the British Standards Institutes October 2017 
Protecting Customers from Financial  harm as a result of fraud and financial abuse  
Code of Practice, which a number of banks and trade associations  were involved in 
the development of.
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel  used, have  taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm or fraud.  
4.In this case I need to decide whether Lloyds acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings 
with Mr K when he transferred £7,000,  or whether it should have done more than it did. 
Having looked  at Mr Ks bank statements  from January  2017  to February 2018, I think it 
was unusual and uncharacteristic for him and the account to have a payment of £7,000 
followed by £4,550 (which were  made  by the fraudster) taken together. Particularly  as 
the payments  were  being sent to a newly created payee  and were both made in just 
under half an hour of each other.  Any payments out of the account tended to be for much 
less than the combined total of the payments of £11,550, and mostly to another account 
in Mr Ks name  via a standing order. 
5.I accept that Mr K had made two payments for around £8,000  out of his account prior to 
February 2018, but these were made to HMRC and were a month apart in August and 
September 2017. The payments made on 26 February 2018 were the only two faster 
payments made from the account on the same day over a period of just over a year. The 
second payment  also reduced Mr Ks balance to just under £40. And wouldve left Mr K 
without enough  money to fund regular direct debits.  Given  the account had operated with 
a five-figure balance  for the previous 12 months, this wasnt in line with how Mr K 
typically operated  his account. In my view, by this stage, Mr K appeared to be making  an 
out of character and unusual  payment less than 30 minutes after making the first 
payment to the fraudster. 
6.So, I think the £4,550 payment was sufficiently suspicious  and unusual enough for 
Lloyds to have  had concerns that the payment was potentially fraudulent. And that 
Lloyds ought fairly  and reasonably  to have contacted Mr K and questioned  why he was 
making a second large payment less than half an hour after making  the first. Had Lloyds 
contacted Mr K, Im persuaded they wouldve more  than likely been  able to detect Mr K 
was being scammed  and that something was amiss  especially as Mr K wasnt aware  
the fraudster had transferred £4,550 out of his account. Lloyds could then have  
contacted Bank B immediately. 
7.But the evidence  before me indicates that Lloyds didnt contact Mr K. And it was in fact 
Mr K who,  realising  hed been  duped, alerted the bank about the payments just after 
1pm, which was around 90 minutes after the £7,000 had left his account.  
8.According to Lloyds records, they didnt  contact Bank B until 2.45pm, which was nearly 
three hours after the second payment had been made, to try and recover  Mr Ks money. 
So, in my view, when Mr K told Lloyds  hed been  scammed, the bank didnt  act as 
Ref: DRN78079933quickly as it could, or in my view, ought to have done in the circumstances. Fortunately,  
Lloyds were able to recover the £4,550  payment, as the fraudster  hadnt  yet managed to 
spend it. But Bank B told Lloyds the £7,000 was gone. 
9.Prior to issuing my provisional decision I contacted Bank B to try and establish when the 
£7,000 had left the fraudsters account. Unfortunately, given the time that has now 
passed, Bank B no longer have this information.  So, we will never know for sure when 
the £7,000 was moved out of the account.  But given the second payment was still in the 
fraudsters account nearly 3 hours  after it had left Mr Ks account, on balance,  I think  its 
not unreasonable that the £7,000 wouldve still been  in the account around the time and 
not long after the £4,550 left Mr Ks account. And had Lloyds  made additional checks 
with Mr K when the second payment was made, it wouldve been  able to contact Bank  B 
sooner and might have been  able to recover Mr Ks £7,000. But Lloyds lost that 
opportunity.
10.In my judgment,  Lloyds  could and should have  done more to help Mr K. And should have 
acted with more  care and urgency when trying  to recover  Mr Ks funds. Had it done so, 
Im persuaded Mr K wouldnt have lost £7,000.
11.I have  also considered whether  Mr K should  bear some responsibility  by way of 
contributory negligence. However, it is clear that up to and including the time of 
authorising the first payment,  he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate 
that he wasnt dealing  with a genuine  member of staff from BT. Mr K was experiencing 
issues with his internet  speed  at the time and he was a BT customer. So, Im satisfied 
there was no contributory negligence on this occasion. He was simply the unwitting  and 
blameless victim of a clever fraudster. 
12.In these circumstances, Im satisfied Lloyds should fairly and reasonably reimburse Mr K 
for the loss he suffered without any reduction  together with interest to compensate him 
for being deprived of the money  he lost. Im satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the 
money from Mr K it would have remained in his business account,  so interest should be 
at that rate.  
So subject to any further representation from Mr K or Lloyds, my provisional decision was to 
uphold Mr Ks complaint  and direct the bank  to:
Pay Mr K £7,000; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the business account  rate from the date of loss to the 
date of refund
Mr K accepted my provisional decision. Lloyds  didnt respond with any further  comments. 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78079934As neither party had any further submissions or comments  for my consideration, I see no 
reason to deviate from the outcome explained  in my provisional decision.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint. Lloyds 
Bank PLC must pay MK the following:
Pay Mr K £7,000 for the payment he lost as a result of the scam; plus
Pay interest on that sum at the business account  rate from the date of loss to the 
date of refund
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 December  2020.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7807993