K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that his credit card provider, NewDay  Ltd, wont refund transactions  to a 
gaming app provider which he says he didnt  make or authorise.
background
Mr C held a credit card account with NewDay. On 19 June  2017  his card was used to make 
a small payment to a gaming  app provider. Between 9 and 30 July a further 12 transactions  
to the app provider debited the account.  Mr C thinks he authorised these.  The balance of the 
account (£99.18) was paid by direct debit on 4 September.
Between 9 October and 8 November 2017 the card was used to make 45 transactions  to the 
app provider. These ranged  in value from 89p to £48.99 with 29 transactions under £10. A 
statement dated 8 November 2017 gave  an account  balance of £500.77.
Between 10 November  and 16 November  2017  a further 29 transactions debited  the account 
in favour  of the app provider totalling £296.81. These ranged in value from 89p to £39.99 
with 24 transactions  under £9.
On 18 November Mr C used the card in a department store.
Between 18 November  and 8 December 2017  a further 108 transactions  debited the account 
in favour  of the app provider. These ranged in value from 89p to £92.99 with one transaction  
of £184.99. There  were 48 transactions of £39.99 or more.
Novembers balance of £500.77 was paid by direct debit on 4 December 2017.
Later that month  Mr C received a letter  indicating  hed exceeded the £3,500  limit on his 
credit card. Hes said it was only at that point he discovered his card details had been used 
to make in-app  gaming  purchases since October. He said none  of these purchases were 
authorised by him.
After establishing  that it was his young child whod been making  the purchases 
accidentally, most of them were refunded by the app provider. But Mr C was left with about 
£590 worth  of transactions which he asked NewDay to reimburse.
He wanted to know why the uncharacteristic  spending hadnt  prompted further checks by 
NewDay, and why theyd  allowed  his credit limit to be exceeded. He also said hed had 
issues logging on to his online  account  and thought the account should have reverted to 
paper statements after a period of inactivity.
In January 2018 NewDay declined to refund the transactions.  They said it was Mr Cs 
responsibility to maintain  the account  balance within the agreed  credit limit.
What Mr C told us
Mr C explained that if his children wanted  to make in-app  purchases  they would give him the 
cash and he would input  his credit card details. He said, My process was always  to enter 
card details online myself and at some point the card details must have saved on the 
system. He said if hed known his card details had been saved to his childs account 
following a genuine  purchase,  hed have deleted them.
Ref: DRN79488462He said that he didnt notice the disputed transactions before NewDays  letter because hed 
been unable  to access his account online to check statements. Hed not reported  that 
difficulty to NewDay because he so rarely  used  the card, and thought hed be contacted if 
there was any suspicious  activity.
Mr C explained that he always paid the balance  of this card in full each month to avoid 
interest costs. When asked why a payment  towards the credit card taken by direct debit on 
4 December 2017 (£500.77) didnt alert him to the fact that it was being used, he said he 
assumed hed used  the card for shopping or petrol  purchases in the run up to Christmas.
What NewDay told us
NewDay said that the disputed spending  didnt trigger any security response because  Mr Cs 
card had been used to make undisputed transactions  to the same merchant in the recent 
past. They didnt  agree to refund any of the transactions, but they said they could have 
handled his complaint better and offered £50 as a goodwill gesture.
Our investigators view
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He wasnt persuaded  that Mr C knew about  or 
authorised the disputed  transactions. So, he said that NewDay should refund the disputed  
amount with interest and increase their offer of £50 to £150 to reflect their poor investigation 
and complaint handling.
Mr C accepted this outcome. NewDay didnt; they said Mr C should remain  liable for the 
spending because  there was no evidence  of fraud.
Relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
Where credit  is involved, as in this case, a consumers liability for unauthorised payments is 
set out in section  83 of the Consumer Credit  Act (CCA) 1974. Section  83 of the CCA 1974  
says that a consumer  isnt liable for any loss arising  from use of the credit facility  by another  
person not acting, or to be treated as acting, as the debtors agent. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Cs credit  card
The agreement for Mr Cs credit  card account  included the following relevant terms:
If you, or an additional cardholder, allow someone else to use a card or the card number,  
you will be liable for all transactions they make until you tell us that the card may be 
misused.
my provisional decision
As NewDay didnt accept the investigators  view, the complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 9 February 2021.  I said:
Ref: DRN79488463Taking into account the above  relevant considerations, I think  the key question here 
is whether Mr C, or someone that can be treated as acting as his agent, made the 
transactions to the app provider.
Authorisation isnt limited to transactions for which explicit permission  has been 
given; NewDay would  also be entitled  to hold Mr C liable for any transactions  which  
were done  by someone to whom he gave authority to act on his behalf. In other  
words, if a payer has permitted the use of his payment instrument by a third party  (an 
agent) so that it looks to the bank  like the payment transaction has been authorised  
by the payer, the payment can be considered authorised.
That isnt to say that Mr C would be responsible for any transactions where the 
payment instruction received  by the bank  is indistinguishable  from one he gave 
actual authority for. For example, a payment transaction carried  out by someone 
whod stolen Mr Cs card details would still rightly be described  as unauthorised, 
even though it might have  the same appearance from the banks perspective as a 
genuine transaction.
The important consideration here is what part Mr C played in permitting the 
transactions he disputes. So, Ive thought  about whether by his actions Mr C held his 
child out as having his authority to make payment transactions using  his credit card.
Mr C has explained that he entered his card details  on his sons  gaming account. 
Although I understand that he didnt  appreciate  at the time those  details would be 
saved as a payment method for future use, thats not something I can hold NewDay 
responsible for. I think that by entering  his account details in this way Mr C made his 
child his agent  and gave him the appearance of having his authority to make  
payment transactions. In these  circumstances  I think its fair for NewDay to treat the 
payment transactions as authorised and to hold Mr C liable for them.
I appreciate the question  Mr C has raised  about why NewDay  didnt spot and stop 
what he has described as uncharacteristic spending. I also recognise  that there 
were a substantial number of transactions to the app provider over a period of two 
months (10 October to 8 December). But Im conscious there  was a history  of 
genuine spending with the merchant which dated  back beyond June 2017, and the 
transactions started off slowly and built up gradually. The majority  were also low 
value and the later higher value transactions are ones  which the app provider has 
already refunded. Also, although the transactions were  regular,  there were often 
gaps of a day or two between them until late November  when  they started to become 
a daily event.
So, while the usage and value did increase over time, and eventually Mr Cs credit 
limit was reached, I dont think it would be fair to say NewDay  should have stepped 
in.
Overall, I provisionally find that NewDay have  acted fairly and reasonably by 
declining to refund the transactions which the app provider hasnt already refunded.
I note NewDay have  said they could have handled his complaint  better, and 
previously offered Mr C £50 as a goodwill gesture.  I dont intend to ask NewDay to do 
any more than honour that gesture .
Ref: DRN79488464responses to my provisional  findings
NewDay accepted  my provisional findings.  Mr C expressed his disappointment with the 
outcome but said he wanted closure . Hes unhappy that NewDay didnt alert him to what 
was happening sooner,  either by sending him paper statements or questioning the 
transactions.
Mr C added that the transactions could have  been carried  out by an unknown  third party  
hacking  his sons gaming account, but he acknowledged he has no evidence  to support 
that. He said, I maintain that at no point did I authorise any of the spend  I disputed and my 
10-year-old son did not have the authority to make the payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I do not uphold Mr Cs 
complaint.
I acknowledge Mr Cs disappointment  with the outcome, and I accept its not likely  he made 
the transactions he disputes or had knowledge of them. But, as I explained  in my provisional 
decision, third parties can validly authorise  payment transactions where the cardholder has 
given them the status of an agent.  And by saving his card details to his sons  gaming  
account I remain of the view that Mr C gave the user of that gaming  account  his apparent 
authority to transact  using his credit  card.
As Ive found that the transactions  were, in effect, authorised by Mr C, I find its fair and 
reasonable for NewDay to hold him liable for them.
Ive thought carefully about whether NewDay could have done  more to prevent the disputed  
transactions, and whether there was any failing on their part which would mean  Mr C should 
not be held liable for any portion of the spend. But for all the reasons set out in my 
provisional decision I still dont think theres  enough to say NewDay should  have done things 
differently.
Overall, I find that NewDay have acted fairly and reasonably by declining to refund the 
disputed transactions.
As noted in my provisional decision, NewDay have previously said their handling of this 
complaint could have been better  and offered  Mr C £50 as a goodwill gesture. Whilst I make 
no findings about NewDays handling  of this complaint and Im not making  any award here,  
Id expect NewDay to honour any offer theyve already  made. I therefore leave it to NewDay 
to make arrangements with Mr C regarding  this payment if they havent already.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2021.
Beth Wilcox
Ref: DRN79488465ombudsman
Ref: DRN7948846