K821x#15complaint
Miss C complains that Studio Retail Limited  (Studio) lent to her in an irresponsible  manner.
background
Miss C was provided with a catalogue shopping account by Studio in June 2000. Her credit 
limit was initially set at £234  and was then gradually increased until it reached £1,164 in 
March 2002. Over  the following years Miss C struggled to manage  her account on occasion 
and her credit limit fluctuated. But in March 2012  her credit limit was increased  from £1,950  
to £2,200.
In January 2011 Miss C entered into a debt management  plan (DMP). But she didnt include 
her debt to Studio in that plan as she says she was hoping that it was manageable. That 
didnt however prove to be the case and Miss C entered an additional DMP in June 2013 
that included her debt to Studio. At that time Studio stopped adding interest to the account 
and Miss C has been making reduced  repayments.
Miss Cs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators. He thought that by the 
time Miss C entered the first DMP, Studio should  have realised that she was facing serious  
problems managing her money and started to show forbearance by not adding any further 
interest or charges to her account. So he asked Studio to put things right for Miss C.
Disappointingly Studio hasnt responded to that assessment. So, as the complaint hasnt 
been resolved  informally,  it has been  passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide. This is the 
last stage of our process. If Miss C accepts my decision it is legally binding on both parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to 
unaffordable/irresponsible lending  complaints  on our website and Ive kept this in mind while 
deciding Miss Cs complaint.
Lending of this nature first became regulated in April 2007. So I am not able to make any 
findings in this decision about  anything  that happened before then. Though I will obviously 
consider that period of time to help understand the history of Miss Cs relationship with 
Studio. And for a few years after that date the guidance regarding lending  of this type was 
evolving. 
But certainly by 2010  the rules and regulations required  Studio to carry out a reasonable and 
proportionate assessment  of whether Miss C could afford to repay what  she owed in a 
sustainable manner.  This assessment is sometimes referred to as an affordability  
assessment or affordability  check. The check needed to be completed at the outset of a 
relationship and each time there  was a significant  increase  in the credit  limit. And Studio also 
needed to monitor  the account  for any signs that Miss C was struggling to manage  the credit  
shed been given.
Ref: DRN73942982The checks  had to be borrower focused   so Studio had to think  about whether repaying  
the credit  sustainably would cause difficulties  or adverse  consequences  for Miss C. In 
practice this meant that Studio had to ensure that making the required repayments wouldnt 
cause Miss C undue  difficulty or adverse consequences.  In other  words,  it wasnt enough for 
Studio to simply think about the likelihood of it getting its money back,  it had to consider the 
impact of any repayments on Miss C. 
Checks also had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances at that time. In general, 
what constitutes a proportionate affordability  check will be dependent  upon a number of 
factors including  but not limited  to  the particular circumstances of the consumer  (e.g. 
their financial  history, current situation  and outlook, and any indications  of vulnerability or 
financial difficulty) and the amount / type / cost of credit they are seeking. 
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any repayments to credit from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet higher repayments from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the period  of time a borrower  will be, or has been, indebted for 
(reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit is likely to be greater and the 
customer is required to make repayments  for an extended period). 
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for a given application  including  (but not limited to) any indications of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether Studio did enough to manage  the credit  it was 
offering to Miss C.
Given the time that has elapsed since the account  was first opened, Studio has told us that it 
has little evidence of the checks that it performed to ensure that Miss C would be able to 
repay the credit in a sustainable  manner.  But it says that it would have used information  from 
a credit reference agency to help determine the state of Miss Cs finances.
I dont draw any adverse  conclusions from Studios  inability to provide me with the results of 
its checks. But without  that information it would be difficult to fairly  conclude that the checks 
it did were proportionate. It doesnt seem to have gathered  any information from Miss C 
about her specific circumstances. 
But in the specific  circumstances of this complaint I dont think  that matters. The complaint 
that Miss C has made relates to what happened  around the time she entered  the first DMP 
in 2011. Her complaint is that Studios lending became irresponsible  around that time. So 
that will reasonably  form the focus  of my decision.
Studio has said that in January 2011,  when Miss C entered her first DMP, it had no 
indication that she was experiencing financial problems. And it appears to draw  comfort from 
the fact that Miss C didnt include its account in the DMP that its lending was affordable for 
her. But I dont agree.
Ref: DRN73942983As I said earlier,  Studio was required to ensure that Miss C could afford  to repay  what she 
owed when any substantial increase  was made  to her credit limit. But given the passage of 
time I dont  have details  of when her limit was changed in the year or two before 
March 2012. So it is difficult  for me to make  any findings  in that regard without  further 
evidence. But Studio was also required to monitor Miss Cs repayment record for any signs  
that she was struggling.
Over 2010 Miss C was required  to make monthly repayments. I can see that during that year 
Miss C was charged six default sums. That would suggest that on around  half of her 
repayments she failed  to meet her contractual obligations. I think  that would have been a 
clear indication to Studio  that she was facing  problems  managing  her money.
Studio has said that it would have also used information provided  by credit reference 
agencies when looking at Miss Cs account. I appreciate  that the information recorded by 
credit reference agencies in 2011  might not have been as comprehensive as we see today. 
And as a result some data might be missing  or anonymised, or the data might not be up to 
date. But Miss Cs DMP in 2011 included seven  different accounts  totalling almost £4,000. 
I think it unlikely that the adverse information about  at least some  of those accounts wouldnt 
have been seen on any credit check.
So I think Miss Cs repayment record in 2010  should  have  made Studio aware that it needed  
to pay greater attention to her financial position.  And I think that at least  some  of the causes  
of her needing to enter a DMP in January 2011  would  have  been  visible  to Studio from its 
credit checks. So I think at that point Studio should  have identified  that Miss C was facing 
severe problems managing her money  and offered to treat her account  with forbearance.
From the limited information available to me, Miss C was making little progress in repaying 
what she owed. It seems  much of the repayments she was making each  month was being  
used to settle Studios interest and charges rather than reducing her outstanding balance. 
I think, given what  I have said above about the financial problems she was facing, that 
Studio should  have  shown forbearance at that time and stopped adding additional interest 
and charges to her account.
putting things right
I think that Studio should have exercised forbearance and stopped adding new interest  and 
charges to Miss Cs account from January 2011. So, to put things right, Studio should 
reconstruct Miss Cs account by making the following adjustments;
rework the account to reflect that no interest at all should have been added to the 
account from January  2011 onwards.  All  late payment  and over limit fees added  
after that date should also be removed; and
If an outstanding  balance remains on the account once these adjustments  have been 
made Studio should contact Miss C to arrange  a suitable repayment plan for this. If 
Studio considers it appropriate to record negative information  on Miss Cs credit file, 
it should backdate this to January 2011.
OR
Ref: DRN73942984If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer being  
an outstanding  balance, then any extra should  be treated as overpayments and 
returned to Miss C, along with 8% simple interest on the overpayments from the date 
they were made (if they were)  until the date of settlement. If no outstanding balance 
remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Studio should  remove any 
adverse information  from Miss Cs credit file.
HM Revenue & Customs requires Studio to take off tax from this interest. Studio must give 
Miss C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
 
If Studio has sold the outstanding balance on this account to a third-party debt purchaser it 
either needs to buy the account back from the third party and make the necessary 
adjustments, pay an amount to the third party in order for it to make the necessary 
adjustments, or pay Miss C an amount to ensure that it fully complies with this direction.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold part of Miss Cs complaint and direct  Studio Retail  Limited 
to put things right as detailed above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 April 2021.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7394298