K820x#14Complaint
Mrs J through her representative Mr E complains that Wirecard Card Solutions Limited 
blocked her Pockit account without warning  or reason.  The Pockit card is a pre-paid 
payment card administered (along with a range of other similar products)  by Wirecard. 
Wirecard later closed the account  and decided  to return the funds to source.  Mrs J is 
unhappy Wirecard didnt  return  the balance to source and would like the return of her funds 
and compensation  for the delays.
Background
Mrs J had a Pockit account.
On 3 May 2018  following  a review Wirecard blocked  Mrs Js account.
After the review Wirecard emailed Mrs J on 19 June 2018 to say they decided to close  the 
account and return  the funds in the account  to source.
Wirecard found that they were unable to return the funds to source as the source was a 
gambling site and they refused to accept the return.
Wirecard asked Mrs J to provide them with a bank statement  that was less than three  
months old so that they could return the money to her.
Mrs J provided  Wirecard with a statement.  Wirecard confirmed receipt of the statement on 
6 June 2018. Mrs J didnt receive  the funds into her account.
As Mrs J couldnt access the account,  she complained to Wirecard. They investigated and 
said they had followed the correct procedures  regarding the account being reviewed and had 
complied with the terms and conditions of the account.
Mrs J was unhappy with Wirecards response, so she contacted  our service.
One of our investigators  looked into her complaint. She contacted  Wirecard to get an update 
on the status of the account.  Wirecard said the funds  had been  returned to source. Our 
investigator provided Wirecard with a copy of their email dated 31 May 2019 where they said 
they were unable to return the funds to source.
The investigator didnt  receive any information from Wirecard to show  what had happened to 
the funds. Based on this she decided that Wirecard  should return the funds to Mrs J together 
with interest at 8% from 4 June 2018  as well as £100 compensation for the poor service it 
provided Mrs J.
Although Wirecard accepted to pay £100  compensation they didnt agree with the 
investigators view. They  said that none  of the money  in Mrs Js account  originated  with her, 
so they were not her funds to return.  Wirecard said that they would raise cheques to return 
the funds to source.
As there was no agreement the matter has come  to me for decision.
I contacted Wirecard. They said they still didnt  have proof  of entitlement to funds. They were 
unable to confirm  if the funds had been returned to source. They said again  that as the funds 
Ref: DRN72987462didnt originate  with Mrs J, they didnt think  she was entitled to the funds.  They said they 
were complying with their legal and regulatory obligations.
My provisional decision
In my provisional decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so I am minded to reach  a different  conclusion to our investigator. And Ill 
explain why below.
Account review and freezing
UK legislation  places extensive obligations  on regulated financial businesses to verify a 
customers identity, establish  the purpose  and nature of the business relationship and the 
origin of funds. Businesses are also required to carry  out ongoing monitoring of an existing 
business relationship. Wirecard has said Mrs Js account was blocked  to meet these  legal 
requirements.
Mrs J has said she doesnt know why her account was blocked.  Whilst I understand Mrs Js 
strength of feeling,  as Ive already explained  businesses have a legal obligation to comply 
with various laws and regulations.  Having looked at the information Wirecard relied upon, Im 
satisfied that they were  complying with their legal  and regulatory obligations when they 
blocked Mrs Js account. The terms and conditions of Mrs Js account also permit Wirecard 
to block an account  and Im satisfied  Wirecard  acted in line with them.
I know Mrs J wants  Wirecard to explain the reason they blocked her account.  And I can 
understand her frustration  that she hasnt been  provided a detailed  explanation. But, 
Wirecard is under no obligation to provide this information to her, as much as shed like to 
know. So, I cant say Wirecard have done anything wrong by not providing  this information to 
her.
Account closure
Wirecard told Mrs J that the account would close in June 2020 and the funds  would be 
returned to source.  The terms and conditions  of the account say Wirecard could close the 
account with immediate effect  in certain  circumstances and Im satisfied that the conditions  
were met. So, I am satisfied they were  following the terms and conditions when they closed 
the account with immediate  effect.
Whilst Mrs J mayve expected to be given the reasons for the closure, Wirecard isnt 
required to give her a specific reason for closing the account. So, I cant say Wirecard have 
done anything  wrong by not giving Mrs J this information.
Return of funds
I have considered the evidence before me. I accept that there has been frustration with the 
delay in getting information in this case.  I also appreciate  that Mrs J feels  she was promised 
the funds back.
Ref: DRN72987463In order for me to ask Wirecard to return the funds to Mrs J, I have  to be satisfied that the 
funds are hers. I have  asked Mrs Js representative for information about  the funds. He has 
advised that the funds are Mrs J s but hasnt  provided any evidence to support this.
Having looked  at the evidence I accept that Wirecard  have withheld Mrs Js funds, but I 
havent seen any evidence so far to demonstrate that they have acted unfairly in doing so.
I understand this will be frustrating for Mrs J but Im unable to say that Wirecard should 
return these funds to Mrs J without evidence that Mrs J is entitled to them.  And to date Ive 
not seen any evidence to indicate this. And therefore, I wont be asking  Wirecard  to do 
anything else.
In summary,  I recognise Mrs J feels unhappy  about the blocking and subsequent closure  of 
the account as well as the monies  not being  returned to her. I realise  Mrs J will be 
disappointed by my decision, but overall, based on the evidence  Ive seen, I cant  say 
Wirecard have acted unreasonably and treated Mrs J unfairly  when they blocked and closed 
her account  and withheld her funds.
So subject to any further representations by Mrs J and Wirecard I was minded to reject the 
complaint.
Responses to my provisional decision
Wirecard have not made any comments.
Mrs J has said the account  was closed randomly without any reason given and Wirecard had 
already agreed  to return the funds in the account to her, but they never  paid it.
My findings
Ive re considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings in the light of Mrs Js response to it.
Mrs J has said that Wirecard randomly closed the account without a reason.  I have referred  
in my provisional decision to the fact that financial businesses have legal and regulatory 
obligations that they must comply with. Ive looked again at the information Wirecard  relied  
on and I am satisfied that they acted fairly and in line with the terms of the account when 
they reviewed,  blocked and closed Mrs Js account.
Mrs J has said that Wirecard agreed to refund her the money in the account. In her opinion 
this commits Wirecard to forwarding the money  to her. Im afraid I disagree, icts my role to 
determine whats fair and reasonable based on the evidence. As I have mentioned  in my 
provisional decision, I have to be satisfied  that the funds  belong  to Mrs J if I am going to 
direct Wirecard to return the funds to her. On the evidence before me Im unable  to say that 
Wirecard should return these funds  to Mrs J. I realise that this will be very frustrating to Mrs J 
and her representative, but I have seen nothing to change my mind.
For all these reasons and the reasons  outlined  in my provisional  decision, my view on what
the fair and reasonable outcome on this case  is remains the same as set out in my 
provisional decision.
Ref: DRN72987464My final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold Mrs Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2020.
Esperanza Fuentes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7298746