K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that hes been charged  for taking a guest into airport  lounges when using his 
American Express Service Europe Limited  (Amex) Priority Pass.  
 
Background
The background to this complaint and my initial conclusions were set out in my provisional 
decision. In my provisional  decision, I explained why I intended to uphold  Mr S complaint  
and how Amex should resolve it. I said: 
Background
Mr S has an Amex business charge card which comes with associated  benefits and 
membership of the Priority Pass programme. The Priority Pass allows  qualifying  Amex card 
holders to bring an additional guest into selected airport  lounges free of charge.
Mr S complained to Amex  and says hes been told by various airport lounges  that any guests 
he takes in will be charged. Mr S says that, as a result, hes chosen not to use the airport 
lounges in some  cases.
On 15 June 2018 Mr S took a companion into an airport lounge  and was charged £15. Mr S 
went on to complain but Amex didnt agree  it had made a mistake. Mr S referred  his 
complaint to our service and it was passed  to an investigator. She upheld the complaint and 
said Amex had provided confusing information  about the way the companion  feature of the 
Priority Pass worked. The investigator asked Amex to refund the £15 fee Mr S was charged  
and pay him £50.
Amex didnt respond to the investigators recommendation. Mr S responded and said that 
hed been dissuaded from using various  airport lounges because  he was told a charge would 
be applied  for any companions with him. Mr S didnt feel the proposed  settlement was fair so 
his complaint has been passed to me to make  a decision.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand why Mr S is upset. He has a qualifying  Amex business charge card that means 
hes automatically enrolled for the Priority Pass. And the Priority Pass terms and conditions 
say Mr S can take a guest  into qualifying airport lounges  without  a charge. Any additional 
guests are chargeable  the current rate is £20 per visit. Mr S has told us that hes been 
given misleading  and incorrect advice when trying  to access airport  lounges and has been 
incorrectly charged.
Ive looked at the Amex Business Platinum Card Terms and Conditions  (which are available 
on Amexs website) to see what the correct approach is. The terms say Platinum  Business  
Cardmembers who are enrolled to the programme can bring one additional guest free of 
charge. Any additional guests will be charged at the prevailing rate  
Im satisfied that the terms and conditions say Mr S can take a guest into qualifying airport 
lounges without being charged. The terms confirm that any additional guests will incur a 
Ref: DRN77112272charge. In response  to the investigator,  Mr S asked for confirmation that the terms allow  him 
to take a guest  into qualifying  airport lounges  for free and Im satisfied they do.
I can see Mr S was charged £15 for taking a guest into an airport lounge  on 15 June  2018.  
The information Ive seen shows Mr S attended with one guest so, in line with the above 
terms, he shouldnt have  been charged. I agree with the investigator that the £15 Mr S was 
later charged should be refunded.
Mr S has given  us dates and locations  where  he says he was incorrectly told that he couldnt  
take a guest into the airport lounge  and has asked us to take that into account. Mr S has told 
us this situation has occurred on several  occasions, including after he complained to Amex  
and received its final response. Ive looked  at the available information and I agree with the 
investigator that Amex  hasnt given a clear explanation of how the Priority Pass  works.
Where information is unclear or incomplete, Ill base my decision on the balance  of 
probability. That is, what I consider is most likely to have occurred based on all the available 
information and evidence. In this case, Im satisfied  Mr S has been given misleading and 
unclear information  about how his Priority  Pass  works.  And Im satisfied that on several 
occasions hes been dissuaded from using  airport  lounges because he was incorrectly 
advised any guests  with him would incur a charge. The Priority  Pass  information Amex  has 
provided shows Mr S was charged for taking  a single guest into an airport lounge on 15 June 
2018 and I think  its more likely than not that he hasnt always been  given the right 
information about how the programme  works.
Like the investigator, I think the £15 Mr S was charged for his 15 June 2018 visit should  be 
refunded. But I dont think the £50 recommended  goes  far enough. Mr S has told us he wont  
use the airport lounge  if he cant take his travelling  companion in with him. I think thats 
reasonable. Im satisfied  that there have been  times  when Mr S hasnt used an airport  
lounge after being told he would be charged for bringing in a guest, despite being able to 
take a guest in for free. And I can see that Amex has provided  somewhat confusing 
information about how the Priority Pass works to Mr S. I intend to uphold  Mr S complaint 
and increase the proposed award for the trouble and upset caused from £50 to £150.  Amex 
should also refund the £15 charge Mr S incurred following  his 15 June 2018 visit.
Mr S responded to say that he had contacted  Amex  on multiple occasions to check  he could  
take a guest with him using his Priority Pass. But Mr S has told us he wasnt always  able to 
use the airport lounge  with a guest unless  payment  was made. Mr S also pointed  out that a 
single trip could include stop overs  and the intended  use of more  than one lounge per leg. 
Mr S has also pointed  out he pays a higher fee for his Platinum Amex card and that one of 
the key benefits  he wants  to use is the guest admittance  with his Priority Pass. Mr S says 
that he should be able to use the Priority  Pass  service in line with the information set out in 
Amexs terms and conditions. 
Amex responded  and said it did respond  to the investigators view. Amex  said it doesnt 
operate the Priority Pass and isnt responsible  for misleading information  provided to Mr S. 
Amex said isnt responsible for errors  made  by Priority Pass.  
Ref: DRN77112273My findings
Id like to thank Mr S and Amex for their patience  whilst this case  has been  with us. Ive 
reconsidered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr S responded and made a number of points. Mr S says he has checked the terms of entry 
with Amex on various occasions and was told he could take a guest  free of charge. 
However, Mr S says despite this, he was denied a free guest admittance at airports  on a 
number of occasions. I can see how frustrating that would  be. 
Mr S has pointed  out that one of the key reasons he has this type of card, and pays the 
membership fee, is membership to Priority Pass. Mr S has confirmed that the ability to take a 
guest into an airport free of charge while he is travelling is particularly important to him. I can 
see Mr S is a regular traveller and understand why its important that he is able to access  
airport lounges. So in Mr S individual circumstances, I can see that not being  able to use his 
guest pass in line with the information  provided by Amex was particularly frustrating. 
As I said in my provisional decision,  I agree the information shows Mr S hasnt always  been 
able to take a guest  in with him free which  meant he has either been charged for visiting or 
chosen not to use the Priority Pass lounges altogether.  Id like to assure Mr S that I have 
taken his comments into account when deciding how to resolve  his complaint. 
Amex responded  and said it isnt responsible for Priority Pass errors.  I understand Amexs 
point, but Mr S has told us that on several occasions he has been unable  to take advantage 
of the guest pass despite first checking that he had a qualifying  membership. Mr S has 
pointed out that his relationship is with Amex and that he gains access  to the Priority Pass 
as a condition  of his Platinum card. Mr S says he has a reasonable expectation of being able 
to use the service in line with what Amex has told him about  how the service operates  and I 
agree. In these individual circumstances,  Im satisfied the disconnect between  the terms and 
what he experienced has caused distress  and inconvenience to Mr S and that itd be fair for 
Amex to recognise that by refunding the fee and compensating him.
There is no guarantee the issue  wont  happen  again, where there  are third parties involved 
in providing this particular service.  I note that the Platinum Card  Priority Pass terms say that 
any additional guests  (not covered  by the free pass) will be charged on Mr S Amex card. 
Going forward, if Mr S is advised he doesnt qualify for a free guest pass he has the option  of 
taking this up directly with Priority  Pass for a refund. My decision here isnt intended to cover 
any situations that havent yet happened  and nor will it necessarily be fair for Amex  to 
compensate him if the situation happens  again. Instead, this decision is only based on the 
individual circumstances  of this complaint that Mr S has brought to us.
Ive considered everything Mr S and Amex have  said and I remain  of the view that this 
complaint should  be upheld.  I still think Amex  should  refund  the £15 fee Mr S was charged in 
June 2018 and pay £150 for the distress and inconvenience caused.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  American  Express Services  Europe  
Limited to refund the £15 fee Mr S was charged on 15 June 2018 and pay him £150. 
Ref: DRN77112274Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 February  2021.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7711227