K820x#14complaint
Mr E says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold  him a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr E took out in 1997  when he applied  for a credit card.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the policy was mis-sold. Mr E disagrees, so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision. Mr E mainly says that Lloyds gave him no 
information about the PPI and he wouldnt have knowingly agreed to it. Mr E also told us he 
had other  means  he couldve relied  on to make his credit card monthly repayments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Es complaint. Ill explain why. 
I dont know what mightve  been discussed about  the PPI. But the application form Mr E 
completed made it clear  that it was up to him to say if he wanted PPI and hes ticked to say 
he required  it. Mr E couldve  left the box blank if he hadnt wanted PPI. 
I can understand why Mr E has forgotten now as this was a long time ago. But I think  its 
likely that Mr E wouldve  been able to see at the time that the application  form showed  that 
having the PPI was optional - and he chose to take it, signing the completed application at 
the end to confirm  the information  on the form.  
Although Mr E thought hed taken out the PPI during a meeting, Lloyds couldnt confirm  this 
from its records. But Lloyds said that it would look at this complaint as if it had advised Mr E 
personally to take out the PPI. This means it not only had to give him important policy 
information in a clear  way. It also had to take reasonable steps to make  sure the cover it 
recommended was suitable  for Mr E. 
It doesnt look to me as if the policy was unsuitable for Mr E based on what Ive seen of his 
circumstances at the time. PPI wouldve covered him in the event of accident or sickness for 
up to 12 months per claim. This was significantly longer than he couldve depended on his 
employer to pay him sick pay. 
Being entitled to redundancy  benefits wouldnt have helped Mr E if he was off work  sick.
The policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event Mr E lost his job 
unexpectedly and was out of work  on top of any redundancy money, providing some 
additional financial help in those circumstances. 
Ref: DRN76479242Ive taken into account what Mr E told us about  his financial circumstances at the time. But it 
doesnt look to me as if Mr E had any other readily  available means  to rely on to pay his 
credit card if he wasnt able to work. And having PPI meant that Mr E wasnt at risk of having 
to sell property if he couldnt work  just to be able to pay his credit card monthly bills - 
perhaps when  he mightnt  get as good  a sale price as he hoped for if he needed to raise 
cash in a hurry.  PPI provided a dependable  alternative  means of covering his credit card 
monthly repayments. 
So, looked  at overall, I think  PPI was worthwhile for him and suitable  for Mr E in his situation.  
Its possible some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr E about  the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  I dont know if Lloyds properly explained what  the policy  would cost,  or what 
it might  pay out if Mr E made a claim. But Mr E chose to take out the policy when he didnt 
have to  so he seems  to have wanted  this type of cover.  I cant see that he wouldve been 
affected by any of the policys exclusions or limitations. Mr E couldve  cancelled the policy  at 
any time if his circumstances changed or he no longer wanted to pay for the benefits it 
offered him.
Looked at overall, I think its unlikely Mr E wouldve  made a different decision if better 
information had been provided.  On balance I think he still wouldve  taken out the policy.  
This means  I dont  find that Mr E has lost out as a result of anything that Lloyds mightve 
done wrong. So it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7647924