K820x#14complaint
Ms B complains  about how Ageas Insurance Limited settled a claim she made  for a stolen 
watch under  her home insurance policy.
background
In July 2018 Ms Bs home was burgled  and a number of items were stolen, including  a 
watch. Ageas agreed to pay the claim for all of the items. As part of this, it offered her a cash  
settlement for a custom-made bangle and a voucher for high-street jewellers so that she 
could replace the watch.
Ms B said her nearest jeweller  was around a 30 mile round trip, and when she got there, 
they didnt stock the type of watch she had. She was told she could order  it online but didnt 
want to do this, so she asked Ageas to give her a cheque  for the full amount for the watch. 
Ageas said it would do this, but it would only pay what  it would  cost it to replace the watch, 
which was less than the voucher was worth.
Ms B complained to Ageas, she didnt think this was fair. She said the watch had been a gift 
from a relative and this had caused  her a great  deal of distress.  She said Ageas had paid 
her in full for the bangle so this is what it should also do for the watch. Ageas said Ms Bs 
type of watch had been discontinued, but similar watches by the same  brand were readily 
available online,  so it wouldnt increase the offer.
Our investigator thought Ageas had acted in line with the terms of Ms Bs policy,  so she 
didnt think it needed to anything more. But she asked Ageas to extend the voucher for a 
further three months,  as the time limit to use it had lapsed. 
Ms B didnt agree with the outcome reached  by the investigator, so the matter has come to 
me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms Bs policy says:
How we settle claims
We will at our option repair,  reinstate or replace the lost or damaged  property. Where  
property cannot  be replaced or repaired we may at our option  pay in cash  the amount 
of the loss or damage.  If we do pay case the sum payable will reflect any discounts 
we may have received had we replaced the property.
From reviewing the above,  I can see Ageas  are able to choose  to replace stolen items 
through its approved suppliers if its able to do so. And if the policyholder doesnt want to use 
these suppliers any settlement paid wouldnt  normally be more  than the amount Ageas 
would have paid its own approved suppliers  to replace the items.
In this case, Ageas offered to replace Ms Bs watch (by offering vouchers). So Ive thought  
about whether  this is fair. And having looked at everything, I think it is.
Ref: DRN70476302The type of watch  Ms B had is no longer available, but the same brand of watch  has a 
number of alternatives that are similar to the type of watch Ms B had. Ageas has provided  
vouchers for a store  which  does stock this brand of watch, so Im satisfied it has been able to 
show it can be replaced. This means  it doesnt need to offer the full cash  settlement Ms B 
wants. 
Ms B was given a full cash settlement for a bangle that was custom-made, but this is 
because Ageas didnt think it could be replaced.  Because its shown her watch  can be, I 
think its fair that it has only offered a voucher for the watch  under its policy terms. Ageas 
can provide a cash settlement if Ms B doesnt want to use the vouchers. But because Ageas 
would be able to get a discount for the watch,  the cash offer is reflective of what it would cost 
Ageas to replace it. I think this is reasonable for it to do and in line with the terms of Ms Bs 
policy.
I appreciate the nearest jewellery shop isnt in Ms Bs local town, and I can see this might  
cause her inconvenience. But she does have the option to buy the item online, or opt to 
accept the cash  offer if she doesnt  want to use the vouchers. And I dont think  the stores are 
so far away  to say Ageas have  treated Ms B unreasonably. 
Ms B has said the watch had special sentimental  value as it was a gift from her late relative. 
I understand that having any sentimental  item stolen will cause  distress, but this isnt the 
fault of Ageas. And I dont  think it would be reasonable  for it to make a full cash  settlement 
just because the item had sentimental value.  
I appreciate the voucher Ms Bs been  given may have  now lapsed in terms of the time she 
had to use it. Ageas has agreed to extend this previously and I think it would be fair to do the 
same again,  if Ms B decides to use it. Ms B will have to contact Ageas directly if she wishes  
to do this.
But for the reasons given above  I dont think Ageas needs to pay Ms B the full cash value of 
the watch.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 May 2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7047630