K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Bank of Scotland Plc (BOS) mis-sold an Ultimate  Reward  
Current Account (URCA) packaged bank  account to her in 2009. 
background
One of our adjudicators has looked at Mrs Ms complaint and didnt  think  BOS had mis-sold 
the URCA.  Mrs M disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mrs Ms complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  provided, I dont think BOS  mis-sold the URCA to 
Mrs M. Id like to explain the reasons for my decision.
From what  Ive seen, Mrs Ms account  was upgraded  to a fee paying URCA from a free 
account that shed had for a number  of years. So I think its likely that Mrs M wouldve  known  
BOS did free accounts as she already had one. Mrs M says she was told she had to have an 
URCA to have a £300 interest free overdraft. 
Ive thought about what Mrs Ms said. But Mrs M upgraded  around the time BOS was about 
to start charging its free current account holders a £1 a day overdraft usage fee to use an 
agreed overdraft. URCA account  holders didnt need  to pay this fee as long as they kept to 
their individual agreed limit as well as the overall URCA limit. So Mrs M wont have been  
misled if she was told that taking the URCA would be the only way for her to have an interest 
free £300  overdraft. Overall having  thought about everything Ive seen, I think  its likely      
Mrs M was told about the URCA  and she was given a clear  choice on taking it. 
 
BOS says it didnt recommend the URCA.  And I havent seen  anything  here to suggest      
Mrs Ms needs were assessed  before the URCA was sold,  which is what shouldve 
happened if the account was recommended.  So overall I dont  think  that BOS did 
recommend the URCA to Mrs M. This means  it didnt have to check  if the URCA was right 
for Mrs M. It was up to Mrs M to do this. But BOS did have to give her clear enough 
information to do so. I think its likely Mrs M was provided with information on the main 
benefits included  on the URCA. After all BOS was trying to get her to pay for it when she in 
all likelihood knew she didnt have to. 
In any event, when  Mrs M agreed  to the URCA a couple of the main benefits  it included were 
mobile phone insurance,  travel insurance and preferential overdraft terms. And having 
looked at what  shes told us about her circumstances, Ive seen no obvious reason to 
suggest Mrs M couldnt have used  these benefits. Indeed it looks like Mrs M registered at 
least one handset with the mobile phone insurer and also contacted the travel insurance 
provider. 
Mrs M also saved  by not having to pay the £1 a day overdraft usage fees that BOS free 
accountholders had to pay too. So I think its fair to say she made some use of the URCA. I 
accept that Mrs M may not have had a need  for all the benefits.  But the benefits on 
Ref: DRN78677302packaged accounts are sold as overall packages. And its rare for an accountholder to want 
and need all the benefits in a given package.
Overall I think  Mrs M was eligible  for and couldve used the main  benefits of the URCA. So 
while Im open to the possibility she might not have been told everything she needed  to 
about all the ins and outs of the URCA,  I do think she received enough to know and 
understand what she was agreeing to. 
Mrs M may now,  with the benefit of hindsight, think she shouldnt  have taken  upgraded. And 
given what she mightve read about  packaged  accounts in general, I can understand why 
she believes  her URCA  mightve been mis-sold. But I think Mrs M chose to take the URCA 
having a decent appreciation of what  it included. So I want  to reassure  Mrs M that having 
looked at all the information provided and thought about everything shes  said,  I dont think  
BOS mis-sold the URCA to her. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 April 2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7867730