K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2003. Mr D 
and Miss W say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr D and Miss Ws case.
Mr D and Miss W are complaining that the policy was mis-sold to Mr D only,  so I have mainly  
considered his circumstances at the time.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Nationwide had to make Mr D and Miss W aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their 
consent before adding  it to their mortgage.  I cant be certain  what  was said at the time Mr D 
and Miss W applied for their mortgage  and PPI, but Nationwide has sent us a copy of the 
available paperwork.  Within a document titled Mortgage Product Confirmation Document 
there is a section that shows PPI was selected, and the level of cover.  The mortgage 
application form also shows the selection of PPI, and this document was also signed by 
Mr D and Miss W.  The PPI section  of the mortgage application states we would like the 
following protection 
With the above in mind  along with what we know  about how Nationwide  sold similar policies 
around the time I think its likely  Nationwide  made  it clear that Mr D and Miss W didnt have 
to take out the PPI and that they chose  to take it out  although I can understand why they 
cant remember this.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI to Mr D so it didnt have to check  if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr D got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr D about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like he wanted  this type 
of cover.  
Mr D was a director of his own company at the time he applied for the PPI. Nationwide  have 
accepted that as a director of his own company Mr D would  have found  it difficult  to claim 
under the unemployment section of the PPI so it has offered to refund the amount Mr D and 
Miss W paid for this section  of the cover. 
Mr D has told us that he would have received full pay from his business  if he became too ill 
to work, but the PPI would have  paid out in addition to any other income Mr D would have 
received if he made a claim  under the remaining sections. Based on what  Ive seen of Mr Ds 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to, or 
limits on the remaining sections of the PPI cover - so it would have been useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put Mr D off taking out the cover. 
Ref: DRN77581232Which means Nationwide doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D and 
Miss W.
But Nationwide will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr D and Miss W because: 
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr D and Miss W about that. Because  Nationwide 
didnt tell Mr D and Miss W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Nationwide  has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission 
and profit share that was above  50% of the PPI premium for the sections of the policy  it 
hasnt offered a refund for - and I think  that offer is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr D and Miss W have said - including  that they should be 
refunded the full amount  they paid to cover  Mr D. But as I think the remaining the accident 
and sickness sections  of the PPI were suitable  for Mr D and he could  have claimed these 
points dont change  my decision.
what the business needs  to do
Nationwide has offered to pay back to Mr D and Miss W the amount  they paid to cover  Mr D 
for unemployment cover plus 8% simple interest.
Nationwide also has to pay back to any commission  and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium for the remaining sections of the policy. Nationwide should  
also pay back to Mr D and Miss W any extra interest  they paid because  of that.
Nationwide should  pay back  to Mr D and Miss W the extra  they paid each month because 
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Nationwide 
should also pay Mr D and Miss W 8%* simple  interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr D and Miss W can claim back the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
Ref: DRN77581233my final decision
Nationwide has offered to pay back to Mr D and Miss W the amount  they paid to cover  Mr D 
for unemployment cover plus 8% simple interest and I think  this is fair.
The remain  sections of the PPI policy werent  mis-sold  so Nationwide  Building Society 
does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr D and Miss W.
But Nationwide Building Society does have  to pay back to Mr D and Miss W any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D and 
Miss W to accept  or reject  my decision before 29 April 2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7758123