K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs L are court  appointed deputies for their son, Mr L2. On behalf of Mr L2, Mr L 
complains along  with his wife that HSBC UK Bank  Plc didnt act on Mr Ls instructions to 
remove an out-going  deputy as signatory to Mr L2s account. As a result he says he and his 
wife as joint deputies  werent able to use the account and the delay  in removing the out-
going deputy meant HSBC disclosed confidential  information to the retiring deputy. He also 
complains that HSBC didnt respond  to his complaint.
background 
The background to this complaint and my initial findings on it can be found  in my provisional 
decision a copy of which is attached to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I was proposing to uphold Mr Ls complaint in 
part.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. HSBC  acknowledged receipt  of my provisional decision but didnt provide any 
further comments for my consideration.
Mr L provided further comments for my consideration.  In summary:
he gave further background  to the complaint and explained how hed previously been 
removed from the account  by the Retiring Deputy in 2017. He explained  that he was 
notified in advance of the decision  of the Court  of Protections decision to remove the 
Retiring Deputy  and a copy of the order was delivered  to HSBC at a pre-arranged 
meeting. Mr L says HSBC told him it couldnt  guarantee  immediate removal  of the 
deputy and for this reason the continuing deputies took the decision to move the funds 
in the account until HSBC confirmed  the deputy  account was in order  and the 
Retiring Deputy  was removed.
he thinks Ive dismissed his concerns about HSBC disclosing confidential information 
to the Retiring  Deputy  and he referred me to the Retiring Deputys note of their visit to 
HSBC in June  2018 some  three  months  after the Court Order  requiring their removal.
hes unhappy with the length of time its taken to resolve  his dispute.
he doesnt think Ive taken into account  HSBCs delay and refusal to execute  the 
Court Order  or the release of sensitive and confidential information which  have 
resulted in the deputies breaking their code of conduct.
he says Ive not taken  into account  HSBCs  delays in responding to their complaint or 
that due to HSBCs  delay they transferred the funds  and opened a new account as a 
result of which Mr L2 has a liability  to pay Mr and Mrs L.
Mr L also made a subject access request (SAR) to HSBC as a result of which hes provided  
further comments for my consideration. Ive summarised his concerns, in my own words  
below:-
1.he says HSBCs position  is that the courts caused the extended delay and not HSBC 
due to a revised  Court  of Protection  Order  issued in June 2018. Hes drawn to my 
attention HSBCs communications with the Court  of Protection in early June 2018 in 
which he says HSBC  admits it shouldve actioned the first order.  He says this is a 
clear admission  of HSBCs guilt and he reiterates that the fundamental legal position 
is that the sealed Court Order presented to HSBC was legally actionable without 
Ref: DRN79042832delay. As a result we should have taken  into account the costs incurred during this 
period of extended delay.
2.he says HSBC admit their actions that caused the initial  delay were based  on 
incorrect internal legal advice yet he says HSBC questions why they are claiming 
costs from March.
3.he thinks theres no hope of a fair outcome because HSBC expected our service  to 
form an opinion and arrive at a fair and sensible outcome but in the absence of this, 
HSBC arrived at their own level of compensation and dismissed early and late costs.
4.he says that although  HSBC would  object to costs for time,  HSBC admit in their 
internal emails that FOS will uphold costs  for time.
5.he says HSBCs email from the Head of Legal  dated in early  February  2018  shows 
their objective was to serve and protect the rights  of the Retiring Deputy yet the 
Court Order  explicitly terminated the Retiring Deputys appointment.
6.our email  to HSBC in October 2019  refers to a data breach but this hasnt been 
followed up.
7.he thinks the complaint has been  handled  with apathy and laziness without 
understanding the legal points of the complaint and weve regurgitated  HSBCs  
stance with no attempt  to make our own independent conclusion.
In summary  Mr L says hes evidenced direct financial  losses of £4,000, third party legal 
costs of £1,000  and the joint deputies have expended 64 hours at £30 per hour dealing  with 
this complaint which has now been  invoiced to their client  and as a family theyve suffered 
unimaginable distress and inconvenience.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thank Mr L for his detailed comments.  Id like to reassure him that Ive considered  his 
comments carefully but in keeping  with our role as an informal dispute resolution  service I 
will not respond in similar detail.
Ill start by restating my role in this complaint, as an ombudsman I can consider the 
complaint brought against HSBC  but I cant deal with Mr Ls concerns about how our service 
has investigated and handled the complaint.  This extends to the questions  Mr L has about  
what weve done on this complaint and on the questions weve  asked and information weve 
asked HSBC for. Thats a matter for us, as an independent and impartial service  to decide. 
Here, while Ive had regard for all Mr L has said  Im satisfied  I have enough information to 
fairly reach a final decision.
The starting point  here is that HSBC accepts there was a three month delay in removing the 
Retiring Deputy between the middle  of February  2018  the last day on which the Retiring  
Deputy could appeal  the decision for their removal  and the middle of May 2018  when  
HSBC received the revised Court  of Protection Order.
The information provided by Mr L suggests  to me that theres a dispute between  the Retiring 
Deputy and Continuing Deputies or, at the very least, a breakdown of trust and confidence. I 
say this because  Mr L has explained  to us that the Retiring Deputy met with HSBC in 2017 
in order to remove Mr L from the account. And in January 2018 Mr L applied  for a Court 
Ref: DRN79042833Order to remove the Retiring  Deputy from the account. However,  in looking at this complaint  
Im unable to look at whatever dispute is underlying this. I can only look at whether or not 
HSBC has treated its customer,  Mr L2, fairly.
Mr L thinks HSBCs  objective was to serve and (for reasons unexplained) protect the right of 
the terminated deputy and that HSBC have demonstrated a certain obligation  to the 
outgoing party when  in fact the court  order  explicitly terminated any obligation. I realise  Mr L 
is upset by the way hes been treated, but I havent seen anything to suggest that HSBC 
were acting in an unfair way towards Mr L2s interests here.  I think the fact that HSBC took 
legal advice in the way it did suggests that it was trying to deal with this situation  in the right 
way as a business. That, unfortunately, resulted in a delay in it taking the necessary actions. 
HSBC provided information to show  it obtained  internal legal advice  about  whether or not it 
could act on the Court Order. It was told to wait to see if the decision would be appealed. Its 
not the role of our service  to question the merits of the internal  legal  advice HSBC  was given 
or to say when it should have acted on the Court Order. Instead we look at whether HSBC  
acted fairly.  Given the background  to this complaint, I cant say it was unreasonable for 
HSBC to take legal advice  before it agreed  to remove the deputy.
I agree  that HSBC  didnt deal with the removal of the Deputy as quickly  as it should have 
done but my role isnt to punish HSBC for this, but to come to an impartial decision on whats 
fair and reasonable to put things right. Its important for me to repeat that were not a court of 
law and we dont have  the powers  of one. This means that we dont have jurisdiction to 
make findings about the legality and/or enforceability of the orders  made by the Court of 
Protection.
costs
Mr L is unhappy that HSBC questioned why the deputies  were claiming costs from March 
2018. I can understand the reasons why Mr L incurred costs from this date  because this 
was after the date of the original Court Order  requiring the removal  of the Retiring  Deputy. Id 
like to reassure him that Ive taken into account  HSBCs actions as a whole  including  the 
period between the date of the original Court Order and the amended Court Order.  However,  
I explained in my provisional decision  why I didnt think it would be fair and reasonable for 
HSBC to be responsible  for all these costs.
Ive considered Mr Ls request for compensation for the Joint Deputies time in dealing  with 
matters but I explained  in my provisional  decision that we can only tell a business  to pay 
compensation for the trouble and upset  experienced by HSBCs customer  in this case 
Mr L2.
I dont have any reason  to doubt that its taken Mr and Mrs L considerable time to deal with 
this complaint and neither do I doubt that its had some impact on the time theyve been able 
to spend with their son. However, Mr L doesnt have a claim for losses  in his own right and 
my role is limited to looking at the impact the delay has had on Mr L2 as the banks 
customer.
I dont think the delay had a significant  impact on Mr L2 so I dont consider it appropriate to 
ask HSBC to pay any further compensation. I say this because Mr L transferred almost all of 
the funds in the HSBC account  to a different account at the same time as he asked HSBC to 
remove the Retiring Deputy. So although Mr L wasnt able to operate the account he held at 
Ref: DRN79042834HSBC, the Joint Deputies  opened  an account  with another bank to manage financial 
transactions for their son.
Mr L has explained that the Joint Deputies  couldnt use the funds transferred from the HSBC 
account because  this would have put them in breach of their duties as deputies.  I can see 
that if Mr and Mrs L have had to use their own funds in order to manage financial 
transactions for their son that this will have  been  inconvenient and will have had an impact 
on them.  However, I cant find it had any impact on Mr L2 because  Im not aware that he 
suffered any detriment or loss of funds as a result of the delay.
I explained in my provisional decision  that - because  Mr L transferred the funds in the HSBC 
account to a different account  that he was able to operate for his sons  benefit - I didnt think 
HSBCs delay in removing  the Retiring Deputy  from the account  had had a significant impact 
on Mr L2.
Mr L has told us he did this because  when he took the Court Order  to HSBC  and asked it to 
remove the Retiring Deputy he was told this couldnt be done  immediately. I dont  have any 
reason to doubt this was the case.
However, I remain of the opinion  that it was Mr Ls decision to move  the funds into a new 
account because  he did so on the same  day as he took the Court Order to HSBC when he 
asked it to remove the Retiring Deputy. I cant see that there was any discussion about  how 
long it would take HSBC to deal with this. I realise  Mr L must have had his reasons for 
believing the funds were in danger but Im afraid I havent seen anything  to suggest this was 
the case taking  into account that the Retiring Deputy would also have been  subject  to the 
same duties as Mr and Mrs L.
Mr L has explained that he wasnt able to use the funds he transferred out of the HSBC 
account for the benefit of his son because this would have put him in breach of his 
obligations as a deputy. Ive considered  this carefully and I realise  that he and his wife have 
used their own funds in the meantime to pay for their sons  needs and this has had a 
financial impact on them. I appreciate this may have impacted  on Mr and Mrs L but I cant 
say theres been  any financial loss to Mr L2. I say this because the funds that would have 
been spent from his account at HSBC have instead  been spent personally by Mr and Mrs L 
personally with a debt owed  to them by their son.
Mr L explained that hes evidenced direct  financial losses  of approximately £4,000,  third 
party legal costs  of £1,000 and many hours of their own time. I explained in my provisional 
decision the reasons  why I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask HSBC to fully 
reimburse these and no new information has been  provided to me which causes me to 
change my opinion.
Ive taken into account that due to HSBCs delay the Retiring Deputy invoiced for their 
professional costs for the period after the date of the Court  Order requiring their removal.  I 
explained in my provisional decision  that the amount  offered by HSBC  is sufficient to cover 
these costs. However, even if the Retiring  Deputy  had retired immediately  then its likely  they 
would have incurred  some costs, irrespective of HSBCs delay, whilst they finalised all 
matters relating to their retirement.
confidential information
Ref: DRN79042835Mr L feels I casually dismissed his concerns about HSBC disclosing confidential information 
to the Retiring  Deputy.  I said in my provisional  decision  that I think its certainly  possible that 
confidential information may have been  disclosed to the Returning Deputy because they still 
had access to the account. I went on to explain that I didnt consider it necessary to make a 
compensatory award because Mr L had transferred almost all the funds in the account so I 
thought it likely that the Retiring Deputy only had access to historic information.
Ive looked again at the June 2018 note of the Retiring Deputys meeting with HSBC  to which  
Mr L has drawn my attention. I accept this note supports that HSBC told the Retiring Deputy 
that Mr and Mrs L had submitted a new signed  business application  and the date of this and 
that Mr L had gone  to a branch of HSBC in June  2018 to provide his specimen signature.  I 
take on board that this indicates  confidential  information was provided to the Retiring Deputy 
and I dont think it helped  when HSBC provided this information to the Retiring Deputy.
Mr L has drawn to my attention that the law doesnt require there  to be a financial loss when 
we determine  what needs to be done  to put things right on a complaint. However, in deciding 
what is a fair and reasonable outcome of the complaint we look at the impact  this has had on 
Mr L2. In the circumstances, I cant say there  has been any financial impact  on Mr L2 due to 
any breach of confidentiality because by this time Mr L had withdrawn almost all of the funds 
from the account.
But Id like to make the point that my reading of the note shows that the Retiring Deputy went  
to HSBC to resolve  the outstanding issues to ensure that they were removed from the 
account. I appreciate  this is probably  not the way Mr L views the purpose of the Retiring 
Deputys visit to HSBC   but from an impartial  viewpoint, I think its reasonable to read it in 
this way.
breach of obligations  as a deputy
Mr L has explained that HSBCs failure to remove the Retiring  Deputy caused him to breach 
his obligations  as a deputy. Im afraid its not the role of this service  to decide whether or not 
Mr L breached his obligations as a deputy  that would be for a Court to decide. But in 
considering what  happened here, Ive not seen anything  to suggest this has had an impact  
on Mr L2. I say this because Mr L transferred almost all of the funds from the HSBC  account 
to a different  bank.  And Mr L told us he paid for his sons needs without using the funds  
transferred from the HSBC account.
summary
Ive taken into account Mr Ls further submissions  but I remain of the view that HSBCs 
offer to pay £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused and £1,480  
towards legal  fees is a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require HSBC Bank Plc to pay 
to Mr L2  following the offer it made  to him after the involvement of this service  - £1,480  
towards legal  fees and £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L on behalf of 
Mr L2 to accept or reject  my decision  before  27 March 2020.
Ref: DRN79042836Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79042837copy extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr L is a court appointed deputy for his son, Mr L2. Mr L complains on behalf of Mr L2 that HSBC 
UK Bank  Plc didnt act on Mr Ls instructions to remove  an out-going deputy as signatory to Mr L2s 
account. As a result he says he and his wife as joint deputies werent able to use the account and 
the delay in removing the out-going  deputy meant HSBC disclosed confidential information to the 
retiring deputy. He also complains that HSBC didnt respond to his complaint.
background
In mid January 2018 an order was made by the Court  of Protection. It required i) the discharge and 
termination of the powers of an existing  deputy  who Ill refer to in this decision as the Retiring 
Deputy; and ii) the continuation  of Mr L and his wife as joint deputies  (Joint Deputies) of Mr L2s 
property and affairs.
Mr L says he took a copy of the Court Order to a branch of HSBC in early  February  2018.  He asked 
HSBC to remove  the Retiring  Deputys  access to the account and to restore the Joint  Deputies 
access. He says HSBC  failed to do this and instead the Retiring Deputy changed the address  on the 
account, had complete  access to it and was sent an account statement.  At the same time he also 
transferred almost all the funds from the account pending HSBCs removal of the Retiring Deputy.
Mr L telephoned  HSBC  in March 2018 after hed found out a statement had been sent to the Retiring 
Deputy. The call handler made arrangements to block the Retiring  Deputys access  to the account 
and a note was placed  on the account to stop any further correspondence being sent to the Retiring 
Deputy.
In March  2018  Mr L wrote a letter of complaint  to HSBC. He says it didnt  respond to this until mid-
August 2018,  at which  point  it confirmed  itd removed  the Retiring Deputy.  By way of explanation  it 
said there were issues  with regard to Court  of Protection Orders and the implementation of the 
correct documents and that its actions were correct based on the information it had at the time.
Mr L wasnt happy with HSBCs response so he referred the complaint to this service. Following the 
investigators involvement HSBC accepted there had been a delay and offered  £100 compensation 
for the distress and inconvenience caused and £1,480 towards  legal  fees incurred by the Joint 
Deputies, as a gesture of goodwill. The investigator considered this to be a fair outcome in the 
circumstances.
The investigator also explained that we can only award  compensation  to eligible complainants.  In this 
case Mr L isnt an eligible complainant in his own right as he is bringing  the complaint  on behalf of Mr 
L2 so it isnt appropriate  for this service  to award compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  
this has caused Mr L.
Mr L disagrees with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision. He says 
the offer is derisory and does nothing to deter the bank from ignoring  its legal responsibility.  He says 
HSBCs refusal  to action the Court Order  wrongly  legitimised the Retiring Deputys behaviour.  And it 
allowed them to bill Mr L2  for more than £1,000  for their time in dealing  with HSBC five months 
after it shouldve removed  the Retiring Deputy.
He also thinks the compensation for inconvenience should be higher because the time theyve 
spent dealing  with the complaint is time theyve not been able to spend with 
Mr L2 whos also been impacted as a result.
Ref: DRN79042838In response the investigator explained that the Retiring Deputys actions need to be 
separated from those  of HSBC. If Mr L remained unhappy with the Retiring Deputys  
professional costs she explained how Mr L might be able to challenge these.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Id like to clarify that were an informal  dispute resolution service - set up to deal with 
complaints quickly and efficiently.  Were not a court of law and neither do we have  the jurisdiction 
of one.
Our role is to resolve complaints by looking at what we consider  to be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances taking  into account  the impact  any mistake has had. But we have no regulatory  or 
disciplinary role over those businesses.
I note that Mr L feels very strongly  that the suggested settlement does nothing  to deter HSBC from 
ignoring its legal responsibility. However, our role isnt to punish banks when things go wrong as 
were not a regulator.  Thats  the role of the Financial Conduct Authority.
Because HSBC  accepts there was a delay  in it removing  the Retiring Deputy I dont need to consider 
this aspect any further  as both sides are in agreement that there was a delay. Instead, I will focus 
on what is a fair and reasonable resolution  of Mr Ls complaint taking into account  the impact the 
delay has had.
In his letter of complaint to HSBC in March  2018, Mr L explained that he transferred almost all the 
funds in the account to a different account pending HSBCs removal  of the Retiring Deputy. Ive 
seen an account statement  to confirm he did this at the beginning of February 2018.
Mr L has told us that HSBCs failure  to remove the Retiring Deputy resulted  in the Joint Deputies 
incurring expenses through their own personal account. But from the information Ive seen Mr L 
chose to transfer almost  all the funds in the account at the same time as he went to the bank to ask 
it to remove the Retiring Deputy. Its not clear to me why Mr L felt it necessary  to take this 
precautionary measure. But because he transferred the funds  to an account he was able to operate 
I cant say theres been any significant impact when HSBC failed  to remove the Retiring  Deputy in a 
timely way or when the Joint Deputies werent  able to access the account.
Theres also no suggestion  that the Retiring Deputy misappropriated any funds while  they still had 
access to the account. And I dont think is something that would have been possible in any event as 
Mr L has confirmed he removed virtually all of the funds from the account.
Mr L has provided details of legal fees incurred  in the removal of the Retiring  Deputy and hes also 
provided details of legal  fees charged by the Retiring  Deputy in their dealings with HSBC. So Ill 
look at whether  HSBCs proposed settlement is fair and reasonable based on the impact the 
mistake has had.
Im mindful that this service  doesnt  generally  make awards for legal costs incurred  by complainants. 
We generally take the view that its a personal  choice whether or not to obtain legal  advice. For this 
reason and due to the additional concerns I have about the legal costs he incurred   and which Ill 
explain below - I think the amount offered by HSBC in connection with the legal fees Mr L incurred  is 
more than I would recommend had the complaint  come to me without an award  being made.
   Mr L made  the decision to transfer  substantially all the funds in the account to a different 
account. The Joint Deputies were able to operate the alternate account for the 
Ref: DRN79042839beneficiarys benefit so I cant see they were  materially  inconvenienced by it and neither 
can I see that theres been any loss to the beneficiarys  account.
    Ive looked in general  at the description of the charges made  by Mr Ls solicitors.
These cover not only the solicitors costs in ensuring  the Retiring Deputy was removed but 
also their costs in dealing with other matters. These included ensuring  the Retiring Deputy 
delivered up all information in their possession  and also an application to set aside an 
order for costs made by the Retiring  Deputy against the Joint Deputies. Mr L says that due 
to the account being frozen the Retiring Deputys professional fees couldnt be paid but as 
Ive explained above, I think this was partly of Mr Ls making because the HSBC  account  
had very little in it following the substantial transfer Mr L made  in early February 2018.
For the reasons  Ive explained above I think HSBCs offer towards  Mr Ls legal  costs is generous. 
However, Mr L has also provided a copy of costs totalling £1,044  incurred by the Retiring Deputy for 
the Retiring Deputys time in sorting out their removal from L2s account with HSBC. I can see that 
these relate  to discussions between the Retiring Deputy and HSBC after the date the Court ordered  
their removal.  So I think  these costs can reasonably be seen as incurred due to HSBCs delay.
Ive already explained why I think HSBCs offer of £1,480 towards the legal costs Mr L incurred is 
generous in these circumstances.  Due to the reservations Ive expressed about  these, I wont be 
asking HSBC  to increase  its offer of compensation  in light of the additional  Retiring Deputys costs.  I 
can see that the amount offered by HSBC is sufficient to cover the Retiring Deputys  costs of dealing 
with HSBC in connection their removal  from the account.
So overall I think HSBCs offer to contribute £1,480 is fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
As HSBC accepts  there was a delay  in removing the Retiring Deputy from Mr L2s account I think its 
certainly possible that confidential information may have been disclosed  to the Retiring Deputy 
because they still had access  to the account. But in the circumstances I dont consider it necessary 
to make a compensatory award. Thats because I havent seen  anything to suggest Mr L2 lost out 
financially as a result  of this. And I think  its likely  that the Retiring Deputy  only had access  to historic 
information that they already knew about. I say this because Mr L transferred almost all the funds  in 
the account so its unlikely further  transactions could  have been made from the account that the 
Retiring Deputy can be said to have accessed.
Finally, the investigator  has already explained  that we can only tell a business to pay compensation  
for the trouble and upset  experienced by their customer, in this case,  Mr L2. I appreciate that the 
time taken by Mr L to deal with his complaint with HSBC  may have had some impact on the amount 
of time hes been able to spend with his son. But in the circumstances I dont consider it appropriate 
to ask HSBC to pay anything  more. I say this because whilst HSBC accepts  there was a delay;  Mr L 
transferred almost all of the funds to another account so that it could be operated for Mr L2s benefit, 
so I cant say theres  been any significant impact.
In summary,  I think HSBCs  offer to pay £100 compensation  for the distress and inconvenience 
caused and £1,480 towards legal fees is a fair and reasonable resolution of this complaint. I realise 
Mr L will be disappointed by my decision.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint  in part and I intend to require  HSBC 
Bank PLC to pay to Mr L  following the offer it made to him after the involvement of this service - 
£1,480 towards legal  fees and £100 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7904283