K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Nationwide Building Society froze  his current account without telling 
him. Mr S also complains that Nationwide Building Society  pressured  him into agreeing a 
settlement for his credit  card account.
background
Mr S has a current  account with Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide). He also held a 
credit card account with Nationwide  which  was defaulted in 2016. Mr S agreed a payment  
arrangement with Nationwide for £10 each month to help repay the outstanding balance on 
this account. 
In May 2018, Nationwide noticed that Mr Ss current account had been credited with 
£33,116.65. They froze around £12,000  of this with a view to repaying the outstanding 
balance on Mr Ss credit card account.  Mr S says Nationwide  did this without telling him. And 
he was particularly unhappy about this as the money had come from his pension which he 
wanted to increase by investing.  
Mr S called Nationwide about what had happened. He told them theyd had taken  around  
£12,000 from his account. Nationwide told Mr S theyd reserved that amount to pay the total 
outstanding balance on his credit card account.  And Nationwide told Mr S they were entitled 
to do this under whats called  the right of set-off. Nationwide said to Mr S they were happy to 
accept £6,000 in full and final settlement of his credit card account and write the remaining 
amount off. Mr S agreed to this but said hed write to Nationwide  as he wasnt happy with 
what theyd done.  
Mr S complained to Nationwide. As he wasnt happy  with their response,  Mr S referred  the 
matter to our service. One of our investigators looked into Mr Ss complaint but didnt uphold  
it. He felt Nationwide had done  enough to try to contact Mr S to tell him of their intention to 
reserve the money. And he felt Nationwide was entitled to use that money to repay Mr Ss 
credit card account. He also felt that Mr S hadnt been pressured into accepting the 
settlement for this account.  
Mr S didnt accept this conclusion. He said he would  like an ombudsman  to review the 
complaint afresh.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
this complaint. I realise Mr S will be disappointed  by my decision, so Id like to explain why. 
Ive read the terms and conditions for Mr Ss current account. This contains a clause 
allowing Nationwide to set off money  in one account against debts arising under another 
account. The clause  for Mr Ss current account  reads as follows: 
if you owe us money (for example on a loan, credit  card, mortgage, or overdraft) and 
do not pay it on time, we can use any money you have in any of your accounts with 
us to repay or reduce  the amount you owe us. This is called a right of set off.
Ref: DRN72002272It also says:
well tell you at least 14 days before we exercise our right of set-off.
So Im satisfied that Nationwide was entitled, at least in principle, to repay  Mr Ss 
outstanding credit card balance with the funds  held in his current account.  A bank or building  
society has the legal right to transfer money from an account  thats  in credit in order  to repay 
or reduce a debt on another account  held by the same customer. Our general approach is 
that the amount taken must be due and payable and the customer  must  hold both accounts  
in the same capacity.  We think that the bank  or building society  shouldnt  use this right 
unless the terms  of the account where  the debt has accrued are not being met and that it 
should give the customer a reasonable opportunity to repay the debt. 
Mr S says that Nationwide  acted  unreasonably  because he was already repaying his credit  
card account  each month by paying £10. The clause Ive referred  to above for Mr Ss current 
account does  say that the right of set off will be used if their account holders dont pay what  
is owed on time. 
Mr S feels  he was paying on time, by this he means the repayment arrangement agreed with 
Nationwide. However,  I can see Nationwides argument here. Mr Ss credit  card account had 
defaulted because  he hadnt kept to the required payment terms. I dont agree that Mr Ss 
repayment arrangement  was keeping within the terms of repayment  under the account.  This 
was simply an arrangement for Mr S to repay what he owed  following the termination of the 
account. And it should be noted that a substantial amount of money had reached Mr Ss 
account. So I can see why Nationwide thought Mr Ss circumstances had changed 
significantly, and why the repayment arrangement would be no longer appropriate.  
I realise Mr S feels Nationwide didnt contact  him to find out what this money was. And that 
had they done so, theyd  have found  out that this was in respect of pension money hed 
accessed. Ive looked  at Nationwides  records and can see that they did try to call him when 
the credit  reached  Mr Ss account.  And I can also see that Nationwide  wrote to Mr S 
explaining their intention to use the right of set-off, which was in line with the terms and 
conditions of his current account. Nationwide also explained this when Mr S spoke to them 
on the phone.
So Im not persuaded that Nationwide  has done much wrong here. I can understand why 
Mr S wouldve  been  alarmed when he realised that Nationwide had reserved such a large 
amount from his current account (or removed it as Mr S felt). However, I think Nationwide 
was entitled to reconsider Mr Ss £10 payment  arrangement  in view of the large sum of 
money that had credited Mr Ss current account, and to exercise their right of set-off. I think  it 
unlikely that Mr S wouldve been able to repay the full outstanding amount on his credit card 
by other  means.  And Im also satisfied  that Nationwide attempted to establish whether 
Mr Ss circumstances had changed  and had let him know it intended to exercise their right of 
set-off.
I also think Nationwide acted fairly when they offered to write off around £6,000 of Mr Ss 
outstanding credit card debt. Mr S says he felt pressured to accept this. Ive listened to a 
recording of the conversation between Mr S and Nationwide  where the proposed  settlement 
was agreed. It seemed that Mr S did feel under some pressure to accept the settlement as 
he felt this was the only way he would  regain  access to the money in his current account.
Ref: DRN72002273I can see Mr Ss point  here. But Nationwide ultimately offered him a pretty  fair settlement  
which involved writing off a large  sum of money  that Mr S owed them. I accept  that Mr S 
mayve felt pressured to accept the offer and Ive also taken into account that he couldnt 
access the money that had been transferred into his current  account.  Im not persuaded 
though that this led Mr S to experience financial difficulties. Mr S may argue that he has lost 
the money that hed earmarked for his pension. I have some sympathy with this argument. 
But Mr S wouldve likely  always needed to pay Nationwide what he owed them. And 
Nationwide reduced  this amount fairly  substantially.  So overall I think  Nationwide acted 
reasonably. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Dan Picken
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7200227