K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains that Indigo Michael Limited (trading as SafetyNet Credit) lent him money 
irresponsibly because they failed to conduct  a proper affordability check before extending 
credit.
background
In March 2016 Mr N opened  an account with SNC  with a credit  limit of £350. Between April 
2016 and July 2016 Mr Ns credit limit was increased with a final credit  limit increase to 
£950.
Mr N says that during  the time he held the account he developed a gambling addiction  which  
led to him borrowing money he couldnt  afford  to repay.
Mr N says that SNC should not have increased his credit limit because if it had carried out 
appropriate checks it would have seen the gambling activity on his account.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said that the checks  carried out by SNC 
were proportionate and that despite  the fact that Mr N used some of his disposable income  
for gambling,  the account didnt go overdrawn and he always made  the repayments.
Mr N didnt agree. He accepted that the credit account was affordable at the start but said 
that as time went on it because unaffordable because of his gambling addiction.  Mr N said 
he had to work more  and more hours  to fund his gambling habit and that he was forced  to 
borrow money from other sources.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whether  its appropriate to advance credit, lenders must undertake reasonable 
and proportionate checks to see if lending is affordable.  The checks the lender is required to 
do depend on several factors including the amount  of credit,  the level of repayments, what 
the lender knows  about the customer and the information the customer has provided.
When Mr N applied for the credit account he provided SNC with information  about his 
income and outgoings. He also provided  read only access to his bank account.  Using  this 
information, SNC carried out an affordability  assessment and concluded that Mr N had 
sufficient disposable  income to afford the repayments. SNC  has said that it carried  out 
weekly affordability checks  to ensure that the amount of credit advanced to Mr N was 
affordable.
SNC has also said that it carried out a credit check when Mr N applied  for the account. The 
credit report  showed that Mr N had no county court  judgments. It also showed  that Mr N had 
held several short term credit accounts  and loan account in the past, 11 out of 14 of which 
had been settled in full at the time he applied for the account with SNC.
Based on the information available to SNC I dont think there was any need to look into Mr 
Ns finances further. Im satisfied that SNC carried out reasonable and proportionate checks 
to make sure that the loan was affordable.
Ref: DRN74108962Mr N says that SNC would have  seen from his bank account that he had a gambling 
problem. Ive looked at Mr Ns bank statements and I can see gambling  transactions both 
before Mr N applied  for the credit account  and during the time he held the credit account. 
The bank statements show that Mr N spent more on gambling in the months before he 
applied for the credit  account. Even when the gambling transactions were at their highest, 
the amount which Mr N spent on gambling  was well within his disposable income.
Its not for a business to make  judgments  about  how a consumer  spends  their money. The 
gambling transactions decreased during the first few months of the credit account  and even  
when they increased  towards the end of the time that Mr N held the account,  Mr Ns bank 
account didnt  become  overdrawn  and he always had sufficient credit in the account  to make 
the contractual payment  to SNC.
Based on the available information and for the reasons Ive given, Im unable to say that 
SNC lent to Mr N irresponsibly. Im satisfied that SNC carried  out reasonable and 
proportionate checks before it approved  the accredit account and before the credit limit was 
increased. Therefore  I wont be asking  SNC  to do anything.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7410896