K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Kensington Mortgage Company Limited did not treat them  fairly 
as they were in financial difficulty  and had mortgage  arrears.
background
Mr and Mrs H were told that Kensington had instructed solicitors to take possession  of their 
property. Mrs H spoke to the solicitors involved in October 2018 and then to Kensington. Mr 
and Mrs H say that a request Kensington made that they clear  £5,000  of arrears was 
excessive and that they then felt pressurised into agreeing a payment plan. They either  
wanted a payment holiday or for the arrears  to be capitalised.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  She said that wed only be 
looking at the complaint  about what Kensington had done by October 2018. She knew  that 
Mr and Mrs H had raised complaints about its further actions and it needed  to have the 
opportunity to respond to these. Its records showed that by October 2018 Mr and Mrs H had 
broken at least six payment arrangements with Kensington. And that it had offered periods of 
reduced payments.  The arrears on the mortgage  at the time of the call were  equivalent  to 
over 20 months of payments. She thought  that the situation had been handled sensitively 
and that the payment plan  of an extra £200  a month towards arrears  was reasonable. 
She said it did not have  to take the actions that Mr and Mrs H wanted.
Mr and Mrs H did not agree. They had now received a transcript of the conversation and 
think that his has been poorly interpreted. At one point it states  Mrs H was laughing but 
instead she was very upset and in tears  and Mr H will vouch for that. They have raised 
further complaints  and are having  difficulty communicating with Kensington. They  dont think  
that there  is any protection from the poor treatment  they are receiving. They  have had 
constant worry and distress about  the threat of repossession.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont doubt that Mr and Mrs H have found this a distressing time especially as they have 
had a number  of personal difficulties to deal with. They were not able to make their mortgage 
payments. Mr and Mrs H then received a letter from Kensington stating that there  were  court  
proceedings to repossess their property  on 3 December 2018.  Theyd  thought that they were  
doing everything they could to address the situation.  I fully accept Mrs H found  the specific  
call about the arrears very upsetting  and that they both feel that if their borrowing had been 
case managed  they would  not have had to explain a lot of distressing information again.
I would expect Kensington  to deal with their financial  difficulties fairly. By the time it 
commenced legal proceedings the arrears  had built since 2015 to more than £6,000 and this 
was over 20 times the monthly payment due. As our adjudicator says it had agreed previous 
payment arrangements.  Unfortunately  these  had not had any significant effect and had been 
broken. 
Kensington initially said it wanted  a lump sum of £5,000 to stop the court proceedings. That 
was a significant sum and not something Mr and Mrs H were  able to pay. During  a long call it 
then agreed to a payment plan. It wanted to review  all their circumstances and it has 
Ref: DRN76005872discretion to establish its own processes.  This review took account of the latest income  and 
expenditure information from Mr and Mrs H. This showed that they would have a surplus of 
£600 a month when  their new employment  started. Kensington  said it would agree to an 
additional £200 payment  over the monthly amount due. The court hearing was adjourned on 
31 October 2018 on the basis that these payments started from the end of the following 
month.
I appreciate they felt they had no alternative but to agree to this. And that it was now hanging 
over them and that the possibility of repossession remained. But I dont think it was 
unreasonable for Kensington  to expect them to commit to making progress with the arrears 
given the history and as an alternative to court proceedings. I think  the call was handled  
appropriately. And it didnt have to offer other  options  such as capitalising  arrears  and 
which would have led to higher payments going  forward. My understanding  is that following 
Mr and Mrs H providing it with more information  it is now looking at other options. Those 
circumstances after October 2018  do not form part of this complaint.
I know that Mr and Mrs H are going to be very disappointed when I say that I am not going to 
be upholding this complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7600587