K820x#14complaint
Mrs Gs complaint is about a managed trading account she held with ITI Capital Limited 
(formerly known as FXCM and referred  to as FXCM  in this decision). Both parties  are legally 
represented. In the main,  Mrs Gs representative  alleges, on her behalf, the following:
In 2014 FXCM inappropriately promoted  to Mrs G its Protected Index Options 
Strategy (also known as PIOPT) service. In addition  FXCMs recommendation, to 
Mrs G, of a PIOPT based account was unsuitable because  it was not a low risk 
strategy/service and it lacked the liquidity  necessary to allow an exit from the 
strategy. It is also asserted that FXCM did not properly assess suitability of the 
strategy/service/account for Mrs G.
FXCM  did not provide  the type of management service (from advice and trading 
management to communications  with Mrs G) in the PIOPT  account that it was 
supposed to provide  and after the departure of her broker  in 2016  Mrs G had to 
manage the account herself (with the aid of her appointed agent  her husband).
FXCM  committed contractual and regulatory breaches in the matters  alleged above.
FXCM  should pay compensation to Mrs G in the form of the money  she lost in the 
account (around £200,000, after deducting withdrawals of around £110,000  from the 
total original investment  of around  £310,000)  plus interest  and costs.
background
FXCM disputes the complaint. In the main, its position is as follows:
Mrs G was introduced to FXCM by an introducing broker  who had no role in FXCM 
and for whom FXCM had no responsibility.
Specific documentary evidence shows that Mrs Gs personal  circumstances in 2014 
were assessed, that her objective and attitude towards risk for the venture  was 
speculative and aggressive, that she was given sufficient information about the 
PIOPT service alongside information  about its terms and conditions for the account 
and that she was given sufficient risk warnings.
FXCM  did not unlawfully compromise Mrs Gs bests interests in the venture and it did 
not encourage her to retain the strategy/service against her will  evidence shows 
that her agent made withdrawals from the account and that she was able to redeem 
her investment and close the account at any point, but she chose not to.
Mrs G did not have  to manage  the account  herself. Her broker left the firm on 29 April 
2016; the account had no open positions at the time;  she had prior awareness of the 
brokers departure and she received another notice on 12 May 2016; before this date 
her agent had already been liaising  with another broker who had taken over her 
account; her agent instructed closure  of the account on 13 May 2016 and the 
balance from the account was remitted to her on 16 May 2016.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  that it should not be 
upheld. In the main, he said:
Available evidence  shows that Mrs G was initially  assessed  for an execution  only 
account and then for the managed/advised account. The former assessment 
captured basic details  about her and it recorded  rarely/never  in terms of her trading 
experience. The latter assessment was more detailed, it captured her professional  
and financial circumstances  [which refers to her professional  occupation and 
suggests that she was a high net worth  investor]  it noted  she had 10 years  of 
Ref: DRN73573612trading securities  (but not options,  futures or CFDs)  and it included reference to the 
speculative and aggressive (high  risk) profile  FXCM mentioned.
There were  no guarantees  in the PIOPT strategy/service.
There appears to have been  no obstruction  to Mrs Gs ability to withdraw from the 
account and there is evidence  of withdrawals that were  made.
Mrs G and her agent continued trading in the account even after learning about 
losses by July 2015.
Overall, Mrs G was aware of the risks involved with the strategy/service and it does 
not appear to have  been unsuitable  for her so FXCM could not reasonably  be held 
responsible for her losses.
Mrs Gs representative disagreed with this outcome. It said the adjudicator did not address 
the contractual and regulatory  aspects  within  the complaint and that his conclusions were 
erroneous or in conflict with evidence. The matter  was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicators. I do not consider that the criticisms that have been made of 
his view are fair. I consider that he applied a composite, but nevertheless meaningful,  
approach to the complaint  which sought  to address the crux within  it  that is, the claim for 
compensation for the total investment loss. As such, he considered what was necessary in 
order to determine  whether  (or not), on balance,  such compensation was justified.  I adopt  a 
similar approach. However, for the sake of added clarity,  I address  the following:
The issues (including the alleged breaches) about promotion of the PIOPT  
strategy/service appear to be duplicated by the issues about suitability or unsuitability  
of the PIOPT service for Mrs G. Perhaps  one has been presented as an alternative 
basis for compensation, if the other is unsuccessful. It does not appear  to be in 
dispute that use of the PIOPT  strategy  was recommended as the basis  for Mrs Gs 
managed account. It follows  that whether (or not) it was appropriately promoted, the 
fact remains that it was also subsequently  recommended by FXCM.  The 
compensation that Mrs G seeks  arises  mainly from the assertion that the PIOPT was 
an unsuitable investment/strategy  recommendation, so (un)suitability appears to be 
the main issue. To put it another way, even  if Mrs G can show  that FXCMs  
promotion of the strategy was flawed or unlawful, the loss she claims for arose  from 
recommendation and use of the strategy so the pursuit for compensation depends 
mainly on showing that the recommendation and use of the strategy was unsuitable.
It is beyond this services remit to consider  punitive awards based on a firm allegedly 
breaching its regulatory obligations.  Our remit, in the context of investment cases, is 
generally to consider the merits (or otherwise) of a complainant about financial loss 
that has been incurred  from an unsuitable  investment(s). I have noted  the references  
made by Mrs Gs representative  to regulatory principles and rules. Those that relate  
to FXCMs  duty to make  suitable recommendations are relevant to my consideration 
of the complaint. However, it is arguable that those that go beyond  the issue of 
(un)suitability also go beyond the considerations that are required in order  to 
determine Mrs Gs claim for compensation.
The other issue arising from Mrs Gs complaint and distinct  from the matter  of 
(un)suitability, is her assertion that she did not receive the managed account service  
Ref: DRN73573613that she ought to have  received. Our approach for complaints about alleged  failed  
services is to consider  whether (or not) there is merit in the complaint and, if so, to 
consider an order  for a refund  of the charges or fees incurred by the complainant  for 
the relevant service. The idea is that the complainant should be entitled  to a refund  of 
all such relevant fees if the service, as promised/contracted, was not delivered.  In 
Mrs Gs case  no management or performance related fees appear to have been 
applied to her account. This is re-affirmed by the literature for the PIOPT 
strategy/service which confirms that no such fees will apply and by the fact that     
Mrs G has not claimed for a refund of any fees. It appears that FXCMs transaction  
related fees applied for investment activity within the account, however they were  
unrelated to management.  It follows that the issue about the managed account 
service lacks a basis for potential compensation to Mrs G. 
Mrs Gs representative presented additional claims related to damages under  section  
138D(2) of the Financial Services and Markets  Act 2000 (FSMA), alleged negligent 
misstatement, alleged  professional  negligence, alleged  breach  of fiduciary duty and 
alleged fraudulent and/or negligent misrepresentation. The first additional claim, 
related to section  138D(2) of FSMA, is about a firm allegedly breaching a regulatory  
rule and causing a loss to a client. This duplicates Mrs Gs claim for compensation for 
loss arising from FXCMs allegedly unsuitable PIOPT strategy. The other  additional 
claims might or might not lend themselves to the consideration of the issue of alleged 
unsuitability, but no separate financial loss (or claim for compensation)  has been 
presented in relation to them. The crux of the complaint remains Mrs Gs pursuit for 
compensation for loss arising  from the allegedly unsuitable PIOPT strategy.
Suitability
I have noted the points  that Mrs Gs representative quoted and explained in relation to the 
regulators Conduct of Business Sourcebook  (COBS) rules and guidance. Reference was 
made to COBS 9, with which  I am familiar. In straightforward terms, FXCM  was required to 
know enough about Mrs Gs investor profile  in order to ensure that the PIOPT  strategy  was 
suitable for her and it would be responsible for her financial loss if it was unsuitable for her.
As I mentioned above, there is evidence of a basic assessment  of Mrs G and then of a more 
detailed assessment. The latter is headed  Suitability/Appropriateness Questionnaire  
which I will refer to as the SAQ. Overall, and as the adjudicator noted, record  of FXCMs 
suitability assessment does not appear to have been documented to the extent that it could 
or should have  been. Nevertheless, I consider there is enough  evidence  to determine 
whether (or not) its assessment complied with the suitability  and clients best interests  rules  
and arguments  that Mrs Gs representative  has presented.  In this respect I also consider 
that, on balance,  the SAQ  is broadly  reliable  because its contents appear  to be broadly  
consistent with other  evidence  about Mrs G and about her profile as an investor  at the time.  
I consider the following:
The SAQ has a review date in August 2014   before the three capital  deposits  Mrs G 
made into the account between October  2014  and January 2015. Portrayal,  within 
the SAQ, of Mrs G as a high net worth investor  with substantial liquid assets is 
supported by the substantial total deposit (around £310,000)  that she made  into the 
account within three months and by email evidence suggesting additional deposits 
that appear to have  been considered. 
Ref: DRN73573614Mrs Gs representative referred to investment she had, at the time, in the Alternative  
Investment Market (AIM). AIM investments arguably  carry higher risks than those in 
the mainstream market(s). It is not in dispute that in July 2015,  around six months  
after Mrs G completed  her deposit of around  £310,000 into the account, her agent 
was informed that the account balance was only around £60,000   so, around 
£250,000 appears  to have  been lost by this time. Despite such a substantial loss, 
Mrs G continued with the PIOPT account (and trading).  Her representative  says this 
was in aid of recovering her losses. That might well have  been  the case, but it is also 
arguably fair to say that an investor is more likely (than not) to be a high risk taker  
where she/he loses around  £250,000  over around  six months and then continues 
with the same trading thereafter  as opposed  to cutting her/his  losses and 
withdrawing from the trading. I do not consider that Mrs G was under undue  influence 
or pressure, from FXCM, to do this so it appears  to have been her (and/or  her 
agents) choice. Overall  and on balance, I am persuaded  that the SAQs portrayal of 
Mrs G as an investor with a high risk (aggressive)  risk profile and speculative 
objective is reliable.
Evidence of what appears  to have been the platform checklist  shows that trading 
permissions were  given, for Mrs Gs account, in relation to equities, options,  futures  
and CFDs. In contrast, the SAQ says she had previous experience only in 
securities   the suggestion appears  to be equities   and no previous experience in 
the other products. However, I do not consider that the account was unsuitable  for 
this reason. Her experience  in equities (including the AIM experience) would have 
meant she knew about investment risks. The SAQ suggests that she would not have 
known about trading  in the other products but her account was managed  and 
advised. An additional  layer of guidance, for her, existed in the form of her agent who 
appears to have had a measure  of investment knowledge and experience,  who had 
the power to give instructions to FXCM  on her behalf and who,  upon his emailed 
request, was given  the opportunity to make execution only trades on her behalf. 
Overall and on balance, in these circumstances I do not consider that the type of 
trading in the account was unsuitable  for Mrs G  especially in light of her speculative  
objective and high risk profile.
The type of trading  in the account was based  on the PIOPT strategy. No guarantees 
were given  with this strategy  or with the account. FXCM has correctly referred to a 
number of risk related  warnings in the introducing broker  disclosure form (which    
Mrs G signed), the PIOPT presentation (which she received before  her investments), 
the PIOPT data sheet  (which she also received) and FXCMs terms of business for 
Mrs Gs account.  Overall, I consider  that the risk warnings were  sufficient and that 
they were not diluted by the selling points of the PIOPT strategy. Those selling points 
were indeed  positive  and aspirational but they were not guaranteed and they were 
qualified by reference to what was termed a limited downside environment for which 
the strategy was designed. In addition, the presentation for the strategy concluded  
with a reasonably  sized disclaimer section in which the risks were addressed. The 
strategy does not appear to have mismatched  Mrs Gs speculative  objective or high 
risk investor profile.
Mrs Gs representative argues that the word protected  within the strategys  name 
was misleading  and that guidance from the regulator is that such  a word should be 
avoided in the promotion or description of a financial product. Reference to the 
regulators guidance on this point is correct, but I disagree  with the argument or 
suggestion that the word misled Mrs G. The risk warnings in the PIOPT literature and 
Ref: DRN73573615the absence of an express  guarantee made  it reasonably clear that the strategy  was 
not risk free; I have not seen evidence that the word protected led Mrs G to think all 
or part of her capital  was safe and, I repeat, the risk warnings declared the opposite;  I 
have seen an update email from her broker in which the word protected is defined  
as the way in which  the strategy allows  headroom  and time to run positions  and 
wait for markets to stabilise following major  moves  against us; the word protected 
was used in the context  of the strategys approach, in which loss exposure was 
predetermined in order  to know the maximum potential loss in a trade at the outset. 
Reference to and explanation of maximum loss in the PIOPTs literature would also 
have made  Mrs G aware that there  was no protection against losses and that the 
aspiration (not guarantee) was for the management  of losses. An overall aim of the 
strategy, as presented in its literature, was the predetermined management of losses  
and profits.  In addition,  and as I said above, even if the promotion of the PIOPT was 
flawed or unlawful  the core issue is whether  (or not) it was suitable for Mrs G.
In terms of Mrs Gs ability to withdraw or exit from the account/strategy, the balance  
of evidence does  not support her representatives argument  that this was hindered 
(or hindered by liquidity issues).  It is not in dispute  that Mrs G withdrew a substantial 
total of around  £110,000 from the venture  and I have not seen evidence that any of 
the withdrawals were difficult or that any withdrawal requests were declined  against 
her wishes.  There  is evidence  of her agent  being concerned about the effect  of a 
withdrawal(s) on existing open  positions  at a certain time but his concern appears  to 
have been allayed.  The strategy  does not appear to have had a withdrawal or exit 
penalty. As FXCM says, it would appear  that Mrs G could have withdrawn and exited  
from the strategy and account when she wished.
Overall and on balance,  I am persuaded that suitability for Mrs G was assessed with regards 
to the PIOPT strategy and that the strategy/account  was not unsuitable for her. I also do not 
consider that FXCM  acted against her best interests  in this respect.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mrs Gs complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or reject  my decision 
before 15 February  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7357361