K822xcomplaint
Mr S and Miss L complain  about the delays in the handling  of their home insurance claim by 
Great Lakes Insurance SE for damage  caused by an escape of water. 
background 
In early July 2018  the loss assessor appointed  by, and acting  for, Mr S and Miss L notified  
Great Lakes of their home insurance claim for damage caused  by an escape of water. The 
loss assessor sent Great Lakes  a signed mandate giving it authority to act. It also told Great 
Lakes it would assess the damage  and scope the repairs.  The costed scope was sent to 
Great Lakes just under  two weeks  later. A week after that, Great Lakes acknowledged 
receipt and appointed a loss adjuster.
The loss adjuster noted that a business  was registered at the property. Great Lakes further  
investigated this and about  a week later it called Mr S who said that he only did 
administrative work from home and no clients visited.  Great Lakes accepted  the claim and 
called the loss adjuster who said it would contact Mr S and Miss Ls loss assessor in order  to 
move the claim along. 
 Two days later the loss adjuster  visited the property, produced a report and scoped the 
works. Four days after that, the loss assessor called Great Lakes  to complain on behalf of 
Mr S and Miss L about  the unacceptable delays in moving the claim along and the distress 
this was causing. Great Lakes called its loss adjuster who said all the works were costed 
and agreed. Great Lakes  called Mr L the same  day to ask if he was willing  to permit its 
contractor to do the work. As Mr L was away on holiday,  Great  Lakes sent him an email  
asking him to contact  it. It also logged  a formal complaint. 
Two days later, Mr L emailed Great Lakes to say he was on holiday until mid-September 
2018 and told it to speak to his loss assessor  directly. A few days after that the loss assessor 
phoned Great Lakes  to ask to see the loss adjusters costed scope in order  to see if it could  
match the price. Great  Lakes said the loss adjuster  was handling everything under delegated 
authority but would contact it to ask for a copy of the report  and scope. Great  Lakes said itd 
let the loss assessor know  the costs as soon as it had heard from the loss adjuster.  
About a week later the loss assessor complained about the delays to Great Lakes.  It chased  
the loss adjuster, got the report and shared it with the loss assessor  the same day. The loss 
adjuster said itd costed  the works  at £1,980.50  but it was still waiting to hear how Mr S and 
Miss L preferred to proceed. It said if they wanted  the loss adjuster to arrange the repairs  
then specialist trades would be sent out which could alter the final costings. Great Lakes let 
the loss assessor  know the current scoped cost  which it could cash  settle  the claim for  
and explained  that this could increase  subject  to how Mr S and Miss L wished to proceed.  
Four days later the loss adjuster told Great Lakes that itd appointed  its own contractor to do 
the works.  Several attempts were made  to contact the loss assessor in order  to schedule an 
appointment with the contractor. In the meantime Mr S returned from holiday and contacted 
Great Lakes to find out what was going on. The contractor eventually  gained access  to the 
property on 18 September  2018.  There wasnt any significant update between this date and 
the final response letter being  issued  on 21 September 2018 which  is the cut-off date for 
what I can consider within  this complaint.
In response to Mr S and Miss Ls complaint, Great Lakes said it was unable  to agree that 
Ref: DRN79222642thered been any un-necessary  delays  in the handling of the claim. Unhappy  with Great 
Lakes response,  Mr S and Miss L made  a complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into their complaint and recommended that it was upheld.  He 
thought Great Lakes could have handled  the claim better by liaising with the loss assessor  
(for whom it had a mandate) instead of trying to contact Mr L on holiday and asking him if he 
wanted the repairs done or a cash settlement paid (which in turn was based  on an estimate  
that could change). He also thought thered been a delay in sharing the loss adjusters report 
with the loss assessor and a failure to chase the loss assessor  so access to the property 
could be arranged. He recommended that Great Lakes pay Mr S and Miss L compensation 
of £150 for the trouble and upset Great Lakes shortcomings in service  had caused. 
Mr S and Miss L disagreed with our investigators  recommendations. They said they had a 
friend who was offered  £50 for the inconvenience of spending 20 minutes on the phone  to 
his bank. So they didnt think the compensation offered reflected the level of inconvenience  
theyd been caused. Great Lakes agreed with our investigators findings. The complaint was 
passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service has a long standing approach  to awarding compensation. We arent here to fine 
or punish a business. And when  doing so we cant take into account  how much  
compensation other consumers may or may not have been paid. We are here to listen to 
and resolve individual consumer complaints based  on the evidence provided. Having regard 
to this services approach,  and the circumstances  of this complaint more generally,  I think 
that compensation of £150  fairly reflects the level of inconvenience Mr S and Miss L were 
put through.  Ill explain why. 
Ive set out the chronology of events quite clearly above. And having  done so, I do think that 
Great Lakes couldve done certain  things differently so that Mr S and Miss L werent 
inconvenienced. For example, despite having  a signed mandate  from their loss assessor to 
act for them,  Great  Lakes continued  to contact Mr S directly. In particular, it called him on 
holiday and asked him if he wanted its contractor  to undertake the repairs  or whether he 
wished to cash settle the claim. A decision it was asking him to make  without first providing  
him with a copy of the report or scope and when hed provided a mandate  so Great Lakes 
could liaise with his loss assessor.  And a decision it was asking him to make  based on 
information that could well change. 
And I cant see any reason for the delay in sharing its loss adjusters scope and report with 
the loss assessor.  
Ive also thought about the inconvenience that Mr L experienced in not having use of his 
home office (damaged  by the escape of water). Whilst the fact the room was damaged  and 
put out of action by the leak is no fault of Great Lakes, I have taken the additional time he 
was without use of the room  as a consequence  of the avoidable delays into account when 
deciding what constitutes fair compensation.  
I appreciate that Mr S and Miss L think that their complaint warrants more  than £150 in 
compensation but Im unable to agree. I accept  that there were issues that continued after 
Ref: DRN79222643the date that Great  Lakes  issued its final response  but I cant consider those within  the 
confines of this complaint. If Mr S and Miss L are unhappy with Great Lakes actions after 
the date of its final response  letter  then it should  complain to it first after which it can 
complain again  to this service should  they so wish. 
So, taking all the circumstances of this complaint into account, I think  that compensation of 
£150 is a fair amount for Great Lakes to pay for the shortcomings in its service and is in line 
with awards this service  has made in similar  cases. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Great  Lakes Insurance SE to pay 
Mr S and Miss L compensation of £150  in respect  of the trouble and upset  its delays and 
poor customer service caused them. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Miss L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 February  2020. 
Claire Woollerson 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7922264