K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading  as Barclaycard) declined his claim for a 
full refund in respect of a package holiday under  section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974.
background
In early 2018, Mr M booked a package holiday for himself and his wife. This was an eight 
day overseas trip in November, with seven nights  in four- or five-star  hotels and international 
flights, for a total cost of £726. He paid for it with his Barclaycard credit  card.
18 days before the holiday was due to begin, Mr M was notified of the itinerary  for his flights. 
They were  not direct  flights,  and the return flight had two stopovers and would  take about ten 
hours, around double  the time Mr M was expecting. He became concerned, and began to 
research the travel agent online. He found a number of negative reviews. The holiday had 
been advertised in a leaflet enclosed with a magazine for a charity he supported  and had 
confidence in, but he discovered  that earlier that year the charity had ended its business  
relationship with the travel agent  due to poor feedback from disappointed customers. So 
Mr M cancelled the holiday. He expected  a full refund, but was only refunded ten per cent of 
what he had paid.
Mr M raised  a claim for compensation  with Barclaycard, relying on section 75. He said that 
the holiday had been misrepresented to him, because  the travel  agent had failed to disclose 
the full flight information earlier. He referred  to rules  made by the Advertising Standards 
Authority (ASA) which prohibit a business  misleading its customers  by omitting material  
information.
Barclaycard did not uphold  his claim.  It said that the travel agent wouldnt have known the 
details of the flights when the holiday was booked, because  the airline wouldnt have 
released that information yet. The travel agents  sales literature had not said how long the 
flights would  be, or that they would  be direct flights.  There had been some positive reviews  
online too, so Barclaycard  would not infer that the travel agent would have breached its 
contract with Mr M, if he had gone on the holiday.  The travel  agents terms and conditions 
said it would  only refund ten per cent of the price  of the holiday if it was cancelled with less 
than 21 days to go, so he had not been entitled to a full refund. It said that any breach of the 
ASAs rules was a matter for the ASA.
Mr M brought this complaint to our Service. But our adjudicator did not uphold  it, for broadly 
the same  reasons why Barclaycard hadnt upheld Mr Ms claim. She added that the travel  
agents invoice  had said that the flight times would be notified to Mr M as soon  as they were  
released by the airline, which would be about  three weeks before  the holiday.  Mr M asked 
for an ombudsmans  decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
Before I do that, I should say that the Barclaycard  account is in Mr Ms sole name, so 
although his wife has joined him in this complaint, she is not actually an eligible complainant  
under our rules. I have therefore treated this as Mr Ms complaint alone. However, I would 
Ref: DRN70845382like to reassure Mr and Mrs M that this is only a technicality which  has not affected  the 
outcome of this complaint.
Section 75, where it applies, makes  Barclaycard jointly and severally  liable for a breach of 
contract or a misrepresentation by the supplier  of goods or services paid for with one of its 
credit cards. It is not in dispute that section 75 applies here. My role is to decide whether 
Barclaycard erred in deciding to decline Mr Ms claim  for a refund under that section. In this 
complaint, that has meant I have had to decide  whether  Barclaycard  was right to say that 
there was no breach  of contract  or misrepresentation by the travel agent.
In contract  law, a misrepresentation is a false statement of fact which induces someone to 
enter a contract  which they would not otherwise  have  entered. It must be a statement; a 
misrepresentation cannot be made by omission.  I can well understand why Mr M has relied 
on the ASAs rules  about omissions, but section  75 does not make Barclaycard liable for a 
failure to comply with those rules. Absent a positive statement  which is misleading, or a 
breach of contract,  section 75 has no bite.
As our adjudicator pointed out, the invoice says that flight times  will normally be made  known 
three weeks before departure. The travel agent did not promise  that the flights would be 
direct, or that there would  be no stopovers. I do have  some sympathy for Mr Ms position 
when he discovered  his flight home would take ten hours, given that the average flight  time 
from his destination  country is about five hours. Im not surprised he had second thoughts 
about going. But I cannot say that this was a breach of contract or a misrepresentation. Also, 
since the holiday cost less than £50 per person per day, I think  it was foreseeable that the 
flights might  not be direct  flights.
The ten per cent refund  was in accordance  with the terms and conditions. So I cannot fault 
Barclaycards conclusion  that Mr M was not entitled to a further  refund.
my final decision
So my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 April 2020. 
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7084538