K820x#14complaint
R, a limited company,  complains that National Westminster Bank  Plc did not make clear  that 
a payment into its account had been  made by cheque and was not cleared.
background
A customer of R paid £1,345 into its bank account at NatWest on 3 October 2018. R 
released the goods paid for but the cheque  was returned unpaid. R says it had checked  its 
account and seen that the credit had been made using  a CDM (Cash and Deposit Machine). 
But there was no indication that this was a cheque. So R says it has lost money. NatWest 
offered to pay it £24.80 to cover call and travel  costs as it did not register  a complaint  when  
R first contacted it.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. He had initially been given 
incorrect information by NatWest that to make a credit through  the CDM the account  card 
and PIN for R would be required. R had shown  him that this was not the case for a cheque 
credit at least. This did not affect  his view on the complaint  though as NatWest  had not made 
a mistake in processing  this cheque and had reported the deposit in line with its standard  
process. There was also a feature on its mobile app to see the available balance.
R did not agree and wanted this complaint to be reviewed. It said that nowhere on a 
statement printout  had NatWest shown how funds  have  been paid in and whether all the 
balance is available. It was quite possible that this amount of cash could have been paid in 
using a CDM.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its unfortunate that the initial assessment of this complaint was clouded  by some 
inconsistent information  about whether a third party   Rs customer here  could have paid 
in the cheque without Rs card and PIN. It could  do so and Ive based my analysis of the 
complaint on that.
Im afraid the point  here is that NatWest does not provide the level of detail R thinks it should 
on say a statement  printed in branch. We cant tell it how to set up its systems  and while  it 
didnt show R that this was a cheque   it didnt show it wasnt  or tell R that either. R says that 
its customer had told it that the funds  had been  transferred  by money transfer and R relied 
on that. Unfortunately when the cheque was presented there were insufficient funds for it to 
be paid and it was returned in line with the normal cheque clearing process.
There were ways of finding out if a payment had cleared either from asking NatWest or by 
looking at the available  balance in its mobile app but I appreciate  that this didnt seem  to be 
an issue to R here.
Complaint handling  is not a separate  regulated  activity we look at but I understand that the 
offer from NatWest to pay some  of Rs out of pocket expenses relating to making the 
complaint remains available. R would need to contacts NatWest  to arrange payment.
Ref: DRN75883422Im sorry  to hear that R has lost money but for the reasons Ive given I dont find that this was 
due to any mistake by NatWest. So I wont be upholding  the complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7588342