K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
In 1991 Leeds Permanent  Building  Society  sold Mr and Mrs H a PPI policy  to cover their 
mortgage repayments. The building society later merged into Halifax and then Bank of 
Scotland plc. I will refer to Bank of Scotland in this decision  as it is responsible for the 
complaint.
Neither party can confirm  how or where  the sale took place.  The policy was in Mr Hs sole 
name and protected him against accident, sickness  and unemployment. They  paid a monthly  
amount for it.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint wasnt upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed so it 
was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Our general approach to complaints 
about the sale of PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here.
No documents  Mr and Mrs H are likely to have  signed at the time are available. That is not 
surprising, or unreasonable, given the sale took place over 25 years  ago. In cases  like this, 
where the evidence  is incomplete, I have to make  my decision  on the balance of probabilities  
 that is, based  on what  is most likely to have happened given the evidence we do have, and 
the wider circumstances.
I cant know what was discussed during  the sale. Mr and Mrs H cant  recall  the sale in detail, 
but they say they were pressured into buying PPI and were  told they would only get a 
mortgage if they took out PPI. But Mr and Mrs H didnt take out PPI when their mortgage  
started in 1984,  it was several years  later.  So I think they would have understood it wasnt  
mandatory, or a condition  of the mortgage.  I know they have questioned the PPI sale date 
but I havent seen any evidence to lead me to believe  the banks records are incorrect. 
Whilst Im sure Mr and Mrs H are giving the best account they can, I have to consider  how 
long ago the sale was and how that impacts what they recall. So without stronger evidence I 
dont think I can fairly  conclude Bank of Scotland didnt make it clear  the PPI was optional, 
and Mr and Mrs H didnt agree to take it out.
Bank of Scotland accepts that it might have recommended the policy  for Mr H to Mr and 
Mrs H so it would have  had to check it was suitable for him. From  what  I know of his 
circumstances, I think  it was. I say this because:
Mr H was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  seem he would have been  affected by 
any of the main limitations of the policy, such as those affecting some  people with 
pre-existing medical conditions or certain types of employment contract.
   
Mr H says he was entitled to indefinite sick pay from work.  But he hasnt been able to 
provide any supporting documentation  and this is a very unusual  benefit, so I can 
Ref: DRN71034092only fairly consider  his contractual  entitlement which he recalls was 12 months. The 
PPI would have  paid out in addition to this work benefit which  couldve been  a useful 
benefit at a difficult time  especially if Mr H mightve  faced additional costs as a 
result of being ill or disabled. The PPI also gave up to 12 months redundancy cover. 
This wouldve protected any lump sum Mr H was entitled to from his job, giving more  
financial security. So I can understand why someone with his work benefits might  still 
want to have PPI as well. 
Mr H cant provide much detail about  the savings they held at the time, or any 
documentation. Thats  not surprising given how long ago this sale was, but I cant  
therefore fairly conclude  he didnt need  PPI due to his level of savings. I dont know  if 
theyd always have  had savings to rely on if Mr H had needed  to make a claim.  And 
anyway the PPI would have meant he could have used any savings to cover  other  
living expenses whilst  not working, or kept them intact for their future needs. 
Mr and Mrs H had borrowed a large sum of money  over a long term and the debt was 
secured against  their home. So given the serious  consequences of not being able to 
make their mortgage repayments, overall I think they would have found the PPI 
useful if Mr H was sick or lost his job.
Ive seen no evidence  to suggest the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H, and it 
was competitively priced. 
I dont know what Bank  of Scotland told Mr and Mrs H about the PPI at the time of the sale.  
So its possible it didnt give them enough  information about the policy.  But for the same 
reasons I think Mr and Mrs H would have found the PPI useful if Mr H wasnt  working for any 
significant length of time,  I think that its unlikely  better information would have changed their 
decision.
 
It follows I dont think the bank mis-sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. But Bank  of Scotland has 
paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H because: 
Bank of Scotland got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs H about that. Because Bank of 
Scotland didnt  tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bank of Scotland has paid back the amount of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bank of Scotland  plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Bank of Scotland plc does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs H any commission  and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN71034093Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 February  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7103409