K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss car was stolen,  damaged and recovered in early September 2018. Mr S is unhappy
that it took his motor  insurer  - Esure Insurance Limited - around seven and a half months to
repair his car. He is also unhappy that he wasnt provided with a courtesy car of similar
grade to his own,  whilst his car was being  repaired and that Esure didnt keep him updated.
background
Mr S has already brought  a complaint  to our service which related to the delays and
communication issues he experienced between September and December 2018. Our
service found in his favour. Therefore, in this decision, I will only be looking at issues
between January 2019 and when the car was returned in mid-April  2019. Although,  in
deciding whats fair I must take into account compensation Mr S has already received.
When Mr Ss car was recovered in September 2018, he notified Esure, who arranged  for the
car to be taken to a repairer. The car was taken from the repairer to a main dealer to be
assessed in October  2018, it wasnt until mid-December 2018  that the main dealer confirmed
that the car was mechanically  sound,  and a decision was made to repair the car. The car
wasnt returned to the repairers  until January 2019.  It was only then that the new roof was
ordered and wouldnt  be delivered for another month.
Mr S was unhappy that hed had to chase  Esure and the repairer for updates.  He also felt
that he was the only person trying to progress the repair of the car, and that without his
involvement nothing  was happening.  Mr S said that his front windscreen  was damaged and
thinks this happened  when the roof was being replaced. The new roof wasnt  fitted until
around March 2019. Once this was done  the car then had to go to a main dealer again  for
the new locks  to be fitted and then back to the repairers for a new windscreen  to be fitted.
Mr S felt that if Esure had managed things better,  parts would have been ordered  earlier, the
car would have been moved between repairer and main dealers quicker, and he would have
had his car back much sooner.
Esure said that as the roof was on back order, they had to wait for it to arrive before
completing repairs. And once the roof was repaired it was taken to a main dealer to have the
locks and keys replaced.  The windscreen  had to be replaced and Esure said that they didnt
agree that this caused any further  delay.
In relation to a courtesy car, Esure said that under Mr Ss policy  he was only entitled to a
small, class  A car. Mr S had been given a Class  E car for two weeks  whilst Esure
investigated his original complaint, and after that they offered Mr S a small, class  A car
which he declined.
Esure acknowledged that there  had been  ongoing communication issues  since  the last
complaint was resolved in December 2018 and offered Mr S £150 compensation. Mr S didnt
accept Esures offer. So, he brought a complaint to our service. 
my provisional decision  
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ref: DRN72683452Ive considered all the available  evidence  to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the
circumstances of this complaint. I have decided that Im not going  to uphold this complaint.
Ill explain  why.
In my decision Ive considered the following points, as I consider these are the key issues
raised by Mr S:
Parts werent ordered as early as they could have been which caused delays.
Esure didnt manage the claims handling process well and Mr S had to chase them  
for updates and to progress the repairs.
Mr S says he should have been provided  with a car of similar  grade  to his own whilst 
his car was being repaired.
In the terms and conditions of Mr Ss motor insurance policy it states:
Esure are entitled to decide  which  method they use to settle the claim.
The courtesy car will be a small car.
This means  that Esure  were entitled  to conduct  an investigation, to establish if the car should
be repaired  or declared a total loss. Nevertheless,  Ive also considered  if Esures  actions
were fair and reasonable to Mr S in all the circumstances.
When a motor insurer is contacted by a customer after their car has been damaged, Id
expect them to assist  their customer by making reasonable efforts to deal with the claim
promptly and fairly.  Id also expect the insurer to provide reasonable information on its
progress. Ive reviewed  the contact  notes and communications between Mr S and Esure, this
has given me a good understanding  of the movements of the car and the timeline  of events.
Its also provided a timeline of communications between Mr S, Esure, the main  dealers and
the repairer.
Mr S is unhappy that it took Esure around seven  and a half months to repair his car. Ive
considered what  would have been a reasonable time to assess  and repair the car. Ive taken
into consideration that the insurer had to, assess the damage and cost of repair, assess  the
mechanical soundness of the car, order the necessary parts,  repair the car, move it between
repairer and main dealer and return it to Mr S. 
The incident  happened  in September 2018. If all stages had been dealt with promptly,  I think 
Mr S should  have had his car back by the end of December 2018. This would have  given 
Esure around four months to assess the damage, order the parts and complete the repairs, 
which I think would have  been fair and reasonable to both parties.
Therefore, Mr S had to make do without his car for three and a half months, when he really
should have had his own car back. I accept  that Esure offered Mr S a small, class  A car, and
Mr S declined. Ive spoken to Mr S about  this. Mr S said that he has an infant child, and
when he transports his child, he also needs  to transport a pram and baby seat. Mr S
considered that he could  put down the rear seats to store the pram, in the small car.
However, this then meant that hed need  to place his childs baby seat in the front passenger
seat, and Mr S felt that this was too dangerous. Mr S took the bus to work each day, which
he said increased his total daily commute by about one hour and cost about £15 per week.
Ref: DRN72683453Ive considered Mr Ss comments. Mr S could  have accepted the small car from Esure  and
used it to get to and from work which would have  avoided his extra  commute  time and bus
fare. Although, I accept it would have increased his petrol costs. However, he still wouldnt
have had a suitable car to transport his child. Also,  as Ive explained already, I think  Mr S
should have had his car back at the end of December 2018.  Therefore, I think Esure  should
have provided  Mr S with a car, of similar grade to his own,  between  January and mid-April
2019  when his own car was returned  - that would  also have allowed him to transport his
child safely. I accept  this caused Mr S distress and inconvenience. However, I also accept
that Esure did provide  Mr S with a courtesy car of similar grade  to his own for two weeks
whilst they were considering his earlier  complaint.
I think in all, Esure should compensate Mr S for the loss of the use of his car between
January and mid-April  2019 and for the seven and a half months of distress and
inconvenience of having to chase  Esure for updates and to progress the repair.  As Ive
explained, I think that if the claim had been dealt with promptly, Mr S would have had his car
back by the end of December  2018. And I accept that this caused Mr S distress and
inconvenience. However, Im aware  that Esure have  already compensated Mr S, in that they
have waived his £350 excess, paid him £50 as a gesture of goodwill, and paid him a further
£100 compensation following my colleagues decision on the previous complaint. Therefore,
Mr S has already received £500 compensation  form Esure.
Mr S is unhappy that he had to chase Esure and their repairer  for updates  and to progress
the repairs. Esure have  accepted that there have been communication  issues  and have
offered Mr S £150  as an apology for the communication issues experienced between
January and mid-April  2019. Having read the communication notes, I understand why
theyve done this. And I can totally understand how stressful it must have been  for Mr S.
Based on the impact  it had on Mr S, I think £150  is fair and reasonable as compensation for
the communication issues.
Therefore, Mr S will potentially receive £650 compensation in all. Irrespective of what
compensation offers have been  for and why they were paid. I think  this is a fair amount  to
put things right in all the circumstances. I believe this amount fairly reflects  the loss of use of
his car and the distress and inconvenience  Mr S experienced  as a result  of the slow
progression of this claim.
Im aware that Esure has made an offer to pay £150 for the communication  issues.  I
conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My decision is
that Esure should pay Mr S £150 if it already hasnt done so.
the response to my provisional  decision 
Mr S responded stating  that he accepted my provisional decision. However, he wasnt  sure if 
Esure had already paid him the £150  or not. 
Esure also accepted  my provisional  decision  and provided evidence to show that they paid 
Mr S the £150 compensation in May 2019.  
Ref: DRN72683454my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive considered the responses provided 
by Mr S and Esure. 
As both parties have  agreed to my provisional  decision  and neither party has provided  new 
information for me to consider. I see no reason to reach a different conclusion to the one I 
reached in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7268345