K821x#15Complaint
Mr B says he was mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) by MBNA  Limited.
Background
Mr B took out a credit card with MBNA  in 1998.  At the same  time, it sold Mr B a PPI policy  to 
help protect his card repayments if he couldnt  work due to disability or unemployment.
The adjudicator thought  the complaint should be upheld. MBNA disagreed, so the case was 
passed to me to review afresh.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Mr Bs case. 
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold this complaint. Ill explain why.
MBNA didnt  advise Mr B to buy the policy, so it didnt need to look into whether the policy  
was right for him. But it still had to make  sure Mr B had enough information so he could 
make his own mind up as to whether it was right for him. I dont think  MBNA  did this.
When MBNA told Mr B the cost of the policy I cant see that it explained all the costs  
involved. For example,  that Mr B would still have  to pay the PPI premiums even while  he 
was claiming. And that the cost of the policy would be added to Mr Bs credit  card balance 
and that hed pay interest on it. 
Mr B says he had a relatively  good sick pay entitlement from his employer. He says hed 
have been paid for between 6 and 12 months. The PPI paid out 3% of the outstanding 
balance each month. So, I think if the costs  and benefits involved in the PPI had been made 
clear, Mr B wouldnt  have thought it was good  value  for money and he probably  wouldnt 
have bought it.
MBNA says Mr B hasnt  been consistent regarding  his length of service,  and that he was 
only with his employer  for a year when he bought the policy  (not three years as he claimed 
more recently). It says that means  it cant be sure what  sick pay hed have got. 
I can see that Mr B hasnt given an entirely  consistent account of how long hed worked  for 
his employer back in 1998. But I dont think Mr Bs sick pay, as he recalls it, is unreasonably 
high either  way in the circumstances. And, even if his sick pay was slightly  less generous  
than he recalls, I still dont think hed have considered the policy was good value for money 
given its relatively limited benefits. In addition, Mr B says he also had other means   as well 
as his sick pay  of meeting his card repayments for a time if he wasnt working.
Taking everything into account,  I think Mr Bs lost out as a result of what  MBNA did wrong  
and that it should put things right for him.
Ref: DRN70361192Putting things  right
MBNA should put Mr B in the financial position  hed be in now if he hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.MBNA should find out how much  Mr B would have owed when he closed his credit  card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
MBNA should then refund  the difference between what Mr B owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr B made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy, MBNA  can take off what he got 
for the claim from the amount it owes him.  
B.MBNA should add simple interest on the difference  between what  Mr B would have 
owed when he closed his account   from when he closed  it until he gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  MBNA works out what Mr B would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mr B 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, MBNA should  also pay simple interest on 
the extra Mr B paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when  Mr B 
would have owed MBNA something  on his credit card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires MBNA to take off tax from this interest. MBNA must give 
Mr B a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided to uphold this complaint. I require MBNA Limited  to put 
things right as explained  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020. 
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7036119