K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2008. Ms B says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Santander  had to make it clear to Ms B that she had a choice about it. 
But Ms B says PPI wasnt mentioned during the sale and was added without her consent.
Santanders records show the PPI was taken  out nearly six years after the start of the 
mortgage. And so I dont  think  Ms B can reasonably  have thought  that she needed  the PPI in 
order to get the mortgage.
Santander has also sent us copies of a recommendations  summary letter  and a PPI 
welcome letter sent to Ms B. The recommendation summary letter says that Santander has 
recommended PPI to Ms B and that she has accepted the recommendation. And the PPI 
welcome letter confirms  the cost of the PPI and that it will be taken by direct  debit.
That Ms B had agreed to set up a direct debit to pay for the PPI suggests she was aware  of 
it and knew there was a separate  cost to it. I also think it would be reasonable to expect 
Ms B to question the PPI if she was receiving letters about it and being  charged for it each 
month but didnt want it. So I think its likely Santander did make  it clear to her that she had a 
choice about the PPI. And that she chose to take it, knowing she didnt have  to.
As Santander recommended the PPI to Ms B, it had to check that it was right for her. And, 
based on what Ive seen of Ms Bs circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example, she doesnt appear to have been  affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover. And the policy couldve paid out for longer than shes told us she would have 
received sick pay.
As well as checking it was right for her, Santander had to give Ms B clear information  about 
the PPI. Its possible the information it gave her wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But, a 
mortgage is a serious  financial  commitment, and Ms Bs property couldve been at risk if 
shed failed to make her repayments. So I think she couldve found the protection  the policy  
offered appealing. And, for the same  reasons I think it was right for her, it seems like it would 
have been useful for her if something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Ms B off taking  it out.
Which means Santander doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms B.
Ref: DRN76798182But Santander has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms B because:
Santander got a high level of commission and profit share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Ms B about that. Because Santander didnt tell Ms B, 
that was unfair.
To put that right, Santander has paid back the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Santander  UK Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the 
cost of the PPI to Ms B.
But Santander UK Plc does have to pay back to Ms B any commission  and profit share  it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 May 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7679818