K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D complain that Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mr and Mrs D in 1993  when  they were  
applying for a mortgage. The policy protected their mortgage monthly repayments if they 
couldnt work, for up to 24 months  each time they made a successful  accident,  sickness  or 
unemployment claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think, based  on the information wed been given, that she could 
reasonably uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagree. They mainly said that they werent 
given sufficient information about  the policy and it wasnt presented to them  as optional.
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Mr and Mrs D told us that estate agents  were involved in the overall mortgage transaction. 
But Ive seen nothing  to show they were  responsible  for the sale of the PPI and that 
Nationwide wasnt the seller - and Nationwide has accepted that it sold the PPI. So I think 
thats probably what happened. 
Nationwides response to the complaint is, in brief,  that:
it made it clear to Mr and Mrs D that PPI was compulsory with the particular form of 
mortgage they were  applying  for
it provided Mr and Mrs D with all the information they needed  to know about  the PPI and 
the policy benefits were explained
Mr and Mrs D chose to go ahead with the mortgage on this basis  - they couldve shopped  
around for a different  mortgage deal if they werent  happy  with the terms of this mortgage.
I cant be sure that PPI was in fact compulsory with this mortgage as, unsurprisingly after so 
long, neither Nationwide nor Mr and Mrs D now have the original paperwork they completed 
when they took out this mortgage  and the PPI. And I dont know  what  was discussed about 
the PPI, if anything. But Nationwide  says that around this time it made  it a condition of a 
mortgage that PPI was taken if the borrowing was over 90% of the property value or 
purchase price. And as it appears that Mr and Mrs Ds borrowing was equal to around 92% 
of their property value, this condition wouldve  applied to their mortgage.  So I think thats  
probably what happened.
I also say this because  it is essentially what Mr and Mrs D have complained about. They say 
they werent told PPI was optional, And Nationwide  agrees that they wouldnt have been - 
because it wasnt.
Ref: DRN71947072I cant uphold this complaint just on the basis that making the PPI compulsory must mean 
the PPI was mis-sold. Nationwide was entitled  to make taking out its PPI a requirement of 
getting the mortgage, as long as it made that clear  to Mr and Mrs D beforehand. 
So Ive looked  at the particular circumstances surrounding this complaint. Nationwide says 
Mr and Mrs D wouldve  been given a leaflet with details of the cover and it wouldve also 
been discussed during  a meeting. 
I cant be sure exactly what  was discussed. But, looking  at an example  of a mortgage  offer 
Nationwide says would've been  sent to its customers taking out mortgages like the one it 
sold Mr and Mrs D, I can see that it does say that PPI was compulsory with the mortgage. 
I think its likely Mr and Mrs Ds offer was in a similar form. And Nationwides records show  
they signed up to the mortgage offer.
Even if Mr and Mrs D dont now think  the policy was especially  useful, it was part of their 
offer and they were able to accept  or reject  that offer.  They chose to go ahead.  
So on balance, I think its likely that Nationwide did enough to make it clear  that 
Mr and Mrs D had to have  the policy if they wanted  the Nationwide  mortgage theyd applied 
for. Mr and Mrs D couldve  looked  around for a different  mortgage  elsewhere if they hadnt 
been happy with the mortgage deal Nationwide  was offering. But instead, they signed up for 
the mortgage Nationwide offered them  knowing they had to take out PPI with it. 
In order to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint, given that I think  they wouldve been aware at 
the time that their PPI was compulsory, Id have to find that they didnt have enough 
information about its terms or the cost/benefit it offered them. And that if theyd got clearer 
information they wouldve decided not to have the PPI, and therefore  not to take out this 
particular mortgage.
Without any paperwork from the time, or records of what was discussed, I cant be sure they 
were given all the information  about  the cost and terms of the PPI that they shouldve been. 
But as far as I can see, the policy offered them useful benefits.  It couldve paid out a benefit 
for significantly longer  than Mr or Mrs D were able to rely on getting sick pay as well as 
providing a benefit  if either or both of them became unexpectedly unemployed. This 
wouldve been on top of any sick pay or redundancy money they got - and Mr and Mrs D told 
us they had no other way to cover their outgoings  if they werent able to work. 
Nationwide says too that when  the policy went into force, Mr and Mrs D wouldve been sent 
a policy  document  which  set out the benefits and exclusions in the policy as well as an 
insurance schedule  setting out the cover theyd  chosen. Nationwide  says this gave them  
further opportunity  to study the policy to decide  whether  it met their requirements. And 
Mr and Mrs D couldve asked questions about  the insurance if they had any queries or 
wanted any more  information. 
They were  borrowing a large amount for a long time, secured on their home   and the 
results of not keeping  up with their repayments  couldve  been  serious.  So, I think the PPI 
offered them  useful cover in their particular circumstances. 
It follows that I dont think that more  or better information about the policy  wouldve made 
any difference to their decision  to take it out and so take out this form of mortgage. 
Ref: DRN71947073Ive taken into account everything Mr and Mrs D have said,  including  that they were quite 
young first-time buyers. But based  on what Ive seen and been told up to now,  I dont think  
this is a complaint  I can fairly uphold.  
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Mr and Mrs D have made no further comment.
Nationwide has confirmed  it has nothing further  to add to whats  been said already. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
Having done so, and as no further comments have been received in response to my 
provisional decision that affect what  I've said, I still think its fair not to uphold  this complaint 
for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 August 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman  
Ref: DRN7194707