K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains with the help of her husband Mr M, that she was mis-sold a term 
assurance policy by Phoenix  Life Limited  as she wanted a whole of life (WOL)  policy and this 
was what she believed  she had taken out.
background
Mrs M and Mr M saw an adviser in 1996 about  their finances. One of the things discussed 
was the need for life cover. Mrs M was recommended a life policy  on the life of Mr M with a 
term of 22 years and an end date of 28 July 2018.
The policy was index  linked  and reviewed annually. The initial sum assured was £10,715 
with a premium of £5 each month.  By 2017 the sum assured had increased to £14,269 with 
a premium of just over £20.
Phoenix didnt  uphold the complaint. It said the policy was suitable  for Mrs Ms needs  and 
that the documents provided when the policy was taken  out showed  it was for a fixed term. It 
also said that the annual statements also showed the start and end date of the policy and 
there was no evidence that the policy was WOL.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think Phoenix had done anything 
wrong. She said the application Mrs M had signed and agreed showed the term as 22 years 
as did other  documents such as the annual review statements   which  also showed the end 
date of the policy. She said she was satisfied that it was made  clear  the policy wasnt WOL.
Mr M didnt  agree with the adjudicator. In short he made the following points:
The policy states that it is a yearly  renewable  and permanent protection policy  and 
permanent means  for the rest of his life.
He didnt think the term of the policy was made clear  because the number of years 
specified on the policy documents wasnt clear.
They hadnt read the terms  and conditions.
They were told it was a WOL policy.
As Mrs M didnt agree with the adjudicator  the matter has been referred to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have no reason to doubt that Mrs M and Mr M now believe that they were led to believe 
that Mrs M had taken out a WOL policy. But they are recalling what happened 22 years  ago 
and I think it is unlikely  their recollection of what happened from so long ago is accurate. In 
other words I dont think it is more likely than not they were  told by the adviser that the policy 
was WOL as Mr M has suggested.
The fact find completed  by the adviser  at the time recorded that there  was a shortfall of life 
cover for Mr M of over £169,000  and that a term assurance was the lowest cost form of life 
assurance. He recommended  cover of just £10,715  at a premium of £5 a month.  From the 
Ref: DRN74878752fact find completed at the time this was because Mrs M and Mr M didnt want  to pay more 
than this. 
I have no reason to think the fact find doesnt show what was discussed with Mrs M. I can 
also see no reason  the adviser wouldve said the policy was WOL when it wasnt, as he 
wouldve been aware the documents provided  would show  this wasnt  the case.
I think the policy was a suitable recommendation given the identified  need for life cover and 
the amount Mrs M and Mr M wanted to pay for such cover. I think  it is unlikely they wouldve 
been able to get WOL cover of any amount for just £5, but if they couldve done  so it 
wouldve been significantly  less than the £10,715 they had with the term assurance policy - 
which itself was already  significantly   below the shortfall the adviser calculated.
I note Mr M has referred to the policy being  referred to as a yearly  renewable  and 
permanent protection  policy  and has suggested  that the use of the word  permanent 
supports what he has said about  them being misled. 
The only document I have seen where there is reference to permanent  is the first page  of 
the application form Mrs M completed. This lists; saverplan; economy cover plan; yearly 
renewable term; and permanent protection plan.  
But the application form is not specific to the term assurance policy  Mrs M was sold, it is 
generic and what is being referred to are different types of policy. I have seen no evidence  
that her policy was ever described as permanent and I think  it is unlikely she was misled  by 
the application into thinking  it was.
I also think the other documents Mrs M will have been given when she saw the adviser  
made it clear  that the policy wasnt WOL. The illustration showed the plan term as 22 years.  
And the key features  document  explained that the policy was a temporary assurance policy  
which provides life cover until the anniversary before the life assureds 70th birthday.
In addition to the documents  which Mrs M wouldve been provided with at the time of talking 
out the policy, she was also provided  with annual statements. Each of these  identified  the 
policy as term assurance  and the end date of 28 July 2018. 
In short  there is no evidence to support what Mrs M and Mr M have said about being misled  
about the type of policy Mrs M was advised  to take out. I think  the advice was suitable so I 
dont think Phoenix  has done anything wrong.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons I have explained above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Philip Gibbons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7487875