K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Evergreen  Finance London  Limited lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Our adjudicator used  information from Evergreen to create this summary of the loans 
approved for Mr K. I have duplicated it here.  
Loan Date Principal Total Payable Settled
1 08 March 
2016£350 £437.35 repayable over 3 monthly 
instalments the highest being  £145.7913 April 
2016
2 13 April 
2016£600 £781.64 repayable over 2 monthly 
instalments the highest being  £390.8208 June 
2016
3 19 June 
2016£400 £487.54 repayable over 2 monthly 
instalments the highest being  £243.7803 August 
2016
4 04 August 
2016£600 £844.18 repayable over 3 monthly 
instalments the highest being  £281.4005 October 
2016
5 23 November2016
£500 £766.74 repayable over 4 monthly 
instalments the highest being  £191.7315 March 
2017
Mr K applied in March 2017 for what would have  been Loan 6  it was declined.
One of our adjudicators thought that Evergreen  lent responsibly to Mr K for all five loans. 
Mr K disagreed with that opinion. Mr K was invited to send to us additional information  
such as financial statements or accounts  - to counter the adjudicators opinion but nothing  
has been received  from Mr K. 
A second assessment more recently  led to a different adjudicator thinking that Evergreen 
ought not to have approved Loans 4 and 5. Evergreen disagreed with that opinion. The 
complaint remains unresolved and was passed to me for a decision.
 
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
Evergreen needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it did not lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr K 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Evergreen should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include: where a customers income  is particularly low; where the repayments  are 
particularly high; and/or  where the frequency of the loans and the length  of time over which  a 
Ref: DRN75647782customer has been given  loans need  to be looked  at: repeated  refinancing could signal that 
the borrowing  had become, or was becoming,  unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Evergreen was required to establish 
whether Mr K could  sustainably repay  his loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
The loan payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication  a consumer could 
sustainably make their repayments.  But it does not automatically follow  this is the case. This 
is because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines  sustainable as being the 
ability to repay without undue difficulties. In particular the customer  should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments,  and without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower will not be able to make their repayments sustainably if they need to borrow further 
in order to do that.
I have carefully considered all the arguments,  evidence and information provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ks complaint. And I note Evergreens latest points 
that individual cases need to be assessed in those particular circumstances: I assure 
Evergreen that I have  approached the complaint  in that way.
Evergreen has explained its process before  approving a loan: when an applicants credit 
report shows that he or she was repaying  additional  credit  they have not disclosed then it 
explained that it increased the expenditure figures to create  a type of buffer  which it said 
was to bring the customer  in line with the national average and to make it increasingly 
unlikely we are approving  any unaffordable loans.
For Mr K, his expenditure figure was increased  on each of his applications  save the first one. 
And Evergreen gave  us a table to show the amounts it used. It did this where it considered  
that Mr Ks credit search results warranted an increase. I refer to this later in my decision.  
The credit searches have  been provided  and run to several hundred  pages. These have 
been useful. And I have  seen and read very detailed Evergreen account notes which give 
me details  of the interaction between Mr K and Evergreens representatives. 
I have seen from those  notes that Evergreen  needed verification of Mr Ks employment and 
asked for and received payslips and it had asked for bank statements. So often was this 
information asked  for that Mr K queried why he was being asked so much and accused 
Evergreen of being irresponsible . 
My view is quite  the opposite. Asking to see copy payslips, bank statements, verifying 
employment, salary and carrying out credit  searches are comprehensive checks. These lead 
me to think  that on the whole, Evergreen was approaching the applications in a responsible 
way. For Mr Ks case its a question of proportionality in relation to each of the loans applied  
for.  
For Loans 1 and 2, I can see that Evergreen had details  of Mr Ks credit search results,  and 
they did reveal some historic account defaults but they pre-dated the applications. He had 
credit balances and a number of active accounts, but in the early stages of the relationship 
Ref: DRN75647783then the checks  appear  to have been proportionate, and the checks indicated  that Mr K was 
likely in a position  to afford these loans. 
I do not think that Evergreen  needed  to do more.  I also note that Mr K asked for Loan 1 to be 
repaid earlier and he asked to take Loan  2 so that he could pay for a holiday. I think  that this 
detail was not likely to have alerted Evergreen  to the need to do more. 
Loan 3 was for less than Loan  2 but still a relatively large sum. Mr K was asking for his third 
loan in three months, and the results  of Evergreens credit  searches revealed that Mr K had 
opened even more credit  accounts  and his overall  debt level had increased. So I would have  
expected Evergreen  to do more.
On top of what Evergreen had from the credit  searches it also verified  Mr Ks salary.  It 
obtained a copy  payslip and this confirmed  £2,250  net pay. I have been sent a copy of that 
payslip. This has satisfied Evergreen  he was able to afford the two instalments for Loan 3. 
So I think that the checks carried out were  proportionate and I do not think  that Evergreen 
needed to do more.
When Mr K applied  for Loan 4 in August 2016  which  was on the same  day that he had 
repaid Loan 3, then Evergreen asked  to see copy bank statements. Mr K did not appear 
keen to get those  as he asked for the application  to be cancelled.  But I have seen from the 
account notes  that Mr K reapplied later that day. The loan was approved.  Evergreen  has told 
me that it had not received any bank statements before this loan was approved.  
I think that Evergreens own system had recommended  that for Loan 4 (for a higher amount 
of £600) it ought  to get more information.  All of Mr Ks credit balances  had increased  
together with the number of active accounts  revealed by the credit checks. It increased his 
expenditure figure to create  the buffer in the way I have  outlined earlier in this decision.  
For Loan 4 the increase was £350 and it was the third increase  which means that Evergreen  
had seen from the credit reports  that Mr K was not disclosing all of his credit commitments  
three times by the time he was applying for Loan 4. 
And taking  into account the nature of short-term loans, asking for a fourth within  a relatively 
short time and almost sequentially to Loans  1 to 3, ought to have alerted Evergreen to do 
more. 
I think that the full and comprehensive financial review which I would have expected  for 
Loan 4 was not carried out. A copy bank statement was asked for and not received but the 
loan was approved without  it. I do not have anything from Mr K to show me what Evergreen 
would have seen  if it had received that bank statement  and carried  out a full financial review.  
But I am aware that Evergreen had felt it needed  further verification but approved the loan 
regardless without satisfying it that Mr K could  repay  sustainably. 
Given the concerns  that Evergreen  had and it felt it needed to do more, I think  in those 
circumstances the complaint  about Loan 4 should be upheld.   
Loan 5 was applied for in November 2016, and for similar reasons to above  I still think  it 
ought to have prompted Evergreen to carry out a full and comprehensive financial review of 
Mr Ks finances. As I have seen from account  notes that verification of pay, work, and asking 
for bank  statements had already been  asked for earlier, then I would have expected  it for 
Loan 5. Mr K did not seem content  to provide this information again,  but he did provide a 
payslip. His payslip  a copy of which I have seen  - revealed a substantial  decrease in his 
net salary to £1,584 for October 2016. Then  a shift allowance and holiday allowance 
Ref: DRN75647784increase of £500 was included into the application  and the loan was approved. No 
explanation as to what evidence it had of that additional income,  or the reason for this being 
added, has been given.  
And an expenditure increase of £550  to create the buffer was also added. This was an 
effective increase of over £1,000. 
The credit search results showed that Mr Ks balances had increased and on the Evergreen  
application page I can see that notes  say - Taken:  8    Gone Bad: 1   Outstanding Bad: 2. 
This application page also shows that the NDI, which  I take to be Mr Ks net disposable 
income, had reduced substantially from the August 2016 application (Loan 4) NDI figure of 
£1,285.00 to the November 2016  NDI figure of £300. 
I appreciate that the £300 NDI had been  calculated after Evergreen  had added in the extra 
expenditure figure buffer Evergreen  has explained to us. For Loan 5 that buffer figure  was 
£550. That was a substantial sum and suggests  that the reason for doing that must have 
been significant. 
And whether the buffer figure was added  in to the calculations  or not, a credit worthiness 
assessment needs  to be carried  out from the borrowers perspective and I think  that 
Evergreen was alerted  to the fact that the risk to Mr K of not being able so sustainably  repay  
this loan was high. 
So, on the information I have seen I think that a responsible lender would not have provided 
additional credit  to Mr K in August and November 2016. I uphold Loans 4 and 5. 
putting things right  what Evergreen needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr K paid on Loans 4 and 5;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year* on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative payment information about Loans 4 and 5 from Mr Ks credit 
file;
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Evergreen to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Mr K a certificate  showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am upholding Mr Ks complaint in part. Evergreen Finance 
London Limited should do as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7564778