K820x#14complaint
Mr S and Mrs S complain  that Lloyds Bank General  Insurance Limited (trading as 
Halifax Insurance) declined a claim for repairs  to faulty wiring  under their Buildings insurance  
policy.
background
Mr S and Mrs S lost electrical power  to their downstairs sockets. They  were  especially 
concerned about  the contents of their fridge freezer. So they contacted the only company 
who could help at short notice. The electricians couldnt find the cause of the problem. So 
Mr S and Mrs S decided to have  the kitchen rewired rather than take everything  apart  to find 
the fault.
Mr S and Mrs S were  told Halifax Insurance couldnt  accept  a claim for an unknown  cause. 
After a number of difficult calls they were  told the damage wasnt covered as it was due to 
wear and tear. Mr S said his wife had also been  asked ridiculous questions  as part of the 
security process. And they werent sent a form to pursue the claim.
Halifax said it hadnt sent a claim form as itd logged the complaint during the telephone 
calls. Based on what itd been told the electrical problem was due to wear and tear. And the 
policy didnt cover maintenance  issues. But if Mr S and Mrs S were  able to provide any 
evidence to show the damage  had been  caused  by an insured peril it would look at the claim 
again.
Mr S and Mrs S werent satisfied with Halifax Insurances response.  So they contacted our 
service and our investigator looked into the matter.  She could see Mr S and Mrs S were  
unhappy with the service  theyd received. But she felt Halifax  Insurance had explained it 
could look into the claim over the phone rather than needing to send a claim form. And she 
felt itd followed the correct steps  to confirm Mrs Ss identity.
Our investigator understood Mr S and Mrs S didnt want their kitchen  taking apart to find the 
cause of the fault. But she felt Halifax had dealt with the complaint fairly. She explained  it 
was the policyholders  responsibility to show an insured  event had taken place. And because 
they hadnt been able to provide Halifax with this information she didnt think itd done  
anything wrong  when itd declined their claim.
Mr S and Mrs S didnt agree so theyve  asked for an ombudsmans final decision.  The policy 
booklet clearly stated that cables were covered. And they needed to get the kitchen  back in 
working order so they couldnt wait for an investigation into the fault.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S and Mrs S suffered electrical  problems  which an electrician was unable  to find the 
cause of. And they were concerned any delays would cause a loss of frozen food which their 
insurance policy didnt  cover.  Mr S said they wouldnt have been able to use their kitchen  for 
an unknown period of time if theyd asked the electrician to investigate  the cause. And it 
would have meant taking the kitchen and flooring apart.
Ref: DRN73194032I can understand how disruptive this wouldve been. And its clear  Mr S and Mrs S have 
found this matter very upsetting. So Ive looked carefully at everything thats happened to 
see if Halifax Insurance has done  anything  wrong.
The buildings insurance policy provides  cover  for events like fire, theft and accidental  
damage. Under section 14 the policy includes accidental damage  to services described as 
underground cables,  pipes, drains, tanks  and their inspection covers serving the home. And 
the policy describes  accidental  damage as an accident that causes physical damage,  which 
is caused suddenly  by an outside force and is not expected and not deliberate.
I appreciate the loss of power was sudden and unexpected. But theres nothing to suggest 
an accident caused the fault. The electrician found several signs of failure  on the kitchen 
circuits. Although the lights still worked, some of the sockets didnt. 
Halifax Insurance said wiring wasnt an insurable event. It was likely  the sockets or circuits 
had reached an age where they werent  suitable for the property. So Halifax felt it was wear 
and tear rather than an accident thatd caused the problem. I appreciate Mr S and Mrs S 
didnt want the electrician to dismantle their kitchen  to see if they could find the cause of the 
fault. And they opted to have it rewired instead.  But that meant  they werent able to give 
Halifax any further information about  whatd  caused  the problem.
On page 21 of the policy booklet Halifax explains wear and tear and mechanical  or electrical  
faults or breakdowns are uninsurable causes.  The policy would cover accidental damage  to 
underground electrical cables. But it didnt extend  to normal electrical wiring  within  the house 
unless theyd suffered  accidental  damage.  And Mr S and Mrs S werent able to provide any 
evidence confirming that was the case. So based  on the information provided I think Halifax 
Insurance made a fair decision to decline the claim.
I can see Mr S and Mrs S are also unhappy with the overall service they received. Halifax 
didnt send a claim form so it feels like the business just dismissed  their problems.  And 
Mrs S was asked what they thought were unnecessary questions when confirming her 
identity.
From what  Ive heard on the recorded  telephone conversations Halifax Insurance asked 
reasonable questions to make sure it was speaking  to Mrs S about  the claim.  And Halifax  
has explained it reviewed  the claim based on the conversations over the telephone, so it 
didnt feel it was necessary to send a separate form. And I think  thats sensible. Mr S had 
provided the information it needed. And Halifax said Mr S could  send any additional 
information for it to consider. So there was no need  to duplicate the process.
I know Mr S and Mrs S will be disappointed  with this outcome. They spent over £1300  
having a new consumer unit fitted  and additional work for the electric cooker which seems to 
have solved the problem. And they feel strongly that their buildings  insurance policy  should  
cover the costs.
But Ive not seen anything to suggest  something has taken place which Halifax  Insurance 
could consider an insured event. And Mr S and Mrs S havent been able to give Halifax any 
further information which would enable them to reconsider the claim. 
Based on everything  Ive seen I cant say Halifax Insurance acted unfairly when it declined  
the claim.  And I wont  be asking it to do anything more.
Ref: DRN73194033my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 December  2019.
Andrew Mason
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7319403