K821x#15complaint
Mr S (the executor of the estate of the late Mr S) complaint is about the way Scottish 
Equitable Plc (Aegon)  paid out the benefits  from his late fathers personal pension  plan. He 
considers it was paid out on an inappropriate basis, and the process was also handled 
incorrectly.
background
The adjudicator set out the background to the complaint in his assessment. But in brief,  
when Mr S father (who  I will refer to as Mr S senior) passed away, Mr S informed  Aegon.  
Aegon wrote to Mr S and requested that he complete the relevant  forms required to allow  the 
pension to be released.
Mr S completed the forms and returned them along  with a covering  letter  providing some  
additional information.  Aegon wrote to Mr S seniors  partner requesting  information. And it 
subsequently paid out the full value of the pension to Mr S seniors partner. She then 
contacted Mr S to say that Aegon had paid out the pension to her in full.
When Mr S (through a representative) contacted Aegon  to raise concerns about  how the 
payment had been made, Aegon said it would consider the circumstances of Mr S claim.  It 
requested evidence from him showing his financial dependency on his father. Mr S provided 
evidence in May 2018. But within a few days Aegon contacted Mr S to that it hadnt changed 
its mind and it was satisfied with its original  decision  as to whom  to make  the payment. 
Mr S made a formal  complaint to Aegon. Aegon accepted that it hadnt handled the 
processing appropriately and offered Mr S £250 for the trouble and upset this had caused 
him. But again, it didnt change its view about  whom the proceeds of the pension  should  be 
paid to. 
Mr S referred his complaint to us and it was considered by one of our adjudicators.  His view 
was that as Aegon were  the Trustees  of the pension  it had absolute  discretion as to who the 
funds should be paid to. He noted  Aegon had confirmed that it had obtained evidence  of 
financial dependency from Mr S seniors partner, and as a result  this is what it had used to 
determine that she was entitled to the whole pension.  The adjudicator didnt think  this was 
something he could  overrule. And he said that if Mr S believed he was entitled to a portion of 
the pension fund he may wish to consider  seeking  legal  advice  about  it.
The adjudicator didnt think, however, that Aegon had dealt with the processing of the claim 
itself appropriately.   In particular it hadnt  properly looked into Mr S claim and his 
circumstances before making  the payment, even though he was the sole executor of his 
fathers estate and only son; it had failed to keep  him up to date with the process,  including  
hearing from the beneficiary that the claim had been paid out in full; and overall it had 
showed a lack of compassion.  The adjudicators  view was that the £250 Aegon had already 
offered for how it had dealt with the matter wasnt enough. He thought  Aegon  should pay   
Mr S a further £500. 
Aegon agreed with the adjudicators view. However  Mr S didnt.  
The adjudicator went onto explain that Aegon had accepted that it should have taken into 
consideration Mr S circumstances  prior to paying  the funds to Mr S seniors partner. 
However it had confirmed that it had reconsidered the matter taking his circumstances into 
Ref: DRN71596152account, and it thought  its decision  on how the funds should  be paid was the correct  one.  
The adjudicator again said he didnt think that decision  could be challenged by this service. 
As Mr S didnt accept  the adjudicators findings  the case has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the same 
conclusions as the adjudicator, and largely  for the same reasons. 
I do understand Mr S feelings and position  on the matter.  However, as explained by the 
adjudicator, as Trustee, Aegon had the discretion to decide who the money  should  be paid 
to. Trustees must ensure  that any discretionary decision  is made  properly and in line with the 
power thats been given. So in deciding the matter my role is to consider whether that 
discretion was exercised unreasonably,  made  outside of its powers or in an improper 
manner. 
 .
Aegon firstly had a duty to check for dependents and for potential beneficiaries of the plan 
and obtain relevant information from them  which it has acknowledged  it failed to do in the 
first instance. But on gathering further  information  from Mr S and revisiting its position, it said 
it thought its original decision was the correct one. Im satisfied that Aegon  (ultimately) took 
into account the information that was relevant to a decision to pay the full value of the fund to 
Mr S seniors partner. 
I realise that Mr S has suspicions about that decision in particular because  Aegon had 
already paid out the pension. But as long as its decision was within the range of possible 
decisions that the Trustees  could have reached, then it wouldnt open  to challenge on the 
basis that it was irrational or perverse. 
Aegon didnt follow  the correct process  and I agree with Mr S that it didnt  deal with the 
matter in a sensitive and professional manner. But I think its offer of £750  is a reasonable 
settlement for the distress  and inconvenience  those failures caused. 
And I dont  think its decision to pay Mr S seniors  partner was either  irrational or perverse  
given their financial circumstances. And it was a decision within  the Trustees powers  to 
make. I accept that it could have made a different decision that would have been more 
favourable to Mr S. But equally, was the decision one that no reasonable trustee could  have 
made  I dont think it was. 
The ombudsman service  acts as an informal alternative to the courts.  But we dont have the 
same powers as a court  we cant compel  third parties to provide evidence or give 
testimony or have the power to cross  examine witnesses as in a court  environment.  If Mr S 
is intending to take action  through the courts and test the matter  there, I should make it clear 
that he would need to reject my decision as it is binding if accepted.  
Clearly, I understand  that this is a difficult and emotive issue. And I appreciate that this is not 
the outcome that Mr S was hoping for or will compensate him for the loss of the pension  fund 
itself  or part of. But for the reasons outlined above, the evidence doesnt suggest  that 
Aegon exercised its discretion in an irrational or perverse  manner. So in all the 
circumstances, Im not persuaded that its appropriate to uphold  that part of Mr S complaint
Ref: DRN71596153final decision
I am aware  that Scottish Equitable Plc has made  an offer to pay Mr S £750 (in total). I 
conclude that the offer is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. My final decision is 
that Scottish  Equitable Plc should  pay Mr S £750. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7159615