K821x#15complaint
Mr F has complained NewDay Limited, trading as Aqua, wont  pay the costs of repairing a 
ring which he bought for his wife. He made a claim to NewDay  under section 75 of the 
Consumer Credit Act 1974.
background
In October  2017 when  Mr F and his wife were  travelling overseas,  he bought a ring to give to 
his wife six months later for a special  anniversary.  He paid for this with his Aqua credit card. 
They were  again  overseas  for their anniversary  when Mr F gave his wife the ring. When they 
consulted local jewellers to get matching items made, he was informed the ring was faulty. 
He was told the casement was also found to be very weak  with open sides  which  were  very 
thin. This jeweller didnt  recommend  repair.
Mr F made a claim to Aqua as hed bought  the ring on his credit card. They  rejected his 
claim as they felt hed signed to accept the ring in the condition it was in regardless. Mr F 
brought his complaint to the ombudsman service.
Our investigator asked  Mr F to get independent  local advice which  he did. He got a quotation 
for repairs which amounted to £125.  This would resolve the fault. Our investigator told Aqua 
they should pay for the repairs as the item Mr F purchased didnt meet the requirements  of 
the Consumer  Rights Act 2015. He also asked them to pay Mr F an additional £60 
compensation for the delays in sorting this out.
Aqua agreed to pay £60 but wouldnt pay the costs of repair. Mr Fs complaint has been  
referred to an ombudsman to make  a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as our investigator  and for roughly the same  reasons. Ill explain why.
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  allows a customer to claim a refund  of money 
for goods or services they paid to a supplier  when entering into an associated  credit 
agreement, like Mr Fs credit agreement with Aqua. Specific conditions  apply  to those 
claims. Aqua needs to consider whether there  was a breach  of contract or misrepresentation 
by the company that led to Mr F making this purchase.
Its worth  clarifying Im not deciding Aquas liability under section 75 of the Consumer Credit 
Act. We certainly  take into account  the relevant law and that includes section 75. But we 
decide cases by considering what is fair and reasonable, as statute requires  us to do. What 
Im deciding is whether  Aqua did enough  in considering Mr Fs complaint. And if they didnt, 
what else should they now do.
If there was a misrepresentation or breach of contract in the supply of the goods then its fair 
to ask Aqua to put things  right. 
Ref: DRN79197162was there  a breach of contract  in the supply of goods?
Mr F bought  a special  ring  which has been  independently valued at £1,450   as a present 
for his wife. He bought this overseas planning to give it to his wife six months later for their 
anniversary. It was only when the ring was inspected at some  jewellers;  the faults within  the 
fabric of the ring  essentially a weak shank  were  noticed.
Aqua has said Mr F bought the ring and accepted  the retailers terms and conditions which 
allowed for no refund.  This means  Aqua  has no liability  to sort out repairs.  I dont agree. The 
Consumer Rights Act means  that goods  bought must be of a serviceable  and appropriate 
quality. Mr F bought a not inexpensive ring for his wife. This was designed  for her to wear  
regularly. All the evidence  Ive seen  including a report from overseas jewellers and a 
quotation for repairs from a more  local-based  independent jewellers   show that theres a 
fault. I believe the ring isnt fit for the purpose  it was bought. Im in no doubt theres a breach 
of contract.
Under section 75 Mr F can bring a like claim for that breach of contract  against  Aqua. Mr F 
has sought a quotation for repairs and hopes to have that done. This quotation seems more  
than reasonable.  However as it was undertaken earlier this year theres  a chance this may 
increase by the time Mr F gets the repairs done. Overall Im satisfied Mr F can use the same  
independent jewellers to have the repairs carried out as undertook  the quotation. He can 
then present the bill after the repairs to Aqua as evidence of the work hes had done.
Having considered all the evidence Im going to be asking Aqua to pay for the repairs  to the 
ring Mr F bought. Aqua initially paid £40 for the delay  in reviewing Mr Fs claim. Our 
investigator felt a further £60 should also be paid. I agree this is reasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  NewDay  Limited, trading as Aqua, 
to:
Pay for the repairs to the ring purchased by Mr F; and
Give Mr F a further £60 compensation for the delays.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7919716