K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1998. Mr S says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Barclays had to make it clear that the PPI was optional and Mr S had to agree to take it 
out. Mr S has said he didnt know PPI had been added to his account.
Barclays has said the PPI was taken out in a phone  call over four years  after the initial  
credit card was taken out. It no longer has a record of the call, which  is understandable 
considering the length of time that has passed.  But it has said that it would have made 
the optional nature of the policy clear. 
As the policy was taken out some years after the initial credit card application was made, I 
think Mr S would have known that he didnt have to have the PPI cover in order to get the 
card. And the premium for the policy would have shown as a separate charge on Mr Ss credit 
card statements. If Mr S didnt know what this charge was for, or hadnt agreed to take it out, I 
think he would have questioned this with Barclays sooner than he did.
Taking into account what Ive seen and been told, and what we already know about the way 
Barclays sold policies at that time, I think its more likely that Barclays made it clear to Mr S 
that the policy was optional and he chose to take it out, knowing he could refuse it if he didnt 
want it.
Barclays recommended  the PPI to Mr S so it had to check that the PPI was right for him  
and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he seems  to 
have had a need for the cover.
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mr S about the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve 
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.  And it seems 
like it would have been useful for him if something  went wrong  from what Mr S has told us 
he would  only have  received statutory sick pay from his employer if he had been too ill to 
work. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Ref: DRN71217332Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7121733