K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains that PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, gave him loans that he 
couldnt afford to repay.
background
Mr B took out eight  loans with Mr Lender  between  March and October 2014, as follows:
loan number date taken amount borrowed date repaid
1 12 March 2014 £300 14 March 2014
2 19 March 2014 £200 9 April 2014
3 10 April 2014 £250 7 May 2014
4 9 May 2014 £250 27 May 2014
5 19 June 2014 £200 30 July 2014
6 4 August 2014 £100 24 September 2014
7 13 October 2014 £130 22 October 2014
8 25 October 2014 £200 6 May 2015
Mr B feels  that Mr Lender was irresponsible  to lend to him because he took out a lot of loans 
in a very short space of time and his credit report showed defaults  and late payments. He 
doesnt think Mr Lender carried out proper checks.  If it had done  so, he says it would have 
seen that the loans  were contributing to financial hardship and a gambling addiction.
Our adjudicator thought Mr Lender  had carried out enough checks for the first two loans but 
it hadnt done enough for the other  six before it agreed to lend to Mr B. If it had done  so, he 
thought Mr Lender wouldnt have agreed  to provide Mr B with loans three to eight. He asked 
it to refund  interest  and charges for these  six loans and to pay interest on the refunded  
amount. He said it should also remove  any adverse information about them from Mr Bs 
credit file.
Mr Lender disagreed. In summary, it said that it had done more  checks and, in particular,  
had carried out expenditure assessments before  agreeing to lend to Mr B. 
my provisional findings
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr B 
and to Mr Lender on 11 March 2019. I summarise my findings:
Mr Lender  was required  to lend responsibly. It needed  to make checks to see whether 
Mr B could  afford to pay back  each  loan before it lent to him. Those  checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Mr B was borrowing and his lending history,  
but there was no set list of checks Mr Lender  had to do.
Mr Lender  has told us that it asked Mr B about his income and expenditure each time he 
requested a loan.  It also carried  out identity and credit checks.  The results of its credit 
checks didnt show any problems with Mr Bs finances such  as an IVA or bankruptcy.  
Ref: DRN75325602For the first two loans,  Mr Lender  has recorded  Mr Bs monthly income as £1,560 and it 
assessed his disposable income as more than £1,000.  Given the size of these loans I 
didnt think Mr Lender was wrong  to provide  the loans.
Mr B asked  to borrow for a third time just one day after repaying loan two. I thought this 
should have prompted  Mr Lender  to increase its checks by asking  Mr B about  any other 
short term lending he might have.  But even if it had done this I didnt think  Mr B had any 
at that time so I considered Mr Lender would still have concluded the loan was 
affordable.
By the time Mr B asked for the fourth  loan he had other  short term loans of more  than 
£1,000 so I found that the loan repayment wasnt affordable. 
When he asked for the fifth loan, I think Mr Lender should  have been concerned  that Mr 
B was becoming reliant on short term lending and it should have carried out better 
checks and verified  Mr Bs true financial position, perhaps by looking at his bank 
statements. If it had done so, it would have seen  that Mr Bs financial situation was 
broadly the same as for loan four but he was also spending a substantial  amount on 
gambling transactions. I didnt  think he could afford loan five.
Mr B asked  to borrow far smaller amounts for loans six and seven. His bank statements 
showed that he had a disposable income  of around £450 and given the maximum 
repayment was £150 I didnt think Mr Lender was wrong  to lend.  Mr Bs bank statements 
didnt show a high level of gambling when  these loans were  taken.
Mr B asked  for loan eight just three days after repaying the previous loan. His repayment 
for this loan was £260. Although his disposable income was still around £450 given the 
level of gambling  transactions,  which Mr Lender would have seen if it had verified Mr Bs 
financial position, it would have seen he couldnt afford  to make the repayment.
Subject to any further representations from Mr B or Mr Lender,  my provisional decision was 
that I thought it was wrong for Mr Lender  to conclude that loans four, five and eight were 
affordable and to lend to Mr B.
Mr B disagreed with my provisional decision. He said, in summary,  that he told Mr Lender 
that he had difficulty  working out his monthly outgoings and it said that it would verify his 
details. He also thought that if Mr Lender had seen his bank statements it would have 
realised the amount he was spending  on gambling and seen that it was irresponsible  to lend 
to him.
Mr Lender had nothing  to add to my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mr Bs concern about whether loans three, six and seven were affordable.  He 
suggests that if Mr Lender had looked at his bank statement before it provided the third loan 
it would  have seen  the level of his financial difficulty.  But even though I thought  Mr Lender 
should have asked Mr B about other  short term lending it wasnt required to review his bank 
statements. I have looked at Mr Bs statements to check  about  other  short term lending and I 
Ref: DRN75325603didnt consider Mr B had any at that time so I dont  think it was wrong  for Mr Lender to 
conclude loan three was affordable.
Im satisfied, from a review of Mr Bs bank statements from the time that he took loans six 
and seven, that he was left with around  £450  of disposable income  from which to meet the 
monthly loan repayments of almost £150. I didnt  find that he had spent a substantial amount 
on gambling at the time these two loans  were provided, so Im not persuaded that they 
werent affordable  at the time and I cant safely conclude that Mr Lender was wrong to 
provide them.
putting things right
I dont think Mr Lender should have agreed  to lend to Mr B for the loans that he took on 9 
May, 19 June and 25 October  2014 (loans  four, five and eight in the table above). So for 
each of those  loans it should:
refund  any interest and charges  applied to these loans 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Mr Bs credit file in relation to these  loans
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender  to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender 
must give Mr B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require PDL Finance Limited to put 
things right as detailed above .
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 May 2019.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7532560