K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about Eldon Insurance Services Ltd. He isnt happy that it incorrectly  
cancelled his car insurance policy. 
background
Mr H took out car insurance through Eldon in August 2018.  While he was away travelling 
Eldon contacted him to say it was cancelling his policy.  It said his no claims discount (NCD) 
wasnt valid as it was over two years old.
This left Mr H in a difficult position.  As he was traveling abroad,  in a very different time zone, 
he had to try and put things right. He paid for internet access and made  expensive  calls to 
try and explain that his NCD was valid to Eldon. But Eldon didnt accept his argument and as 
he thought Eldon was correct (when  it wasnt) he tried to get his car insured  elsewhere with 
zero NCD  which was significantly  more  expensive.
Eventually Mr H called a friend  and got his car moved to a safe place of storage  and decided  
to arrange cover when  he got home  when  things were more convenient. When he returned 
home Eldon realised  it had made an error  and his NCD was valid.  It did charge an admin fee 
for an alteration to the number of years  NCD as Mr H had input this incorrectly, but it waived 
this in acknowledgement of its error  in attempting to cancel the policy. 
But Mr H didnt feel that this compensated him for all the hassle and costs he incurred  so he 
complained to this service. Our investigator looked  into things for him. And she agreed  that 
the waiving of the admin fee didnt really cover all the stress, inconvenience and costs that 
Mr H had incurred. She suggested £150, in addition to the admin fee, was fair. 
Although Mr H eventually  agreed, Eldon didnt. It asked for evidence  of the costs Mr H 
incurred while he was away on holiday and maintained that the waiving of the admin fee was 
sufficient compensation.
 
So the matter  has been passed  to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
It isnt disputed that Eldon made  a mistake in relation  to Mr Hs NCD. So the only issue  to 
consider is the level of compensation  that Mr H should receive.
Eldon has since advised  its staff about the time scales  involved in relation to the use of NCD. 
But Im surprised that it has had to do this - as an insurance broker I would expect its staff to 
know that Mr Hs NCD was valid as it was under two years old. Indeed  Mr H had researched 
the position before he took out insurance  and told Eldon that it was wrong, yet it still told him 
it was cancelling  his policy.
This put Mr H in a difficult position, especially as he was travelling abroad in a different time 
zone at that time. I know Eldon  has fixated itself on the costs that Mr H incurred, wanting  him 
to provide evidence  of the costs of calls and internet  costs. But it has failed to consider  the 
Ref: DRN70767622wider stress and inconvenience  Mr H faced  because of its failing and the fact that he was 
away at the time. Eldon  has questioned if the compensation level would be as high if Mr H 
was at home and it is quite possible  that it wouldnt.  Mr Hs stress and inconvenience was 
increased because  he was far away from home  at the time.
So, I think the fair and reasonable thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is 
for Eldon to pay Mr H £150 compensation (in addition  to the waived admin  costs). I say this 
as Mr H wouldve been caused a fair degree  of stress and inconvenience in trying  to make 
sure his car was insured  and I accept that Mr H would have incurred internet and phone  
costs while  he was away. Furthermore, he had to organise the movement of his car to a safe 
place while he was away, which caused  a fair degree of hassle. 
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Eldon Insurance  
Services Ltd to pay Mr H £150 compensation in addition to the waived admin fee.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7076762