K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains he was misled about the part-exchange value of a car hed used when 
acquiring a new car via a conditional sale agreement with Vauxhall Finance plc. 
background 
In April 2017 Mr A acquired a new car via a finance agreement. This agreement wasnt  
provided by Vauxhall  Finance. 
Unfortunately in June  2017 the car developed a fault with its windows which  would open of 
their own accord and he returned it to the dealership for repairs.  Mr A says the car had a 
new part fitted  and was returned  to him. 
Within a short period of time the cars  windows opened again while  it was parked overnight 
and the interior  was soaked by rain. Mr A took the car back to the dealership  and obtained a 
settlement figure for the agreement of £13,750 to bring the agreement to an end. Mr A says 
that the salesperson offered him a new credit agreement and told him this would work out 
around £200 per month cheaper than his original agreement. 
In December 2017 Mr A entered into a four year conditional sale agreement for another  new 
car using  the first car as a part exchange. However,  Mr A says he then discovered that the 
payments under the new agreement werent  cheaper and that at the end of the four year 
period he was required to make  a payment of £5,666 to clear the balance and own the car. 
He complained to the dealership. 
The dealership explained to Mr A that there had still been an outstanding balance  on the 
original cars  hire purchase  as the full settlement figure hadnt been covered when hed used 
the car as a part exchange for this one. 
Mr A was unhappy at the dealerships explanation  and complained  to Vauxhall Finance. 
Vauxhall Finance  didnt  uphold his complaint. It said it wasnt able to comment  on what had 
been said between  Mr A and the dealership but the figures were  set out clearly in the 
agreement. This included  the amount of the monthly repayments and the last payment due 
under the agreement. Vauxhall  Finance  said Mr A had had the opportunity  to look at the 
figures provided before signing and that it would have been  his responsibility to do so. And 
by signing the agreement Mr A was acknowledging he had understood and agreed  to the 
terms and conditions of the agreement. 
Mr A was unhappy at Vauxhall Finances decision and complained  to this service. He said it 
was unfair  he had to pay for a car that had been faulty and that the dealership had misled 
him.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mr As complaint  should  be upheld.  She said 
Vauxhall Finance  couldnt be held liable for Mr As complaint about the first car being faulty 
as it hadnt provided  the credit agreement for that car. She said any complaint about the 
quality of that car needed to be made to the credit company who had provided  that 
agreement.
Our adjudicator said that Vauxhall  Finance did have an obligation to look at Mr As complaint 
about the new agreement.  She said that she could appreciate Mr A had been confused 
about the figures for the new car and the outstanding amount due under the original 
Ref: DRN79991692agreement. But the monthly  payments and the final payment amount due under the 
conditional sale agreement had been clearly  set out.
The adjudicator said it was Mr As responsibility to read the agreement and if he didnt 
understand the terms to have asked questions  before signing it. She said there  wasnt  
enough information to say that Mr A had been  misled and the car mis-sold to him.
Mr A disagreed with our adjudicators view. He said he thought  that £8,000 had gone  
towards the new car rather  than the £3,900 that had been shown on the agreement. He said 
it was unfair  he had to pay for a car that had been faulty.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  was passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr A was disappointed about  the first car he acquired under a finance  
agreement as he says it was faulty and the dealership tried but failed to repair it. However, 
as explained by our adjudicator, Vauxhall  Finance  isnt responsible for the problems with the 
first car as it wasnt  involved in the credit agreement that was arranged for that car. Vauxhall  
Finance is only responsible for the conditional sale agreement set up in December 2017.
Mr A says the dealership misled him about  the amount he would be paying and the amount 
hed put down as a deposit. He thought £8,000 had gone towards the second car and so 
was surprised to see how much hed need to pay at the end of the agreement.
The dealership says that Mr A returned  about  three  months after acquiring the second  car to 
complain that the payments were  actually unaffordable. It says it explained the figures to him 
but that he was unhappy  with what they told him.
Ive seen a copy  of the conditional sale agreement and the order form for the car. And I think 
Mr A has misunderstood the figures  that were  provided regarding the amount that was going 
towards the new car following  the part exchange  of his first car.
I can see that on the order form there was a part exchange allowance of £8,000 for the first 
car but that there was an outstanding finance  amount of £5,097 still to be cleared on that 
original agreement. This means that there  was £2,903 to go towards  the second car after the 
first car had been  traded in. The order form also shows  that Vauxhall  Finance provided a 
further £1,000 to go towards the deposit making  the total deposit figure £3,903. The order  
form shows that £14,690 is the amount that needs to be financed.
On the conditional sale agreement it again shows that the credit amount is £14,690 and that 
the actual deposit that was put towards  the car was £3,903. So the figures  provided  in the 
order form and the conditional sale agreement matched.
The conditional sale agreement  then clearly sets out that there will be 47 payments of £228  
and one payment  of £5,666. Mr A has signed  to show he agrees with the terms and 
conditions of the agreement which would include the payments.
Ref: DRN79991693While I appreciate Mr A says relevant parts of the conditional sale agreement were  covered 
by the salesperson when he signed  I think its reasonable to expect Mr A to have asked to 
read the agreement  before signing it. And as set out above, the figures in the agreement 
conditional sale agreement matched  the deposit figure and credit  amount on the order form. 
I also think its fair to have expected Mr A to query  anything he didnt understand. And 
looking at the conditional sale agreement I cant say it didnt set out the amount  that was put 
towards the second car as a deposit or the monthly  payments that were  due under the 
agreement. 
Looking at the evidence I dont have  enough  to say Mr A was misled  about the cost of the 
agreement or the amount being  put towards the car following the part exchange of the first 
car. And for the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr As complaint. 
 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mr As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7999169