K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  did not send  them a 
copy of the valuation that was carried out on their property.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with RBS in March 2008. A survey  was instructed by 
RBS, which  identified structural movement  within the property. But it was not deemed  to 
affect RBSs ability to lend, so the surveyors confirmed that a further structural survey was 
not necessary  for lending purposes. However,  they did request a damp/timber report, which 
RBS say returned as satisfactory,  so a mortgage  offer was issued.
Mr and Mrs B say they were unaware of the findings  stated in the valuation,  as it was never 
sent to them.  Unfortunately, they have since identified that there  is subsidence present on 
their property, which they now have to pay to rectify.  They say that the valuation should have 
identified these potential  structural issues, and say that if they had known about these issues 
they may not have purchased the property in the first place. As a result, they submit  that 
RBS should be held liable for these underlying defects.  
RBS say they did not send the valuation on to Mr and Mrs B directly because  it was the bank 
that had paid for the valuation, and it was not their process at the time for such  valuations to 
be sent to borrowers  as it was for lending purposes only.  However, they say a copy  would 
have been sent to Mr and Mrs Bs solicitor and that in any event, it was their responsibility to 
obtain a full survey  and to be satisfied as to the condition of the property. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She didnt think  it was RBSs responsibility  to 
have made  Mr and Mrs B aware  of any potential issues  with the property,  as the valuation 
was for lending purposes only.  The investigator  considered it was ultimately up to 
Mr and Mrs B to have paid for their own survey to determine whether  there  were  any 
underlying issues  with the property. Mr and Mrs B disagreed, so the matter  has been passed  
to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it.
I appreciate that Mr and Mrs B may not have been  provided with a copy of the valuation,  
such that they would not have been aware  of the defects identified  at that time. However, the 
valuation was instructed  by and paid for RBS for the sole purpose of considering  whether to 
grant the mortgage  on the security of the property, which RBS say was made clear in the 
mortgage terms and conditions.
RBS say it was not their process at the time to automatically provide a copy  of the valuation 
to the customer if it was the bank that had paid for it, which in this case  it was. The valuation 
also sets out that it is neither a building  survey,  nor a purchase  valuation. And although I 
understand Mr and Mrs B might not have  purchased  the property  if they had been made 
aware of any potential underlying issues at the time,  it was ultimately  their responsibility to 
carry out any necessary  surveys and checks to satisfy themselves of the condition of the 
property they were buying. It was not for RBS to do this for them.
Ref: DRN72838632RBS also say that Mr and Mrs B could  have requested a copy  of the valuation at any point 
during the application  process,  but they did not do so. And when Mr and Mrs B did request 
the valuation in May 2018, a copy was provided.  So on balance, I do not consider RBS to 
have acted unfairly or unreasonably in the circumstances, as Ive seen  nothing  to suggest 
they were obligated  to automatically send their valuation to Mr and Mrs B, which  in any event 
should have been reviewed by their solicitor during the initial checks and searches before 
the contracts  were  exchanged. 
So I am not persuaded that RBS have made any error here, and I dont think  they can fairly 
be held liable for the costs of rectifying  the issues that have since  been discovered  on 
Mr and Mrs Bs property.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 November  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7283863