K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained to us that National  Westminster Bank  Plc (Natwest) hasnt allowed him 
to make a claim by way of Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (Section 75). 
background
In December 2017 Mr C purchased an item to the value of £164.66 using  his Natwest credit  
card. He wasnt happy with the item as he found it was faulty.  He therefore sought a refund  
from Natwest in its role as the credit  provider under Section 75. But Mr C says Natwest  have 
ignored his request. He wants to enforce his rights  under Section 75, including  being able to 
recover additional costs.  
Natwest chose first to deal with Mr Cs request for a refund under the Visa chargeback 
scheme. Natwest told Mr C that this was usual  practice as it would usually consider a 
Section 75 claim when there was no chargeback right available, or if the chargeback process 
had failed for some reason.
Natwest also said that to move forward with a chargeback or Section 75 claim Mr C needed 
to provide it with information it had requested in its final response  letter,  being:
-Evidence of attempts to resolve  the dispute  with the retailer;
-Confirmation that the item had been returned; and
-An independent report confirming the fault.
Natwest said Mr C had only provided  it with his credit card statement showing the purchase 
which Natwest says on its own isnt enough.  But Ive noted  that Mr C had also given  Natwest  
a copy of his invoice and the email hed sent to the retailer  saying he was rejecting the item,  
asking for a refund and requesting that the supplier take back the item at its own cost.  Mr C 
says he thought that hed done enough to make a successful Section 75 claim but Natwest  
didnt agree and so didnt  uphold his complaint.
Our investigator didnt  think Natwest had done  anything wrong because Mr C hadnt 
provided enough information  for Natwest to process a chargeback or to properly  consider  his 
Section 75 Claim. 
Because Mr C didnt accept the investigators findings, his complaint  has been passed  to me 
for an ombudsmans  decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done this, I think Natwest should have  told Mr C that it was willing  to look at his 
Section 75 claim. But even if it had, I dont think Mr C has done enough to show  theres  been 
a breach of contract.
 
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill focus my comments on what  I think is 
relevant. If Ive not dealt with specific points that Mr C or Natwest  have made,  its because  I 
Ref: DRN73800632dont think I need  to comment on them in order to reach what I think  is a fair and reasonable 
outcome.
Section 75 offers protection  to customers who use certain types of credit  to make purchases  
of goods or services.  Under Section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim
against the provider of the credit or the supplier providing the goods or services, if there has
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part and certain conditions  
have been met. Im satisfied the required conditions  are met in this particular case. So I need 
to think about  whether  theres been a breach of contract. 
In Mr Cs case he bought  an item from an overseas supplier that he found to be faulty. 
Weve seen the invoice showing that he bought  the item. Weve also seen the email  he sent 
to the supplier about the item being  faulty and asking for a refund.
 
My role isnt to decide whether  Natwest  are liable under Section 75. Instead, Ive looked  at 
whether Natwest acted fairly and reasonably in responding  to Mr Cs complaint. In doing 
that I must have regard to (amongst other  things) any relevant law, which includes 
Section 75. 
I think its important to be clear that at this stage in his complaint to us, Mr Cs Section 75 
claim has still to be made. So far, Natwest hasnt  agreed to look at his claim.
But a key issue that I still need to resolve is that whilst Mr C wants  to make  a Section 75 
claim, Natwest takes the view that it must first seek to recover  what Mr C paid for the item 
via the Visa Chargeback scheme. 
 
I would generally  consider  it good  practice for Natwest to attempt a chargeback  first where 
that right exists  such as looks likely  here. But the situation here is different in that Mr C told 
Natwest hed been unable to return the item or to obtain a response from the overseas 
retailer who sold him the item. On that basis I think Natwest  ought  to have been more 
prepared to look at his Section 75 claim.  I say this due to the fact that a chargeback couldnt 
succeed because  Mr C had been  unsuccessful in his attempts to return the item or to 
contact the business that sold him it. 
Given that Mr C is saying  theres been  a breach of contract, I think Natwest ought  to have 
been willing  to treat his claim as being  under  Section 75. Mr C has relied  on consumer 
protection legislation to show that there was a breach of contract between him and the 
supplier he purchased the item from on the basis that that the item hed bought wasnt  as 
described, fit for purpose  or of satisfactory quality.  He says that means hes entitled  to a full 
refund of what he paid for the item. 
But the issue of breach  of contract  leads  to a further  issue that needs to be addressed 
before Natwest can reasonably be expected  to start looking into the claim. So far Mr C 
hasnt agreed to provide evidence that the item was faulty  other than his own assurances. I 
realise that his main  objection is that this would be too expensive and in any event its 
something that Natwest should  do for him as part of the Section 75 claim. But Mr C needs to 
show that the item hed bought was faulty to establish the breach of contract  by the business  
hed bought it from. Its not enough in this case simply for him to say the item was faulty.  So I 
think its reasonable that Natwest  has asked for evidence of the fault before it looked at 
giving him a refund. 
I also I think its likely that Mr C could have provided  evidence of the item being  faulty some  
other way. For example,  an independent  opinion from a specialist or video demonstrating 
Ref: DRN73800633that it isnt working.  Theres  no guarantee these  things  will make  a difference to the outcome, 
but based on what Mr C has so far provided, I dont think Natwest  acted unfairly  in not giving  
him a refund. This is because I dont think hes demonstrated that there  has been a breach  
of contract  by the supplier.  
Natwest has said it is willing to reconsider his claim if he can provide it with evidence  to 
show the item he bought is faulty.  Mr C will need to contact Natwest directly with any new 
information or evidence.  
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7380063