K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that MBNA Limited  mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) to Mr H. 
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy which started in 2003. MBNA sold Mr H the 
policy at the same time that he applied for the card online.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mr H disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive considered what Mr H has said, but Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold.  I will explain 
why:
Mr H has said the PPI was added without his knowledge. However  this did happen 
about 17 years ago and it wouldnt be surprising if someone didnt  remember all the 
details of a credit  card application that long ago. The evidence  is that Mr H applied 
for the card online. And Ive seen evidence that the online  process required a 
customer to make a clear yes or no choice over whether  they wanted PPI. So I 
think its likely Mr H did make  a choice to take PPI  although it isnt surprising if he 
doesnt now remember it. 
MBNA didnt recommend the PPI as being particularly suitable for Mr Hs individual 
needs. This means it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted his circumstances. 
Its likely  the information MBNA  gave  Mr H about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it should 
have been. There  was some information  about the basic  costs,  but this could have 
been made clearer, as could information about  the level of benefits. But I dont think,  
in his circumstances, full information  about  costs and benefits would have affected 
whether he took the PPI. I say this because it looks likely the PPI could have paid out 
for longer  than Mr Hs employer sick pay would have lasted; and, although Mr H has 
mentioned large savings, I dont have strong evidence of this at the time of the PPI 
application. And it doesnt look like hed have  been  affected  by any of the significant 
exclusions in the policy. 
This means  MBNA doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr H. But MBNA 
has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr H because: 
MBNA got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr H about that. Because  MBNA didnt tell Mr H, 
that was unfair. 
To put that right, MBNA has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN79642512my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so MBNA Limited does  not have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mr H.
But MBNA Limited does  have to pay back to Mr H any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, and so 
Im not awarding any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7964251