K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold them a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with Bank of Scotland (when it was trading as Leeds 
Permanent Building Society) in 1986. In 1992  they took out a PPI policy to protect their 
mortgage payments.  The cover  was in Mr Bs name. It would have paid a monthly benefit of 
£400 per month for up to 12 months  per successful claim for accident, sickness  or 
unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs B disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Due to the time thats passed, Bank of Scotland no longer has copies of the paperwork 
Mr and Mrs B signed when they took out the PPI. I dont think  thats surprising or 
unreasonable, given  that the sale took place more  than 25 years ago. In cases like this, 
where the evidence is incomplete, I need  to decide what I thinks most likely to have 
happened, based on the information  I have.
Mr and Mrs B say it wasnt  made clear that the mortgage offer was not conditional on 
taking out the insurance,  and that emotive language was used in the documentation  to 
encourage them to take the cover. Theyve  also explained that they took out the policy  to 
feel more  secure with a single  income and a young  family, after taking on a large 
financial burden. And theyve  explained that Mrs B was unable to work at the time.
I cant know what was discussed  during the sale. But Ive borne in mind that Mr and 
Mrs B had already had the mortgage  for several  years when they took out the PPI. So 
I think its unlikely  that theyd  have thought it was a condition of the mortgage. And 
overall, I dont  find the evidence is strong  enough for me to conclude  safely  that Bank of 
Scotland didnt make  it clear  that it was open  to Mr and Mrs B not to take the PPI if they 
didnt want it, or that it pressured  them into taking  it. As Mr and Mrs B have commented, 
their mortgage was a major financial commitment, and their home would have been at 
risk if their mortgage  payments  werent kept up to date. So, I can see why they might  
have felt that PPI would be useful to have. On balance,  I think  its more  likely that Mr and 
Mrs B decided they wanted  to have the benefits  that PPI offered, and decided  to take it 
out, knowing that it was optional.
Ref: DRN72232692Bank of Scotland has no record  of how the PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs B. But Mr and 
Mrs B say that they took the PPI out during  a meeting, and that Bank of Scotland 
advised them to take out the policy. To be as fair as possible, Ive looked at the 
complaint on the basis that Bank  of Scotland advised them to buy the PPI. This means it 
had a duty to check that the policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs B. But it doesnt look as if 
it was unsuitable,  based  on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Bs circumstances at the time.
Mr Bs told us hed have been entitled to less than three months  pay from his employer 
at the time if hed been  off sick. If hed made  a successful  claim on the policy,  it would 
have paid a monthly benefit of £400  for up to 12 months. Whats more,  the policy would 
have paid out in addition to any payments  Mr B received from his employer.  And Mr and 
Mrs B wouldnt have had to use their savings  to make their mortgage payments. 
Its possible  Bank of Scotland  didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover  (for 
example, existing  medical conditions, or unusual  employment situations). But from what 
theyve told us about their circumstances when they took the policy out, its unlikely 
Mr and Mrs B would have  been  affected  by any of these.
It may be that Bank of Scotland could have explained the cost of the policy  better than it 
did. But I think Mr and Mrs B chose to take the PPI. So it looks  as if they wanted the 
cover, even  if theyve understandably forgotten that now,  so many years  later.  Ive seen 
nothing to suggest that they couldnt afford the policy,  and, for the reasons  Ive set out, 
I think they could have  found  it useful.  So even if Bank  of Scotland had given them  better 
information about the PPI, I think Mr and Mrs B would still have bought it.
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Bs comments, including  what  theyve said about  the fact 
that Bank  of Scotland provided its final response to their complaint without the benefit of their 
answers to questions which Bank of Scotland had told them  it intended to ask. But Mr and 
Mrs B have responded the questions that this service has asked them.  And Im satisfied that 
I have enough  information to make  my decision on the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 April 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7223269