K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains about the service he received from Spectrum Payment Services  Limited  
(SPS) in relation to his bank account.
background
Mr D says hes unhappy with the handling of his phone calls to the complaint manager at 
SPS. He says SPS sent a final response  letter dated  12 November 2018 to his old address. 
He says it refused  to log a complaint by him on 20 February 2019.  And he says he was 
asked several times to give SPS proof  of his address and he was then told it would only 
accept a council  tax bill or a utility bill.
Our investigator thought Mr Ds complaint  shouldnt be upheld. He said in the phone  call on 
7 November 2018 it wasnt unreasonable to think the complaint manager  was merely trying 
to understand  Mr Ds complaint points and potentially offer a resolution. And he said it wasnt  
unreasonable for SPS to decline take Mr Ds complaint any further  when he phoned it on 20 
February 2019, because it had already  provided  a final response  to the complaint and the 
next step was referral  to this service.
The investigator also said SPS requirement  for a council tax bill or utility bill to verify Mr Ds 
new address was in accordance with the terms and conditions of his account.
Mr D disagreed with the investigators conclusions. He said he was told numerous  times the 
documents hed provided to verify his address were fine, they were  just blurry. He said hed 
moved out of his previous  property  in October 2017  and had told SPS,  but it still sent its final 
response to his complaint to that address. And he said the complaint manager didnt listen  to 
his previous calls to SPS before the phone  call on 7 November 2018 and tried to push  him to 
say how much compensation he wanted.
So, the matter  has been referred to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ds complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive noted Mr Ds concerns about  the handling of his phone calls with SPS,  but having 
listened to the call recordings Im unable to uphold this aspect of his complaint. In particular, 
in the call on 7 November 2018  the complaint manager sought  to obtain details of the other 
complaint Mr D said he wished to make; asked him what resolution he was seeking;  and 
asked whether he was seeking compensation. I note Mr D seemed to take offence at the last 
point, but I think these were all legitimate matters to discuss with Mr D in an attempt to 
establish what settlement  he was seeking.
I also note SPS declined  to log a further  complaint from Mr D when he spoke to the 
complaint manager  and another  staff member on 20 February 2019.  Instead  he was told he 
had the right to refer the matter to this service if he remained dissatisfied  with SPS response 
to the matters hed previously complained  about. I think this was reasonable on the basis 
Ref: DRN77139462that the final response letter dated 12 November 2018 represented  the end of the internal 
process of the consideration of Mr Ds complaint by SPS.
I see Mr D is also unhappy SPS required him to produce a council tax bill or a utility  bill to 
verify his address,  although he had understood the documents hed already provided would 
be sufficient. But I see this requirement was in accordance  with the terms and conditions  of 
Mr Ds account and I think it was reasonable, in the circumstances.
On a related matter,  I see Mr D is unhappy SPS sent its final response to his complaint to his 
old address, which he says he had left over a year earlier  and he had told SPS he no longer 
lived there. But SPS says it had no record of Mr Ds change of address and that hed 
continued to use the address it had on record as part of his security clearance  information 
when accessing  his account.  In  these circumstances, Im unable to uphold  this aspect of 
Mr Ds complaint, based on the available information.
So, for these reasons,  I cant fairly  and reasonably  uphold Mr Ds complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold Mr Ds complaint against Spectrum  Payment Services  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Robert Collinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7713946