K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Decidebloom Limited,  trading as Stoneacre, mis-sold him Guaranteed 
Asset Protection (GAP) insurance for his car.
background
Mr D has said he bought  a new car and Stoneacres  member  of staff asked him if hed heard 
about GAP insurance.  Mr D said hed held a policy before and it had paid out when his car 
was written off. He said the member of staff told him that any difference  between  what  he 
was paying for the car and what he got from his motor insurer if it was written off was 
covered by GAP  insurance. Hes also said the member of staff recommended  the policy.  
Mr D bought the policy at a premium of £695 and paid this on finance with interest.  
Stoneacre said that each  of the GAP  policies cost the same  and it was of no advantage to its 
business which policy it sold. 
Over three years later Mr Ds car was written-off.  Mr D claimed on his GAP policy,  but was 
told nothing was due as there  was nothing left on his finance  after his motor  insurer had paid 
out. The insurers administrator did however return the premium. 
Mr D held a Finance Shortfall Protection Policy, which covers the difference between  what  
his motor insurance policy paid out and the amount it cost to settle  Mr Ds finance agreement  
early. The policy administrator explained  that, although there was no financial shortfall at the 
time Mr D claimed, there would have been  earlier in Mr Ds finance contract and the policy 
would have covered this. 
Mr D said he didnt receive  any policy documents. And when he contacted  Stoneacre after 
his claim he was told this wasnt available. He said he received  it after he complained,  and 
then realised the policy was mis-sold, as it didnt cover the total amount hed paid for the car. 
He said he would have  bought a different  policy had he known. Stoneacre said Mr D could 
have chosen a Retail Price Protection  Policy, but this only lasts three years and, as his loss 
was after three years,  the cover  would have expired by the time his car was written-off. It 
said each of the GAP  policy options  cost the same amount.
Stoneacre said it took Mr D through an Initial Disclosure Document, which  states it only 
offers products  from a limited panel  of insurers and doesnt offer advice or a 
recommendation. It said it also took Mr D through a Demands and Needs process where  
GAP options were set out for him and he had full information about  the terms. 
Mr D wasnt happy with Stoneacres response  and complained to us. And he also 
complained about the way Stoneacre handled  his complaint. Our investigator didnt 
recommend Mr Ds complaint be upheld.  He pointed out Mr D signed to say the main terms 
and exclusions of the GAP policies had been  explained to him. And went  on to say  in 
effect  that even if the policy was mis-sold or Mr D didnt get the policy  documentation,  he 
hadnt lost out. He explained this was because  if he bought the Retail  Price Protection  
Policy, it would have expired before  his car was written-off. And this would have meant  he 
wouldnt have received anything from the GAP insurer when this happened.  
Mr D disagreed with the investigator, saying  he hadnt selected  the Financial Shortfall 
Protection Policy, Stoneacres member of staff did and said this would cover  the full cost of a 
Ref: DRN70027912new car if his was written  off. He said he was told he was covered for all of the four-year 
finance agreement, but this isnt the case. He said Stoneacre should  have sent him details of 
the policy, and he would  have seen the limitations. Mr D requested an ombudsman review 
his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Stoneacre has said it didnt make a recommendation to Mr D. If this was the case,  it needed 
to provide him with enough information about  the policy it was selling him to ensure  he could 
make an informed decision about buying  it. It also needed to provide him with information 
that was clear, fair and not misleading.   This would have included  highlighting the main 
limitations and exclusions  of the policy. It seems Stoneacre was also responsible for sending 
the policy documentation to Mr D after the sale.
Mr D said he was told when he bought the GAP  policy that it covers the difference  between  
the payout a car insurer will make  in the event  of a car being written  off and the full value of 
his car when  he bought it. He said he was never made aware  that there was a policy  for 
financial shortfall on the finance  settlement only and that this is what he was buying.  He 
thought he was being charged for a full GAP policy, i.e. a Retail Price Protection Policy.  
So, I have looked  at the available evidence to see what Mr D was told about the policy  and 
to see if Stoneacre provided  adequate,  clear  information to enable him to make an informed 
decision about the policy he agreed  to buy. There are no recordings of any conversations  
from when the policy  was sold and Stoneacres member of staff is no longer with the 
company. But, Ive taken  into consideration Mr Ds account of what  took place when he 
bought the policy and Ive looked at the available documents. 
Stoneacres Finance and Insurance Acknowledgement Terms of Business states Mr D has 
received an Initial Disclosure Document, Policy Document  Summaries,  a Demands and 
Needs Statement,  a Finance and Insurance Acknowledgement and information relating  to 
claims handling and cancellation rights. And Mr D signed to say he had received these 
documents. 
The Initial Disclosure  Document, which is actually headed key facts  about our insurance  
services states that Stoneacre can only offer products from a limited  number of insurers. It 
sets out four types of insurance (including GAP insurance). The Demands and Needs 
Statement is intended to record Stoneacres review  of these insurance products with Mr D. It 
sets out questions with the answers  provided  and a signed declaration by Mr D shows  that 
only GAP cover was required.
The document sets out three  different types  of GAP insurance with a description  of different 
levels and type of cover. A signed  declaration by Mr D confirms that he wants  to purchase 
Finance Shortfall Protection and intends  to keep his car for four years and wants this 
covered. The document shows the maximum payout  is £7,500  and how this may be claimed.  
These forms appear to show the insurance cover  Mr D did, and did not want. And that he 
rejected three non-GAP  insurance products. I think this at least  indicates conversations  were 
held about what  cover Mr D wanted. And the fact he signed to say he received the above-
mentioned documents means I think  its most  likely he got these at least, even if he never 
Ref: DRN70027913received the policy  documents from the policy administrator. And the policy  summaries did 
make it clear  what cover each policy provided. Also, the fact Mr D signed  to say hed had the 
main terms  and exclusions  explained to him, makes me think  its most likely this also 
happened. I appreciate Mr D has said he didnt  get these documents  and the terms and 
exclusions werent explained, but I have  to decide whats most likely  based on all the 
evidence. And the fact he signed confirming he did get the documents and the terms and 
exclusions were explained to him is very strong contemporaneous evidence.  
Ive also considered whether Mr D was ever provided with the full policy  documents. The 
policy administrator seems to have  suggested it would have sent these to Stoneacre  to send 
to Mr D. But Stoneacre  hasnt actually provided any contemporaneous record to show  it did 
this. But, even if Mr D didnt receive the policy  documents, I think  he had enough  information  
from the policy summaries to know exactly what cover he had. 
 
In summary,  from what I have seen I think the GAP policy options were  adequately 
explained to Mr D at the point of sale, so that he was able to choose the policy  he wished to 
have. I appreciate he has said the salesman  recommended the Finance Shortfall policy,  but 
even if he had recommended the Retail Price Protection and Mr D had gone with this, it 
would have expired before his car was written  off. So he wouldnt have got anything  from the 
GAP insurer when this happened.  
Ive also noted  what Mr D has said about  whats on Stoneacres website about GAP  
insurance and that this refers to the Retail Price Protection cover.  But this doesnt  alter the 
fact there were two products available when  he bought his car. And  as Ive already said  I 
think he was provided with sufficient information to understand which one hed been sold. 
I appreciate Mr D is also unhappy about the way Stoneacre dealt  with his complaint, but Ive 
focused on his main concern, which is that he ended  up with the wrong type of policy.  And I 
think Stoneacre  addressed this issue adequately.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 November  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7002791