K822xComplaint
Ms K has complained that Amigo Loans  Ltd (Amigo) has unfairly refused to accept her 
proposal of making  payments of £100 a month when the borrower,  whose loan she was 
guaranteeing payments for, went  into an Individual  Voluntary Arrangement (IVA).
Background 
Ms K was accepted as a guarantor on a loan taken out by the borrower  in November 2017. 
The loan was for £5,250  and was due to be repaid  in 36 monthly  instalments of £256.14.   
Ms K acting as a guarantor on this loan meant that she was responsible for making the 
monthly payments  to the loan in the event that the borrower didnt do so.
In July 2018, the borrower entered into an IVA. So Amigo  started contacting Ms K to discuss  
making payments.  From this point onwards there was a significant  amount of contact 
between Amigo and Ms K. Our investigator set out, in some detail, all of the correspondence 
exchanged between Amigo and Ms K, in July 2018, in her assessment of 14 August 2019.
As the parties have been provided with a copy  of our investigators assessment and have 
responded to it, I dont  propose to repeat its content in full. But essentially our investigator 
concluded that Amigos didnt fairly and reasonably communicate with Ms K as it never  really  
responded to her proposal of paying  £100 a month  and it contacted  her excessively. 
As a result, she thought  that Amigos offer of £20, which it made in its final response, didnt 
go far enough. Instead, our investigator  thought that Amigo should pay Ms K £150 as this 
better reflected the distress and inconvenience its actions caused her. She also thought that 
Amigo should properly  consider Ms K repayment proposal.
Amigo accepted  our investigators  assessment.  Ms K didnt accept it in full. As I understand 
it Ms K remains unhappy that Amigo still hasnt accepted her proposal  to pay £100  a month 
towards this loan.       
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  on how we 
handle complaints about financial difficulty on our website. And Ive used this to help me 
decide Ms Ks complaint.
It might help for me to start by saying that broadly speaking,  in the event someone says they 
cant make  payments to an agreement, Id expect  a lender to listen  to the consumer, get an 
understanding of their circumstances  by asking  about their income and expenditure - and 
then discuss what help is appropriate. Id also expect the consumer to co-operate  with the 
lender and provide any reasonable information asked for  such  as details of any 
other borrowing and existing commitments they may already have or details of any savings 
and investments. 
A lender shouldnt  ask for more information than it needs and it should deal with the 
consumer in an appropriate way  listening to how the consumer wants to communicate and 
understanding why it may be appropriate  to do something differently   such  as accept 
reduced payments  - depending on the borrowers  circumstances. 
Ref: DRN78403182Amigo has accepted  our investigators conclusion that it could and should have 
communicated with Ms K more appropriately. Thats why it has agreed  to pay her £150. It 
looks like Ms K agrees  this is fair.  Equally Amigo hasnt ruled  out accepting  £100 a month 
from Ms K either. So far all it has said is that it needs further  information  from Ms K  about 
her income and expenditure - in order to properly assess  whether this is what shes fairly 
and reasonably able to repay to the outstanding amount. 
Having looked  through everything provided I cant see that Ms K has provided  Amigo  with 
any information on her income  and expenditure so far. So while I accept that there have 
been problems  with previous communications, I do think the information that Amigo is now 
requesting is reasonable and proportionate,  in the circumstances, as it is trying to establish 
what Ms K is able to pay. And as Ms K hasnt as yet provided this information, I dont think  
that Amigo has unfairly and unreasonably  refused Ms Ks proposal to pay £100 a month to 
the outstanding debt.  If Ms K wants Amigo  to consider her proposal she should  provide the 
income and expenditure information requested. 
Id also add that Im mindful that the borrower is making (and I understand has made) some 
payments towards  the outstanding balance through their IVA. So its only fair and reasonable 
for the outstanding balance  and, if and when one is set up, any repayment plan  to reflect  
these payments. As far as Im aware Amigo hasnt as yet adjusted  the outstanding  balance 
to reflect  any payments it may have received from the IVA. So if Amigo has received 
payments from the IVA it should ensure that it doesnt also recover  these  payments and any 
further ones it may continue receiving as a result  of the IVA from Ms K.    
Ive seen that Ms K now says that the explanation about the implications of the guarantee 
agreement she signed was vague. But this wasnt  something  that formed part of her original 
complaint. And as Im only really able to look at a complaint  after a firm has had a chance to,   
Ms K will need to contact  Amigo about this matter, in the first instance, if its something shes 
unhappy about.    
My final decision
My final decision is that what Amigo Loans  Ltd has already agreed to do to put things right 
for Ms K is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this particular complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7840318