K821x#15complaint
Mrs Bs complaint is that an Appointed Representative (AR)  of Intrinsic Financial Planning 
Ltd (Intrinsic) gave her unsuitable advice in 2015 to switch  her Stocks  and Shares  
Individual Savings Account and her General Investment Account  both to be referred to as 
the ISA and GIA  to a cash  fund. She also says the AR delayed his reinvestment of the 
fund until the middle  of 2017.
background
A summary  of the key events is as follows:
From  2013 Mrs B held the ISA and GIA with underlying investments equally split 
between three funds.
On 6 May 2015 and in the course of a telephone  conversation  between  the AR and 
Mrs B, she was advised to surrender and encash  the ISA and GIA. This was 
presented as a temporary and cautious measure prior to the impending general 
election at the time and as a way to ensure that growth within the fund was retained 
and not exposed (and lost) to volatility after the election. The ARs recommendation 
of switching to a cash fund (within  the same platform) was followed.  On 20 May Mrs 
B asked  the AR to give advice on switching  back into the stock market.  In response 
the AR noted  that the market had remained  flat but advised against a return to the 
stock market        with things being  so volatile at the moment  as he wrote  at the 
time. Mrs B says that in June 2015  the AR advised retention  of the cash fund 
because of uncertainty about  what was described as the Greece  situation.
In October 2015 the AR and Mrs B met. Her record of the meeting says he advised 
her to retain the cash fund  given  the turbulence in the stock market at the 
moment   as she quoted and verified in her email to him on 11 October.
The AR and Mrs B met again in March 2017 and she says a previous meeting 
around August  2016 had also taken place.  She says she was advised to retain the 
cash fund in 2016 and her record  of the 2017 meeting says she expressed concern 
that the cash fund had remained in place without reinvestment up to that point. Her 
email to the AR, on 18 May 2017, refers to this. It also says that she had agreed with 
the AR that previous  periods were  not the best time to reinvest and that she was risk 
averse in the period surrounding  the Brexit vote  in 2016  but she considered  that 
the delay in reinvesting the cash fund was too long.  This email also chased  the AR 
for reinvestment recommendations that Mrs B said he promised around the meeting 
in March. The AR responded and recommended a multi  asset  fund (the multi  asset  
fund) for reinvestment.
Mrs Bs complaint was submitted to the AR and to Intrinsic in 2018. Intrinsic did not 
uphold the complaint  and, in the main, it said that advice to switch to the cash fund in 
2015 resulted  from Mrs Bs  fears at the time over the General Election, Greece 
and Brexit; that she was  Risk Averse for certain decisions; that her concern 
about Greece and her plan to retire led to the advice in June 2015 to retain the cash 
fund; that during  a review meeting in October  2015 she was advised to retain the 
cash fund because  she confirmed that was what she wanted   given the turbulence 
in the Stock  Market and the fact that [she]  would also be retiring  and [she] therefore 
did not want to risk anything;  that the AR kept in regular contact with Mrs B up to the 
Ref: DRN78498582time when  reinvestment  in the multi asset  fund took place; and that at all relevant 
times Mrs B agreed with the advice  to switch to and to retain  the cash fund.  Mrs B 
disputed Intrinsics assertions in the course  of referring the matter  to this service.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and concluded  that it should be upheld. In 
the main:
He noted that the ISA and GIA were recommended to Mrs B when she had a 
balanced investor risk profile in late 2012. He considered that a lower  attitude to risk 
(ATR) possibly applied to Mrs Bs position  between 2015 and 2017. However, he 
said there is insufficient documentary evidence to conclude that Mrs Bs ATR was 
reviewed and revised to be risk averse. He was not persuaded by emails in which 
Mrs B used  the expression  risk averse to describe  herself because, in the course  of 
his investigation,  he obtained credible clarification from her that she meant  she was 
not a high risk taker.
He referred to evidence supporting the view that Mrs B expected the switch  to the 
cash fund to be a temporary measure  and that the AR expressed the same.  He 
considered that when  this temporary  measure  turned into a medium  term or open 
ended one  as the ARs advice continued  to be for the retention  of the cash  fund  a 
formal and documented investment  suitability  reassessment should  have been 
conducted for Mrs B, but that was not done.
He concluded  that Mrs B was cautious  in 2015  not risk averse  so the ARs advice 
to switch to a cash fund was unsuitable; that Mrs B accepted the advice on the basis 
of the switch being a temporary measure,  so the AR (and Intrinsic) must take 
responsibility for the retention  of the cash fund for nearly two years  until it was 
surrendered and reinvested  in the multi fund in 2017; and that redress should be 
calculated for Mrs B, on the basis of a cautious ATR, for the period in which  the cash 
fund was in place.
Mrs B accepted this outcome but Intrinsic did not. It asked for an ombudsmans  decision and 
it does not appear  to have given reasons for any disagreement it has with the adjudicators 
view. The matter was then referred  to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I consider that the adjudicators investigation into and treatment of the complaint was 
commendably done in a detailed fashion and, in straightforward terms, I agree with his 
conclusion for broadly  the same reasons he presented in his findings.
There are two key issues in dispute  within  this complaint  
Whether (or not) the switch, in 2015, to the cash fund was suitable for Mrs B.
Whether (or not) retention of the cash fund between 2015 and 2017 was suitable  for Mrs B.
I address both issues below.
Whether (or not) the switch, in 2015, to the cash fund was suitable for Mrs B.
Ref: DRN78498583The ARs investment  advice service to Mrs B is what features in this case  not an execution 
only service in which the ARs role was limited to following and executing investment  
instructions from Mrs B. I state this in order to address  at the outset  Intrinsics references  
to Mrs B allegedly agreeing with the ARs recommendations.  
I am not persuaded that the notion  of any such agreement is relevant to the complaint or to 
either of the issues above. As the adjudicator said, the AR was the financial expert  in his 
relationship with Mrs  and she was the lay investor  who was entitled  to rely upon  his advice. 
The regulators rules placed upon  the AR the obligation to ensure that his advice was 
suitable for Mrs B. This is the primary or sole issue that features in the complaint and the 
matter of any subsequent agreement with his advice  which  might  or might not have been 
the case  does not determine whether (or not) the advice was suitable.
There does not appear  to be enough evidence to support the idea that Mrs B held a concern 
about the 2015 election which directly prompted  the ARs call and advice on 6 May 2015. 
Evidence suggests that he called upon his own volition, that he spoke to Mrs B at a time and 
place that was inconvenient for her  her workplace   and that the summary, in her email to 
him after the call on the same date, of the circumstances around the call is credible. The AR 
responded and he did not dispute what Mrs B had said  including  her first sentence  in 
which she referred to his telephone call as an early warning. Such  a reference supports the 
conclusion, on balance,  that it was the AR who took it upon himself to call Mrs B to issue his 
early warning about volatility after the election  and to recommend the switch to a cash  fund.
This sets the context  to apply relevant findings, similar to those that the adjudicator 
highlighted. I do not suggest  that the AR was wrong  to hold and/or share  with Mrs B any 
sincere concern(s) he might have  had about  the welfare of her investments.  As I said above, 
the matter of suitability  is the issue here,  so that is what I shall consider.  A switch to a cash  
fund reflects  a risk averse strategy.  There  appears to be no evidence  of a change  in Mrs Bs 
circumstances or investor profile that prompted  such a strategy and she did not initiate 
consideration of such a strategy. 
The AR was not a discretionary  investment manager. It would  have been   or ought 
reasonably to have  been   apparent to him that his advice  to Mrs B in terms of any concern 
about the welfare of her investments had to be reasoned, properly documented and given  to 
her with allowance of time for her to make an informed decision.  I am not persuaded that an 
arguably unexpected telephone call to her, seemingly at an inconvenient  time whilst she was 
at work, on the day before  the 2015  general  election (which was the event that the AR was 
concerned about) fulfilled this level of responsibility. His email after the call does not suggest  
an intent to document his advice, it appears  to have been prompted by Mrs Bs email and 
request for clarification not, it seems, by his plan to document his advice.
The general election was a foreseeable event   not one that the AR would have been 
unaware of before 6 May 2015. The switch reversed the investment in the ISA and GIA 
which was around  two years old at the time. It also reversed the suitability assessment 
based on Mrs Bs balanced  ATR in late 2012  and featured a new,  albeit interim, objective. I 
am satisfied  that an investment decision that entailed  such significant changes  should have 
been properly  assessed, reasoned and documented. Even if the advice on 6 May is to be 
viewed as a temporary  emergency measure that was meant  to guard against the effect  of 
the general election, it need not have been  given so late and such  a measure does not 
justify the lack of a proper (perhaps  interim) suitability reassessment.  
Ref: DRN78498584There is no evidence that the ARs call on 6 May was prompted by concerns from Mrs B or 
by a change in her ATR from balanced  to risk averse or by a change  in her objective. Her 
evidence is that no such concerns prompted  the ARs call and that there was no such  
change to her ATR or objective. Nevertheless, and in the absence of a proper and 
documented suitability reassessment, the AR advised her to switch to the cash fund. Overall 
and on balance, I conclude that this advice  was unsuitable for Mrs B.
Whether (or not) retention of the cash fund between 2015 and 2017 was suitable  for Mrs B.
The cash  fund was unsuitable for Mrs B at the outset. I consider that in the absence of an 
event which  brought  it to an end or which created circumstances  (and/or instructions) that 
turned it into a suitable investment, the cash fund continued to be unsuitable for her. The 
cash fund was brought to an end when it was surrendered in 2017, so this sets 2017 as a 
natural end point  for my consideration  the complaint does not appear to extend to Mrs Bs 
reinvestment in the multi  fund in 2017.
Between 2015 and 2017, I have  not seen evidence of a change  in circumstances that turned 
the cash fund into a suitable  investment. As the adjudicator said, it is plausible that Mrs B 
was more cautious  especially because of the concerns that the AR was relaying to her  
but evidence does not extend to show she was risk averse. On a similar basis, she agreed 
with a temporary holding in cash  for the period  around the general election in 2015 but 
evidence does not show that, beyond  such agreement, her investment objective  changed  to 
the point of justifying the retention of a market-risk averse cash  holding for two years.
The merits of whether a meaningful suitability reassessment could have taken place after the 
switch to the cash fund might be debated,  but at least such a reassessment, despite being  
after the event , could have helped the AR to correct the error committed by recommending 
the cash fund.  Disappointingly, no such meaningful reassessment after the event appears to 
have taken place.  Intrinsics defence in this respect seems to be broadly based  on its 
assertion that the AR maintained contact  with Mrs B and that she agreed to retain the cash  
fund during this period. As I said above,  agreement with the ARs advice does not determine 
whether (or not) the advice  was suitable.
Intrinsic has also argued that Mrs B essentially instructed the retention  of the cash fund 
during the latter half of 2015, around  the Brexit event in 2016 and up to the review meeting 
in March 2017. I am not persuaded that there  is enough evidence  of such  instructions. Mrs 
Bs email comments and the position she held at the time appear to have been heavily 
influenced, if not defined,  by the advice were receiving from the AR. I too accept that her 
references to being  risk averse were intended  to describe the cautious ATR she had at the 
time. Her willingness to reinvest the cash  fund  against which the AR advised  suggests  
she did not consider  herself to be risk averse. 
Even if there  were  instructions as suggested by Intrinsic, the point  arguably  remains  
including the fact that Mrs B received an advisory  service, not an execution only service  
that the AR was obliged to give suitable  investment advice  on such instructions. I have not 
seen evidence of a definitive  instruction from Mrs B to retain  the cash fund which preceded 
the ARs  advice or evidence of the AR assessing (or reassessing) suitability in this context. 
Available evidence,  in terms of the retention of the cash fund, suggests a recurring  sequence 
in which  Mrs B sought the ARs  advice and then followed  and relied upon the advice.
The evidence suggests this sequence  after the 2015 general election in May that year and 
again in June and again in October. I have not seen enough correspondence  from 2016. 
Ref: DRN78498585However, evidence  from early 2017  suggests that Mrs Bs reliance  on the ARs advice to 
retain the cash fund continued up to then and up to the point when she considered the need 
to question the length of time over which it had been  retained.  This took place in March 2017  
and Mrs B had to remind the AR and assert her dissatisfaction with the matter two months 
later in May before the AR responded. His response features only the recommendation of 
reinvestment and does not appear to address her dissatisfaction.  It is not quite clear why the 
AR does  not appear to have properly  explained or reasoned the reinvestment delay in the 
course of his response to Mrs B. 
I have considered whether (or not) Mrs B should have questioned and/or sought  to review 
the advice to retain the cash fund earlier than March 2017. On balance,  I am not persuaded 
that she should. She was entitled to rely on the ARs  advice. Eventually she reached  the 
point of questioning the advice but that does not automatically mean she should have 
questioned it earlier. I consider it fair to give allowance  for a reasonable period in which Mrs 
B retained  confidence  in advice from the AR and then a point  at which  she questioned that 
confidence/advice. On balance, this is what appears  to have happened between  Mrs B and 
the AR from mid-2015 to early 2017. 
Intrinsic can argue that the complaint is convenient,  in the context of hindsight and with the 
knowledge that the cash fund performed less favourably than the ISA and GIA over the 
relevant period. The question that arises  is  would Mrs B have complained if the switch  to 
the cash fund had benefited her financially? As I said at the outset, the main issue is about 
whether (or not) the AR discharged his obligation  to give suitable advice. Consideration of 
this issue does not quite extend  to the question  above. Overall  and on balance,  I consider 
that the ARs  advice to retain Mrs Bs cash fund between 2015 and 2017  was unsuitable.
fair compensation
In assessing  what would  be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mrs B as close  as 
possible to the position she would probably now be in if she had been given suitable 
advice. I consider that Mrs B would have invested  differently. It is not possible to say 
precisely what she would have done, but I am satisfied that what  I have set out below is 
fair and reasonable given her circumstances  when the switch to the cash  fund took place.
what must  Intrinsic do?
To compensate Mrs B fairly Intrinsic must:
Compare the performance of Mrs Bs cash fund with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value is greater than the actual value, there  is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value, no 
compensation is payable.
Pay any interest  set out below. Income  tax may be payable on any interest paid. 
Provide the details of the calculation to Mrs B in a clear, simple format.
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
Ref: DRN78498586fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it 
produced a return using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Intrinsic 
should use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month is that shown 
as at the end of the previous month. Intrinsic should  apply  those  rates to the 
investment on an annually compounded basis.
why is this remedy suitable?
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would  be a fair measure for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable return without risk to capital. The FTSE UK Private 
Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March  2017,  the FTSE WMA  Stock 
Market Income total return  index) is made up of a range of indices with different asset 
classes, mainly  UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair measure for someone 
who sought to take some risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mrs B was in between, in the sense that she was prepared to take a 
small level of risk to attain her investment objective. The benchmark combination 
does not mean that Mrs B would have invested  50% of her money  in a fixed  rate 
bond and 50% in some kind of index tracker investment. Rather,  I consider this a 
reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return  she could have 
obtained from a suitable investment.
The additional interest is for Mrs B being  deprived of the use of any compensation 
money since the end date.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. I order Intrinsic Financial Planning 
Ltd to calculate and pay her redress as detailed above, and to provide its calculation to her 
in a clear and simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7849858