K820x#14complaint
Miss A complains  that Bank  of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax hasnt allowed her to take out 
a fixed rate mortgage  product. Miss A wants an explanation and Halifax to fix a rate and pay 
her compensation or allow her to transfer  to another lender  and pay the costs.
background
Miss A has had difficulty taking out a mortgage product with Halifax since 2014. Most 
recently on 22 November  2017 she applied for a five year product. Halifax  told her she would 
be contacted by an agent but she heard nothing since that call. Later  she was concerned 
that Halifax was taking more from her account  than it should  have. Miss A contacted Halifax 
but heard  nothing further, On 14 April 2018 Miss A went  into a Halifax branch but there was 
no record of her of her or her mortgage on the system. 
Halifax responded to Miss As complaint in three letters in March, July and August 2018. The 
letter of March acknowledged that Miss A had difficulties completing an application online 
previously but said that n multiple occasions it had advised Miss A of alternative methods to 
complete a product transfer  such as by phone or in branch. It offered to pay Miss A £150  
compensation because she felt that the Halifax  adviser was rude and had tried to contact  her 
by her mothers phone.
In its letter  of 3 July in relation to a complaint  about  suspected fraud on her account Halifax 
said that it was paying  £50 for any frustration Miss A suffered but didnt uphold the 
complaint. In the August  letter Halifax dealt  with a complaint that Miss A had about a number 
of matters including that a branch  manager  at a local branch couldnt find her on the system 
and offered compensation of £100.  The mortgage  was redeemed in 2018. Our investigator 
didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld as he felt that Halifax hadnt done 
anything wrong  in respect of the product transfer and had reasonably  compensated Miss A 
for the service issues. Miss A disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Miss A has made previous complaints  about  the service  she received from Halifax  - 
including a complaint brought to ourselves  - but I am only dealing in this decision with the 
complaints that I have  set out above. Miss A has had problems getting  a product transfer 
and I have to look at whether it was Halifaxs fault.  Helpfully  there  is a record  of a phone call 
between Miss A and a Halifax agent  when Miss A tried to make a product transfer online in 
November 2017.  Part of the call was about  the product transfer and part about  backdating  
the interest rate. In regard  to the online application, it seems that this completed but it then 
required Miss A to confirm  acceptance  through a process that involved getting an access  
code, viewing documents online and accepting them. I would have thought that as Miss A 
received no documents confirming that a new deal in place that it should  have alerted Miss A 
to the fact that the product transfer  hadnt completed.  But I dont believe that that it was 
Halifaxs fault that it didnt as it seems that Miss A doesnt appear to have completed the 
acceptance procedure.  
I also note that at that stage Miss A was looking at a five year deal which,  if she accepted,  
would have likely caused her financial loss as it would have triggered an early repayment  
Ref: DRN71204402charge when she redeemed her mortgage  in 2018. Halifax accepted  that it didnt get back to 
Miss A about backdating the interest  rate which I consider was unsatisfactory  customer 
service but there is no indication that it would back date that in any case.
It seems  that Miss A was told that she wasnt on Halifaxs system when she visited  the 
Halifax branch in April 2018. This is something of a mystery  as Miss A was clearly  on the 
system and Halifaxs accepts that this was poor customer service  and has offered her 
compensation for that. Unfortunately  I cant assist Miss A further on why that was as Im not 
in possession of any evidence that can assist  her. I note in her email to us of 16 December 
2019 Miss A asks why there were errors in Halifaxs system that prevented her getting a 
product transfer.  The evidence  is that that Miss A was able to make an application  but didnt 
go through the steps to accept the offer which suggests that there werent any errors  in the 
product transfer  process. 
For the above reasons whilst I accept that there were errors made by Halifax in its customer  
service I dont believe that it caused Miss A to miss out on a product transfer in 
November 2017.  Ive reviewed the adequacy of the compensation paid by Halifax  for the 
failures of its customer service but I consider that the compensation paid is appropriate for 
the upset Miss A suffered.  So, on that basis I cant fairly uphold this complaint.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 March  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7120440