K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold them payment  
protection insurance (PPI) with their mortgage.
background
I issued my provisional decision on 28 January 2019, a copy  extract of which is attached  and 
forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps 
complaint. 
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision. 
Both Barclays and Mr and Mrs P have confirmed  they have received my decision and neither 
Barclays, or Mr and Mrs P have added anything  further.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
As neither party has provided any further evidence  or arguments  for consideration, I see no 
reason to depart from the conclusions set out in my provisional decision. It follows  that I do 
not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive previously explained I do not uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  6 April 2019.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
copy extract of provisional decision
background
In 2008 Mr and Mrs P took out a further  advance on their mortgage with Barclays. At the 
same time they were sold a PPI policy to protect  their mortgage payments. The policy  was 
taken in Mrs Ps sole name  and covered  their mortgage payments if Mrs P was unable  to 
work due to accident and sickness and if she lost her job. A successful claim on the policy 
wouldve covered  payments  for up to 24 months  per claim.
Ref: DRN74340462Our adjudicator thought we should uphold the complaint because  she didnt think there  was 
enough evidence  to show Mr and Mrs P were  given the opportunity during the sale to 
actively confirm that they wanted to take the policy out. 
Barclays disagreed.  So their complaint has come to me for a decision.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Im currently  considering not upholding Mr and Mrs Ps complaint.
Barclays had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs P they had a choice in taking the PPI. The 
further advance  was applied for during a meeting and at the same time PPI was discussed. 
Mr and Mrs P say this wasnt done but they havent  given us much detail about what  was 
said to make them think this, but I think thats  understandable as the PPI was sold a while 
ago. So to help me reach my decision Ive also looked at what  the documents  from the time 
show.
Barclays have given  us a print out of the online  mortgage  application  completed  during the 
meeting. The notes show that a detailed discussion took place about Mr and Mrs Ps 
financial circumstances and needs. The notes record that they didnt  want to discuss  PPI 
needs as Customer said they already  have  existing BID Income protection  policies for ASU 
and plan to increase those by calling BID. 
So I think Mr and Mrs P understood  they didnt have to take PPI as they could choose  to 
amend their existing policy at a later date and didnt even have to discuss  PPI.
Ive also seen a copy of Mr and Mrs Ps mortgage  offer. I can see under the section titled 
Insurance it says they dont have to take out any insurance through Barclays and the only 
insurance that is a condition  of the mortgage is buildings  insurance.
I think given the importance of the financial commitment Mr and Mrs P were  making  they 
wouldve read the mortgage offer and understood they had a choice in taking out PPI. I note 
that the only optional insurance  taken out at the time of the offer was life insurance. I think 
this further illustrates  that PPI was optional  because the policy  was only arranged  after the 
mortgage offer came  out and because  they chose to take it.
Barclays advised Mr and Mrs P to take out the PPI. What this means  is that Barclays  not 
only had to provide  information about  PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that 
Mr and Mrs P could  make an informed choice about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure 
that if it were  to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to their needs and 
circumstances.
I dont know if Barclays did take all the steps it shouldve. But I think the policy was a suitable  
recommendation for Mr and Mrs P for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN74340463Mrs P was eligible  for the policy and it doesnt look like she wouldve been caught  by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made it 
difficult to make a successful claim.
At the time of the sale Mrs P says she wasnt entitled to any sick pay and had no other 
means of making her mortgage  payments if she couldnt work. The policy  wouldve  
covered their mortgage payments if Mrs P was unable to work due to accident or 
sickness or if she lost her job for up to 24 months  per claim.
So I think the policy wouldve provided  a useful benefit to Mr and Mrs P in their 
circumstances especially considering they were  taking  on a significant  and long term 
financial commitment. Given the implications  if they were unable to meet  their 
repayments I think they wouldve been interested in protecting them.
There was nothing  to suggest that the policy wasnt affordable to them at the time. And if 
they decided they no longer wanted the PPI they could cancel it.
I also need to consider  whether Barclays gave  Mr and Mrs P information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that they could make a proper choice about whether or not 
they wanted to take PPI out.
I dont know if Barclays gave all the proper information as it shouldve.  But even if there were 
problems with the information  and advice, for the same reasons that the policy  was suitable 
and based on what Mr and Mrs P have told us about  their circumstances at the time, I think  
they wouldve  still taken  out PPI given  the proper information.
This means  I currently  dont think Mr and Mrs P are any worse off as a result  of any wrong  
doing by Barclays.
my provisional decision
My provisional decision is that I currently do not intend to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ps complaint 
against Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7434046