K821x#15complaint
Miss W has complained about the quality of a used van she acquired under a hire purchase 
agreement with FirstRand Bank Limited  (trading as Motonovo Finance).
background
Miss W acquired  a used van in March  2017  for around £6,000.  It had covered around  44,000  
miles. Before Miss W could collect the van, the supplying  dealership  told her that it needed 
to undertake some work on it before she could pick it up. The supplying  dealership  
undertook works on the following:
window switch
brake pads
turbo
tyres
light wiring
indicator wiring
rear door latch
I understand the van also had a service and MOT  before Miss W collected  it. Miss W said 
that when she collected it her partner noticed a few issues. She says that there were 
problems with the lights on the back of the van, and it was lacking power. I can see that the 
supplying dealer investigated  problems  with the electrics at the end of April 2017. It fixed  a 
broken wire, and rectified  a problem due to water  ingress into the window motor. 
Miss W says that she continued to have problems with the van. The supplying  dealership  
told her that she could take it to a local garage (that was part of its parent group) to be 
inspected. Miss W says that the local garage  investigated the lack of power in June 2017. It 
said there was nothing wrong  with the van but it did require some  oil. Miss W says that she 
raised concerns  about the turbo, but the garage said that it was unlikely there  was a problem 
with it because it had been replaced before she bought the van. At this point the van had 
covered around  47,000 miles. 
Miss W says that the van continually required  oil topping up and she noticed a leak. She also 
says that there were  ongoing problems with the electrics and the back door. She took it back 
to the local garage  in September  2017 because of the problems. The garage investigated 
the problems,  but it didnt  carry  out any repair works. At this point the van had covered 
around 55,000  miles. 
Miss W contacted FirstRand Bank  in October  2017  to let it know  about her complaint.  
FirstRand Bank contacted  the supplying dealer for its comments and asked Miss W to 
provide a quote for repairs. Miss W did this in November 2017. The quote was for around 
£900 and covered:
renewal of the intercooler 
renewal of the turbocharger
removal of the sump  and clearing  all oil feed pipes
The quote  didnt  include the work for fixing the central locking problem because that would 
have required stripping down the van. 
Ref: DRN73557152FirstRand Bank decided  to arrange  for an independent report  to be carried out in 
January 2018.  The technician said: 
there was a slight lack of performance and turbocharger  boost operation 
there was an oil leak 
the electronic  window  was inoperative
the central locking  didnt operate on the rear or sliding doors and the key fob was 
inoperative
The technician said that given the elapsed time and mileage covered by Miss W, he didnt  
think the faults would likely have been developing at the point of supply. At this point, the van 
had covered around 59,000 miles.
FirstRand Bank didnt uphold Miss Ws complaint because the independent report didnt 
support her claim. Miss W didnt agree, so she referred the complaint to our service. Miss W 
says she stopped using the van in February  2018 and the currently  mileage on it is around 
62,500.
Our investigator looked into things and decided to uphold the complaint. He thought about 
the repairs that had been carried  out on the van since Miss W acquired it and concluded that 
the most  recent problems were linked to previous problems and repairs  carried  out. He didnt 
think that the independent engineer  had taken into account all the previous repairs  on the 
van. 
So our investigator recommended FirstRand Bank:
cancel the agreement with nothing further  to pay and remove  any adverse 
information about the agreement on Miss Ws credit file
collect the van at no cost to Miss W 
refund  Miss Ws deposit with 8% simple interest  from the date of payment  to the date 
of settlement
refund  25% of Miss Ws monthly  payments in recognition of the impaired use
refund  all payments  from March  2018
pay Miss W £100 compensation
FirstRand Bank didnt agree. It referred to the independent report and asked for the case  to 
be reviewed by an ombudsman. 
Since the case has been referred to me for a final decision our investigator  gave the 
independent technician a few more  details of the previous repairs carried out on Miss Ws 
van. The technician  responded  and said:
It does  appear likely  that an oil leak was present from that point and this has resulted in 
depletion of the engine  oil which has at least been  a contributory factor and most likely the 
cause of the current turbocharger issue.
The technician said the oil leak could be related to previous repairs but he would need to see 
further evidence  to make such  a determination.  He also noted  that the van had historical  
electrical issues and on that basis he considered it likely the current electrical issues  may be 
related to previous repairs.  
Ref: DRN73557153my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss W acquired  the van under a hire purchase agreement, which  is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. Our service is able to consider  complaints relating to it. FirstRand  Bank is 
the supplier of the goods under this sort of agreement, and is responsible for dealing  with 
complaints about  their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  covers hire purchase agreements  like the one 
Miss W entered into. Under  a hire purchase  agreement, there is an implied term that the 
goods supplied  will be of satisfactory quality. 
The CRA says that goods will be considered of satisfactory quality where they meet the 
standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  taking into account the 
description of the goods, the price  paid and other relevant circumstances.
In Miss Ws case, the van was a used van  with a cash  price of around £6,000. It had 
covered around  44,000 miles when she acquired  it, so Id have different expectations of it 
compared to a brand new van. 
The supplying dealership carried out work before Miss W collected the van and serviced it. 
So I think Miss W would have expected the van to work as intended when she picked it up, 
without any major issues. But it seems that Miss W experienced problems with the van 
almost straight away and these problems  continued over the next few months and were 
never properly resolved.  
The main  problems with the van were its loss of power, oil usage  and electrical faults. The 
supplying dealer undertook electrical work within a few weeks of Miss W acquiring the van 
when she hadnt  covered  a significant  amount of miles. And her local garage investigated 
problems with the power, oil and electrics  within a few months of her acquiring it and when 
itd covered around 3,000 miles in her possession. 
I think its likely the problems with the power, oil and electrics were  developing at the point of 
supply and I dont  consider the van was of satisfactory quality. I think it likely that the works  
carried out before Miss W collected the van didnt  bring it to a standard  that a reasonable 
person would expect.  The supplying dealership renewed the turbocharger, but there  have 
been ongoing problems with since then.  The supplying dealership  carried out works on the 
electrics, but the van has had problems with the electrics since. The van has also required 
more oil than would  normally be expected and there is evidence of a leak. 
While Miss W was able to use the van, the problems with the power, oil and electrics have 
never been properly resolved. So shes had impaired use of the van. It must have been very 
frustrating and inconvenient having the constant problems. 
FirstRand Bank placed a lot of weight on the independent report, but the investigator 
provided more information  to the technician and hes said that it seems likely  that some  of 
the recent problems could  be linked to previous problems and repairs. 
Ref: DRN73557154Taking everything into account,  I dont consider the van was of satisfactory  quality at the 
point of supply.  FirstRand Bank has had the opportunity to put things right for Miss W, but 
didnt do so. Miss W has understandably lost confidence in the van, and I dont think  she 
should now have  to accept its repair. I think the fairest outcome is for Miss W to be entitled 
to reject the van with a refund of her deposit.  There has been a dispute  over how much  
Miss W put down as a deposit. But Miss W has sent in evidence, including a breakdown  
from the supplying  dealership along with copies of her bank statements, to show she paid 
£1,757.40. So Im satisfied that this is the amount  she needs to be refunded.
I also think the other recommendations made by our investigator seem fair as well. So I 
consider a 25% refund of payment for impaired use is fair and reasonable for the reasons 
given above. And given  that the currently mileage on the van is around  62,500  it seems  
likely she did stop using  it around February 2018, so I find its fair she receives  all her 
payments back from March 2018 onwards.  
The matter  has no doubt caused Miss W some  inconvenience  too. Given  everything thats 
happened, I find the £100 recommended by our investigator a fair amount of compensation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. FirstRand Bank 
Limited (trading as Motonovo Finance) should:
1.end the agreement with nothing further  to pay 
2.remove any adverse information  about  the agreement on Miss Ws credit file
3.collect the van at no cost to Miss W 
4.refund  Miss Ws deposit of £1,757.40
5.8% simple interest* should be added to the above amount from the date the payment 
was made to the date of settlement
6.refund  25% of Miss Ws monthly  payments in recognition of the impaired use
7.refund  all payments  from March  2018
8.pay Miss W £100 compensation
*If FirstRand  Bank Limited  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Miss W how much its taken off. It should 
also provide Miss W with a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one so she can reclaim 
the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 March 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7355715