K821x#15complaint
Miss B complains  about a short term loan that she took out with Evergreen Finance London 
Limited, trading  as MoneyBoat.co.uk, (EFL), which she said was unaffordable. She  also 
said that shed  received  a number of threatening letters  from EFL which  were  undated  and 
contained incorrect information regarding the amount owed. These  caused  her unfair worry 
and distress.
background
Miss B took out a loan with EFL for £200 on 19 September 2017.  The loan was repayable by 
six monthly instalments  with a highest instalment of £61.52.The loan has been repaid.
EFL said in its final response letter that it had carried  out a credit check before the loan and 
asked Miss B for details of her income  and expenditure. The credit check  verified  Miss Bs 
declared salary of £1,400. EFL increased Miss Bs declared expenditure from £920  to 
£1,294 to reflect the additional credit Miss B had outstanding  on its credit check. This left a 
disposable monthly income of £106. It said that all of the figures that Miss B had provided 
showed sufficient  disposable income  to meet the monthly repayments due.
The adjudicator recommended that Miss Bs complaint should be upheld.  He said that when 
EFL checked  Miss Bs expenditure, it calculated this to total £1,294. As the highest loan 
repayment was £61.52,  this would have given Miss B only £44.48  disposable income per 
month which he didnt  believe  was enough for Miss B to repay her loan in a sustainable 
manner. With regard  to the letters from EFL which Miss B had said were threatening, the 
adjudicator said that hed not had sight of these letters. But they should have contained the 
correct information  and be non-threatening.
With regard to the loan, EFL disagreed  with the adjudicators view and responded to say that 
it had already taken  into account Miss Bs income  and expenditure (rent/mortgage, credit,  
transport, food and other) and it had increased Miss Bs declared expenditure. After  doing 
this it said that Miss B could afford the repayments.  
With regard to the letters, EFL said that without further information it was unable  to comment 
on this point too much other than to advise  the majority of its contact with its consumers was 
via text and email. The only time it sends out letters would be for a Statutory Notice of 
Arrears (although this was also sent by email) and its default  notices. These  documents  
would be dated  and as a responsible lender it would have to make clear  any potential  
consequences of non-payment of the loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
When EFL lent to Miss B the regulator was the Financial Conduct Authority and relevant 
regulations and guidance included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). The CONC 
contained guidance for lenders about responsible lending. 
Ref: DRN78518372EFL needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss B could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and Miss B s 
income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I 
think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that EFL should fairly and reasonably have  done  
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Miss B. These factors  include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that EFL was required to establish whether 
Miss B could sustainably  repay her loans   not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the CONC defines sustainable as being  without  undue  difficulties 
and in particular  the customer should  be able to make repayments on time, while  meeting 
other reasonable commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to 
make their repayments without borrowing further.  
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Bs complaint.
Miss Bs loan with EFL was for £200  with six monthly repayments with a highest repayment 
amount of £61.52. Miss B had declared an income  of £1,400  and expenditure of £920. And 
as Id said above EFL had increased Miss Bs expenditure to reflect her outstanding credit  
commitments. So it calculated her monthly  disposable income to be around £106. 
Ref: DRN78518373I think that as Miss B had committed to repaying  around £61 for six months from a 
disposable income of £106 (as calculated  by EFL),  this would only have left her with around 
£45 each month for any unexpected expenses. I think it would have taken a very small 
change in Miss Bs finances over the repayment  period  caused  by an unexpected or 
seasonal expense for her to have significant problems meeting her loan repayments. I think  
this might have suggested to EFL that Miss B wouldnt be able to afford  to repay  the loan in 
a sustainable  way for that period. So I dont think that a responsible  lender would have 
considered this a sustainable loan. 
I note that Miss B has also complained about  letters from EFL which she said were 
threatening. Ive not seen these letters. So Im unable to comment on this aspect of Miss Bs 
complaint and dont  uphold  this aspect of her complaint.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this complaint, I 
order Evergreen Finance  London Limited,  trading as MoneyBoat.co.uk, to:
1.Refund all interest  and charges Miss B paid on her loan;
2.Pay 8% simple interest* a year on the refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement.  
3.Remove all adverse entries  about the loan from Miss Bs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EFL to take off tax from this interest. EFL must  give 
Miss B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 January 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7851837