K820x#14complaint
Ms M complains about the way U K Insurance Limited (UKI) settled her home insurance 
claim for stolen jewellery.
For ease, in my decision I will refer to UKI when  talking  about its agents or representatives. 
background
In 2018, Ms Ms house was burgled. Several pieces of jewellery were stolen, including 
personalised family items with inscriptions and significant sentimental value. 
Ms M made  a claim with UKI and it had the jewellery  independently valued by its preferred 
supplier. The items  were  assessed as being worth approximately £5,600  in total, and Ms M 
accepted this valuation as fair. UKI then offered to replace the items for ones of similar value 
and appearance via its supplier. But Ms M didnt want this. She felt the items were  
irreplaceable because they were family  heirlooms  and gifts.   
So, UKI offered  a cash settlement  for the amount it would  have cost to replace the items via 
the supplier. This was around  50% less that the estimated value due to the significant 
discount it had arranged with the supplier.  UKI relied  on section G of the contents insurance  
part of the policy,  which said UKI will choose  whether to replace an item or pay the cost of 
replacing the item but only up to the amount it would have cost UKI to replace it using its 
own suppliers.
Ms M didnt think this was fair and she complained to UKI. But it didnt uphold her complaint. 
So, Ms M brought her concerns to our service.
Ms M felt there was a conflict of interest in the relationship between UKI and its preferred 
supplier. She was concerned the valuation of the jewellery may not be independent and that 
the discounted replacement arrangement UKI had, meant the consumer loses out if they 
want a cash settlement for their items. 
Ms M also told us she had a skin allergy which meant she couldnt wear items of gold 
jewellery which is one of the reasons  she didnt  want  to replace the items.  And Ms M said 
that she had never seen  the term UKI relied  on until it sent her an updated policy  booklet.
Our investigator found UKI could  settle  the claim in this way under the terms and conditions. 
Ms M didnt agree so its been passed  to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  the burglary at Ms Ms home which Im aware has caused her 
significant upset  and distress. And I can understand how Ms M feels  that the difficulties shes 
had in settling  her claim with UKI have added to her worries. Ive taken  into consideration 
what Ms M has told us, but Im afraid  I dont think UKI acted unreasonably here  Ill explain 
why.
Ref: DRN75110292Ms M doesnt think its fair that the discount  UKI had with its supplier means  the cash  
settlement figure was less. And I can see why she would feel this way  by cash settling  the 
claim, she would  lose out financially. 
Im aware Ms M has raised concerns about  a potential conflict  of interest in UKIs  supplier  
arrangement. But our service doesnt regulate  how businesses operate.  My role is to look at 
whether UKI treated  Ms M reasonably in relation to her claim. So, I need  to look at whether 
the process was fair in her particular circumstances.
UKI had an arrangement with their jewellery  supplier which gave it around a 50% discount. 
And Term G of Ms Ms policy stated UKI would only pay a cash settlement for the amount it 
would cost it to replace  the item. So UKIs  offer to Ms M was in line with the terms and 
conditions of her policy.
So, I then considered whether this policy term was made clear to Ms M - particularly given 
she told us shed never seen this before.  But having reviewed an earlier  policy book  Ms M 
did have access to, Im satisfied it also stated that if UKI could replace an item but choose to 
make a cash settlement  instead, it would not pay more than the amount it would have cost 
using its own suppliers. So, I think UKI did make this term clear to Ms M. 
Had UKI only offered  a cash settlement, I cant necessarily  say that would have  been  fair. 
But it did more than that. Its claim notes show that it also offered to replace the jewellery, 
resulting in no financial loss. UKI later offered the cash settlement when Ms M explained this 
was her preferred  choice.  Ms M has given  a number of reasons for this, explaining she 
cannot wear gold jewellery, that she would be worried by having valuables in her home and, 
perhaps most importantly,  that the stolen  jewellery  was of significant sentimental  worth and 
therefore, in her eyes, irreplaceable. The terms and conditions of Ms Ms policy allow  UKI to 
settle the claim how it chooses. So, in giving Ms M the option  of a cash  settlement, I think 
UKI acted  reasonably  and took into account her particular circumstances. 
Im aware Ms Ms policy also stated that if no appropriate replacement  item was available, 
UKI would pay the full cost of the item without  any deduction  (subject  to policy  limits). 
And Ms M feels no replacements would  be appropriate, which  is why she thinks the cash  
settlement offered shouldnt be at the discounted rate. But I think  the evidence  suggests UKI 
did offer appropriate  replacements.  UKI offered to source pieces  of a similar design, material  
and value to those stolen  and suggested a representative could then show Ms M various 
options from which she could choose.  But because of the sentimental  value of the original 
jewellery, Ms M felt it irreplaceable and declined this offer. I fully appreciate  why she would 
feel this way, as the true value of the items to her was not simply financial. But Im not 
persuaded that this makes the replacements UKI offered unsuitable or inappropriate. 
Contents insurance covers the monetary value of items, because no insurer  would ever be 
able to replace  the sentimental  value.  Im satisfied UKI attempted to closely  match these 
items at a similar value. And so, I think it acted reasonably.
Overall, whilst I understand and sympathise with the reasons why Ms M doesnt feel that 
replacing the items was appropriate,  UKI provided  her with an option that would have 
resulted in no financial loss. And so, if Ms M chose the alternative option of a cash  
settlement, I cant say UKI have acted unfairly  in offering the amount it would cost it to 
replace the items. I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to Ms M, but for the 
reasons Ive given  above, I dont think UKI acted unreasonably in the handling of this claim.
Ref: DRN75110293As an aside,  Im aware  Ms M has also raised  concerns over the independence of the 
valuation by UKIs preferred supplier. But Ms M also accepted  the valuation  of her items as 
fair. So, I dont think its necessary for me to comment  on this any further here.  Similarly, Ms 
M has raised  questions over the single item cap on her insurance, but I can see this wasnt 
applied to her claim, so I havent examined this further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Jade Cunningham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7511029