K820x#14complaint
Mrs T had an income protection policy administered by ReAssure Limited. She has 
complained about the policys maturity value.
background
Mrs T took out a Family Income Protection Plan in 1991. ReAssure  administer the policy but 
are not responsible for the sale of it, or what Mrs T was told when she took the policy out. 
The policy was in place  until maturity in January 2019. Unhappy  with the value projections 
and ultimately the maturity value of £751.93,  Mrs T complained to the business that sold her 
the policy, as well as to ReAssure. 
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who was of the view that it couldnt
be upheld. He confirmed  that the maturity value was correct  and that there was no evidence 
of any errors  in the administration  of the policy by ReAssure. 
Mrs T remained unhappy and as no agreement was reached,  the case  has been
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the
complaint should  be upheld.
Firstly, I appreciate that Mrs T believed that a policy that she had been paying into for almost 
thirty years, would have a significantly higher maturity value than the one she received. 
However, its important to point out that ReAssure  arent responsible for the sale of the policy 
to Mrs T. So, I cant consider whether this policy was suitable  for her. Nor can I consider in 
this decision what information she was provided  at the point of sale or whether she was 
aware of exactly what she was taking out.
What I can look at is whether the policy has been administered properly. This includes
whether the correct premiums were taken,  and that the maturity value has been calculated
correctly. Having looked at everything that has been  provided, I am satisfied it has. 
Whilst the policy is unit-linked, its main aim is to provide  the policyholder (Mrs T) with 
protection, had she become unable to work  due to an accident or illness. 
Units in the chosen investment fund are purchased and enough  of them  are sold to pay for 
the charges of the plan and the costs involved in providing that level of protection. As well as 
the costs increasing  as one gets older. I can see Mrs T also elected for the policy to include 
indexation. This means that the amount payable on a valid claim increases annually,  so not 
to be impacted too detrimentally  by inflation.  
Because of this the monthly  premium has also increased each year. However,  the majority 
of this was to provide Mrs T with the increasing  protection and not towards adding  to the 
maturity value of the policy. 
Ref: DRN74056472I know my decision will disappoint Mrs T, but ultimately this is the nature of these
types of policies. The costs involved are likely to increase as one gets older and this is 
especially the case when  indexation has been selected. 
I am therefore satisfied  that ReAssure has administered the policy  properly and the correct 
maturity valuation has been calculated. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2020.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7405647