K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Uncle Buck Finance LLP was irresponsible  when  it provided  a number 
of loans to him in 2012.
background
Mr W took four payday loans with Uncle Buck between  February  2012  and May 2012. This 
table shows some information about  the Mr Ws loans.
 date  
takenprincipal 
amountterm  
(days)
Loan 1 24/02/12 £225.00 36
Loan 2 30/03/12 £325.00 32
Loan 3 30/04/12 £425.00 32
Loan 4 31/05/12 £525.00 30
Uncle Buck  objected to this Service looking  into Loans 1, 2 and 3 because it says Mr W 
complained too late. Our adjudicator has explained why she thought we could look into those 
loans. Uncle  Buck is aware  of our approach to this issue and hasnt provided me with 
anything new to consider. So, Im looking  into the merits of Mr Ws complaint about all his 
loans.
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Ws complaint  about  Loans 3 and 4 should be upheld.  
As this complaint  hasnt yet been resolved, its come to me - an ombudsman  - for a final 
decision. If Mr W accepts my decision it will be binding on the parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending  including all of the relevant rules,  guidance  and good  
industry practice  on our website. 
Broadly speaking, this all means that Uncle Buck needed to take reasonable steps to ensure 
it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice, this means it should have carried  out proportionate  
checks to make sure Mr W could  repay  his loans in a sustainable manner. These checks  
could take into account a number of different things, such  as how much  was being lent, the 
repayment amounts  and the consumers income  and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the 
early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough  checks  might be reasonable and 
proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for Mr W. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN76254002the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
The regulator at the time Mr W took his loans was initially the Office of Fair Trading (OFT). It 
said that sustainable  meant that a borrower should  be able to repay the credit:
without undue difficulty  in particular without incurring or increasing  problem 
indebtedness
over the life of the credit agreement 
out of income  and/or  available savings
And the phrase without  undue difficulty means  that a borrower  could make  repayments 
whilst also meeting other debt repayments  and other normal/reasonable outgoings  and, 
without having  to borrow further to meet these repayments.
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable - so a lender shouldve realised that it 
wouldnt be responsible  to provide any further loans. 
Ive thought carefully about what this all means  so far as Mr Ws complaint is concerned. 
And based on the information available to me, Im not upholding Mr Ws complaint about  
Loans 1 and 2. I cant  fairly say Uncle Buck did something wrong  when it provided  those  
loans.
However, by the time Mr W took Loan 3 - his third loan in two months  for almost double the 
amount of Loan  1 - I think  Uncle Buck shouldve satisfied itself that he wasnt  reliant on short 
term loans to supplement  his income. As Uncle Buck isnt able to show  us what information it 
did obtain, I cant be sure that it did proportionate  checks. 
This sort of loan was intended as a short-term solution to temporary  cash-flow problems. As 
the rates of interest  were  so high, they werent  intended for prolonged, sustained  use. 
And the amount of Mr Ws loans was increasing  (rapidly) whilst it seems there was no or 
very little time during  which Mr W wasnt indebted to Uncle Buck.  So, I think that there was 
enough for Uncle Buck to realise that Mr W was most likely struggling with money. And in 
these circumstances,  there was a significant  risk that Mr W wouldnt be able to sustainably  
repay his loans.  And this is confirmed by reference  to the evidence which is available to me. 
Ive looked at Mr Ws credit file and bank  statements  to help me understand what 
Uncle Buck  wouldve learnt had it done proportionate checks.  
During the period in which Mr W was borrowing from Uncle Buck,  his banks  statements  
show that he was repaying at least two debt collection  agencies. He was also regularly 
taking high-cost short term loans from a number  of other lenders. For example, he took a 
payday loan of £400 from another lender  on the day he took Loan  2 and on the day he took 
Loan 3 he borrowed  £500 from a different lender.  His banks statements also show 
numerous transactions with shop-based loan companies. 
I can also see - from Mr Ws banks statements - that direct debits and cheques  were being 
returned unpaid and Mr W was usually  significantly  overdrawn: often spending only a few 
days in credit after his salary had been  deposited.  
Ref: DRN76254003This is information which Uncle Buck wouldve discovered had it done  proportionate  checks 
at the time it provided Mr W with Loans  3 and 4. And it wouldve concluded that it was 
unlikely that Mr W would  be able to repay  those  loans sustainably - it was more likely hed 
have to borrow again to plug any holes  left in his finances by the repayment of earlier  credit: 
an unsustainable situation. So, as a responsible lender - had it done enough by way of an 
assessment - it wouldve declined Mr Ws applications for those  two loans which  is why I 
uphold his complaint about them.
putting things right
Uncle Buck  shouldnt have given Mr W Loans 3 and 4. I understand that there may be a 
balance outstanding on Loan  4.  If there  is an outstanding balance on Loan 1 then Uncle 
Buck should  take the steps outlined in A) below.  If there isnt an outstanding balance,  then it 
should take the steps outlined in B)
A)If there  is an outstanding balance on Loan  4 and if Uncle  Buck has sold the 
outstanding debt it should buy it back if it is able to do so and then take the following 
steps.
 
If Uncle Buck is not able to buy the debt back, then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve  the results outlined below.
1)Uncle Buck should add together the total of the repayments  made  by Mr W 
towards interest, fees and charges on Loan 3.
2)It should calculate 8% simple  interest* on the individual payments made by Mr W 
which were considered as part of 1), calculated from the date he originally made 
the payments,  to the date the complaint is settled.
3)Uncle Buck should remove all interest,  fees and charges  from the outstanding 
balance on Loan 4, and treat any repayments made by Mr W as though they had 
been repayments of the principal on all outstanding loans.  If this results in Mr W 
having made overpayments then Uncle Buck should  refund these overpayments 
with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Uncle  Buck 
should then refund  the amounts calculated in 1) and 2) and move to step 5). 
4)If there  is still an outstanding balance, then the amounts  calculated  in in 1) and 2) 
should be used  to repay  any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. 
If this results  in a surplus, then the surplus  should  be paid to Mr W. However,  if 
there is still an outstanding balance then Uncle Buck  should agree an affordable  
repayment plan with Mr W.
 
5)Uncle Buck should remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Ws credit 
file in relation  to Loans 3 and 4. 
Ref: DRN76254004B)If there  is no outstanding balance on Mr Ws Loans 3 and 4, Uncle Buck  should  
refund to Mr W all interest and charges he paid in respect of Loans  3 and 4. To each 
of those sums it must  add 8%* simple interest a year, from the date he made the 
payments to the date the refund is paid to Mr W. And it should remove  any adverse 
information recorded on Mr Ws credit  file in relation  to Loans 3 and 4.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to deduct tax from this interest. It should give 
Mr W a certificate  showing  how much  tax it has deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I uphold Mr Ws complaint against Uncle  Buck Finance 
LLP in part and require it to put things right in the way Ive outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2020.
E J Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7625400