K820x#14complaint
Mr C says Nationwide Building  Society  mis-sold him two payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policies.
background
Mr C bought the policies when he took out loans  in 2001 and 2003. The loans included an 
amount to pay for the policies.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr C disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Cs complaint, Ill explain why. 
Mr C says that he was pressured and persuaded in to taking out the PPI policies with his 
loans, and that he felt that the PPI had to be taken or hed be refused  the lending.  He says it 
wasnt explained to him that he could opt out of the PPI. I cant  know  what  was said to Mr C 
at the time  and Mr C hasnt said much about why he felt this way either. So I have to base 
my decision  on the information  I do have.
Nationwide has provided a copy of Mr Cs loan agreements, and on these I can see that the 
PPI is clearly referred to as Optional  Credit  Insurance and the costs are set out separately  
from that of the loans.  Mr C has signed the agreements.  Nowhere on the paperwork does it 
suggest that PPI is compulsory, or that Mr C would  be more  likely to be accepted  by taking  
out PPI. Had he been  told otherwise, I think that he wouldve questioned this when he signed 
his loan agreements, and taking everything in to account, I think  that Nationwide did enough 
to show that the PPI policies were optional, and that Mr C had a choice in taking them out.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI policies to Mr C so it didnt have to check  if they were 
right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed  to decide if 
they were right for him. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr C about the PPI policies wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But as I think he chose to take them out - so it looks  like he wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like they would have been useful for him if something went 
wrong. It also looks like they were affordable. So I dont think  better information about  the 
PPI policies would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Nationwide  doesnt have to pay back the cost of the PPI policies to Mr C.
Ive taken into account Mr Cs comments,  including what hes said about  having sick pay, 
and that his parents couldve helped with his repayments if needed.  But the PPI policies 
couldve paid out on top of, and for longer than Mr C received full sick pay for, and while his 
Ref: DRN78705702parents may have  been keen to help, circumstances can change, and ultimately, the loan 
repayments were Mr Cs responsibility. So these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7870570