K821x#15complaint
Mrs Y complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC failed to remove adverse information from her 
credit file and this caused her financial loss as well as trouble and upset.
background
Mrs Y pursued a complaint through this service  against Barclays  in 2016 about a default 
which had been  registered in error against her credit file. The outcome of that complaint was 
that Barclays agreed to remove  the default  from Mrs Ys credit file, and confirmed in May 
2016 that it had done  this.
In February 2019  Mrs Y made an offer to purchase  a property at around £70,000 under the 
asking price, and her offer was accepted by the seller. Mrs Y then tried to obtain a mortgage  
with a high street lender,  but her application was declined due to adverse information  
recorded on her credit  file.
Mrs Y looked into things and could not see any adverse information recorded  on her credit  
reports with two of the main credit reference  agencies. After further investigation, she found 
that Barclays hadnt removed the adverse information  from her TransUnion credit report. So 
she contacted  Barclays again in March  2019 to try and get the default  removed.
In May 2019, Mrs Y obtained  a bridging loan in order to secure the purchase of the property. 
Barclays eventually confirmed it had removed the default from her credit file at the end of 
May 2019, by which point  Mrs Y had already entered  into the loan agreement.
Mrs Y said shed lost out financially as a result of Barclays delay in removing the default. 
She said shed had to enter into an agreement with a lender with a much higher interest rate 
and had incurred  other unnecessary costs in order to secure  the purchase of the property. 
Barclays said Mrs Y would  need to come  back to our service in order  for the matter to be 
reviewed. So Mrs Y contacted us at the end of May 2019.
Our investigator considered the information provided  and recommended  that the complaint 
be upheld. She thought  it likely that the default Barclays  hadnt removed was the main cause 
for Mrs Y not being able to get a lower  rate mortgage  and that Barclays had caused Mrs Y 
financial loss. She said Barclays should  put Mrs Y back in the financial position she wouldve 
been in had the default been removed  in 2016.
Barclays disagreed  with our investigators assessment of the complaint. It said it would pay 
the difference between the interest rates but not other costs, which it deemed consequential 
losses. It said Mrs Y hadnt done  enough to mitigate those losses  and also disputed that 
Mrs Y had contacted  Barclays in March 2019 to complain. It said it could not locate a letter  
from her and the first it had heard of her complaint was in May 2019,  suggesting  she didnt 
give Barclays enough time to put things right before taking out the bridging loan.
Because Barclays didnt  agree with our investigators opinion, the complaint has come to me 
for a final decision.
Ref: DRN78698652my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold the complaint and 
Ill explain  why.
Barclays has accepted  it made errors in registering a default  against Mrs Ys credit file and in 
not removing that default  properly in 2016 when she first complained about it. I think  its also 
fair to say Mrs Y has suffered financial loss due to those errors. I say this because Ive seen  
a mortgage illustration for the product Mrs Y could  have secured had her credit  file been 
clear of adverse  information. The illustration shows a mortgage  with an interest rate of 1.7%, 
much lower  than the 8.4% interest  rate of the bridging loan she ultimately took out. 
Barclays has asked if weve seen evidence that there was no other reason for Mrs Ys 
mortgage applications being  declined. From  looking closely at Mrs Ys credit  files with each 
of the credit  reference  agencies, Ive no reason to believe  that there was any other  
explanation for the declined applications.  This is because Mrs Y does not appear  to have 
any other defaults or adverse  markers which wouldve likely affected those applications.  
Ive considered what Barclays has said about  it being unlikely  a default dated some  three  
years prior would affect  a mortgage  application.  However, it isnt unusual for defaults to 
affect the success of mortgage applications  for up to six years. So I think its likely Mrs Y 
wouldnt have had her initial  mortgage applications declined had it not been for the default.
Ive thought carefully about what Barclays has said regarding Mrs Y failing to mitigate  her 
losses. And I dont agree  that Barclays didnt have  adequate time to remove the default. 
Firstly, as Barclays has accepted, the default  should not have been added to Mrs Ys credit  
file in the first place  and was done  so in error. Secondly, it shouldve  been removed in 2016 
and Mrs Y was given assurances that it had been removed. Thirdly, although Barclays has 
said it has no record of a letter sent by Mrs Y in March 2019, Ive found Mrs Ys account of 
when she first contacted  Barclays  about  this issue to be both plausible  and persuasive. 
Shes told us she recalls sending a handwritten  letter  to Barclays, as she didnt have a 
printer at the time, due to having  moved out of her home and having moved in with her 
sister. Ive listened to the call recordings Barclays has sent us. Mrs Y refers to having sent a 
letter in six weeks ago when she discusses the matter over the phone  on 8 May 2019 with 
a Barclays adviser, and she has also written 19 March 2019 on her complaint form to this 
service, as the date she first complained to Barclays.
All things  considered, I accept Barclays may not be able to locate Mrs Ys letter, but that 
doesnt mean she didnt send it  and it wouldnt be fair for me to hold her at fault for 
Barclays not being able to locate  the letter. I think Mrs Ys account  is consistent and Im 
satisfied that Mrs Y contacted Barclays about the issue when she first became aware of it in 
March 2019  and as Mrs Ys bridging  loan offer is dated 2 May 2019, I think she gave 
Barclays sufficient time to rectify the issue. Im also satisfied  that Mrs Y had no other  option 
but to apply for the loan when she did, or she couldve  lost out on the property altogether.
Barclays has queried whether a high street lender wouldve lent on a property due to be sold 
at auction. Its asked whether the house  was habitable, with a working bathroom and 
kitchen. To clarify, Mrs Y didnt purchase the property at auction. The property was due to be 
sold at auction  if a straightforward  sale couldnt  be arranged, as the seller was emigrating.  
Online searches of the property from around the time have revealed that it was in a good 
state of repair  and I havent seen  any evidence which would suggest the property wasnt  
Ref: DRN78698653habitable and a high street lender wouldnt have offered a mortgage for it. Indeed, the 
evidence suggests  that high street lenders were willing to lend and there were no issues with 
the property itself.
Barclays has also queried why Mrs Y didnt repay the bridging  loan and apply for a high 
street mortgage as soon as shed received confirmation that the default had been  removed  
from her credit file at the end of May 2019. However, its not uncommon  for declined 
applications for credit to adversely affect  a borrowers credit file for several months. This is 
because too many credit applications made  over a short period of time, and within the past 
six months, can result in multiple  hard searches showing on a consumers credit  report.  So I 
do not think it unreasonable  that Mrs Y waited  until such  time as she thought  it likely  her 
mortgage application would be accepted, rather than risk applying  sooner and continue to 
have her applications declined, which wouldve added further hard searches to her credit file. 
She was able to successfully apply for a mortgage with a high street  lender seven months 
after taking out the bridging loan, and I dont consider this an unreasonable length  of time for 
her to wait before reapplying.
To put things right, Barclays must do the following:
Calculate and pay Mrs Y the difference between the payments she made towards her 
loan at an interest rate of 8.4% and the mortgage she wouldve  been able to secure 
at a rate of 1.7% for a period of seven  months.
Pay Mrs Y £1875 for her brokers commission fee.
Pay Mrs Y £1080 for her brokers solicitors  fees.
Pay Mrs Y £3656.25 for arrangement  fees for the loan.
Pay Mrs Y £120 for the cost of insolvency  indemnity  insurance.
Pay Mrs Y £400 compensation for trouble and upset.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and require Barclays  Bank UK PLC to 
calculate and pay Mrs Y the redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 October  2020.
Ifrah Malik
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7869865