K820x#14complaint
Mrs Cs complaint is about the amount  of compensation Santander Cards UK Limited  
offered her following a complaint about commission it received from the sale of a payment 
protection insurance (PPI). 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this decision Ive only considered the complaint about the commission and profit  share 
Santander got due to the PPI. 
In 2017, following a Supreme Court judgment, the Financial  Conduct  Authority (FCA), 
issued some new rules about  how businesses should deal with complaints about PPI.
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit  share from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium   and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right,  the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission  and profit share that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
Santander said that the level of commission and profit share  it received did create an unfair 
relationship. So to put things right it offered to refund the extra  Mrs C paid because the 
commission and profit share it received  was more than 50% of the cost of PPI for the time 
there was an unfair relationship. It also included 8% per year simple interest to compensate 
Mrs C for the time she was out of pocket. 
Mrs C received an offer of £1.27  from Santander. She believes Santander owes her more.
Ive thought about this but I can see Santander has calculated that it received only £0.74  of 
commission that was over 50% of the cost of the PPI. And it has offered to return this plus 
net interest of £0.53. So it looks like Santander has done what  the rules it must  follow  tell it 
to do. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about  Mrs Cs particular complaint and 
circumstances that means Santander should  do something different to put right the 
unfairness caused by not telling her about the amount of commission and profit  share it got. 
But I dont think there is. I think the offer thats been  made is a fair way to resolve this 
complaint. So I wont  be telling Santander  to do anything  more.  
Ref: DRN72722662my final decision
For the reasons  above I think Santander  Cards  UK Limited has correctly worked out what it 
needs to pay Mrs C. 
Santander Cards UK Limited should  update and pay its offer to Mrs C if it hasnt done so 
already. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2020.
Steve Thomas
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7272266