K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out to cover the 
repayments on a credit card. Mr G says Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Gs case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
There isnt very much  information  available about  the sale. Mr G says he wasnt  aware  the 
PPI had been added to his account, but he hasnt been able to give us much  other  detail 
about what was said or what  happened  at the time. And Lloyds hasnt  been  able to send us 
any paperwork or other evidence from the sale, to show that Mr G chose to take the PPI. 
Due to the amount of time that has passed  since  the sales though,  I dont think  this is 
unreasonable.
But what  it does mean is that, because of the limited  information available,  I dont think  
theres enough evidence for me to say that Lloyds added the PPI without Mr Gs knowledge  
or consent. So I think its most likely  Lloyds  made  it clear to Mr G that he had a choice about 
it, and that he chose to take it.
Lloyds says it recommended the PPI to Mr G, so it had to check  that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, Mr G has told us he didnt have any sick pay or other  means he couldve  used  to 
make his repayments if he wasnt earning. So he seems to have had a need for the cover.
Mr G has said he was self-employed at the time, and so wouldnt  have  been  able to claim on 
the policy. But the policy would still have covered self-employed  people.  And wouldnt  have  
made it significantly more  difficult for them to claim than for employed people. So I still think 
the policy was right for Mr G.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr G about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have 
been useful for Mr G if something went wrong.  It also looks  like it was affordable.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put Mr G off taking it out.
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because:
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr G about that. Because  Lloyds didnt tell Mr G, that 
was unfair.
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN74875962my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr G any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7487596