complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
mortgage in 2003. Mrs B says Coventry Building Society mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mrs B says she took out the policy because she believed it was something she had to have. 
But based  on the evidence Ive seen  I think Coventry Building Society made it clear that 
Mrs B didnt have to take out the PPI and she chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why she cant  remember this now. I say this because  Ive seen a copy of her 
mortgage application form where, in the PPI section, a box has been  ticked  to show Mrs B 
was interested  in taking out the policy. Mrs B also signed and dated in this section,  separate  
to her signature to agree to the mortgage.  Mrs B couldve  ticked  a number of other  boxes in 
this section to say that she wanted  more details about the policy;  or that she had arranged 
cover elsewhere; or that she didnt want the policy at all. So from this I think Mrs B wouldve 
known the policy was optional. 
The mortgage application also refers to a separate PPI application form. Unfortunately due 
to the passage of time Mrs Bs PPI application form is no longer available. But Ive seen a 
sample of the form which Coventry Building  Society says Mrs B wouldve completed at the 
time  and Ive seen  no reason to doubt this type of form wouldve been  used. This shows 
Mrs B wouldve  had to select the level of cover required  and sign the application form to 
confirm she wanted  to take out the policy. And I think  its likely  Mrs B completed  and signed 
a PPI application form as the policy was included in her mortgage offer,  stating she had 
selected accident and sickness cover only.  
Mrs B cant  remember if she was advised to take out the PPI or not, and Coventry  Building  
Society cant tell us either. Our adjudicator assessed  the case as a non-advised sale and 
neither party  responded  to dispute this. So Ive also considered this as a non-advised sale in 
my decision.  This means Coventry  Building Society  didnt  have  to check if PPI was right for 
her. But it did have to make sure Mrs B got the information she needed  to decide if the policy  
was right for her. 
Its possible the information Coventry Building Society gave Mrs B about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted this 
type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances  at the time it doesnt look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Mrs B says she was entitled  to sick pay at the time and couldve relied on her relatives to 
support her. But help from others  cant always be guaranteed, as their circumstances can 
also change. The PPI couldve covered Mrs Bs mortgage repayments  for up to 12 months if 
Ref: DRN71412522she was too sick to work. And considering she was solely responsible for what is likely to 
have been her biggest financial commitment   I think having the policy in place wouldve 
provided her with some additional financial security. And the policy wouldve paid out on top 
of her current sick pay  which then couldve been used for other expenses.  So I still think 
the PPI couldve  been useful for her. 
This means  Coventry Building Society  doesnt have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mrs B. But it will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B because: 
Coventry Building Society  got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mrs B about that. Because Coventry 
Building Society didnt  tell Mrs B, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Coventry Building Society has basically offered to pay back the amount  
of commission and profit  share  that was above  50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Coventry Building Society has to pay back to Mrs B any commission  and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. It should also pay back to Mrs B any extra 
interest she paid because of that.
Coventry Building Society should pay back to Mrs B the extra  she paid each month  because  
the commission and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. Coventry  
Building Society should also pay Mrs B 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs B can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Coventry  Building Society  does not have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs B. But Coventry  Building Society  does have to pay back  to 
Mrs B any commission and profit  share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7141252