K822xcomplaint
Mr W is acting  on behalf of his business, B, in its complaint about poor repairs  to his van and 
the impact of this on his business following an accidental damage claim. Mr W claimed  
under Bs commercial van insurance  policy with Highway Insurance Company Limited.
background 
In my provisional decision I set out the background to the complaint. In summary, Mr W 
damaged the side of his van in contact with a wall in July 2017. He reported a claim to
Highway in October 2017 and the first repairs were carried out on 8 November 2017. But this 
didnt include the replacement of the vans side panel.  
Mr W wasnt happy with the repairs saying the van was in a worse condition.  The van went 
back for repairs in November 2017, but again Mr W wasnt  happy. Highways  engineer 
inspected and said there was still damage to the van and it went for further repairers on 21 
November 2017.  Mr W called on 13 December  2017  and said the replacement van hed 
been provided with wasnt  big enough  for his work.  Mr Ws van was returned to him from the 
repairer on 14 December  2017 but he said the damage still hadnt been fixed properly. 
Highways engineer  inspected the van again on 22 December 2017 and said damage to the 
rear panel and elsewhere remained. Mr W said he spent three days trying  to get an estimate 
for the work.  Highway found  another  repairer  and the van went  there on 20 February 2018. 
But it said it wouldnt fix the rear panel.  The van was returned to Mr W following repairs  on 6 
March 2018 and went back to the repairer  for work on the panel for a week  in April 2018.
Mr W said the new repairer  hadnt fixed the damage  to the panel caused by the previous 
repairer. Highway  said the panel was repaired to an acceptable standard. Highway arranged 
for its engineer to carry out an inspection in May 2018 and he said the panel  repairs  were 
substandard. He recommended a cash settlement equal to the cost of repairs, £1,256, which 
he said wasnt recommended. He said the cost of replacing the panel  would be £2,351.46. 
Highway paid B £1,450 for the repairs, which it said was agreed  between Mr W and its 
engineer.
Mr W said the repairs had taken too long and caused him problems. Highway acknowledged 
there had been  delays.  Mr W said the first replacement van was too small and didnt have a 
roof rack for his equipment. And he said he didn't have an opportunity  to get his equipment  
from his van. Highway said it had provided  a replacement van as per the policy and told Mr 
W this would  be Class  A size. Highway said the first repairs were scheduled ahead so Mr W 
had plenty of time to empty  his van of tools ready to transfer to the replacement van.
Highway said it paid B £950 compensation  for its inconvenience and said this included a 
refund of the policy excess. It said the payment wasnt strictly intended to cover  lost earnings 
but reflected the fact Mr W may have  had some loss of earnings. It later increased this by
£400 to £1,350. Mr W said his acceptance of these payments  was dependent on his claim 
for loss of earnings  and he said he could show jobs that he hadnt been able complete.
Highway asked Mr W to evidence that hed lost money as a result  of not being able to 
complete jobs. It said the figures from Mr Ws accountant were a general assessment  and 
didnt evidence a loss and were very high for the two weeks  that the repairs overran. 
Highway said if it had known the replacement van wasnt  big enough it could have  arranged  
a bigger van as it did during later repairs.
Ref: DRN73117972Highway agreed  the van took longer to repair than expected and said it would contribute 
£500 towards any loss of earnings. Mr W said £500  wasnt enough for Bs loss of earnings 
and he would think again about  its payment for the repairs as this wasnt adequate either. He 
said he had raised  concerns  with Highway about  the replacement van. 
my provisional findings and the parties responses
Cost of the repairs
Mr W said he wouldnt be able to get the damage caused by Highways repairer put right for 
what its paid him. I said that in spite of the attempted  repairs,  Mr W was left with a damaged 
van. The evidence  from Highways engineer was that the panel should be replaced at a cost 
to Highway of £2,351.46  and so payment of this amount was a fair outcome to the complaint.
Compensation for inconvenience
I said that the repairs took much longer than anticipated and Mr W was put to a fair bit of 
trouble in trying to get an estimate for the further  work required as a result of damage  
caused by Highways  repairers.
I said that Mr W didnt receive call backs  from Highway  and was left in the dark at times as to 
the progress of his claim. Highway offered £1,350 compensation for Bs inconvenience, and I 
thought this was reasonable.
Loss of earnings
Mr W said that Highways payment of £500 compensation is well below the true loss of Bs 
earnings. I said Bs policy doesnt  provide  cover  for loss of earnings, but I considered the 
impact from the repairs as Highway is responsible for the actions of the repairers it 
appointed. I said Bs lost income wasnt clear from the turnover  figures. I said Highway had 
provided a replacement van in accordance with the policy. I said I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr W was prevented from moving his tools.
I said Highways payment  of £500 for loss of earnings is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. Because  while I didnt think Highway  was responsible  for the majority of any 
earnings B lost, as a result of not having its own van, but it had to bear some responsibility,  
as its repairer didnt do the original repair properly.
Mr W said he accepted the findings of the provisional decision on behalf of B. Highway said 
it had nothing to add in response to the provisional  decision and would wait for final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Since neither party has contested or added any comment to the findings within the 
provisional decision I see no reason to change them. Consequently, I remain  of the view that 
Highway should  pay for the repair of Mr Ws van door as set out by Highways  engineer, at 
£2,351.46.
Ref: DRN73117973I also remain of the view that the £500 compensation offered by Highway for Bs loss of 
earnings is reasonable as is its offer of £1,350 compensation for Bs inconvenience.
Highway said that it has paid Mr W £2,650 for Bs complaint. I said it should  check these 
payments as it hasnt  provided clarification. Highway may deduct the payments it has made 
to Mr W from the total amount of compensation set out here of £4,201.46.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld.  I require 
Highway Insurance  Company Limited to pay B the cost identified  to replace the vans panel,  
at £2,351.46. It may deduct from this any payment already made towards  the repair. 
If not already paid,  I also require Highway Insurance Company  Limited  to pay B £500  
compensation for its loss of earnings. And to pay B £1,350  compensation it previously 
offered for the inconvenience  B suffered during the handling of its claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W on behalf of 
his business, B, to accept or reject my decision before  20 February 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7311797