K820x#14complaint
Mrs S complains that LCC Trans-Sending  Limited trading as Small  World Financial Services  
refused to carry out a money transfer and then refused to refund her money.
background
Mrs S says she asked Small World  to transfer money to an account in Brazil for court  
charges. She says this was an urgent payment made up of money from her husband 
(£4,000) and her own money.  Mrs S says she was told that transferring £5,000 could be 
done without issue but Small World  still required information about the money. She says she 
provided what information she could. But as a result of the delay, she incurred  a late 
payment fine in Brazil  which she says Small World  is responsible  for. Mrs S would like her 
money refunded  and interest paid on it and says shes been caused  stress and anxiety as 
result of whats taken place.
Small World  says its acted in line with its terms and conditions by requesting  details of the 
origin of the money. It says it had concerns  about the money and told Mrs S what  
information it needed. It also says Mrs S gave it conflicting information about the purpose of 
the money, that it was for medical bills not court charges. And that Mrs S gave it documents 
that it couldnt accept such  as her husbands out of date driving licence.  Small  World says 
its now refunded the money and has provided a summary of all of the calls between it and 
Mrs S. It says it told Mrs S the information  it needed to refund the money but she didnt 
provide acceptable documents.
Mrs S had already  brought her complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold it. The 
investigator thought  Small Worlds terms and conditions required it to check  and monitor  
transactions over £5,000 and reasonably asked Mrs S for various  documents regarding the 
origin of the money to process  the transaction and refund the money.
Mrs S doesnt accept that view and says the delay  was unnecessary and cost her money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for largely the same reasons. I realise Mrs S will be 
disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that Small  World  is subject  to rules and regulations about these sorts of 
transactions that require it in certain circumstances to be satisfied about the origin of money. 
And to carry  out certain checks on the money and the individuals involved in the transaction. 
Im also satisfied that Small World  explained that on a number of occasions to Mrs S and 
also made those requirements  clear  in the transaction terms and conditions  which  I think  
Mrs S would have agreed to. So I dont think Small  World  acted unfairly or made a mistake  
by asking Mrs S to provide evidence of the origin of the money. And by concluding  that it 
could not process  the transaction in these circumstances. I can see that Mrs S did provide 
conflicting information about the source of the money and what the transaction was for. I 
accept that there may have been  language  difficulties but can see that Small World  allowed 
Mrs S to speak to one of its staff in Portuguese.
In those circumstances I dont think Small World  made a mistake or acted unfairly by 
deciding not to proceed with the transaction and that it fairly explained what  Mrs S needed to 
Ref: DRN79277152do in order for a refund to be made. I can see that Mrs S didnt provide the required 
information which I think Small World clearly explained was needed. And for example can 
see that Mrs S provided a copy of a statement that could  not be read and an out of date 
driving licence  for her husband. So whilst I accept there was a delay in refunding the money  
I dont think Small World was responsible for that delay  and for the reasons I have explained 
I think it explained what information was required so its regulatory duties were met.
I appreciate Mrs S says she was told that a transaction  of £5,000 could be made without 
these checks. But I can see that £5,003 was actually deposited so I dont think  Small World  
made a mistake by carrying  out the extra checks. I also appreciate  that Mrs S says the delay 
in refunding her money led to additional  costs. But as Im satisfied Small World was not at 
fault here or make a mistake I cant fairly  ask it to pay those  costs.
Overall Im satisfied that Small World has acted in line with its regulatory duties which  it told 
Mrs S about. Im also satisfied it explained to Mrs S what  information and documents  were  
needed to process  her refund but she was unable to provide what was asked for which  led to 
the delay.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7927715