K820x#14complaint
Mr J has complained that U K Insurance Limited (UKI) didnt pay a fair market value for his
car, when  he made a claim  under his car insurance  policy.
background
Mr J made  a claim to his insurer UKI, following an accident where his car was written off. 
UKI agreed  to settle this by paying  Mr J £5,780,  which it considered to be the market  value 
of the car prior to the accident. 
Mr J thought this was too low and said hed attempted to replace the car with one of a similar 
style, age and mileage but hadnt been  able to. However, UKI said it had reached its 
valuation fairly and in line with the policy terms and conditions. 
Mr J asked us to look into his complaint. Our investigator explained that we dont decide a 
valuation. But we can look at whether  an insurer reached its valuation reasonably and in line 
with the policy.  She looked at four relevant motor trade guides and found that the value  was 
within the range given  by the guides.  
Unhappy with this, Mr J asked for his complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman  for a final 
decision. He maintained that it wasnt possible to replace his vehicle for that amount value 
and that he would instead value  the car in the region  of £6,250.  This figure is from a trade  
guide that Mr J has used, as well as online adverts.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Js policy  says that in the event  of the car being damaged,  the most that UKI will pay is 
the cars  pre-accident market value. The policy defines this as the cost of replacing the car 
with another of the same make and model and of a similar age and condition  at the time of 
the accident. I dont  think  the market value put forward  by UKI is unreasonable  and Ill now 
explain why. 
We dont value cars, but we check to make sure that insurers have acted fairly and 
reasonably in doing so. We think a fair way of doing  this is to look at the valuations in the 
relevant trade guides. We generally  find these  persuasive as theyre based on extensive 
nationwide research  into the likely selling prices of cars. The guides  also take account of a 
cars mileage and any extras when giving a valuation.  Ive reviewed the values  across  four 
guides, which value  the car between £5,125 and £5,851. As the amount UKI offered is within 
the range  of values the guides suggest,  I think it is a fair and reasonable valuation.  
Mr J has provided  us with several online adverts  for cars that he considers to be a similar 
specification to his. We dont generally  find these  as persuasive as the guides  as advertised 
prices are usually subject to negotiation. Small differences  between cars can lead to large 
differences in their asking price. Its also the case that extras dont always mean  higher 
selling prices, but they may inflate asking  prices. The cars in the adverts Mr J provided also 
appear to have a lower  mileage than his car.
Ref: DRN72516162Im also less persuaded by the trade guide valuation  that Mr J provided. This guide says the 
price range of the car is between £4,980 and £6,735. However, this is based  on one of the 
same age and model and doesnt take into account  the details of his specific car. The 
valuations that UKI has used were generated using his vehicle registration and mileage so I 
think theyre likely to be more accurate.
UKIs offer was based  towards the top of the range of trade guides valuations. I think  its 
acted fairly  and reasonably and its settled his claim in line with the terms and conditions of 
the policy. So, Im not going to uphold Mr Js complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Yoni Smith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7251616