K821x#15complaint
Mr L complains  that Hoist Finance UK Limited wrongly pursued him for a debt.  He says the 
debt wasnt his but he received threatening letters and poor service  while  trying to deal with 
this.
background
Mr L says that he was pursued for a debt that wasnt his. He says he was chased for the 
debt for over ten years  and that during this time he received threatening calls from debt 
collectors at all times of the day and night and at weekends. He says that he made contact 
with the debt collectors but they were rude and just told him he had to pay. 
Mr L says that because of the stress  and time spent  dealing with this issue he missed 
payments on another account  which has now resulted in a charge on his house and adverse 
information on this credit file.
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She thought that Mr L had been incorrectly  pursued 
for the debt and should be put back in the position he would have  been  had this not 
happened. She also recommended  that Hoist pay Mr L £600 compensation for the trouble 
and upset he had been caused.  Based  on the information provided,  Hoist said that it would 
remove the liability for the outstanding  debt from Mr L but only agreed to pay £200 
compensation. It said it took over the debt in 2013 and since then it hadnt had much  contact  
with Mr L (partly due to not having a correct  telephone number).
Our investigator reconsidered her recommendation of compensation based on the contact 
Hoist had with Mr L and recommended that he be paid £350.
Mr L didnt accept our investigators  view.  He noted  that his contact details hadnt changed 
and his home address and home telephone  number  had always  been the same. He said that 
this issue had caused him a lot of inconvenience  gathering the evidence he needed and that 
his credit record had been  adversely affected  for over 10 years.  He said he and his family 
had been called liars and threatened with bailiffs  as well as receiving other  threatening 
letters and phone  calls.  He said the issue had caused him stress and that he hadnt received 
an apology. He didnt  accept the compensation amount was enough given how long the 
issue had been  ongoing.
Hoist said that its offer of £200 was fair. It said that it had acted reasonably by suspending 
recovery action while the dispute was brought to its attention and that when the evidence 
was provided by this service, it acted in a timely way to remove the liability. It said that it was 
only responsible  for the impact its actions had on Mr L and it hadnt seen any material 
evidence or medical  documentation to suggest  its letters had a material impact on Mr L. It 
said its letters werent threatening.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There are two parts to this complaint. The first relates to the debt that Mr L was being 
pursued for. This part of the complaint  has been resolved as Hoist has accepted that Mr L is 
not liable  for the debt.
Ref: DRN76624482The second  part of this complaint relates to the trouble and upset that Mr L has experienced 
while being  pursued for a debt that wasnt his. 
I understand that this issue has been  ongoing for more than 10 years. However  as this 
complaint is against  Hoist,  I can only hold it responsible for the actions it has taken  while it 
has been pursing  the debt. Hoist has explained that it took over the debt in 2013. Since then 
it has sent letters to Mr L. Based  on the information  provided it appears that Hoist sent three 
letters in 2015  explaining that it had taken over the debt and asking for payment. This will 
have been upsetting for Mr L as this wasnt his debt. 
Hoist has said that call attempts were made at this time but it had a wrong number. I note 
Mr Ls comments about his number not having changed but given  the calls were  
unsuccessful I cant say that these added to his stress regarding  this issue.
Contact was then made  in July 2017 and additional  information was requested on Mr Ls 
behalf as well as further explanation being  provided.  Following  this letters  were  sent 
acknowledging the query and other  related information. A complaint was later logged and 
correspondence regarding this was sent. 
It is clear that this issue has caused  Mr L stress  and inconvenience. He has been chased for 
a debt that wasnt his and then had to go about  gathering information  to prove this. However, 
I do not find that Hoists  letters were threatening and I havent  evidence to show that Mr L 
was harassed by telephone by Hoist. Hoist  did put the account on hold while  the dispute was 
being investigated.
That said,  it wasnt until this service provided evidence that Hoist  accepted  Mr L wasnt liable 
for the debt. I appreciate that given the information it was provided  when it took over the debt 
Hoist pursued Mr L but given the contact in 2017,  I think it could have acted sooner to 
request the information it needed to confirm whether the debt was Mr Ls. Had this 
happened, this issue could have  been  resolved sooner.
Neither party accepted our investigators  recommendation of £350 compensation. However, 
considering the actions  taken by Hoist (acknowledging that it isnt responsible for the issues 
experienced by Mr L prior to it taking  over the debt), the nature of the contact, the upset this 
caused Mr L and the time involved I find that £350  is reasonable.
I note Mr L has raised concerns about  the damage  to his credit file. I havent seen any 
evidence that Mr L has been caused any financial loss due to any impact this issue has had 
on his credit file. 
Overall, I find that removing the liability for this debt from Mr L and removing any information  
that may be recorded  on his credit file in regard to this debt, along with £350 compensation 
is a fair resolution to this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that Hoist Finance UK Limited  should remove any liability  regarding  the 
debt from Mr L and remove  any data regarding this debt from his credit file. Hoist  has agreed  
to this and I understand these actions have  been  taken.
I also find that Hoist  should  pay Mr L £350 for the trouble and upset he has been caused.
Ref: DRN76624483Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7662448