K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC unfairly  closed his account and recorded a 
default on his credit file. 
background
Mr O had an overdraft with Barclays. In September 2018 he contacted the bank to say that 
he was experiencing financial difficulty and was finding it difficult  to repay the debt. Barclays 
agreed to give Mr O six months to try to regain control of his finances.
By February  2019  Mr Os overdraft balance had reduced to about £1,400.  Barclays wrote to 
Mr O on 5 February, giving him thirty days notice that his account was going to be closed 
and the outstanding overdraft debt passed to a third party  debt collection agency.  Mr O says 
he didnt receive  that letter.
On 7 February he contacted the bank  and asked for his overdraft  limit to be reduced to 
£1,500. Barclays  agreed and sent Mr O confirmation of the new limit and the overdraft terms 
and conditions. When the new limit was agreed,  Barclays didnt tell Mr O about the proposed 
closure of his account. He said he was given the impression that the account  would run as it 
had before. So Mr O was unhappy  when  he discovered that the account  had been closed 
and a default registered on his credit file.
When our investigator first reviewed  the complaint he didnt recommend it should be upheld. 
But Barclays  provided further evidence which the investigator considered. He thought it was 
likely Barclays had sent Mr O the termination notice to close the account,  but he accepted 
Mr O may not have received it.
When Mr O contacted Barclays  he considered it wouldve  been  reasonable for the bank  to 
warn him that the account was due to be closed. The investigator also found that when  the 
overdraft debt was passed to a third party debt collection agency, Mr O was told that the only 
thing that would show on his credit file would be the reduced overdraft balance. 
The investigator didnt  think Mr O had been treated fairly by Barclays.  He said the default 
should be removed  from Mr Os credit  file and that the bank should  pay £100 compensation. 
Barclays agreed with the investigators recommendation but Mr O didnt. He said £100 
wasnt enough in light of the distress  hed experienced, and that he wanted Barclays to 
reopen the account. He asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The background to the complaint isnt in dispute,  so I wont repeat the details here. 
Barclays has also agreed to remove the default  from Mr Os credit  file so I dont need to 
make a decision about whether or not thats  reasonable.  I understand that Barclays has 
already taken steps to remove the default  from Mr Os credit  file.
Ref: DRN72081762That means the points I need to make a decision on are whether £100 compensation is 
enough, and whether  Barclays  should  reopen Mr Os account.
When Mr O called to reduce his overdraft  limit Barclays shouldve warned  him that a 
termination notice  had been  issued  and the account was due to default. But instead, Mr O 
was left with the impression  that the account  would continue to run as before once the 
overdraft limit had been reduced.  
So I dont  doubt  it was distressing for Mr O to discover his account  had been closed and that 
a default had been recorded on his credit file. In the circumstances,  I can see why he might 
consider the compensation suggested  by the investigator isnt enough.
But even where  a mistake  has been  made,  our compensation  awards  arent designed to 
punish a business. When I take account  of awards  by this service  in complaints of a similar 
nature, Im satisfied that £100 is fair and reasonable.
Mr O would also like Barclays  to reopen  the account. But its beyond the remit of this service 
to tell the bank  which  accounts it should  open  and on what  terms. If Mr O wants  to open an 
account on similar terms he will need to complete an appropriate application. It will be for 
Barclays to decide  whether  it is willing  to offer Mr O an account on the terms he is seeking. 
Overall, Im satisfied that the redress suggested by the investigator is reasonable and that 
the complaint  should be upheld on that basis.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I direct Barclays Bank UK PLC to:
1.remove the default recorded on Mr Os credit  file in connection with the current  
account in question (if it hasnt  already  done so).
2.pay £100 to Mr O.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7208176