K820x#14complaint
Mr Z complains that Lloyds Bank PLC mishandled his chargeback dispute.
background
Mr Z is a sole trader and holds a bank account with Lloyds. He paid for services from an 
advertising company  between 27 October 2017 and 15 June  2018.  He paid £11,303.72  over 
this period for advertising  on a pay per click basis, but requested  a refund from the 
merchant because he said that the clicks and impressions  did not tally with his website 
traffic, and that he was a victim of click fraud.  
The merchant did not respond to his request for a refund,  so he wrote  to Lloyds making a 
chargeback request on the basis that the goods he received were not as described. He sent 
a letter  via recorded delivery  on 18 July 2018, but said that Lloyds had failed to action his 
request, and complained because they said he is now outside  the time limits that apply for 
the chargeback  to be raised.
Lloyds said they received  letters from Mr Z on 21 June 2018 and 5 July 2018 in relation to 
his chargeback request, as well as the letter he sent by recorded delivery on 18 July 2018. 
However, they said that they responded to his first two letters on 29 June 2018 and 10 July 
2018, asking him to go into branch  to verify  his signature as they did not hold a copy on file, 
and said they would  not be able to proceed with his chargeback request without it. Lloyds 
acknowledged that they did not respond  to Mr Zs letter f 18 July 2018,  which  they offered 
£50 compensation  for. But they said that the response would  have been  the same  as the 
first two letters they sent asking him to verify  his signature.
So in terms  of the chargeback, Lloyds did not consider they had made an error by failing to 
raise it when requested.  They said that, based on his transactions,  the latest they could raise  
a chargeback under the scheme operators rules  was 13 October 2018. But given that Mr Z 
had not contacted them with his complaint until after this date, they said there was nothing  
they could now do.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He was satisfied that Lloyds had told Mr Z what  
they needed in order to process his chargeback request, and that the letters  they sent were 
likely received. The investigator was satisfied that the chargeback  request had been  made  
out of time under the scheme operators rules, and felt that the £50 compensation offered 
was fair for Lloyds  failing  to respond to Mr Zs letter of 18 July 2018.
Mr Z disagreed. He said that in the letters he sent,  he told Lloyds  that he did not have time to 
go into branch as he works full time. He also said that it was incorrect  to use the transaction 
date for the purposes of his chargeback, as the rules state that the applicable date should be 
from the date of expected delivery  (not date of purchase) and that his items  were never 
received, so he is within the time limits  that apply.
As Mr Z disagreed, the matter has been passed  to me to determine.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
Ref: DRN78492412The chargeback rules are set by the relevant card scheme, which is VISA  in Mr Zs case. So 
Ive considered whether Lloyds handled Mr Zs chargeback request fairly and in line with 
their terms  and conditions  and the rules of the scheme.
Lloyds terms and conditions
Lloyds account  terms and conditions set out when they will and will not refund card 
payments, and they state:
Additional information about card payment refunds
We may ask you to provide information that is reasonably necessary to investigate 
whether you are entitled to the refund. In addition, you may also find it helpful to 
contact the person you paid using the card.
Within 10 working days  of receiving your request  (or receiving any further information 
we have asked  for), we will refund the payment or inform you of our reasons for 
refusing to do so.
Upon receiving Mr Zs chargeback request by letter,  Lloyds responded on 29 June 2018 and 
5 July 2018 requesting that he verify his signature  as they did not hold a specimen on file to 
be able to verify who had sent the letter:
Thank you for contacting  us about  the above  Debit Card transaction.
We have been  unable to verify your signature  with that held on our systems.  Please 
visit your local branch
Lloyds said they didnt receive a response  to their request, so they were  unable to proceed  
with the chargeback. Mr Z said initially said that he did not receive these letters  from Lloyds, 
and so was unaware  that he had to go into branch. However, I can see that they were 
correctly addressed, and I havent been  made aware of any issues  with the postal service  at 
the time such that he would not have  received  them. And I have  to take into account that the 
vast majority of correctly  addressed mail is safely received,  so I think  its most likely  he did 
receive these letters.  
Mr Z has recently  said that he told Lloyds he was not able to visit his local branch as he 
works full time. But even  if this were so, I dont think it means  Lloyds should have proceeded 
with the chargeback request without  his signature, as they were still unable to verify the 
identity of who they were  dealing  with, and this is something they are legally obliged  to do to 
protect the data and accounts of their customers. Lloyds also said in their letters  that Mr Z 
could contact them on their telephone  number  if he required further assistance, but it does 
not appear that he did this, but instead sent further  correspondence on 18 July 2018  having 
still not verified his signature in branch.
So, for the reasons outlined above, I do not think Lloyds have acted unreasonably or in 
breach of their terms and conditions as Mr Z did not comply with their request for further 
information to enable them to investigate his chargeback request any further. 
 
card scheme operator rules
Ref: DRN78492413Under the VISA chargeback rules as they were at the time  specifically Chargeback 
Reason Code  53: Not as Described or Defective Merchandise  a chargeback  must  be 
processed  within either 120 days of the transaction date, or 120 days of the date the 
cardholder received the merchandise or services.
In this instance, the last payment for the advertising  services left Mr Zs account  on 
15 June 2018  which, if the transaction date is to be taken as the starting point, would mean  
that the chargeback had to be processed no later than 13 October 2018. However, Mr Z 
says this is incorrect because the correct date should be the expected delivery date.  But I do 
not accept that it is in this case.
Mr Z did not purchase an item or merchandise that was to be delivered on a certain date. 
Instead, he paid for advertising services, which he was billed for on a pay per click basis.  
So it cannot reasonably be said that he was expecting a tangible item that was set to be 
delivered on a certain date. Instead, he had an agreement in place to pay for clicks on his 
advert that would appear in search  engines when certain keywords  were  searched.  It then 
appears he was billed on certain dates based  on the number of clicks his advert had 
received. 
So, arguably, the services  provided in this instance (i.e. the advertising) were actually 
provided before the transaction date, and the chargeback rules state that it is the date the 
services were provided that should be taken as the relevant  date for the 120-day  time limit. 
But accepting that Mr Z would not have known the extent to which he was going to be billed 
until the transaction date, he would not have been in a position to dispute  the services  until 
such time. So I consider  that the transaction  date would be the correct  date for Lloyds to use 
in this instance, as they have done  already.
I appreciate that Mr Z does not feel he received the services  for which  he paid, as he 
disputes the number of clicks  he has been  charged for given that they did not tally up with 
his website traffic. But it appears that Mr Z is disputing the extent of the services  he has 
received, not that he did not receive the services  in any respect, as I have not seen any 
persuasive evidence  to suggest  that he did not receive  the advertising/clicks at all. 
Mr Z says that there is another  time limit set by the rules that is applicable to his case,  which 
is that:
A Chargeback must be processed no later than 60 calendar days from the date the 
issuer received the first cardholder notification of the dispute. 
I appreciate that Mr Z wrote to Lloyds in June and July 2018. But given that Lloyds were  
unable to verify the identity of the sender,  I do not think these letters can reasonably 
constitute the first notification for the purposes  of the chargeback rules when the origin or 
provenance of the letters  could not be properly  determined by the issuer.  So I do not think 
Lloyds have acted  unreasonably by failing to process the chargeback  within 60 days  of the 
letters Mr Z sent in June and July 2018.  And given that that Mr Z did not notify Lloyds of his 
complaint until after 13 October 2018   which is 120 days from the transaction processing 
date  I cannot say they have acted unfairly by saying his request is now out of time either.
Its also important to note that even if Lloyds had processed the chargeback dispute within  
the time limit, there is no guarantee that Mr Zs claim would have been accepted by the 
scheme operator in any event  particularly when part of the services he had paid for had 
seemingly been  provided.
Ref: DRN78492414compensation
Lloyds concede that they provided poor service given that they did not respond to Mr Zs 
letter of 18 July 2018, and they offered  £50 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. I think this compensation is a fair reflection of the impact this failing  had on Mr Z, 
because Lloyds would have only written to him asking him to verify his signature in branch 
as they had done the two previous times. And given  that Mr Z didnt do this when asked 
before, its unlikely a further request would have made much difference,  particularly as he 
says he did not have time to visit his local branch. So I do not think  any further compensation 
is warranted in these circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 April 2020.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7849241