K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Edinburgh Alternative  Finance Limited (trading as Lending Crowd) 
didnt carry out sufficient checks before granting  a loan to a sole trader that she invested in. 
background
Mrs C had a peer-to-peer lending account with Lending Crowd. In December 2016 she 
invested in a loan granted  to a sole trader,  who Ill refer to as B. The loan was for £53,000 
over five years  Mrs C invested  £240.  B made  one repayment towards  the loan and then 
defaulted on it.
Mrs C later found out that B had been petitioned for bankruptcy before Lending Crowd  had 
granted to the loan to it. So, she complained. Mrs C believed  Lending Crowd  was negligent 
in granting B the loan, given that it was most likely already insolvent at the time. She felt 
Lending Crowd  were also negligent in awarding  B an A+ credit rating (which she said 
induced her to invest) and it had failed to carry out the necessary checks  and due diligence  
to protect  investors. Mrs C was also unhappy about  the action Lending Crowd had taken to 
recover the funds   she wanted  compensation for her investment loss.
Lending Crowd  didnt agree it had been  negligent. It said it had carried out checks  and there 
wasnt any public record of the bankruptcy petition  at the time the loan was offered to B. It 
said Bs unaudited  accounts demonstrated sufficient cash  flow to service the loan and B was 
eligible for an A+ rating in accordance with its internal  credit  procedures. Lending Crowd 
said giving  the A+ rating didnt constitute  advice and Mrs C was given warnings that her 
capital was at risk when  she invested. It also said it had issued legal proceedings to try to 
recover the funds  as soon as possible.
Mrs C remained  unhappy and referred her complaint to our service.
An investigator considered the complaint but didnt think  it should  be upheld.  He thought 
Lending Crowd  had carried out sufficient  checks and it couldnt reasonably  have known 
about the petition for bankruptcy at the time. He also didnt think Lending Crowd  had given 
Mrs C advice or encouraged her to invest.  In addition, he said Mrs C had accepted  the terms 
and conditions under  which she would trade and lend with Lending Crowd. Those terms had 
been clear about  the risks, and the responsibility  investors had to undertake their own due 
diligence on borrowers they wanted  to lend to. The investigator thought Lending  Crowd  had 
made reasonable attempts to recover the money through  the courts on behalf of its 
investors.
Mrs C didnt agree. She said Lending  Crowd must have been negligent in its scrutiny  of Bs 
accounts. She also felt that providing an A+ rating must constitute guidance or advice in 
cases like this because the financial details of a sole trader arent public  record,  so she was 
reliant on the rating given by Lending  Crowd. Mrs C also didnt think Lending  Crowd  had 
explored every avenue to recover investors  money.  She believed this was a case  of fraud 
that hadnt been fully investigated.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  was passed to me to make  a final 
decision.
Ref: DRN78605782my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it. 
I know this will be very disappointing for Mrs C, but I hope my explanation sets out clearly 
why Ive taken  this view.
Mrs C has made several points so Ill address each in turn.
checks carried out by Lending Crowd
Mrs C says that the checks carried out by Lending  Crowd couldnt have been thorough 
enough as B had already  been petitioned  for bankruptcy before the loan was granted  in 
December 2016.  She believes this shouldve  been apparent from the financial information  
provided.
Lending Crowd  has explained and provided  evidence of the checks it carried  out to assess 
Bs creditworthiness.  This included reviewing Bs bank statements and unaudited accounts  
for the years ending  December 2014 and December 2015. I think  it was reasonable for 
Lending Crowd  to only ask for unaudited accounts given B was a sole trader. It also carried 
out a credit reference  agency check and a Land Registry Bankruptcy  search.  The searches 
didnt reveal any active  insolvency, pending  judgments or petitions.
As a sole trader,  B was personally liable for the loan so Lending  Crowd  didnt require a 
personal guarantee. Instead, it asked B to provide an asset and liability  profile.  Ive seen this 
and it shows B had in excess  of 100%  cover  for all existing and new debt outstanding. Ive 
also seen the credit searches and accounts.  The accounts, which were prepared  and signed 
by an accountant, show  that B had sufficient assets for Lending Crowd to have been  
satisfied it could service the new loan and that the business was profitable.
While its now become  clear that B was petitioned for bankruptcy  in September  2016, Im not 
persuaded that Lending Crowd couldve known about Bs financial difficulties until it started  
to miss the loan repayments in February 2017.  I say this because  the financial information  
provided didnt  reveal  any concerns. Furthermore, Lending Crowd contacted the court  that 
issued the petition for bankruptcy and the Land  Registry. Both confirmed the petition hadnt  
been registered until December 2017, after B had been declared bankrupt.  The petition  
would generally  show up in the searches Lending Crowd  carried  out. Im not persuaded 
Lending Crowd  should have made any further  enquiries just because the petition didnt show  
up. Overall, I dont think there was anything that ought to have alerted it to potential 
problems with B.
So, while I appreciate Mrs Cs strength of feeling on the matter,  I dont  think I can fairly  say 
Lending Crowd  failed to carry out appropriate checks. Overall, I think  it carried  out sufficient 
due diligence  before  offering the loan to potential investors. Ultimately investing in any loan 
through Lending Crowds platform carried a degree of risk and I think Mrs C wouldve known 
this when Mrs C opened her account.  The terms and conditions outline the risks and clause 
5.2. in particular says:
Lenders acknowledge and accept that we do not check the accuracy  or completeness  of all 
Borrower Profile information.  Any statements made by a Borrower  in the Borrower Profile  are 
in no any way endorsed, supported or guaranteed by us. Lenders expressly acknowledge 
that they will undertake  their own diligence on any Borrower  prior to making any Bid, and 
Ref: DRN78605783Lenders shall not be entitled  to rely on any information on the Platform in making decisions 
to lend
So, I think Mrs C wouldve  also understood that she would need  to carry out her own checks 
before making  any decision  to lend.
whether a credit rating constitutes  advice
Mrs C says that Lending Crowd giving B a credit  rating of A+ effectively constitutes advice 
because B being  a sole trader  meant she couldnt  access further financial information.
Lending Crowds  platform and terms and conditions say that they are a credit  broker and that 
they dont provide any advice about  which loans to invest in. Clause 6.3 of the terms says:
All lending  by Lenders is done  at the Lender's own risk. The provision by us of a Risk Band 
is intended to be for information purposes  only and a Lender must  form its own opinion as to 
the credit  worthiness of any Borrower, and undertake its own research,  analysis and 
assessment of each  Borrower and each Loan, seeking independent financial advice.
We do not provide  any form of financial advisory services. Borrowers  and Lenders 
acknowledge and accept  that we may present the credit scores of the Borrower from third 
parties such as Creditsafe. By publishing  these scores we make  no warranty  as to their 
accuracy.
I think these terms made Mrs C aware  that she needed to make her own assessment of Bs 
creditworthiness and that advice wasnt provided.  But Ive considered  Mrs Cs point carefully  
about whether  or not the credit rating could be considered to be advice.
To be considered advice,  it must  involve Lending Crowd providing  a degree of opinion of the 
merits of Mrs C investing in B. Ive looked  at the loan offering  Mrs C wouldve seen on 
Lending Crowds  website. The rating  is described  as being the credit band given to B by the 
Lending Crowd  Credit Team. It also said:
Companies in this Credit  Band are considered  to be well-established businesses exhibiting  
very strong indicators across the board. They have typically excellent management; 
consistently positive  financial performance  and strong cash flow.
 
I appreciate why Mrs C felt she had little other  information to go on before making her 
decision to invest in B. But I think its clear that the credit rating  is provided  as an indicator  
for information only and for a way for investors  to differentiate between the loans offered. 
The explanation above wasnt specific to B; rather it was a general description of the 
attributes of companies  given this credit rating.  So, I dont think  I can fairly  describe this as 
advice to invest in B.
That said,  Lending Crowd  still had an obligation  to provide information that was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that investors  could make informed decisions. Lending Crowds 
website and terms and conditions make it clear  throughout  that all the loans it offered were  
high risk and could result in investors losing their money. And while  Lending Crowd gave B a 
credit rating of A+, it didnt  give any guarantee that the loan would be repaid in full. Overall,  
Im satisfied Lending Crowd carried out sufficient checks and presented information about  B 
that was accurate based on the research it had done (which was reasonable and sufficient in 
the circumstances).
Ref: DRN78605784the credit  rating given  to B
I know Mrs C also feels strongly that giving Bs loan a credit rating of A+ must have been 
flawed. But Ive seen  the process by which Lending Crowd arrived at this rating. It is a 
scoring mechanism based  on a number  of questions over a range of topics including  debt 
servicing, payment  history and asset  and liability profile. Bs total score placed it in the A+ 
band and based on what Ive seen  from the financial information  provided this doesnt  seem 
unreasonable.
In any event, Im also not persuaded that Lending  Crowd giving Bs loan a lower credit  rating  
wouldve lead Mrs C to make a different decision. I say this because Mrs Cs lending history 
shows the majority of investments she made prior to investing in Bs loan had a credit rating 
of B+ or lower. So, I think its possible she still wouldve made the decision to invest  in Bs 
loan if Lending  Crowd hadnt  given  it an A+ rating.  
action taken to recover funds
Mrs C believes  that Lending Crowd ought to have done more,  including an investigation  into 
potential fraud. But I think  the action it took following the first missed payment was 
reasonable. It first contacted B to chase the repayment, before issuing informal demands  for 
repayment. It then issued a statutory demand  for repayment in April 2017,  and commenced 
legal proceedings to recover the debt in May 2017. Unfortunately, legal proceedings couldnt 
continue as B was declared bankrupt. Following this, Lending Crowd made a claim with the 
Trustee in Bankruptcy to recover  the funds. Overall,  I think  Lending  Crowd  acted swiftly and 
reasonably to protect the interests of Mrs C and the other investors into this loan. I dont 
think it was unreasonable that it didnt conduct  a fraud investigation at the time as I think  it 
was more important  to focus  on recovering  the funds.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7860578