K820x#14complaint
Mrs M has complained that Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax  (Bank of Scotland) 
mis-sold a mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI) policy to her in 1995.
background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that it shouldnt  be upheld.  
Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  and Ill explain  the reasons  for this. Ive reached  my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I consider is most  likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
First of all Ive looked at whether  Bank  of Scotland  made it sufficiently clear  to Mrs M that the 
policy was optional. 
Mrs M applied for her mortgage in a branch. She told us she wasnt  made aware  that the 
MPPI was optional. She informed us that Bank  of Scotland bundled it with the mortgage. 
She also complained  to us that Bank of Scotland failed to retain the documentation.  But 
these events are from quite a few years ago and Mrs Ms mortgage  was redeemed in 2005. 
In cases such as this its not unusual for information  to be missing or incomplete, and 
businesses are not required to keep records indefinitely.
Mrs M however, was able to send us copies of some paperwork including  an MPPI 
application form. This shows that she signed separately for the policy. The form set out the 
cost and benefit of the MPPI  and didnt suggest that Mrs M had to take out the product. 
Having considered all the available evidence,  I think its most likely that having read the 
form, Mrs M would have  understood the policy was a separate  product and that she wasnt  
obliged to apply  for it. 
I cant be sure what the adviser  said to Mrs M about the MPPI during the meeting. I accept 
its possible he or she may have said something to make Mrs M think she had to take the 
policy and thats  why she signed  the application form. But that would have contradicted  the 
application form and based on the available evidence, Im not persuaded this is in fact what  
happened. Overall,  I think its most likely that Mrs M knew  the policy was optional so Im 
unable to uphold  her complaint on this basis. And for the reasons Ill explain below I think  its 
most likely she decided  to take it out because it was useful to have to protect 
her repayments.
 
Mrs M and Bank of Scotland dont  agree  about whether or not it recommended  the MPPI  as 
being suitable to her. But I dont need to decide this particular issue in this decision because  
I think it was suitable.  First of all, there were rules about who could qualify  for the policy and 
Ref: DRN79370402based on the information thats been provided to us, it looks like Mrs M met those rules. In 
addition Ive also checked the main  exclusions and restrictions of the policy and it doesnt 
look like Mrs M would have been caught  out by any of them.
In relation to her employer benefits,  Mrs M informed us unequivocally that she didnt need 
the MPPI  because her job was secure and the benefits were generous. She told us that 
MPPI was unsuitable for anyone in her type of job. And she told us that if shed been too ill 
to work, she would have  been entitled  to full sick pay for the first six months and half pay for 
six months thereafter. She also told us that she had savings she could  have relied on. 
But in my view this isnt enough  for me to say the MPPI wasnt  suitable. Policies like this are 
there to reduce  the pressure  of meeting payments  in financially difficult  times. If Mrs M was 
too ill to work or was made unemployed, the policy would have covered her mortgage 
repayment. This would  have given her peace  of mind and security.  The consequences  of not 
being able to pay her mortgage could have been  grave, and notwithstanding  her benefits I 
can see why she would  have decided to take the policy. The MPPI would have allowed 
Mrs M to use any sick pay or redundancy monies for other necessary household expenses. 
It also would  have  allowed her to protect  her savings.
So overall, I think that the recommendation was suitable for her and the MPPI would have 
provided her with a useful  benefit  which was affordable for her. 
Finally, Bank of Scotland  had to give Mrs M information that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading so she could make the decision for herself about whether or not to take 
the MPPI.  Ive considered the possibility that Bank  of Scotland didnt give Mrs M clear 
enough information about the cost, benefits,  main exclusions and restrictions of the policy. 
However the cost of the policy was comparable  to that of other,  similar policies available at 
the time.  And due to her circumstances, I dont think shed have been  caught by the main 
exclusions or restrictions. So even  if shed had clearer information  I think  she wouldnt have 
been put off the MPPI and its most  likely that shed still have taken it out.
Finally, Mrs M complained to us that another complaint  she had about PPI sold with a credit 
card was upheld. I understand why shes of the opinion that that is relevant. However each 
individual complaint is decided on its own particular facts. Im sorry to disappoint Mrs M but I 
dont require Bank of Scotland  to put anything right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2017.
Ref: DRN79370403Katrina Hyde
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7937040