K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 2002. Mr B says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him the PPI.
Mr B took out the store card and PPI in a shop  but FICL has taken  responsibility  for the 
sale, and for this complaint, so I will refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr B hasnt said much about when  he took out his store card and PPI, but this is 
understandable given  how long ago it happened. So I need to consider is if FICL gave him a 
choice in taking  out the PPI, and got his consent to add the policy to his card  having done  
so, I think that it did. I say this because  FICL  has provided a copy  of Mr Bs store card 
application  and I can see that the policy is presented as optional, Mr B has signed to select 
it. This is separate to his signature for the card. 
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr B got the information he needed to decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr B about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr B has said, including what  hes said about  having sick pay 
and redundancy  entitlement  he couldve used to make his repayments. But the PPI couldve 
paid out on top of Mr Bs sick pay, and for longer than hed have received full pay for  and 
couldve protected any redundancy pay he was entitled to for other expenses. So these 
points dont change  my decision,  and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the policy  
was mis-sold.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019.
Ref: DRN76570822Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7657082