K820x#14complaint
Miss W bought some  flights and booked  a hotel using her MBNA Limited credit card as a gift 
for her mother. She says the trip was misrepresented to her and she is unhappy with how 
MBNA dealt  with a request for a refund under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 
(S75). 
background
In March 2018 Miss W booked a hotel and flights through a website Ill refer to as P, using 
her MBNA credit card.  The total cost of the hotel booking was £583.49, and the flights were 
£173.05. She says these  were booked as a gift to her mother, to allow her to attend a family 
wedding.
Shortly after booking the trip, Miss W received some  communication saying the time of the 
outbound flight  was different to that advertised  by P. This meant her mother wouldve arrived  
too late for the wedding. She requested a refund  for the flights  through  P  which  was given. 
She then rebooked the flights through a different  supplier but had the same issue.  The flights  
were again  refunded.
Miss W then contacted P to request a refund for the hotel, as the flight times  meant  her 
mother couldnt attend the wedding  and wouldnt need the stay. P said Miss W had selected  
a non-refundable option when booking the hotel, which Miss W disputes, and so it wouldnt 
refund her.
Miss W contacted MBNA to request a refund. MBNA  said it had considered  her request 
under S75 but thought  the debtor  creditor  supplier chain (DCS)  had been  broken, so 
she wasnt eligible to claim under S75.
Miss W applied again  for a refund  with P through a third party website. P then refunded 
Miss W for the hotel.
Miss W remained unhappy  with MBNA  and bought  her complaint to us. Our investigator 
upheld the complaint. She said as the trip was a gift, the DCS chain was intact and MBNA 
shouldve considered Miss Ws request for a refund. She said as Miss W had been refunded 
MBNA didnt  now need to do this, but she thought it should pay Miss W £50 for the distress 
and inconvenience  it caused in its handling  of the S75 claim.  MBNA disagreed,  so the 
complaint was passed to me to decide.
In early December 2020 I contacted Miss W and MBNA to let both parties  know  that having 
reviewed the case, I was thinking of coming to a different outcome to that of our investigator.  
I explained I wanted to give everyone the chance to respond to my comments  before I made 
my final decision.
I explained that having considered all of the information here, I didnt  think  the DCS issue  
was straightforward.  Because  tickets  for a flight and hotel had been  bought  for someone  
other than Miss W, I needed to think about various  points  to determine the contracting party 
or parties.  If I thought a breach of contract or misrepresentation did take place, I would then 
also have to consider  what  losses Miss W would  be fairly able to recover via S75.  
Having thought about all of this, I explained  there were question  marks over the extent of 
MBNAs liability to Miss W in this case. 
Ref: DRN79332272But, that being said, because Miss W already received a full refund for the cost of the flights  
and hotel, I said that ultimately  the only thing for me to decide in this case is whether or not 
MBNA made  a mistake in the way it responded to Miss W when she made her S75 claim. 
 
In this particular  case, I explained determining the extent of Miss Ws claim under S75 is 
arguable and nuanced. I said deciding  whether  a DCS link exists is not a simple  task here, 
and because of this I didnt think it would be reasonable to make  any award against MBNA 
for coming  to its own conclusion about  whether the DCS  link exists or not  even if I didnt 
agree with it. So, I explained I didnt  think it would be fair to ask MBNA  to do anything further 
 such as paying Miss W compensation.
I gave both parties a week  to come back with any further comments  or information. MBNA 
responded and said it didnt have  anything further  to add. Miss W disagreed with me. She 
said she thought  her mother may have had a health issue at the time and that MBNA had 
caused her a lot of stress.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  this 
complaint should  be upheld.
I thought carefully  about everything Miss W said in response to my initial  thoughts on the 
case. And I was very sorry to read about  her mother. But, having thought about everything 
again, I still dont  think it would be reasonable in this case  to ask MBNA to do anything  
further. This is for the same reasons I explained to Miss W and MBNA and which  Ive set out 
above.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 11 January 2021.
John Bower
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7933227