K821x#15complaint
Mrs C has complained about BUPA Insurance Limiteds failure  to honour a promise  to refund 
her premiums under her group private medical  insurance policy.
background
Mrs C was a member  of a group private medical insurance policy. The policy was apparently 
in the name  of a company  which Ill call D. Mrs C says D had been her employer at the 
time she joined the scheme though  she had since retired. The group scheme was 
administered by a company  which  Ill call Z. Mrs C paid her subscription  through  Z.
In November 2016, Mrs C found  that BUPA hadnt settled claims shed recently  made under 
the policy. She contacted BUPA to find out why this was and discovered the policy  had been 
suspended, backdated to the renewal date of 1 February 2016, because  BUPA  believed  Z 
was behind on its premium payments.
Mrs C complained to BUPA and also raised  the matter with Z. BUPA  issued a final response 
in November 2016, conceding  it had been  wrong to suspend the policy.  It said it had 
reinstated the group cover and had settled Mrs Cs claims. It also said that if Mrs C wished, it 
would provide a refund  of her premiums for the nine month period between February and 
November 2016  while the policy was suspended. It explained that if she chose  this option, it 
would deduct  from the refund the cost of the claims it had paid. It further explained  that any 
refund would be to the policyholder rather than to her directly  because it was the 
policyholder with whom  BUPA had a contract.
Mrs C asked BUPA for the refund. However, she received  nothing  directly from BUPA.  Z 
said it had received no refund either.  She complained again to BUPA.
In October  2017, BUPA issued  another  final response. It said it had lapsed the group policy  
in March 2017 and had issued the nine-month refund of her premiums to the group at that 
time. It again said she should  contact the group to obtain the refund.
Mrs C was unhappy at BUPAs response  and referred her complaint to us.
In February 2018,  BUPA  then issued  a further final response to Mrs C. It said that in fact it 
hadnt issued  a refund to the group  in March 2017. This was because  in December 2016 it 
had become aware that Z had brokered  the policy without  the necessary licences in place for 
the overseas jurisdictions  concerned and had knowingly added  members to the policy  who 
were ineligible because  they were not employees of D. It said Z ceased to broker the groups 
relationship from this point and BUPA managed it directly. It further said that Mrs C had 
knowingly joined the group (which was restricted to employees of D) despite being ineligible  
and that that she, along with Z, had provided  it with false  and inaccurate  information to get 
cheaper cover than she could otherwise obtain. It said this was why it wasnt issuing the 
partial refund to Mrs C, either directly or through Z.
Mrs C said she was an employee of D when she joined the scheme and disputed that shed 
given BUPA any false or misleading information. She continued to believe it should provide 
the refund  it had offered.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He was satisfied  that 
Mrs C had been an employee of D when she joined the scheme. While she was no longer an 
Ref: DRN78663382employee, he hadnt seen any evidence that she had misled BUPA at any stage. He 
considered BUPA should refund her nine months  of premiums, plus interest.
BUPA didnt  accept  the investigators  findings.  It said Mrs C knew the policy  was only for 
employees of D. She had never informed BUPA that she was no longer  employed by D and 
therefore hadnt acted in good faith but had instead  knowingly misled it. Furthermore, 
BUPAs liability regarding  the premium was to D and so if Mrs C wanted a refund she should 
be pursuing D or Z.  
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  this complaint. I 
shall explain  why.
BUPA says that Mrs C knew the policy was only for employees of D but it has provided no 
evidence in support  of this. Mrs C knew the policy was in Ds name  and that she had joined  it 
while an employee. But Ive seen no evidence that she was told membership of the policy 
had to end when her employment ended.  BUPA hasnt pointed to any documents  or 
correspondence where this is stated. I consider  it unreasonable for BUPA to say Mrs C failed 
to act in good  faith for not telling it that she was no longer employed by D if she was 
unaware that this information was important to it. Furthermore, BUPA  has provided no 
evidence that Mrs C gave  incorrect information  at any time in response to any questions it 
asked. Nor has it provided any evidence  to show she ever gave wrong information to either  
D or Z. Im therefore satisfied that BUPA hasnt shown Mrs C to be at fault in any way.
It might be that either D or Z gave false information to BUPA,  including  about  Mrs C. Again, 
however, BUPA has provided no evidence to demonstrate this. So I cant reasonably  
conclude that this is a reason for BUPA to renege  on the promise  it gave to Mrs C in its final 
response letter of November 2016.
In light of this, I think BUPA should honour the promise it made in that letter, albeit that, 
rather than refund the money to the policyholder, in view of the ongoing problems it should 
now pay the money to Mrs C directly.
In his view, the investigator referred to the wrong  nine month period to which  the refund 
should relate and also gave the wrong  date from which interest should apply. To clarify, 
BUPA should refund  Mrs Cs premiums for the nine months from 1 February  2016  but may 
take into account the cost of claims paid in that period. Interest should be paid from the date 
of the final response  letter  which was 29 November  2016.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require BUPA  
Insurance Limited to refund Mrs C the premiums she paid for the policy  from February 2016 
to November 2016. BUPA may deduct  from this refund the cost of any claims it paid relating 
to this period.  BUPA should add interest to this refund at the annual  simple rate of 8%, 
calculated from 29 November 2016 to the date of settlement. *
Ref: DRN78663383Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
David Poley
ombudsman
* If BUPA considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mrs C how much its taken off. It should also give Mrs C a certificate showing  
this if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7866338