K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that UK Insurance  Limited  (UKI) unfairly accused him of submitting a 
fraudulent claim and cancelled his home  insurance policy. 
background
In October  2018 Mr T contacted UKI to make  a claim under his home insurance. He said his 
kitchen floor had been  damaged by his son dropping  a bowling ball onto the tiles. 
UKI visited the property  and carried out an investigation into what happened. It says Mr T 
had told it there was no previous damage  to the floor, but itd found online photos  from the 
sale of the home which showed there  was. It also instructed a forensic specialist, who re-
created the incident, and having done  so said the tile damage  wasnt  consistent  with the 
version of events Mr T had given.  UKI also said Mr T had told it there had been no repairs to 
the floor previously, yet it found evidence  of patch repair.
So UKI said it was satisfied Mr T had deliberately provided misleading information when he 
made the claim. And under the fraud  conditions of the policy it said it wouldnt cover  the 
claim and cancelled his policy.
Mr T complained to UKI. When it said it saw no reason to change its decision,  he brought his 
complaint to our service. He said he didnt want to pursue  the claim for the damage, but he 
didnt accept hed made a fraudulent  claim. Our investigator didnt think  it was fair for UKI to 
cancel Mr Ts policy or accuse him of fraud. She said UKI should remove  references  to Mr T 
having submitted  a fraudulent claim from databases and pay £150  compensation to Mr T.
Mr T accepted this, but UKI didnt.  It relied on its forensic experts opinion and said it didnt 
think Mr Ts account of events was plausible.  So it asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Mr Ts policy contains a general condition  about  fraud, which UKI has relied on when 
declining the claim and cancelling the policy. This says:
You must be honest in your dealings with us at all times.
We will not pay a claim that is in any way fraudulent, false or exaggerated.
If you, any person  insured under this policy or anyone acting on your behalf attempts to 
deceive us or knowingly makes  a fraudulent, false or exaggerated claim:
your policy  may be cancelled 
we may reject  your claim and any subsequent claims 
we may keep any premium you have  paid.
What happens  if we discover fraud
We have the right to cancel any other  products you hold with us and share  information  about  
your behaviour with other organisations to prevent further fraud.
Ref: DRN71123692This condition is in line with the Insurance Act 2015  which says an insurer  can decline to pay 
a claim,  cancel the policy and keep the premium paid if the claim is fraudulent. This is also 
not an uncommon exclusion found in insurance  policies of this nature.
This means  for UKI to be able to fairly decline Mr Ts claim and cancel the policy,  it needs to 
demonstrate that its more  likely  than not that the claim was fraudulent. So when considering 
this question Ive taken into account all of the evidence provided  by both sides.  Mr T has 
said that he never acted  fraudulently.
UKI has provided a detailed report from a forensic  expert that says the nature of the damage 
wasnt consistent with the impact  caused  by a dropped bowling ball. They thought the 
damage was more consistent with wear and tear caused by the tiles coming loose, and said 
the condition of the cracks suggested they were old. 
From what  Ive seen, the agent who prepared the report  was properly qualified and their 
report gives a very thorough account  of how the damage was most likely to have occurred. 
Im aware other agents had been  to Mr Ts property before  this and didnt raise similar 
concerns. But I cant see that they offered any view about how the damage  had occurred or 
had been asked to do so. So Im persuaded that the damage to Mr Ts tiles wasnt  caused in 
the way Mr T had described.
UKI also raised that photos of Mr Ts kitchen were posted on an online estate agents 
website several months before he said the damage  occurred. The photo it had seen showed 
there were cracks on tiles in the kitchen. Ive reviewed this and I think  this suggests  there  
was existing damage before Mr T called UKI to make a claim.
Ive also listened  to Mr Ts phone calls with UKI. Within an initial  call Mr T makes reference  
to quite a few of the tiles being  badly damaged and crumbling.
During another call, he was asked whether there had been any damage to the floor before 
this incident. He said there hadnt  been. Based  on the report and online  photos, this doesnt 
seem to be the case UKI told him photos  of the kitchen  taken  before  the incident  showed 
damage to the floor.  Mr Ts response  was that there  may have  been  a few small hairline 
cracks in the floor before  the incident.
After the forensic  expert had inspected the floor, UKI spoke to him again. Mr T was asked if 
any repairs had been carried  out before the incident.  He said nothing  had been done. UKI 
said the expert had identified  that repairs had been  carried out. Mr T then said hed used 
some glue to fix a tile which was rocking. So Im satisfied theres evidence from two calls that 
Mr T changed his account of the condition of the floor before the incident when being 
presented with evidence which contradicted what hed said previously.
When asked how the damage had occurred,  Mr T said his three year old son was able to 
access the bowling  ball in a cupboard, take it out, and drop it multiple times. He said this 
took place over a period of around 15-30 minutes when he was unsupervised because Mr T 
and his wife were upstairs.  He said they heard noises but their son said he was ok so didnt 
investigate further  at the time. UKI has said this account was implausible and that it believed  
Mr Ts claim was either fraudulent, false or exaggerated . 
Taking into account all of the circumstances, including the inconsistencies with the damage 
Ive discussed  above, Im satisfied this was a reasonable conclusion for it to reach.
Ref: DRN71123693Overall, Im satisfied UKI has evidence to show that, on the balance of probabilities,  the 
damage didnt  occur  as Mr T claimed. And that his account of events was inconsistent with 
the evidence and changed over time during questioning. So I think  on balance,  UKI has fairly 
declined this claim and cancelled the policy in line with the policy terms.
the response to my provisional  decision
UKI responded to the provisional decision by saying it agreed with my findings and had no 
additional comments it wanted to make. 
Mr T didnt  respond to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has raised any further  points in response to the provisional  decision. Ive 
looked again at Mr Ts complaint and remain satisfied that UKI acted reasonably  in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
Its my final decision not to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7112369