K820x#14complaint
Mr Hs complaint is that IG Index Limited failed to forewarn him ahead  of automatic closures 
of spread betting positions in his trading  account. The closures  arose, out of hours early on 6 
February 2018, from a net equity breach in the account. He says, as a premium client,  he 
should have received prior notice and been  given time to balance the account.
background 
IG did not uphold  the complaint but it offered  Mr H the gesture of clearing his negative  
account balance.  Mr H appears to have declined  this offer and he seeks compensation on 
the basis of the total loss he says was incurred as a result of the closures.
In the main,  IG says:
The agreed terms for Mr Hs execution only account made  it his responsibility to 
monitor and manage his own account and did not oblige IG to do that for him or to 
give him the prior notice he has referred to. His status as a premium client  did not 
alter this.
The terms (and an email explanation  given  to Mr H at the outset of the account) also 
provided that, with regard to margin breaches, he had up to 3pm the next business 
day to balance the account;  however, separately  and irrespective of the provisions 
for margin breaches, where a breach  of the net equity level in his account  (which was 
£0) occurs all of his positions can be liquidated  immediately  and it is not obliged  to 
give notice in this respect.
The closures in his account  were  based on a breach of its net equity level and it is 
noteworthy that if his positions were  not closed when they were  his losses  could have  
been far worse.
It has considered contents  of its staffs engagement with Mr H around  the time of the 
event and it has found nothing to suggest  that the closures were wrong or that he 
was treated unfairly. It also refutes  Mr Hs suggestion that it benefitted from a conflict 
of interests in terms of using  out of hours prices as a basis for the closures.
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint and broadly agreed  with IGs position. He 
also conveyed and echoed IGs request  for any evidence (based on telephone call 
recordings that were disclosed) from Mr H which shows he was informed  that the closures 
would not happen or ought not to have happened as they did. The adjudicator noted that no 
evidence of this had been produced, he invited Mr H to provide such evidence and offered to 
review the matter upon receipt of that. Otherwise, the adjudicators conclusion was that      
Mr Hs claim for compensation could  not be upheld. Thereafter,  Mr H appears to have  
confirmed having  relevant  evidence to support his claim but does not appear to have 
submitted it. The matter was then referred to an ombudsman.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the points  
made by IG and with the adjudicators findings. I do not uphold  the complaint. I consider 
there is evidence (in the facts of the closures and the agreed terms) to support IGs position  
and I do not consider there is available evidence to support Mr Hs claim.
Ref: DRN70996672The contents and effects of the relevant agreed terms do not appear to be in dispute. The 
same applies  to the events leading to the closures  of Mr Hs positions. By his description,  his 
positions were closed due to his  account being  in an overall loss position  . That was 
the net equity  breach, in response to which IG was contractually entitled  to immediately 
liquidate his positions without notice to him. The obligation was and remained Mr Hs to 
monitor and manage  his execution only account. I appreciate that the relevant events 
happened out of hours  and in the early hours of the date in question, but this obligation was 
an ongoing one and the reasonable expectation  is that he would have been monitoring his 
account before the events.
Mr Hs expectation of a form of special treatment in relation to his premium  client status and 
in relation to margin  breaches appears to be sincere  and I note that IG appears to accept 
that such special  treatment for premium clients (where  more time is granted,  upon requests, 
to address such breaches) can apply on a case by case basis.  However, the point is that the 
closures in this complaint related to the net equity breach  that took place in Mr Hs account. 
The terms appear to treat this type of breach more seriously  whereby immediate 
liquidation of positions can apply  and I have not seen  evidence that any special treatment 
applied in this respect,  or was agreed  with Mr H.
As noted above,  Mr H was invited to provide evidence to support his claim (including the 
argument that he was assured his positions  would not be closed overnight on out of hours 
levels) and he said he had such evidence but, despite the passage  of some months, no such  
evidence appears  to have been presented. At present, and as I said above, available  
evidence supports IGs position and supports the conclusion that the closures of Mr Hs 
positions were not unreasonable. 
I have noted Mr Hs point  that the out of hours  prices used as a basis for the closures were 
artificial and did not reflect the relevant markets,  he says they should not have been used to 
trigger the closures. IG explained  how the out of hours prices were not manipulated and 
were based  on underlying  futures  contracts prices and fair value  adjustments. In addition  
and returning  to the terms for the application of liquidation in the event of net equity 
breaches, I have not seen evidence that such breaches and liquidations could  not apply out 
of hours  or on the basis of out of hours prices  evidence is that they could and they did in 
Mr Hs case. 
Mr H says his attempts  to get IGs help to re-open his positions  at the start of business on 
the relevant date (and thereafter  on the same  date)  were frustrated by IG. He says positions 
that had been closed  moved in his favour  during that date and re-opening  them would have 
reduced his loss. IG disputes this and, in the main, it says he retained discretion to re-open  
his positions by funding his account and instructing the relevant trades  but he did not do 
that. I have  not seen  evidence of any undertaking from IG to Mr H which removed the need 
for him to fund his account and instruct the relevant trades in order to re-open  his positions.
If IGs offer to clear  Mr Hs negative  account  balance remains available  to him, he is invited 
to consider it. In terms of his present complaint, I do not consider there is evidence to uphold  
it.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint. 
Ref: DRN70996673Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 October  2019.
Roy Kuku
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7099667