K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about their home insurer  Ageas Insurance Limited in relation 
to a claim they made to it following water damage to their property.
background 
Mr and Mrs B came  home  in March 2017  to find their lounge and kitchen floors were wet. 
The outside  tap was on and it seemed the water had gathered and run under the house. 
Ageas accepted the claim and noted  when its operative visited the property that there  were  
no signs of gradual  damage. It arranged to strip and dry the property.
Drying equipment was installed  and the property was stripped out in June with further  works  
being done in August. Floors in the kitchen and lounge  and a set of internal steps  were  
exposed, along with some walls.  However,  it was noted the property wasnt  drying. In late 
October Ageas said it was rejecting the claim as it felt the water had been caused  by a leaky 
shower seal and/or a lack of a damp proof membrane. Contractors never returned to 
Mr and Mrs Bs home and it was left in its stripped out state.
Mr and Mrs B complained to this service. Ageas confirmed to us it hadnt issued a final 
response to Mr and Mrs B. Our investigator  called  Ageas and said he didnt think it was right 
that Mr and Mrs Bs home had been left in this state.  After some consideration Ageas agreed  
that it had been wrong to decline the claim and agreed to reinstate the property. In 
June 2017, our investigator  told Ageas  it should  pay £1,000 compensation for the distress ad 
inconvenience caused to date. 
Ageas, which  was then progressing  the claim, said it felt £700 was fair and reasonable. It 
said any extra electricity usage for the driers  would be dealt with as part of the claim. 
Whilst the complaint  was waiting to be passed to an ombudsman  Mr and Mrs B told our 
investigator of poor work and delays that occurred when Ageas had progressed the claim. 
They also noted  a little later that wallpaper  that Ageas contractor had reinstated  had begun  
bubbling and coming away from the wall. Ageas said it would review  the work  if required. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision to be made.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked at what happened in this case and I think it was handled very badly. 
Communication was poor from the start and despite  Ageas saying it was appointing 
contractors, this wasnt actually done straight  away. For what  was really a relatively  simple  
claim it shouldnt have  taken three  months  for the initial strip-out works  to be done.
Im also surprised that given Ageas had dried  the property, it felt it could later decline the 
claim. And Im unsure  how it felt that a faulty  or missing damp proof  membrane  could likely  
be the cause of the problem when it had noted no signs of pre-existing or long term water 
ingress when it initially  visited  the property. And according to Ageass later appointed 
surveyor, the shower was in a different area of the property altogether.
Ref: DRN71371322Its also unclear to me why Ageas and/or its contractors  felt it was appropriate to leave the 
property in the state that it did. And I understand Mr and Mrs B were made aware that the 
painted finish on some exposed brickwork  might  contain asbestos. Ageas has said the 
asbestos factor shouldnt  have been  taken into account by our investigator as in June 2018 
when our investigator told Ageas what compensation  he thought it should pay, the results  of 
a recently completed  asbestos test were  pending. But that kind of misses the point here; that 
Mr and Mrs B were  left with the worry of knowing there was potentially exposed asbestos  in 
their home for many months.
Having looked  at everything that happened, including  what has now been accepted by 
Ageas as an incorrect claim decline,  Im satisfied that £1,000 compensation is fairly and 
reasonably due. To be clear though, that figure is for upset caused to the point our 
investigator issued  his view in June 2018. As Ageas didnt provide a final response  letter  and 
at the point of the view the claim issue at least had moved on, its appropriate  for my award 
to cover to that point.  Whilst  I know what Mr and Mrs B have said about  what  happened 
later, when Ageas resumed work at their home, we dont have full detail  from that period to 
assess. But from the sounds  of it I think Ageas needs to take a look at what happened  and 
write to Mr and Mrs B with its thoughts  on the matter. If they remain  unhappy  they can make 
a further complaint. 
If the outstanding workmanship issues havent  been assessed by Ageas and Mr and Mrs B 
want it to, it should  arrange  to do this. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  I require Ageas  Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs B £1,000 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused them  during its handling of their 
claim up to 19 June  2018.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7137132