K821x#15complaint
Miss J complains  about Zurich Insurance Plcs handling and decision to decline her claim 
under her household insurance policy for the theft of her handbag and contents.
Background
I set out the background  to Miss Js complaint in my Provisional Decision. In summary, Miss 
Js bag was stolen  from a bar in November 2017,  but Zurich declined  the claim saying it 
couldnt validate it due to many discrepancies. Zurich said Miss J had caused  some delay, 
but it apologised for its delays and offered her £150  compensation. Miss J rejected the offer.
Miss J provided Zurich information  that she held about her possessions,  but didnt  have 
complete proof of purchase.  Miss J said Zurich took too long to decide her claim and failed 
to obtain CCTV  footage  or the police report. She said Zurich should  pay her claim  of £2,750.  
Zurich said Miss Js evidence of handbag purchase was for the wrong bag and her photo 
was from a sales website.  There was confusion about who was to obtain CCTV footage from 
the bar and it was erased.
my provisional findings and the parties responses
I looked to see if Zurich was able to decline Miss Js claim under the terms of the policy  and 
if its decision to do so was fair in all of the circumstances  of the claim.
I said Miss J only had cover of £2,000 for items  away from home and with an excess  of £350  
her maximum claim would have been  £1,650. 
I said Zurich was entitled to validate Miss Js claim and this would normally  involve checking 
CCTV evidence and obtaining proof  of ownership  of the lost items. I didnt find anything  from 
the records to suggest  that Zurich told Miss J that it would obtain the CCTV footage of the 
theft. The police said Miss J should obtain the footage  and this appears to be how it was left. 
The confusion around who was to obtain  CCTV footage meant it wasnt  obtained  and has 
since been erased.  I said I didnt  think  this was caused by Zurich  but it was responsible  for 
delaying the progress of the claim and that didnt help with the gathering  of evidence and I 
provisionally decided  to award Miss J £200 compensation for the impact this had upon  her.
I said that Zurich had made a reasonable attempt to validate Miss Js claim, but there were 
inconsistencies in the information provided  and the information hasnt proved to be very 
reliable. I said I could  understand why Zurich has concerns about the claim and I dont think  
it has acted unreasonably in declining it until these  issues are resolved. 
Miss J accepted the Provisional  Decision.
Zurich said it was pleased  about the finding that it didnt  have  enough information  to 
progress the claim  and wasnt responsible for obtaining CCTV footage.  
Zurich sent a timeline of events to do with Miss Js claim and said it took her four months to 
provide information  to enable it to consider her claim and due to inconsistencies it was 
referred to a claims investigator.
Ref: DRN78219802Zurich said it offered Miss J £150 compensation in recognition of delays and hadnt 
subsequently withdrawn its offer. It said it remained of the view that this is a fair offer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
No further information has been sent about the validation of Miss Js claim and I remain  of 
the view that it was fair and reasonable for Zurich to decline the claim.
Zurich said it hadnt withdrawn its offer of compensation to Miss J from its final response to 
her complaint in May 2018. However, it didnt make  any reference to this offer in its decision 
letter to Miss J on her claim in August 2018, and neither did our investigator in her view on 
the complaint.
Its clear to me that not all of the delays were caused by Zurich  as it took considerable time 
for Miss J to send it the information required  to assess her claim.  Im pleased  Zurich has 
taken responsibility  for some of the delays as I think these caused  Miss J uncertainty  and 
inconvenience when  she was hoping her claim was about to be resolved. 
I remain of the view that compensation of £200 is fair and reasonable to reflect  the impact 
that the delays  had upon Miss J. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is upheld  in part. 
I require Zurich Insurance PLC to pay Miss J £200 compensation for the impact its delay in 
handling her claim had upon  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 December  2019.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7821980