K820x#14complaint
Mr S says he was mis-sold a regular premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds).
background
Mr S applied for a credit card in 1996, and bought a regular premium PPI policy  at or in the 
years following the opening of his credit card account. I cant  say exactly how much  this 
policy cost Mr S but from what we know of the policies that Lloyds  sold at the time I think it 
wouldnt have cost more  than 79p per every  £100  of the outstanding  monthly  balance  on his 
credit card. 
This policy covered  Mr S in the event of accident, sickness or unemployment, and in the 
event of a successful claim wouldve paid 10% of the outstanding last statement balance. 
And it would have done so for up to 12 months  per claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld because  he didnt think  there  
was enough information to show Lloyds  had mis-sold the policy.
Mr S disagreed. So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint.
The sale took place  over 20 years ago so unsurprisingly  there  is very little information 
available from the time of the sale. So Ive had to proceed on the basis  of what  information 
I have and what I think is most likely to have happened.
Mr S cant  remember how he applied for his credit  card and Lloyds havent  been able to 
provide us with any of the documents from the time of the sale or confirm how the policy was 
sold. So I dont know exactly what was discussed about PPI or how it was presented.  
But from what I know about all the different  ways  Lloyds sold PPI during the period Mr S was 
sold the policy, I think its likely that it wouldve made  Mr S aware  that PPI was optional and I 
think Mr S wouldve had PPI added to his account because he chose to take it. I understand 
Mr S might not remember  this, but Ive not seen enough to say that he wasnt given a choice 
or that he didnt agree  to buy it.
To be fair to Mr S I am treating the sale of PPI as if it was an advised  sale. What  this means 
is that Lloyds  not only had to provide information  about PPI in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way so that Mr S could make an informed choice about buying  PPI. It also had to 
make sure that if it were  to recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to his needs and 
circumstances.
Ref: DRN70591512I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps it shouldve.  But from what  I know about the 
policies Lloyds sold at the time I think the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr S for 
the following  reasons:
He was eligible for the policy  and it doesnt look like he wouldve been caught  by any of 
the main exclusions  in the terms and conditions of the policy  which couldve made  it 
difficult to make  a successful claim. 
Mr S says he was entitled  to a good  level of sick pay and he could  of relied  on his 
parents to help make  his credit card payments  if he couldnt work. But there is no 
guarantee his parents could help and a successful claim  on the policy  wouldve paid out 
on top of any sick pay and covered his credit card payments for up to 12 months if he 
was unable  to work  due to accident  or sickness or lost his job. So I think  the policy  
wouldve provided  a useful benefit  to Mr S in his circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest  that the policy wasnt affordable  to him at the time and if 
he decided he no longer wanted the policy he couldve  cancelled  it.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Mr S information in a way which was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that he could make  a proper choice about whether or not he wanted 
to take the policy  out. 
I dont know if Lloyds  did give all of the information as it shouldve.  But for the same reasons 
that the policy was suitable and based on what Mr S has told us about his circumstances at 
the time,  I think he wouldve still taken out the PPI policy if hed been given all the proper 
information on the policy.  
So it follows  that I dont  think Lloyds did anything wrong when it sold PPI to Mr S.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Mr Ss complaint  against Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019
Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7059151