K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Capital One (Europe)  plc gave him incorrect  information about his 
account over the phone. Hes also complained that it wont  put in place  a payment plan for 
him without  affecting  his credit file.
background
Mr G has a credit card with Capital One. In October 2018, he was behind  with his payments 
and had gone over his credit limit. He had a lengthy phone conversation with Capital One to 
ask how he could have  a plan to repay his credit  card. Capital One refunded his late 
payment fee and, as Mr G said he wasnt in financial difficulties, Capital  One explained that 
he could make more than the minimum payment  to repay his balance  in a shorter  time. 
Capital One explained that it couldnt  freeze interest and charges and set up a plan without it 
affecting Mr Gs credit  rating  which he didnt  want.
Mr G complained. He explained  that hed asked for a repayment  balance and this was 
incorrect, he also complained that he hadnt  received statements. And that Capital One 
wouldnt give him a payment  plan to clear his debt without interest  without it affecting his 
credit rating.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Gs complaint.  She explained that Capital One has agreed 
to refund all late payment  charges as they had been  incurred   despite the charges being 
applied correctly. And that Capital One explained  correctly the options available  to Mr G. The 
adjudicator also explained that Mr Gs account  was set to being paperless so he wouldnt 
receive statements   but that this setting was changed in January 2019  and Capital One has 
sent statements  from this date.
Mr G disagreed with the adjudicator and asked  for an ombudsman  to review  the complaint. 
He doesnt think  the agents he spoke to at Capital  One are qualified  enough  to have dealt 
with his request.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
Statements
Part of Mr Gs complaint is that he hadnt received his statements. However, I can see that 
Mr Gs account was paperless  which means  he wouldnt receive paper statements in the 
post. This setting was changed in January 2019  and I can see Capital  One sent out the 
statements from this date to him. So, I dont think Capital One has made an error here.
Repayment plan
Mr G called Capital One on a number of occasions.  Mr Gs aim was to find out how he can 
quickly repay his credit  card as he was worried about the impact it was having on his credit 
rating. This is when  Mr G decided to complain,  as Capital  One didnt give him an option  of 
having a repayment plan without it affecting his credit rating.
Ref: DRN74708672Ive listened to the call on 23 October  2018  as this was the only recording that Capital One 
could provide. Its clear  from this call recording that Mr G was keen  to improve his credit 
score and wanted to do this by paying  off his Capital One credit card in fixed  monthly 
repayments. He said that he wasnt in financial difficulties but he wants the late payment 
charges refunded. He said he wants a repayment plan which means  hell pay off his card 
quickly without incurring  any fees.  Capital One explained that they could put the charges on 
hold and set up a repayment  plan.  But this would be reported to credit reference  agencies 
and Mr G didnt want that.
Im satisfied that Capital  One asked Mr G the right questions to find out if he was struggling 
to make repayments. He confirmed that this was about him repaying this card,  closing his 
account and improving his credit rating. And I can see that the charges applied to his 
account were correct  Mr G was late in making his payments.  Capital One has refunded  
these charges when  they have been incurred which I think demonstrates  it has taken Mr Gs 
situation on board and has done  what it can to help him  even though in these 
circumstances I dont  think  it had to refund those charges.
The advisor at Capital One explained how Mr G could repay his credit  card balance faster  
by paying more than the minimum  amount. And she explained that it was important for Mr G 
not to over commit himself when  making  these repayments.  But she also correctly said that if 
she was to set up a payment plan and hold the interest and charges it would affect  Mr Gs 
credit score. So, whilst  I understand that this isnt what Mr G wanted, I dont think  Capital 
One has done anything wrong.  It explained  the options open  to Mr G and told him ways  of 
improving his credit score   by reducing the balance to below the credit limit and paying 
more than the minimum payment. So, I dont think theres anything to suggest  the agent  
Mr G spoke to did anything wrong.
Incorrect information
Mr G has also complained  that Capital One didnt give him the information he asked for 
when he called them. He said he wasnt told what his balance  was. Capital One has agreed 
that it didnt tell him his balance. It explained that Mr G had called asking for his balance,  and 
the balance of his mothers credit  card.  And whilst it dealt with one request, it failed to deal 
with the other. Capital  One has apologised for this in its letter  to Mr G. I think this is fair and 
reasonable. I understand that it must  have  been frustrating not to get all of the information 
from the call, but I can see that Capital One has provided all the information Mr G needs in 
other calls and correspondence. So, I dont think Capital One needs to do anything more  to 
recognise the impact  of this error.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7470867