K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M says National  Westminster  Bank  Plc (NatWest) mis-sold them a mortgage  
payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs M took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage in2003 alongside a mortgage. They 
paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
It looks as though Mr and Mrs M made changes to the policy  in 2004 and again in 2005.  But 
I havent seen  anything to suggest these changes involved the sale of a new policy  rather, 
the level of cover was increased. So in my decision Ive only considered whether the policy  
was initially mis-sold in 2003.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs M disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
I think NatWest  made Mr and Mrs M aware that they had a choice about buying the MPPI, 
and that they chose  to take it. Ive seen a copy of the paperwork Mr and Mrs M completed 
and they applied for the MPPI on a separate form to the actual  mortgage  application.  The 
form included a section  for Mr and Mrs M to choose  the level of benefit they needed, and 
also the type of cover.  Theyve  filled the form in with £700 as the benefit amount, and ticked 
the box to select  Accident  & Sickness cover. 
So Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs M chose to take the policy,  knowing what they were  signing 
up for, and knowing that they didnt have to.
I havent seen  anything to make  me think that NatWest made a personalised 
recommendation when it sold the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs M. So it didnt have to check  if it was 
right for them. 
The policy covered only Mr M. Ive considered Mr and Mrs Ms point that given Mr Ms 
circumstances, the policy  was pointless to them. Theyve also said theyve been  made  
aware that self-employment  mayve been  exclusion to the policy,  meaning Mr M wasnt 
covered and couldnt have claimed if hed needed  to.
Its fair to say that some  MPPI policies made it difficult for self-employed  people to make 
claims related to unemployment. But in Mr and Mrs Ms case, they chose  for Mr M to be 
covered for accident and sickness only, and not unemployment. So the unemployment terms 
of the policy  arent relevant to Mr M. 
Ref: DRN70972292Ive reviewed the policy document for this policy and I cant  see any other reason why Mr M 
couldnt have  made  an accident  or sickness claim if hed needed to  even though  he was 
self-employed. 
I know Mr M has said hed have been entitled  to sick pay from his business for as long as 
hed needed  it, but I still think the policy couldve been useful. Mr and Mrs M appear  to have 
chosen the level of cover appropriate for their mortgage repayments, and they took further 
advances in 2004 and 2005. Ive seen paperwork to show that when they took the further 
advance in 2004 they increased the cover  of the MPPI benefit  to cover the extra payment. 
And although I havent seen documentation for the change in 2005, I think its more  than 
likely thats  what happened  then too.
Having thought carefully about everything, I think Mr and Mrs M chose the type of policy and 
level of cover that was relevant to their circumstances. And I havent seen anything that 
makes me think they made this decision based on incorrect or missing  information, or that 
they couldnt have made  use of the policy if theyd needed to.
Its possible that NatWest  couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But for 
the reasons Ive explained, even if it had, I think Mr and Mrs M would still have bought the 
MPPI. 
I also accept that NatWest might not have pointed out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  
But Mr M doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things  so this doesnt  
change my decision.
I want to reassure Mr and Mrs M Ive thought carefully about  their complaint. But having 
done so, my decision is that NatWest didnt mis-sell  this MPPI policy  to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Sam Wade
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7097229