K820x#14complaint
Mr P, represented by his daughter Mrs P, complains that Phoenix  Life Limited has been  
unable to provide  any information  about where  his investment is.
background
In its Final Response Letter  Phoenix admitted it had previously given Mr P misleading 
information about the policy and apologised for this. In response to his query it had sent him 
two contradictory  letters  one saying the policy had matured and been  paid out, the other 
saying the proceeds  had been transferred to a new plan owned  by a different business.  It 
now felt that the latter  was more  likely   although it said it had little concrete information - 
and gave Mr P details of this different  business  so he could contact them about any 
investment in his name. This different  business did not have a record of a live investment. 
An adjudicator at this service  did not feel Mr Ps complaint should be upheld.
He said Phoenix  had looked  at all its records and not been able to locate any details of an 
investment. He said it had contacted other businesses,  including  the one referred  to above, 
and found no evidence of an ongoing  investment.  In Phoenixs view this meant that the 
investment/s had most likely been  encashed  in 1999. The adjudicator  agreed with this 
assessment, explaining that if Mr P did still have an investment  with Phoenix it was highly 
likely it would have a record of this.
Mr Ps daughter responded:
Phoenix ought to be able to provide documentary proof of this alleged transfer, 
including details  of the bank transfer, date, account number etc.
When the existing  investment  expired  (in 1999) a rep from a Phoenix subsidiary 
came round  to see her father  and made  him sign to put the proceeds  into a new 
product
Phoenix said it had no certain information about  this transfer and the subsidiary in question  
was subsequently sold to another business.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This service regularly receives complaints along  these lines,  particularly where a relative has 
uncovered documentation about an investment  taken out by a parent or grandparent,  often  
after their death.  I recognise  this is a different situation. But I mention it merely to 
acknowledge that this is a fairly common situation,  and one which it is difficult for this service 
to satisfactorily resolve. If there is no evidence it makes it very difficult, if not impossible, to 
reach a definite  conclusion  that the business  has made a mistake.
In order to uphold  this complaint I need  to be pretty  certain  that Phoenix has done something 
wrong: that Mr P did not surrender his investment/transfer the money to another business 
but kept it invested with Phoenix  - and it has somehow lost all record of this active and 
ongoing investment.
Ref: DRN76322162There is simply not enough persuasive evidence to fairly or safely reach such  a conclusion.  
If Mr P either cashed in his investment in 1999 or put the money into a new product (possibly 
a MAXI ISA) via a new business which  Phoenix no longer owns, then it would not be 
required to keep records about the original  investment or about what happened to Mr Ps 
money in 1999.  This is because businesses are only required to keep  records of former  
client and investments for six years, and best practice guidelines  suggest  they should  then 
delete them.
Therefore I cant reasonably conclude that the absence of any record  of Mr Ps investment is 
suspicious or indicates that Phoenix  has done something wrong.
 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7632216