K821x#15complaint
Ms J complains National Westminster Bank  Plc wouldnt consider her request  for an interest 
only payment arrangement on her mortgage.  She was in financial difficulty and asked 
NatWest for help. Ms J says NatWest told her she didnt earn enough money  to qualify for an 
interest only mortgage.
background
In October  2016 Ms J and her now estranged husband took out a repayment mortgage  with 
NatWest. They borrowed £215,000 to be repaid over 19 years.  The mortgage was on a fixed 
rate of 1.74% for two years. After that time the mortgage reverted to NatWests standard 
variable interest rate (SVR). 
Ms Js said that she and her husband  have now separated. Ms J has been the only person 
making payments  to this mortgage since March  2017. Ms Js said shes  currently in the 
process of divorcing her husband.  
Initially Ms J said she made the mortgage repayments by using her savings. In June 2018, 
when her savings  ran out, Ms J contacted NatWest to ask it for help. She told NatWest about  
her situation  and explained  that she wouldnt be able to make  the full mortgage repayment 
any longer. She had started working  more recently  but her income  was much lower than her 
husbands had been. She asked for an interest only concession to help her keep the 
mortgage payments  low and affordable for her while her divorce was ongoing. At that point 
she was going  to try to get the mortgage  on her own or sell the property.
NatWest said it couldnt  help for a couple of reasons. It said mortgage regulation wouldnt 
allow it to do so and because Ms J didnt earn £75,000 per year.  NatWest said it could only 
switch a mortgage to interest only terms if Ms J met its income  criteria.  Ms J complained to 
NatWest.
NatWest issued two responses to Ms Js complaint; one dated 19 June 2018 and a further 
response dated 24 September 2018.  In both responses NatWest  said that it had a duty 
under mortgage regulations to make  sure that it was a responsible lender and thats why it 
wouldnt agree  to Ms Js requests. It also said it had been right to decline Ms Js request. It 
couldnt make changes to a mortgages terms without the agreement of both account  holders 
and Ms J hadnt met its lending policy so she couldnt have an interest  only mortgage as her 
income wasnt high enough.
Ms J brought her complaint to us. Our investigator sympathised with Ms Js position but 
didnt think her complaint  should be upheld. Ms J replied to say, in summary, that its not 
morally right that she cant get her estranged husbands name  removed from this mortgage. 
Ms J confirmed she only wanted her mortgage  to be switched to interest  only temporarily to 
allow her time to sort out her divorce.
my provisional decision  
I issued a provisional decision on 4 November 2019  setting out my thoughts on this 
complaint.
My provisional decision said:
Ref: DRN70778582Did NatWest act fairly when it said it wouldnt consider  an interest only concession?
Ms J reached out to NatWest for help in June 2018. She explained her situation and 
proposed making  only interest payments towards  the mortgage until her divorce was settled. 
This seems like a potentially reasonable solution  to her problem in the short to medium term, 
although it doesnt come  without  risks.
In such a situation, Id expect  NatWest to have discussed Ms Js financial situation  and tried 
to establish exactly  what she could afford  to pay and try to reach  a payment arrangement. 
This doesnt seem to have happened. NatWest said it wouldnt explore  the mortgage  being 
converted to interest only because Ms J didnt meet its income  criteria  for an interest only 
mortgage. Ms Js said she didnt complete an income and expenditure assessment at that 
time or since. I cant  see any record of a discussion of what  was affordable in NatWests 
submissions either. From  the evidence currently available to me I dont think  that an income  
and expenditure  was completed or any other  discussion about what options might be open 
to Ms J as a viable alternative to her proposal to pay interest only for a period of time. 
NatWest has said in both its final responses  that it couldnt help Ms J with an interest only 
concession because regulation doesnt  allow it to, and because  Ms J didnt earn enough 
money to meet  its income criteria for an interest only mortgage.
First, Ive thought about the regulatory constraints that NatWest referred to. I believe that 
NatWest is referring to its duty to lend responsibly  under the regulations that have flowed 
from the Financial Conduct Authoritys Mortgage Market Review (MMR). This has led to a 
series of major  changes, effective since 2014, in the way residential mortgages are 
regulated. 
MMR regulations have  brought  about stricter lending assessments, aimed to protect 
consumers and encourage mortgage lenders to act more responsibly. There  are rules  about 
interest only mortgage lending that form an important part of this regulation. Theyre 
intended to make sure that lenders work  with mortgage customers to check theres a 
credible plan to repay interest only mortgages  at the end of the loans term. 
Ive thought carefully about these rules,  and everything that Ms J has said about her plans in 
the future.  Ms J was asking for a short term switch  to interest  only until her divorce  is 
finalised. She hopes that at that point she may be able to get a mortgage on her own and 
keep her property or she may need  to sell her property at that point. At the moment Ms Js 
unable to sell the property to repay the mortgage  because she doesnt have the consent  of 
the other mortgage  holder, and shes explained hes not in contact  with her. 
Ms J is not asking to apply for an interest only mortgage, or to convert the mortgage to 
interest only for the rest of the mortgage  term. Shes  asking NatWest  to show her 
forbearance as shes in financial difficulty following the breakdown of her marriage.  Ms J 
wanted an interest only concession for around 18 months to give her the time to sort out her 
mortgage. Ms J has shown me that she understands that this is a temporary arrangement.  
She also knows this arrangement will mean that she isnt paying off any capital each month  
and so shell have  a larger amount of capital to repay in a shorter  period of time once the 
concession ends.
Ref: DRN70778583I believe that NatWest  is able to consider  an interest  only concession as a forbearance 
measure for its mortgage customers,  without  the need for an affordability assessment or 
repayment vehicle,  under the regulations introduced in 2014. So there may be some 
misunderstanding here. NatWest also struggled to see beyond its internal policy to require 
interest only mortgage customers to earn £75,000. I havent seen a copy  of this policy  and 
this may be useful further information for NatWest to send me to consider following my 
provisional decision. However, I struggle  to believe that NatWest  has a policy  that it wont 
help people  set up interest only payment arrangements if they are in financial difficulty  
unless their customer earns £75,000. 
I think the application of NatWests policy meant it didnt really engage with the issue  of how 
it could help Ms J. And, I think this policy has led to Ms J being treated unfairly. 
Theres also been reference to NatWest not being  able to help because  the other  account  
holder hasnt asked  for a payment arrangement. I dont see that this is a reason not to 
discuss options with the account holder who is trying  to make  plans to pay the mortgage.  I 
dont think it would be fair that the absence of one account holder means NatWest  cant  
show forbearance to Ms J who is still living in the property  and trying  to pay the debt.
What do I think should  happen now to put things right?
Ive given careful thought to what I think should happen now to resolve this complaint. Im 
conscious that Ms J has made no payments to her mortgage since June 2018. This has led 
to the mortgage  falling into significant arrears. NatWest has agreed to put legal  action on 
hold until weve looked into this complaint. My final decision  will mark an end to the hold on 
legal action. This situation is clearly very serious  and has significant repercussions  for Ms J.
Ms Js said to us she decided not to pay anything to the mortgage as she couldnt  make the 
full monthly repayment  and thats all NatWest had seemed  to be willing to accept from her. 
Ms Js told us that if the payments  had been  for interest only each month  then shed have 
found a way of making those payments, even after the mortgage reverted back to the SVR. 
Ms J says this could have  been  possible by borrowing money from friends  or family, using 
her own employment  income and a contribution from her son.
The purpose of my proposed redress is to put Ms J back in the position she would have 
been in if NatWest had given fair consideration to an interest only concession back in June 
2018. I think if NatWest had engaged with this payment proposal, this might have been an 
agreeable way forward  for Ms J and NatWest for an agreed period of time as a forbearance 
measure.
I think NatWest  should  rework the mortgage  as if it had agreed a two year interest only 
payment arrangement in June 2018 when Ms J first proposed this. I consider two years is a 
reasonable period of time for the concession, to allow Ms J time for her divorce to proceed.  
While Ms J had initially  asked for 18 months,  that period  would be coming to an end next 
month. I dont think that gives  Ms J enough time to get any further  legal or financial advice  
she may now need following the resolution  of this complaint. 
Ms J should  make every effort to pay the outstanding interest thats  accrued  since the date 
she last made a repayment to this mortgage in June 2018.  NatWest should provide a 
breakdown of the amount  of interest thats  now due so Ms J can make arrangements  to pay 
this. I think it would be reasonable  for Ms J to have paid all the interest that she owes  by the 
end of the two year concession I am proposing to settle this complaint. If Ms J cannot make  
Ref: DRN70778584the interest payments that she owes,  the mortgage  will remain in arrears and NatWest  may 
still choose to pursue  legal action. 
If Ms J does pay the interest  that has accrued since June 2018  by the end of the two year 
concession, NatWest should also correct her credit  file as if shed been in an interest only 
payment arrangement since that time and that her interest payments were made in full and 
on time under this arrangement.
NatWest has caused  upset and frustration to Ms J at what has been  an already difficult time. 
I also consider it would be appropriate for NatWest to pay Ms J £500 for the upset it has 
caused to her by not engaging with the payment proposal and not doing  more to help her in 
her financial  difficulty.
responses to my provisional  findings
Ms J replied  to say she was satisfied  with my provisional findings. Ms J did say that, had the 
situation not been as it is, she would have taken out another two year fixed  rate product 
when their fixed rate expired in November  2018. Ms J said a new interest rate product would 
help her make her monthly  interest  payments. Ms J also gave an update on her divorce  
proceedings. She said it would be helpful to have an interest  only concession until 
November 2020  to give her longer to settle  her divorce and this would tie in with a two year 
interest rate product  (backdated to November  2018).
NatWest responded  saying it accepted  in the main my provisional decision. However, it was 
concerned about  my suggestion that it should  put Ms J into a position where she had 
entered into an interest only arrangement  from June  2018 and that this is paid back  over the 
next six months. NatWest  didnt think this was affordable for Ms J as it would mean  her now 
paying around £13,000. Instead they wanted  one of their experts to discuss  with Ms J what  
is affordable for her and discuss the options  available.
my findings
Ive carefully reconsidered  all the available  evidence and further  arguments  made  to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In particular Ive thought  about NatWests concerns that any redress I direct shouldnt place 
Ms J in a worse position than she is already in. As Ive already said,  I consider her position 
to be very serious. 
Ms J has said to us that she would  be able to make up the interest payments shes  missed  
over the next six months. My direction is not intended to remove the need for Ms J to discuss 
an affordable way to repay her mortgage with NatWest. I am looking to put Ms J back in the 
position I think she would have been  in if NatWest had explored all affordable options with 
her sooner.  It was the absence of a meaningful exploration of her options that led to this 
complaint in the first instance.  Admittedly  this was exacerbated by Ms Js decision not to 
make any payments at all. But, Ive accepted her testimony that she felt she had no choice 
at the time to do this due to NatWests  inflexibility when she approached it for help.
I still think NatWest  should rework  the mortgage  as if it had granted a two year interest only 
concession in June  2018, and give Ms J the chance to make good the missed interest 
payments shes missed, over a six month  period. Ive already set out what should  happen to 
her credit file if she manages to keep to this arrangement. If, at any point, Ms J becomes 
Ref: DRN70778585aware that this wont be affordable for her, then she should contact NatWest immediately to 
discuss other options.
If Ms J doesnt make  payments under the interest only concession,  this decision shouldnt  
prevent NatWest from considering all options  to enforce the mortgage contract. 
Ms J has asked  for a two year interest rate product  to be backdated  to November 2018, and 
for a further six months of interest only payments. I can see why shes  asked  for this, and Im 
conscious that theres a big difference in interest payments if Ms J was on one of NatWests 
most competitive interest rate products rather than its SVR. Ms J believes that but for this 
situation shed  have taken out a new fixed interest rate product in November 2018. 
However, I dont think that would  have been the case. If NatWest  had agreed an interest 
only concession in June  2018, or some other reduced payment plan as a forbearance  
measure, I dont consider  Ms J would have been  eligible for a new interest rate product in 
November 2018.  Shed have been  in an arrangement to pay less than her contractual 
monthly payment  (which  would be the full capital repayment instalment). She would 
technically still be behind on repaying  the capital due on this mortgage. From my knowledge 
of the mortgage  market,  in this scenario I wouldnt expect her to meet NatWests eligibility 
criteria.
NatWest may say that it would like to make a new interest rate product available  to Ms J now 
to help her in her financial difficulty going forward. But I leave it for NatWest  to consider that 
as an option. I dont think NatWest has made a mistake in not offering a new interest rate 
product in November  2018, and Im not planning to direct  it to do so now.  
Ive set out what I think should happen  until June 2020. Ms J has asked  for an extension to 
this concession to November 2020.  I dont  think it would  be appropriate for me to tell 
NatWest to offer a further five months  of this arrangement at this stage. I say this because I 
think its reasonable, and actually very important, for Ms J to speak to NatWest again  before 
June 2020 to update  it on her position  and to review whether shes managed to catch up 
with the missed mortgage payments.  At that point NatWest and Ms J should discuss  whether 
it would  be appropriate  to extend the interest  only concession, in the knowledge of the latest 
position with Ms Js divorce and her overall financial situation at that time.
Ref: DRN70778586my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint against National Westminster  Bank  Plc. 
I direct  National Westminster Bank  Plc to do the following to settle  the matter:
-Rework Ms Js mortgage as if a two year interest  only payment concession  was 
entered into in June  2018; 
-Give Ms J details of the interest that she owes since that time so she can now 
arrange to pay the interest  due; 
-If Ms J pays the entire interest  owed since her last repayment by June 2020, 
NatWest should  correct her credit  file to reflect a payment  arrangement being 
entered into and stuck  to by Ms J; and
-Pay Ms J £500 for the trouble and upset it caused her by not engaging with her 
payment proposal  sooner.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 January 2020.
Emma Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7077858