K820x#14complaint
Ms C complains that items she returned  to Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited 
(trading as Very) have  not been  credited back to her account or returned to her.
background
Ms C bought an Apple MacBook in November  2017  on a buy now pay later credit  
agreement. In October 2018 Ms C contacted Very and explained  that the product had 
developed a fault and when she returned it to Apple  for a repair  under warranty  she was 
advised that the product  was second  hand  and the warranty was not valid.
Very assured Ms C that it does not sell second hand  Apple products and suggested that she 
return it for inspection. A home collection was arranged on 6 October  2018  but this was not 
successful. Ms C contacted Very again and a returns label was generated for Ms C to return  
the item via the post office or Collect Plus.  Ms C says she returned  the laptop  to Very on 
14 November 2018. She says that the item has not been refunded  to her account or repaired 
or returned. Very say that there was no laptop in the parcel sent by Ms C on the 
14 November 2018. The parcel contained  items  of clothing.
Ms C brought her complaint to this service  and our investigator did not recommend  it was 
upheld. He thought that there was no evidence to show that the Apple  laptop was ever 
returned to Very and so he couldnt say that it had done anything  wrong.  
Ms C didnt agree and replied to say in summary that she would provide further comments in 
due course. No additional comments  have  been  received but as Ms C doesnt  agree with the 
investigator the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Ms C raised a complaint about the fault with the laptop with Very and it was 
agreed that she could  return it for further investigation. 
Ms C says it was in a parcel returned  on 14 November 2018 and has provided a receipt with 
the tracking numbers.  There are three  tracking  numbers on the receipt.  One is for a parcel  to 
another company. One relates to a pair of shoes that was refunded to Ms Cs account. The 
third number is the parcel that Ms C says contained  the laptop.
Ms C says that she later received a parcel containing clothing belonging to someone  else 
that she had not ordered.  It seems to me that Ms C is saying  that this is where  the mix up 
may have  happened.
I have looked  at the system notes provided  by Very for this parcel. I can see that it relates to 
a pair of trousers and a top ordered by Ms C on 27 October 2018. The system notes show  
that as these did not meet the returns policy of Very they were returned  to Ms C. The shoes 
were refunded to Ms Cs account.
Ref: DRN72162582I appreciate what Ms C is saying but looking at all the information provided I cant say that on 
balance the laptop was ever received by Very. The items in the returned parcels tie in with 
the orders made by Ms C at that time.  
Very say that it does  not sell second  hand Apple products and the laptop was ordered and 
supplied to Ms C directly from the manufacturer. It has also provided evidence  of this order.
In these circumstances I agree with the conclusions  of the investigator and I cant ask Very 
to do any more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or reject  my decision 
before 12 July 2020.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7216258