K820x#14complaint
Mr L has complained  that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) refused to fly him and his family  
home business class  following his claim for medical  assistance under his travel  policy.
background
Mr L was on holiday abroad with his wife and two young children at his own holiday home. 
His son became ill with a respiratory illness and required hospital treatment for three days.  
The doctors didnt  certify  Mr Ls son as fit to fly for a further two weeks.
That meant they all missed their original  booked flights  for their return  to the UK. Mr L then 
returned to the UK alone for work. When his son was deemed fit to fly he asked IPA to fly 
him back to his holiday destination  and then allow all of them to fly home together.  He 
wanted their flights back to the UK to be business class flights as that was what he had 
originally booked.
IPA agreed to fly Mr L back to his holiday destination economy class but said the cover  
under his policy was limited to economy flights only for the familys return  to the UK. Mr L 
didnt think this was fair and complained  but IPA would change its stance. So he asked 
another insurer to arrange the flights for him instead.  
He then brought his complaint to us. The investigator didnt think IPA had done  anything 
wrong and in any event Mr L hadnt  suffered any loss. Mr L didnt  agree  so his complaint has 
been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint. Ill now explain  why.
My role and the role of this service  is to assess whether the business, IPA, has done 
anything wrong  in relation to its service to Mr L under the terms and conditions  of the policy.  
If it has, we then ask the business  to put things right such as refund any losses  Mr L may 
have suffered and/or pay some compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Here Mr L didnt have any losses as another insurer arranged the flights for  him  and his 
family to get home in his wished for business class seats. I will deal with the implications of 
this later.
First, I need to consider  whether IPA did anything  wrong in insisting the limit of its liability  
under the policy  was to provide economy  seats for the repatriation of Mr L and his family 
home. 
Mr Ls policy provided cover for medical assistance  and consequent repatriation  if someone 
insured on his policy became ill. This sadly happened with his young  son. So the insured 
event as in the trigger  for the policy to respond with medical assistance, was his sons  
illness. As a consequence of the duration  of his sons lack of fitness  to fly that also meant Mr 
Ls family  couldnt  use their booked return flights back to the UK. That in turn meant under 
Mr Ls policy it was for IPA to then arrange for their repatriation. 
Ref: DRN70771982So, as fully detailed  in the investigators view, the policy is very clear that where repatriation 
is required it is by economy flights.   The  policy says the following:
YOUR BENEFITS
You will be covered for the following:
1) Medical  treatment: Up to £2,000,000 for necessary medical, surgical and hospital 
treatment as a result  of You becoming  ill or injured during  Your Trip. In order  for Us 
to evaluate the facts  of the medical  situation, You must release Your treating 
physician and Your registered Medical Practitioner(s) from their doctor/patient 
confidentiality. 
2) Transport  to hospital: Necessary costs for transporting or transferring You to the 
nearest adequately equipped hospital,  when deemed necessary by a recognised  
Medical Practitioner, if free transport is not available.
3) Your  travel home after treatment: We will arrange  and pay for necessary costs  to 
repatriate You to Your Country  of Residence when recommended  by Our Senior 
Medical Officer, including  the cost of a medical  escort if necessary. 
4) Return  home of Your travelling companions: The cost of an economy flight  or 
standard rail ticket if their original means  of transportation home cannot be used.
This is exactly  what IPA offered to Mr L. The dispute surrounds the fact that simply Mr L 
wanted to be flown home  business class, which is not covered by this term covering medical 
assistance and repatriation. Therefore I dont consider IPA did anything  wrong in not offering 
the facility of business class repatriation, since there  was no medical  need  for his son to 
require business  class.
Mr L has made much of the cover of £7,500 for abandonment, postponement or 
cancellation. But as far as Im aware, Mr L hasnt  made any claim for the loss of cost of his 
return business flights, so Im not aware how IPA would have treated such  a claim. But 
essentially I consider  that Mr L is really  complaining  about the loss of comfort of being  told 
he and his family would have  to travel home in economy rather than business class.  As his 
policy doesnt provide for repatriation by business class seats I cant say IPA did anything 
wrong in not providing him with such a service.
Notwithstanding this Mr L didnt take up of IPAs offer of repatriation  and had another  insurer  
repatriate him presumably via business class. Therefore, Mr L has no loss since he availed 
of business class flights home in any event. 
Mr L complained that IPAs stance and service to him consequently  caused him significant 
distress and inconvenience. Ive gone through IPAs file carefully. Other than it refusing  to fly 
Mr L and his family home business class, I have  seen  no evidence of any poor service. 
Obviously, its naturally distressing when your young  son required hospital medical attention 
and the holiday  was consequently disrupted  but I dont consider IPAs service  to Mr L fell 
short in dealing with his claim and explaining its policy  limits.
Ref: DRN70771983my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 July 2020
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7077198