K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Ferratum UK Ltd has registered  a default on his credit file incorrectly.
background
Mr B took a payday  loan for £200  from Ferratum in February 2018. It was repayable  in 1 
monthly instalment  that was due on 29 March  2018.  Mr B fell into difficulties and wasnt able 
to repay  the loan as it became due. On 30 May 2018 Ferratum  sent Mr B a default notice 
explaining that a default would be registered in 31 days. No repayment was made and 
Ferratum reported  a default  on 3 July 2018.
Mr B arranged a discounted  settlement with Ferratum and repaid £260 on 31 July 2018. 
There was then a delay in Ferratum reporting the account as settled but this has now been  
rectified and backdated.
Mr B says that the default is unfair.
Mr Bs complaint has been  assessed by one of our adjudicators.  He didnt think that 
Ferratum had done anything wrong  by reporting  the default because  Mr Bs account  was in 
default as he had not been making  contractual repayments and he made the partial 
settlement after the default was recorded. He thought it was reasonable for the default to be 
recorded and reflected  the operation of the account so he didnt think  the complaint should 
be upheld.
Mr B didnt agree with that assessment. He said that it wasnt  fair that the default was 
applied because of such a short delay in making  the agreed  repayment. He thought that he 
should have been given  some assistance by Ferratum as a responsible lender to rebuild his 
credit file. So, as the complaint hasnt been  resolved informally, it has been passed to me, 
an ombudsman, to decide. This is the last stage  of our process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
In deciding this complaint  I have taken account  of the submissions that have been made by 
Mr B and by Ferratum. 
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
I dont think there is any dispute here that Mr B borrowed money from Ferratum and was 
unable to repay that loan when it was due. 
Ref: DRN78221172A lender is required, by the Consumer Credit Act, to provide  14 days  notice  before an 
account is defaulted. A Default Notice was sent to Mr B on 30 May 2018 and the default was 
recorded on 3 July 2018 in line with the 31 days given in the notice. Mr B had not been 
making payments  to his account and so I think that Ferratum did record  the default  correctly. 
I can see that Mr B made a partial  payment that Ferratum agreed  it would accept  in full 
settlement of the account on 31 July 2018. This was not enough to settle  the account in full 
and the payment was made  some  weeks after the default.
There were problems with Ferratum correctly recording that the account  was settled and 
Ferratum have now rectified this and backdated  the information.  I think this is enough to put 
Mr B back  into the position he would have been  in. Ferratum did not agree to remove  the 
default and I cant  say it was wrong to do this.
I can understand why Mr B thinks this is unfair and why he feels that Ferratum  has not acted 
as a responsible  lender to allow him to rebuild his credit file. But I think the default was 
issued correctly as Mr B wasnt making  the required contractual monthly payments and 
hadnt brought the account  up to date within the required period.
I appreciate that my decision will be disappointing for Mr B and I dont doubt that he had a 
genuine difficulty and took steps  to deal with his debt responsibly. But I consider that 
Ferratum provided him with enough notice that the default would  be applied, and that the 
date of the default fairly reflects his failure to repay his borrowing when  it was due. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold the complaint or make  any award against 
Ferratum UK Ltd.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019.
Emma Boothroyd
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7822117