K820x#14complaint
Ms C says British Gas Insurance Limited is responsible for poor customer  service and has 
recorded incorrect information on her home emergency account.
background
Ms C was having problems with her tap in 2017.  She thought this would be covered by her 
home emergency policy so she called British  Gas. It materialised that because of issues  with 
her kitchen work surface  the necessary repair couldnt be undertaken. A further visit was 
carried out in April 2018 to provide another opinion about her tap as well as examining an 
issue shed reported  with a faulty isolation valve.
Ms C has a number of concerns about  the service she received. She says British Gas 
records are incorrect  she disputes  what works have been done.  Shes  unhappy about 
being sent demands for payment of fees which it had been agreed would be waived. She 
also felt that some British  Gas staff were rude to her. And she wanted compensation for the 
time and effort  shed put into dealing  with her complaint.
British Gas recognised  that Ms C hadnt received the service she shouldve done.  I can see 
in its final response it apologised.  It sent her two separate cheques  for £50 because of the 
trouble and upset  it had caused her. And it did waive the £60 excess  fee which was 
otherwise payable under her policy.
The investigator didnt  uphold this case. Ms C disagreed and so her complaint has come to 
me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this case.  Ive reached broadly the same conclusions  as 
the investigator for the same reasons.  So Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
Ms C says the information British Gas recorded on her home emergency policy is wrong.  In 
particular, she disputed  it changed or fixed her stopcock. On the other  hand,  British Gas said 
it had been replaced.
From what  Ive seen I think this matter stems largely  from communication  issues  at British 
Gas. For example, I can see that its adviser referred  to the stopcock being replaced as did 
its final response letter to Ms C. There also seems to be confusion about works  done to the 
isolation valve in Ms Cs kitchen as opposed to the stopcock under her stairs?  I dont have 
any photos showing me the situation before and after the works.
Where theres a difference between parties and incomplete evidence  as is the case  here, I 
have to consider  whats most likely to have happened. As British  Gas agreed for an engineer  
to revisit Ms Cs property  with specific instructions to review the contested  works, I have 
placed weight  on those findings. For example, the engineer who attended Ms Cs property 
has confirmed the stopcock was repacked  (repaired).
Ref: DRN79004812I can understand why Ms C wants her records to be accurate. So, like the investigator,  I 
remind British Gas of its obligation  to ensure all customer  details  are accurate. Its agreed to 
write to Ms C about the mix-up and let her know exactly what  is shown on her records. 
Achieving a common  understanding of what works have  been done after each visit to her 
property would clearly  be helpful.
Turning to the service  Ms C received from British Gas. When Im deciding  how to sort out a 
complaint, Ill think about whether its fair to award compensation for any trouble and upset 
caused. This isnt intended to fine or punish a business  which  is the job of the regulator. 
But when somethings gone wrong,  a businesss recognition of the impact can make a real 
difference.
Were all inconvenienced occasionally in our day-to-day lives,  including in our dealings with 
other people, businesses and organisations. For me to award compensation, I need to 
decide that the impact of British Gas actions in this case was greater than just a minor 
inconvenience. 
Im also mindful of what Ms C told us recently   [British Gas]  has been  very 
accommodating throughout these  few months,  and I believe in fairness, tolerance and 
working together amicably in order to come to a reasonable resolution.
British Gas has already  acknowledged it didnt get everything right in dealing  with Ms C. Its 
said sorry, its waived fees and its offered her £100  for the trouble and upset  it caused  her. 
In effect it acknowledged this wasnt just a matter of minor inconvenience. I agree. But I think 
its done enough and I dont think it would  be fair for me to require it to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Ms Cs complaint.
British Gas Insurance Limited has offered to pay Ms C £100. I conclude  that such  an offer is 
fair compensation in the circumstances. So my decision  is that it should  pay her within 28 
days of receiving Ms Cs notice of her acceptance of my decision.
I understand that Ms C returned the original cheques sent to her by British Gas so these 
may need to be stopped and reissued, or a mutually acceptable alternative payment 
arrangement agreed.
British Gas will also write to Ms C confirming what works have been completed after the 
visits to her property and how this has been recorded.
Ms C should  note that if she accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation.
If, however,  Ms C rejects  my decision,  although her legal rights  will remain intact, itll be 
purely a matter between  her and British Gas as to whether its offer remains open for 
acceptance. Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror  after rejection of it has 
been communicated.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 March  2019.
Ref: DRN79004813Kevin Williamson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7900481