K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that British Gas Insurance Limited (BG) breached the conditions  of his home 
emergency policy because it didnt identify damage to his boiler. This has led to the boiler 
being condemned (declared  unsafe) by another provider.  
All references to BG include their agents.
background
Mr H took out a home emergency policy with BG in 2010 and continued with this until 2018. 
Under his policy  Mr H had annual services carried out and some repairs, including a service 
completed by BG on 5 November 2018. 
Mr H moved home emergency  providers  on 19 November 2018 and on the initial  visit, (on 
that day); the third party  provider deemed the boiler  to be unsafe  and an immediate danger 
due to corrosion  of the flue. The appliance  was then removed and Mr H had a new boiler 
installed.
Mr H was unhappy about this and complained to BG. 
BG said its work  reports  from the times  it has serviced and repaired the boiler dont show 
any issues with a damaged flue or corrosion. But it said it had advised Mr H about the age 
and efficiency of the boiler and quoted him for a new one. According  to BG the boiler went  
out of production in 1997 and the flue became obsolete in 2013.   
BG agreed  that the service it carried out on 5 November was below standard,  although it 
says, the readings  from the boiler showed no evidence of leakage  or combustion.  BG said 
signs of corrosion may have been evident  on previous visits, but it is impossible to ascertain 
when the actual breach of the flue occurred as a result of this corrosion and how long it had 
taken to get to that stage. It offered a refund of the last years premiums  (£283.45) and an 
additional £100 for inconvenience. 
Mr H didnt accept BGs  offer. He said that he has paid BG since 2010  to service and 
maintain his boiler and ensure it was safe.  He said while he had been advised  of the age, 
availability of parts and efficiency  of the boiler,  BG hadnt told him that the boiler wasnt  
operational or was unsafe at any point. So he doesnt think there was any need to replace it; 
at least not until he was told it was unsafe to use. He feels BG has breached  its contract with 
him by failing to identify  any problems with the flue or corrosion.
Mr H then complained  to us. He said he wanted  a refund of the money he paid for the 
maintenance of his old boiler. He doesnt  agree with BG that everything was safe as there  
were no symptoms of the breached flue identified on the call outs and work reports; he says 
he paid BG to ensure the boiler was safe and he doesnt think  it did this. 
Our investigator looked into this for Mr H and he thought  that BG should  pay Mr H an 
additional £150 in compensation for the distress  and inconvenience suffered once the third 
party condemned the boiler. He didnt feel that BG should refund Mr Hs premiums for 
previous years (other than the last one which it had offered to refund) because he thought 
the boiler was insured and the contract of insurance was carried  out. 
Ref: DRN75439472BG disagreed with our investigator  because it felt it had already offered  the right redress  
bearing in mind the age of the boiler.  It said that although the engineers didnt advise of the 
corrosion it was difficult to say when it got to the state it did, and the removal  of the flue by 
the new provider  could have caused more damage than would have  been  evident at its visit. 
Mr H also disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision. He accepted a return of all of 
his premiums wouldnt be right but thought some of the premiums  should be returned. He 
said this was because  he was told by an engineer that corrosion would have occurred over a 
number of years. He feels he was put at risk by BG and didnt get the level of service  he paid 
for. He feels  BG is missing the point  by saying this wouldnt have been an issue if hed 
replaced the boiler earlier. He says he relied on BG telling him the boiler  was safe and 
operational.
As neither party agreed with the investigator, the case has been  passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done that Im going to uphold  it 
in part.
Ive looked carefully  at the policy and as our investigator has said,  it doesnt cover 
installation of a new boiler, because Mr Hs boiler was over 7 years  old. So I think Mr H 
wouldve had to pay for a new boiler  in any event. 
From what  Ive seen, BG attended to complete the annual service every  year from 2010. 
And I understand each time Mr H was advised that the boiler was safe and operational. I can 
also see that he was advised that a new boiler  would be more efficient, and he was advised 
about the unavailability of some parts for his existing boiler. But I dont  think  because the 
boiler was old and not as efficient as a new one, it follows that its necessarily unsafe. And, 
from what Ive seen,  at no point did BG tell Mr H his boiler was unsafe. So I dont think  Mr H 
did anything wrong  by not replacing his boiler while it was insured by BG.
Ive seen the pictures Mr H has provided of the condemned boiler. I agree its unlikely the 
corrosion will have occurred over the two weeks between BG and the new providers visits. 
But its not possible for me to say when it did occur. Mr H said an engineer told him it 
wouldve been happening  for at least five years. But, other than what Mr H has said, I have 
no evidence to support  that.
BG has accepted that the service carried out by their engineer on 5 November  was below 
standard, although it does say that there  was no evidence of any combustion leak.  I 
understand Mr Hs concern that it is unlikely a third party could  condemn  the boiler two 
weeks later without there being  any evidence of this at the earlier visit by BG. So I think  its 
likely BG missed something at that appointment. 
Part of BGs  annual service involves checking the emissions coming from the boiler.  I 
havent seen any evidence that there were any concerns  about  this before the boiler was 
condemned. Without this evidence I dont think BG should refund Mr H his premiums  for the 
years before 2018. But as I said above,  its likely that BG had missed  something during the 
final service, on 5 November. For that reason I think its offer to refund Mr H his premiums for 
2018 was fair and reasonable.   
Ref: DRN75439473In terms of the inconvenience Mr H has suffered, I can only award this from time of the event 
being known about. I cant award  for potential  distress  that Mr H could have suffered before 
he knew about the damaged boiler.  But I think having the boiler classified as an immediate 
danger would have clearly  been  very distressing to Mr H and I think warrants more than the 
£100 offered by BG. In any event this appears to have been  offered as compensation for the 
delay in responding to his complaint. 
So I think BG should pay Mr H some compensation for the distress caused by discovering 
the boiler was condemned just after BG had told him it was safe. I can see how this would 
have worried Mr H and how it could have  caused  him to doubt what he had been told 
previously by BG. I think BG should  pay Mr H an additional £150 for this. 
I understand that BG has sent Mr H two cheques, one for £383.45 (to cover the refund of 
one years premiums (£283.45) and £100 compensation) and another  for £100,  making  
£483.45 in total, which I understand Mr H has cashed. So BG should  pay Mr H another £50 
to make £533.45 in total. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Im upholding Mr Hs complaint in part. In addition to what it has 
already paid, British  Gas Insurance Limited must pay Mr H an additional £50 for the distress  
and inconvenience  it caused him, to bring  the total to £533.45  (283.45  for the premium and 
£250 compensation). 
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the £50 within 28 days  of the date on which we tell it 
Mr H accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year 
simple*.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2019.
Clare Barker
ombudsman
* If British  Gas Insurance Limited considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr H a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN7543947