K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L complain about the way they were treated after they agreed a payment break 
on their conditional  sale agreement with A Shade Greener (Boilers)  LLP (ASG).
background
Mr and Mrs L acquired a new boiler  through a 14 year conditional sale agreement  with ASG 
in February 2014.  The agreement contained provisions that ASG would maintain and service 
the boiler for the life of the agreement.  In October  2018 Mr and Mrs L signed  an addendum 
shortening the term of the agreement, changing the monthly repayment  to £70 and releasing 
ASG from its obligation  to service and maintain  the boiler. 
Shortly after this Mr L became unwell and had to go into hospital. In November 2018 Mr L 
asked if he could take a break from repayments  under  the agreement  and ASG  agreed.  
ASG says it attempted to contact Mr L in March and April 2019 to resume  payments. But it 
says that because Mr and Mrs L didnt respond or make any payments it issued a default  
notice on 23 April 2019. It issued legal proceedings against Mr and Mrs L for the total 
amount owed under the agreement on 31 May 2019. 
Mr and Mrs L say it was unfair for ASG to default the agreement as they had only missed 
one payment of £70. 
Our investigator thought Mr and Mrs Ls complaint should be upheld.  He said ASG didnt 
make it clear  enough when Mr and Mrs L were  expected to resume payments or when the 
payment break ended. He said ASG  should restore their agreement back to how it was 
before the default and remove any adverse information from their credit file. 
ASG agreed with the investigators recommendations on the condition  Mr and Mrs L wrote to 
the court confirming  they withdrew  their defence to the claim ASG had made against them.  
Mr and Mrs L were  not happy to do this. ASG then dropped this requirement  but Mr and Mrs 
L asked for a final decision  from an ombudsman saying they did not trust ASG  to withdraw 
the case from court. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs L have made  some complaints about the amount they owe on the agreement as 
a result of the addendum signed in October 2018.  Mr and Mrs L have asked me not to 
consider these complaint points here so I make no findings in respect of these  in this 
decision. 
While looking  at this complaint, Ive given due consideration, among everything else,  to the 
Financial Conduct  Authority Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC). This is a set of rules 
and guidance  made by the regulator for firms carrying out consumer credit activities  (as ASG 
is doing in this case acting as a lender under  a conditional sale agreement). CONC 7.3.4 
sets out that 
Ref: DRN72727142A firm must treat customers in default  or in arrears difficulties with forbearance and 
due consideration.
Ive kept this overall obligation in mind  when deciding whether ASG treated  Mr and Mrs L 
fairly, but where  there  are other specific areas of CONC I find to be relevant I will make  this 
clear. 
ASGs internal contact  notes show that Mr L called ASG on 30 November 2019 explaining 
that hed just come out of hospital  from an operation, was off sick from work and wanted to 
hold off from payments  until after Christmas. After  asking Mr L for proof of this Mr L emailed  
ASG back on the same  day. He attached doctors evidence and asked that payments 
resume at the end of February 2019. ASGs  internal  records for the same day say that Mr L 
has sent proof in I have  saved in customers folder. Will contact customer end of Feb 2019.
Its clear from the note made by ASG referenced above and the statements of account its 
sent us that it did agree  to the payment break  that Mr and Mrs L requested.  I do find it 
treated Mr and Mrs L with forbearance  and due consideration in agreeing  this. 
But having  agreed this internally, I havent seen anything that shows  ASG  contacted  Mr and 
Mrs L to confirm it, or to make clear exactly when monthly payments should resume again. 
This is important in this case  because  ASG has said that Mr and Mrs L should  have resumed  
repayments from March  2019 onwards. And from looking  at the default notice it sent Mr and 
Mrs L in April 2019, March 2019  is when ASG  considered arrears  began to accrue from. 
While Mr L indicated he wanted  to resume payments at the end of February  2019,  without  
anything to confirm  this, or an exact date that contractual payments should resume, I dont 
think it was clear enough what was expected of Mr and Mrs L when the payment break 
ended. There  was a direct debit in place for repayments to be made  on the fifth of every  
month but it looks like this was cancelled once  the payment break was accepted. So I dont 
think it was fair for ASG to just assume that payments would begin again on the 5 March  
2019. 
I recognise that ASG  tried to contact Mr L on a number  of occasions between  1 March 2019  
and the date of the default notice on 23 April 2019. ASGs  internal notes show records of 
attempted calls and text messages to Mr Ls phone. But while the notes of these calls do 
explain the reason  for the contact, Ive no way of knowing  if this was made clear in the 
voicemail messages  that were left. And the text messages and emails only refer to arrears, 
not the fact the payment  break had ended.  
Furthermore Im not convinced that ASG was even clear itself about what  it was asking Mr 
and Mrs L to pay at this stage. For example, one of its internal notes made  on 7 March  2019 
says owing £350 (seemingly making reference to the payments not made during the 
payment break), yet the default notice said there were arrears  of £140. 
Mr and Mrs L have said that the reason no action was taken after some of this contact was 
because Mr L was recovering from complications hed experienced from his earlier surgery.  
So, even if ASG had been able to get in touch  with Mr and Mrs L to discuss  what  it 
considered was due for March 2019,  I think its likely, given Mr Ls health and the fact he was 
not working that Mr and Mrs L wouldnt have been in a position to make  a repayment yet. I 
think the fair thing to do, giving regard  to ASGs obligation under CONC 7.3.4 to treat Mr and 
Mrs L with forbearance  and due consideration, wouldve been to allow  Mr and Mrs L a little 
bit more time on the payment break.
Ref: DRN72727143So, having  not made it clear to Mr and Mrs L when their payment break  ended  or when 
monthly payments  should resume  and given  Mr Ls circumstances in early March  2019 - I 
dont think it was fair for ASG to treat Mr and Mrs Ls account as in two months of arrears  at 
the point it issued the default notice. So I dont think ASG shouldve sent the default notice or 
required Mr and Mrs L to repay the whole balance  due on their agreement  in April 2019.  
Once Mr and Mrs L were in a position  to make repayments in late March  2019 I can see that 
Mr L emailed ASG  asking for its bank  details. ASG sent this in early April 2019.  It did then 
take Mr and Mrs L a few weeks before they made a payment,  and this was after they 
received the default notice from ASG. But as I dont think  it was fair to treat the account in 
default at this point,  I think the fair thing  to do would have been to accept the payment and 
make sure there was agreement for the date of future repayments. Mr and Mrs L have 
maintained repayments on the agreement since April 2019 and have cleared the arrears that 
ASG said they were in for March and April 2019. So I dont think there would have been any 
more problems with their account from this point.  
With this in mind I think it would be fair in this case for ASG to treat Mr and Mrs Ls account  
as if their payment  break ended in March 2019 and as if repayments began  on time from 
then onwards. Their  credit  agreement should  be amended  to reflect  this and any adverse 
information about the agreement recorded from March 2019  onwards should be removed. 
ASG issued legal proceedings against  Mr and Mrs L on 31 May 2019 and Im aware that the 
case is due for hearing on 16 October  2019.  Ive  given consideration to this against the 
backdrop of CONC 7.15.10 where it says:
Complaints to the Financial  Ombudsman  Service and initiating legal  
proceedings
A lender must not initiate legal proceedings in relation  to a regulated credit 
agreement where  the lender is aware  that the customer  has submitted a valid 
complaint or what appears to the firm may be a valid complaint relating  to the 
agreement in question  that is being considered  by the Financial Ombudsman 
Service. 
Mr and Mrs Ls conditional  sale agreement  with ASG is a regulated credit agreement. This 
service accepted Mr and Mrs Ls complaint on 13 May 2019. On 29 May 2019 ASG  
acknowledged the complaint was with us. And on 31 May 2019 it sent us its complaint file 
and explained  that it would shortly  be commencing court proceedings. So I think  ASG 
wouldve known Mr and Mrs L had submitted a valid complaint  with this service before  it 
initiated legal proceedings. 
I therefore find ASG acted in contravention of CONC 7.15.10  when it initiated legal 
proceedings against Mr and Mrs L.  
I cannot of course  stop ASG from pursuing  court proceedings in this decision. But in 
breaching this rule I do find ASG  has caused  Mr and Mrs L considerable distress and 
inconvenience. This is in addition  to the distress  and inconvenience caused to them  by the 
lack of clarity  on the payment break  and the subsequent pursuit  of the full balance on their 
agreement from April 2019. I think ASG  should pay Mr and Mrs L compensation of £400  for 
all of this. 
Ref: DRN72727144my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, my final decision is that I uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint. To put things right, A Shade Greener (Boilers) LLP must:
treat Mr and Mrs Ls agreement as if their payment break ended and repayments 
resumed (and were not missed) in March 2019; 
remove any adverse information  that has been recorded on Mr and Mrs Ls credit  file 
from March 2019 onwards,  and;
pay Mr and Mrs L compensation of £400  for the distress and inconvenience they 
have been caused.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr and Mrs L to accept  
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Michael Ball
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7272714