K822xcomplaint
Mrs S has complained about Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited.  She says that it didnt 
properly update her details  when  she gave notice of change of address. This meant that 
several letters from Aviva were addressed incorrectly and not received by her. She says that 
this led to Aviva not collecting  her pension contributions which  was against her wishes  and 
has caused her loss. 
Mrs S is also unhappy that she was incorrectly  told that she could make a lump sum 
payment to cover the missed contributions. And there was then delay in making the refund 
due to account verification issues.
background 
Mrs S held a pension plan with Aviva. She wrote with a change of address in May 2015.  But 
the address was not changed  properly on Avivas systems meaning that some letters  were  
sent with an incorrect  or only partially  correct address.
Aviva wrote to Mrs S twice in the months before her selected retirement  date in early 2016. 
The letters told her, amongst  other  things, that if they didn't hear from her by the selected  
retirement date, they would change her plan to show a later retirement date five years  later.  
Mrs S didnt contact Aviva; she says that she felt satisfied her pension would continue  on for 
another five years and she need not take any action.
Aviva sent another letter in March 2016 which said that no more  pension payments would be 
collected from Mrs S. This letter  didnt  have a complete address and we know  that it wasnt  
delivered, as it was returned to Aviva marked as damaged.
Mrs Ss annual  statement  was also returned  to Aviva in 2016 and Aviva removed the 
address from their system to prevent any further  letters being sent to an apparently  incorrect  
address. 
Mrs S got in touch with Aviva and updated her address in 2018. When  she received her 
annual statement in June  2018, she called Aviva  to reinstate her direct  debit. She was then 
told, incorrectly, that she could backdate her premiums and she made a payment of £7200.  
When the correct position  was identified,  Aviva tried to refund the payment  but there was 
delay due to a verification failure.  The refund was actioned in July 2018  along with a 
payment of interest.
Mrs S complained to Aviva. It upheld  her complaint and offered her £300  compensation but 
she didnt accept. Mrs S then referred  the complaint to this service  where  it was considered  
by an adjudicator. The adjudicator thought  the offer was fair and recommended  Mrs S 
accept it.
The adjudicator noted that Aviva had accepted that it had let Mrs S down in respect of the 
address change. It had made  errors, but she felt that Aviva had taken steps to put things 
right and compensate  Mrs S fairly.
After reviewing in detail the letters  Aviva  sent Mrs S before her retirement date, the 
adjudicator noted  that although  they did not tell Mrs S her pension payments would stop, it 
Ref: DRN73315302was clear Aviva asked her to take action  and to contact them if she was not ready  to take 
benefits, and Mrs S didnt  do this.
The adjudicator also noted that the policy terms and conditions said that payments  would  be 
made up to and including the selected retirement  date  January 2016 in this case. Aviva 
were not able to continue  taking payments after this date without her permission. 
The adjudicator acknowledged that being  overseas made it difficult for Mrs S to access  her 
bank accounts,  but it was not unreasonable to expect that customers would check their 
direct debits and Mrs S might  have noticed  sooner.
The adjudicator said that she understood that Mrs S felt she had missed  out on potential 
growth and tax relief  on her contributions, but she had the benefit of the money since the 
payments were stopped. So the adjudicator didnt think  Mrs S had incurred a financial loss 
from the direct debit not being taken as she expected. 
Aviva had acknowledged it made a mistake when advising Mrs S that she could backdate  
the missed pension payments and then taking  a payment from her. This is not in dispute.  But 
the adjudicator  explained  that all financial businesses have to follow  anti-money  laundering 
regulations and Aviva appeared to have followed them here.
In their final response letter, Aviva had offered  Mrs S £300 compensation. The adjudicator  
thought this was fair and reasonable compensation for the errors  Aviva had made  and the 
inconvenience they had caused Mrs S.
Mrs S did not agree  with the adjudicators  view and requested an ombudsman look at the 
complaint and make a final decision.  She said, in summary:
Aviva  should have contacted her after the letter  of March 16 was returned, as it held 
her full correct address and an email address.
She had not been told that contributions would stop.
There had been multiple failures. She had lost growth on her contributions  and tax 
relief.
Although she had received the letter of November  2015, it had been received after 
January 2016.
As no agreement has been reached, the case has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive summarised what  the parties have 
said, but I have  read everything.  Having  done  that, Ive reached the same, or essentially the 
same, conclusions as the adjudicator. I dont uphold this complaint as I consider the offer 
made by Aviva to be a fair one in all the circumstances.
Aviva accepts that it has made errors  dealing with the change of address. But Im not 
satisfied that those errors were the cause  of the pension contributions stopping.
Mrs S did receive the letters of August  2015 and November 2015 (although this letter may 
have been received after the policy retirement date of January 2016). I think its reasonably  
Ref: DRN73315303clear from these letters that Aviva wanted some response from Mrs S to indicate what  she 
wanted from her pension at that time.
The August  letter expressly says that if Mrs S wanted to leave her money  where it was and 
wasnt ready to take benefits, please call us and let us know. The November letter had a 
heading right at the start of the letter which said, we need  to speak with you. It also said, 
its really important that you call us and if you want to delay taking benefits from your plan, 
you need to call us and let us know. 
The November letter did say that the retirement date would be adjusted  by five years in the 
absence of any other instruction. But this was a default position, and whilst there was 
nothing in either letter that said contributions would stop, equally there  was nothing that said 
contributions would still be taken.
Im satisfied that Aviva was acting in accordance with the policy terms when it stopped  taking 
the contributions. I think that Mrs S ought  to have appreciated the need to take some active 
step in relation to her pension when  she received  either of the letters  referred to above. It 
wasnt reasonable in my view, to assume that the plan would just continue unchanged.
The pension contributions werent  inconsiderable,  and I think it would be reasonable to 
expect that non-payment would have  been  noticed  some time sooner than it was. So even if 
Aviva were  responsible for the failure to collect contributions  (and I dont think that they 
were), I dont think it would be fair to hold them responsible for the consequences of the full 
period of non-payment.
Its unfortunate that Mrs S was given  incorrect  information about making a lump sum 
payment to cover the missed contributions. But that error was quickly  corrected and any loss 
made good. I dont  think Aviva can be criticised for following the verification process as it did.
So I dont  uphold this complaint. Whilst Aviva  has made errors, I think its offer is fair in all the 
circumstances.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Aviva has made  a fair offer and I dont make any further award.  
The offer is available for acceptance and Mrs S should let the adjudicator  know if she now 
wishes to accept it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 September 2019.
Keith Taylor
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7331530