K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that Santander UK Plc placed  illegal  restrictions on his account without 
informing him, which caused him embarrassment  and inconvenience.   
background
Mr J said he tried to make  a store purchase whilst abroad but his card was declined, despite  
having plenty  of funds in his account  and telling  the bank he would be abroad. Santander 
told him it had put a restriction on his account,  only allowing access to £300 because 
another bank  had contacted Santander  about his plans to transfer  money abroad.
Mr J said he refused to say what he planned  to do with his money as Santander had said it 
had no grounds  to suspect he was acting  illegally.  He said after further contact  the restriction  
was lifted, but Santander  said his card had been declined due to insufficient funds, which  
was untrue. He said Santander apologised and paid him £100, but there was no explanation 
or apology  for the restriction on his account and no response to his Subject Access  Request.
Mr J said Santanders actions couldve had very serious implications as he was completing a 
house purchase which might have  been  jeopardised had he needed to access his funds. He 
said hes been treated like a criminal by Santander and its response was appalling.  
Santander said in order to protect its customers  from fraud  its systems  check  transactions 
and if it suspects suspicious activity  it seeks confirmation if it is genuine or fraud. It said Mr 
Js transaction was declined  due to insufficient funds. It then corrected this saying a block 
was placed on Mr Js account as it was concerned he may be victim  to a scam and it has a 
duty to protect  his account. Santander apologised for its poor service and paid Mr J £100.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She said Santanders initial  
response to Mr J was inaccurate but its compensation  was fair. She said Santanders 
second response explained  why the payment was declined and the account restricted. She 
said Santander had acted in line with the terms and conditions of the account  and its legal 
and regulatory  obligations. She said it removed the restriction in a reasonable time. 
Mr J disagreed with the investigator and requested an ombudsman review his complaint. He 
said Santander and the contacting bank had cleared previous  transfers.  He said Santander 
made no effort to contact him and rode roughshod over his rights. Mr J said theres been no 
explanation or compensation  for Santanders  actions, and it still hadnt replied to his Subject 
Access Request. He said our service was allowing  this to happen  which is unsurprising 
given very negative media coverage  regarding our bias towards  large financial institutions.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I recognise how frustrating it must  have  been for Mr J to discover his payment was blocked 
and account restricted. Ive considered  Santanders  actions,  however, our services  role is 
quite limited in this area as there  are terms and conditions governing the account and we 
can only look at whether the bank has acted in line with these and if it has acted  in 
accordance with its legal responsibilities. 
Ref: DRN73657792Santander said it stopped Mr Js payment and restricted his account  because it considered 
that he might  be the victim of a scam. The terms and conditions of the account  allow  
Santander to stop payments from going through if they believe it is necessary  for the security  
of the account.
From its records I can see that Santander did try to contact Mr J on all the numbers they 
hold for him before stopping  his payment, and left messages for him, but didnt get through.  
Banks have to act very quickly if they are to protect customers funds in these circumstances 
and so faced with the possibility that Mr J could lose a lot of money Santander stopped the 
transaction. Banks are often criticised  when they dont take this step and allow  payments  to 
proceed and money is lost. 
Santander put a restriction on Mr Js account until it knew if he fully consented  to the 
transaction. The restriction lasted from the 8th to the 12th August 2017, and was removed  as 
soon as Mr J confirmed  that he had instructed the payment. Santander then called Mr J to 
explain that his payment  was blocked because it was outwith his normal spending and it 
feared he might lose his money. 
Santander, in common with all banks, has a duty of care to protect  customers funds. Banks 
are required  to have  procedures in place when  administering accounts in making funds 
available. This means that a bank cant always guarantee  funds are available when 
requested by a customer, and we cant say that the bank  has made a mistake when this 
happens.
I appreciate Mr Js concerns about  the potential  impact of this to his property and other 
transactions, but we are required to consider what actually happened and whether 
Santander did anything  wrong in restricting Mr Js account. From what  Ive seen, Santander 
has acted in line with the terms and conditions  and followed the correct  process  in holding 
up Mr Js transaction and blocking his account. Having said this, it was wrong of Santander 
to tell Mr J it blocked his transaction for insufficient funds. Im pleased Santander has 
apologised for this and I think its compensation is fair.
As Ive explained above, Santander  was entitled to hold the transaction and restrict Mr Js 
access to the funds and I think it did so in order to safeguard his funds. I consider that 
Santander has met its legal and regulatory  responsibilities and so Im unable  to ask it to do 
anything differently and I dont require it to pay compensation for the inconvenience and 
upset to Mr J. 
Santander said it hadnt received Mr Js Subject Access Request and would now respond  to 
the request.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that the complaint  is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Andrew Fraser
Ref: DRN73657793ombudsman
Ref: DRN7365779