K820x#14complaint
Mr Js complaint is that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited wants to deduct  unpaid premiums 
from the maturity value of his policy.  Mr J says these premiums were  unpaid because  Aviva 
didnt collect them.
background
Mr J arranged a mortgage endowment  policy in 1992. The policy had the facility  whereby if 
premiums were missed, the policy  would  be maintained as long as it had a surrender value 
greater than the amount of the unpaid premiums plus any interest accrued on them.  If 
premium arrears did accrue and the policyholder wanted to restore  the policy to normal 
terms, the entire amount of unpaid premiums  and associated interest needed  to be repaid in 
full.
Between May and September 1998 Aviva failed to collect  the monthly premium for Mr Js 
policy. This was its mistake and in October  1998  it informed  Mr J of what had happened. It 
asked him to provide it with a new direct  debit mandate  so it could collect  the monthly 
premiums going forward  and said it would collect an additional amount to cover the missed 
premiums. 
Mr J provided  a new direct debit mandate in December 1998 and asked for details of the 
premium arrears. Aviva set up the new direct debit and the first premium was collected  using 
it for December 1998. This meant the premiums for May to November 1998 were  missed.
Aviva responded to Mr Js questions  at the beginning of January 1999 and confirmed 
£293.88 was owed for the missed premiums  and that, at the time,  they had been advanced 
against the policy  Aviva had effectively loaned the policy the amount of the missing 
premiums. Aviva told Mr J this arrangement  could  remain in place  until he was able to repay 
that amount.  It didnt  increase the amount collected under the direct debit as it had 
previously said it would.
From January 2000 Mr J was sent annual statements  about  the missing  premium amount  
the policy loan.  This included  detailing  how much interest had accrued on the loan over the 
previous year. Mr J paid the interest  amount in 2000.
In September  2005 Mr J complained his policy had been mis-sold.  It appears  he cancelled  
the direct  debit mandate that paid the policy premiums at the same time, as between 
October and December 2005 the monthly premiums couldnt be collected  as the direct debit 
mandate had been cancelled. In December 2005  Mr J telephoned Aviva  to ask what  he 
needed to do to bring his policy up to date. Aviva  wrote to him shortly thereafter with details  
of what he needed  to do/provide to clear the policy loan. It also said,  alternatively, he could 
leave it in place  and simply provide a new direct debit mandate.  
Just over a week later (15 January  2006) Mr J returned the annual loan statement along  with 
a cheque and a new direct debit mandate.  The new mandate was set up and the first 
payment was received by Aviva  on 4 February 2006. 
In 2015 Aviva also wrote to Mr J about the interest  payable on the policy loan. It explained  
that it should have reviewed the interest rate on the loan regularly, but it hadnt done so. It 
had, however, now done such  a review and was reducing the interest rate and backdating 
Ref: DRN74046072the reduction. As such, it reduced  the total amount owed on the policy loan by just under 
£90.
Mr J raised concerns about  the situation  in 2017,  but those concerns werent registered as a 
complaint until June 2018. Aviva  apologised for this mistake and offered Mr J a total of £400 
to compensate him for its mistake about the premium collection and the handling  of his 
complaint. 
Mr J was unhappy with Avivas response  and referred his complaint to this service.  One of 
our investigators considered the complaint, but didnt  recommend it be upheld.  Mr J wasnt  
happy about the outcome  of the complaint. He reiterated he was unhappy about the way 
Aviva had treated  him over the previous two years and believes it was responsible  for the 
arrears accruing on the account, not him. As such, he doesnt  see why he should pay the 
money. Mr J also said he had checked with his bank  and it had no record of there being any 
problems with his direct debits.
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint has been passed  to me to consider. 
I considered this complaint and issued my provisional decision on 30 May 2019. In that 
document I set out my conclusions  and reasons for reaching them. The below is an excerpt  
from the provisional decision.
Aviva  has accepted it made a mistake in 1998  when it stopped collecting the premiums and 
then didnt follow through on its offer to collect the missing premiums over a period of time. It 
has offered Mr J £100 for that mistake. However,  Mr J wants the missed  premiums and 
associated interest written off. 
It would appear Aviva  told Mr J the premiums  had been advanced against the policy  in 1998  
 in other words,  Aviva had lent the policy  that money and it needed to be paid back.  It 
offered to do this gradually by taking a little of the missed premiums each month on the 
direct debit collection. There were no specifics discussed when this offer was made and so 
Mr J wouldnt  have known how much Aviva  was intending to collect each month  or when it 
would start.  
Subsequently, Aviva  then told Mr J the arrangement could remain  in place and didnt  
increase the amount it collected each month.  I think the conflicting comments about what  
could happen  and would be done  may well have confused Mr J at the time. However, it 
would have been clear to him the amount  being collected hadnt  increased. So I think it 
entirely plausible Mr J knew  what was happening.  Even if he didnt realise  immediately in 
early 1999,  he would have known in 2000  when he received an annual  statement for the 
policy loan showing the premiums owed as the same amount as the year before. The fact he 
didnt query  this and chose  to pay the interest that had accrued on those premiums, would 
indicate he was happy the policy loan had remained in place.
In the circumstances, I think Mr J has been aware  the missed  premiums werent paid back 
and remained as a debt on the policy throughout. I dont think  Aviva acted inappropriately 
when it deducted  these premiums and the interest that had accrued on them from the 
maturity value of the policy.
There is then the matter of the premiums which were missed from October 2005. Having 
considered the evidence  I am satisfied Mr J caused  this to happen by cancelling the direct 
debit mandate.  He was clearly aware this had happened, that the missed  premiums had 
Ref: DRN74046073been added  to the policy loan and what he needed to do to repay the loan.  He didnt take 
any action to do so. As such, I am again satisfied Aviva did nothing wrong when it deducted 
the value of these premiums and the associated interest from the policy  maturity  value. 
Aviva confirmed it had received and accepted the provisional decision.
Mr J said he was not happy and cant see why Aviva  is saying he cancelled the direct  debit  
mandate, as what benefit would he have received from doing so. It was Avivas job to take 
the premiums, not his to keep checking  they were doing what they were  meant  to do under 
the direct  debit mandate. However, he is willing to accept my provisional decision  to bring 
the matter to a close.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I note Mr J has concerns about  Aviva  saying he cancelled the direct  debit  mandate. I would 
like to clarify to Mr J there were  two periods where the premiums werent paid. During  the 
first period,  it was Avivas fault the premiums werent collected, however, in the second 
period, it was Mr J who cancelled the direct debit mandate.  I would also confirm that while  a 
business does  have a responsibility  to collect premiums when it has been  instructed to, that 
doesnt remove the primary responsibility  which  is the policyholders to pay premiums.  
As both parties accepted my provisional  decision,  I see no reason to depart from those 
conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, I am required to ask Mr J to accept  or reject my decision before 
17 July 2019.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7404607