K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H took out a number of packaged bank accounts (PBAs) with The Royal 
Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS)  from 1999 to 2016  and they say they were  mis-sold.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out the following accounts  with RBS:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Gold cheque Nov 1997 No
Royalties Gold March 1999 Yes
Royalties Premier October 2006 Yes
Royalties Private May 2007 Yes
Royalties Premier September 2008 Yes
Royalties Gold March 2010 Yes
Select Platinum July 2015 Yes
Reward Platinum February 2016 Yes
Mr and Mrs H say that they were advised  to take out the PBAs but they have not 
benefitted from them. They say they were coerced into taking them  to get a mortgage 
and a large overdraft.  The account  changes happened in a variety of ways including  
meetings with RBS staff and online internet sales.
Our adjudicator didnt  think that RBS mis-sold the accounts. Mr and Mrs H disagree so 
the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach 
to help me decide Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Mr and Mrs H had a fee free bank account with overdraft facilities before they took out 
their first PBA. So I think they knew they had a choice whether to pay a fee for an 
account or not each time they took out a PBA and they chose to take them out. I note 
that at one point  Mr and Mrs H were moved by RBS from one PBA that was closing to a 
new similar  one. I think they were made aware of this at the time, continued to pay the 
fee, and moved  onto another  PBA through their own choice later. So again  I think  Mr 
and Mrs H chose to continue with the PBA accounts throughout.
RBS says that these  were  non-advised sales, by which it means that it didnt recommend 
the PBAs to Mr and Mrs H personally or advise them to take the PBAs out. Mr and Mrs H 
say that RBS did advise them to take out the PBAs. 
Ref: DRN79711442I dont know what was said during the sales, but Ive not seen anything such as any 
records of discussions about Mr and Mrs Hs needs  and circumstances or suitability  
checks to show me clearly that RBS did make personal recommendations to them. I 
accept its possible that in providing  information  to Mr and Mrs H and explaining the 
benefits of the PBAs,  RBS may have said or implied that it was good idea to take out the 
PBAs. But this isnt the same as giving  personal  recommendations. And based on this 
services knowledge  of RBSs sales practices throughout this period,  I think its more likely  
than not that RBS sold the PBAs to Mr and Mrs H on an information only basis. 
This means  RBS did not have to ensure that the PBAs were suitable for Mr and Mrs H, 
but it did have  to provide Mr and Mrs H with good  enough information about  the PBAs so 
they could make an informed decision about  whether to have them or not.
And I think it did. I say this because Mr and Mrs H have said that they were aware they 
were being  charged  for the accounts, they used the preferential overdraft facilities  on offer 
from the time of the first PBA and throughout the others. And they made a series of 
enquiries about using the different  benefits  that were available.
Mr and Mrs H complain that they havent  used many of the benefits. I can see nothing  in 
their personal circumstances throughout that would have stopped them  using the PBAs  
benefits. And it was for them to decide  what they wanted to use and take the steps needed 
to register for or take up the products  and services available. I note that Mr and Mrs H did 
register for some of the non financial benefits  on the later PBA accounts.  
Mr and Mrs H say that they were coerced into getting the PBAs  to get a mortgage and 
large overdraft. But the only mortgage  application  they submitted was in 2010 after theyd 
been using the PBAs for 10 years, and as I said above they were  aware they could get 
substantial overdraft facilities with fee free accounts.  So I think  they are mistaken in their 
memory of this.
So, in my view Mr and Mrs H knew they had a choice about  the PBAs and they chose  to 
take them out. And I dont think there  is anything  RBS didnt  tell them  that would have 
changed their minds and put them off taking out the PBAs.
my final decision
So my decision is that I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H 
to accept or reject my decision before date18 July 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7971144