K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in
2000. Mr W says Canada  Square Operations Limited (then  known as Egg)  mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Egg shouldve  made Mr W aware he had a choice about buying the PPI. From the 
information Ive seen I think Mr Ws PPI policy was bought through an internet application. 
Ive seen some screen shots showing the application process  at the time.  And that included 
the options Yes  and No, for the consumer  to select or decline PPI.
Ive also seen a copy of the information Mr W entered during his application with Egg, and 
that shows he selected Yes for PPI. So on balance I think  Egg made  it clear  that Mr W 
didnt have to take out the PPI, and that he chose  to take it out. Considering  how long ago 
the sale was its understandable he no longer remembers it.
Egg didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr W so it didnt have  to check  if it was right for him.
But it did have to make  sure Mr W got the information he needed to decide if it was right for 
him.
Its possible the information Egg gave Mr W about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI  so it looks like he wanted this type of cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, it doesnt  look like Mr W was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to, or limits  on, the PPI cover   so it wouldve been useful 
for him if something went wrong. Mr W says he wouldve received six months full pay 
following by six months half pay from his employer when the policy was sold.  But the PPI 
wouldve paid out on top of any sick pay he wouldve received and for up to 12 months if he 
was unable to work  because  of accident  or sickness. It also wouldve paid out for up to 12 
months if he lost his job. So I think he wouldve found the policy useful.  
It also looks like the PPI was affordable for Mr W. And as the policys  premiums were  paid 
monthly, he could have cancelled it if it no longer met his needs. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover.
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said but this hasnt changed my mind  about not 
upholding his complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Canada Square  Operations 
Limited.
Ref: DRN74922202Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7492220