K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that Uncle Buck  Finance LLP was irresponsible to lend to him.
background
Mr D had seven loans  from Uncle Buck between March 2015 and April 2016  as follows:
Loan Date Amount Term Due Repayment* Repaid
1 2 Mar 2015 £150 30d 31 Mar 2015 £186 30 Apr 2015 
Rolled over
2 17 Apr 2015 £75 14d 30 Apr 2015 £83.40 On time
3 25 Apr 2015 £75 33d 29 May 2015 £94.80 On time
4 2 Jun 2015 £150 87d 28 Aug 2015 £74.75 On time
5 14 Aug 2015 £150 78d 30 Oct 2015 £69.19 1 Oct 2015
Early
6 22 Dec 2015 £100 100d 31 Mar 2016 £53.39 On time
7 12 Apr 2016 £500 79d 30 Jun 2016 £232.92 30 Sep 2016
Repayment plan
* Scheduled  monthly  repayment
Mr D says that when he applied for the loans he already owed the equivalent  of his monthly 
income and had Uncle Buck done better checks it would have seen that. He says the 
repayments left him with no disposable  income so he was having  to borrow  again, from 
multiple short-term lenders, and was missing some  bill payments as a result. He adds that 
he was stuck in a cycle of borrowing which caused  him to become depressed.
Uncle Buck  says it checked  Mr Ds credit  file and asked him about his monthly  income and 
expenditure. It says it was satisfied that the information it had indicated  the loans were  
affordable. Uncle  Buck  says Mr D made  contact  on 29 July 2016 and he agreed  a repayment 
plan which  enabled  him to repay loan 7 on 30 September  2016.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld. He said he couldnt see 
anything in the available information that suggested  Uncle Buck was wrong to approve loans 
1 to 5. But he said Mr Ds pattern of borrowing  itself suggested hed become reliant on the 
lending by the time he took out loan 6. He recommended Uncle  Buck should refund interest 
and charges on loans 6 and 7 (plus 8% statutory interest), and remove them  from Mr Ds 
credit file.
Uncle Buck  responded to say, in summary,  that there were clear gaps in Mr Ds borrowing, 
in particular between  loans 5 and 6. It says his credit report  showed no other  short-term  
lending and it considered his disposable income of £840 to be reasonable given he lived with 
his parents. Uncle Buck adds that loan 6 was for less than the previous two loans and, 
although loan 7 was significantly higher, he gave a plausible explanation for its purpose and 
it was satisfied he could  afford the repayments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ref: DRN77962582Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr D 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Uncle Buck  was required to establish 
whether Mr D could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ds complaint.
Loans 1 to 5
I cant see anything in the available information that would have indicated to Uncle  Buck that 
these loans were unaffordable to Mr D. It calculated Mr Ds disposable income as between  
£400 and £600 during this period and was satisfied Mr D could make the repayments.
Loans 6 and 7
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending  history with Mr D, with a view 
to seeing if there was a point at which Uncle Buck should reasonably have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Uncle  Buck should have realised 
that it shouldnt  have provided  any further  loans. 
Ref: DRN77962583Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ds case, I think  that this point was reached by loan 
6. I say this because:
By loan 6, Mr D had been borrowing  from Uncle Buck  for more than nine months;
oI accept that Uncle  Buck says there was a significant break  between  loans 5 
and 6, but I dont  think  that was an indication he was no longer reliant on such  
lending. I say that because Uncle Buck had declined a further  six loan 
applications from Mr D in the interim;
Although loan 6 was lower than the previous  two loans, this was because  higher 
loans had been declined by Uncle Buck. Indeed Mr D had applied for as much as 
£500, before  his £100 loan application  was finally  accepted;
Mr D wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount he owed Uncle Buck.  Loan  7 was 
taken out over a year after Mr Ds first. And it was for more than three times the 
amount. Mr D had paid large amounts  of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Uncle  
Buck over an extended period;
oI acknowledge that Uncle  Buck says Mr D gave it a plausible reason for 
requesting the loan,  but I still consider Mr Ds borrowing pattern indicated he 
was at a significant risk of being unable  to repay  the loan, regardless of its 
purpose.
I think that Mr D lost out because Uncle Buck continued to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Ds indebtedness by allowing  him 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the sheer number  of loans was likely to have had negative  implications on Mr Ds 
ability to access mainstream credit and so kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loans 6 and 7 and Uncle  Buck should put things right.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. Uncle Buck Finance LLP should:
Refund all interest  and charges that Mr D paid on loans 6 and 7;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement*;
The number of loans  taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded  
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  loans 6 and 7 should be removed from 
Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Amanda Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7796258