K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC unfairly closed his credit card accounts and 
didnt tell him why. Mr K says this caused  him inconvenience and he wants Barclays to 
reopen his accounts.
background
Mr K had two credit  card accounts with Barclays.
In March 2019, Barclays reviewed Mr Ks accounts.  Following its review  Barclays  decided  to 
close both of Mr Ks accounts. Barclays wrote  to Mr K to let him know it would be closing his 
accounts and gave him 60 days  notice.
Mr K wasnt  happy about Barclays  closing his accounts. He says he has been a customer for 
many years and relies on his credit  cards for everyday spending.  He wants to know  why 
Barclays no longer  want  him as a customer and feels Barclays has treated him unfairly  when 
it closed his accounts.
Barclays said it hadnt done anything wrong  and had complied with the terms and conditions  
of the accounts  when  it decided to close Mr Ks credit card accounts. Unhappy  with this 
response Mr K brought his complaint to our service.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Ks complaint. She said Barclays had acted in line 
with its legal and regulatory obligations when it reviewed Mr Ks accounts. And she said it 
had closed the account in accordance with the terms and conditions. Mr K disagreed and 
said Barclays shouldnt be allowed to do what it has done. And should give him a proper 
explanation for why it has closed his accounts. 
As no agreement could be reached  the matter has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr K feels very strongly about  whats happened here. Thats clear from whats  hes 
said to us and to Barclays. Whilst I appreciate Mr Ks frustration, its important to point  out 
that the only thing in question here is whether Barclays has done  what it should  have  done.  
And I think it has. Ill explain why.
Mr K says he has been a customer  of Barclays for many years and has always maintained 
his account well. So Barclays should tell him why it has closed  his accounts. That may well 
be the case. And I understand  Mr K is frustrated Barclays hasnt given him, what  he feels to 
be, a specific  reason  for why his accounts were  closed. But under the terms and conditions  
of the accounts  Barclays  isnt obliged to give him an explanation.  
Having said that, I can see that Barclays wrote  to Mr K on 14 May 2019 and told him it had 
reviewed his account activity and information on his credit file. And that following this review  
it decided to close his accounts. This explanation  was more than what Barclays was required 
to give. So I cant say Barclays has done  anything wrong here by not giving  Mr K the 
information he wants. And Im not persuaded  that it was unfair or unreasonable  for Barclays  
to review Mr Ks accounts.
Ref: DRN73188802A bank  is entitled  to close an account with a customer just as a customer may close  an 
account with a bank. But before a bank closes an account, it must do so in a way, which 
complies with the terms and conditions of the account. 
The terms and conditions  of Mr Ks account,  which both Mr K and Barclays had to comply 
with, say that Barclays could close the accounts  immediately under certain circumstances. 
And by providing  60 days notice.  So Barclays is entitled to close  the account as it seems its 
already done.  Ive also seen a copy of letter Barclays  sent to Mr K dated  4 March 2019  
informing him that his accounts would be closed within  60 days. So Im satisfied that 
Barclays has complied with the terms and conditions of the accounts.
I appreciate that Barclayss decision to no longer offer Mr K its services  has caused him 
inconvenience. But Barclays  can make  commercial decisions  about who it offers services to. 
They cannot  unfairly discriminate against  a customer. But they can say they no longer wish 
to do business  with individuals. Thats because theyve got the commercial  freedom to 
decide who they want to contract with. And Im satisfied that Barclays  has exercised its 
commercial decision legitimately when  it decided to no longer  wished  to do business  with
Mr K. So I cannot fairly and reasonably  say its done anything wrong when it decided to 
close Mr Ks accounts. And Im not going to ask Barclays  to reopen Mr Ks accounts.
I appreciate that my decision will come as a great frustration  and disappointment  to Mr K. 
But Mr K is entitled to reject my decision.  If he does reject it then it is not binding on him or 
Barclays. And it is then open  to him to raise  these issues in any legal proceedings he wishes  
to instigate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Sharon Kerrison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7318880