K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Aviva Life & Pensions  UK Limited (Aviva) are going to pay him less 
income from his current pension funds than he was told he would get from the original 
illustrations issued when  he took out his pension plans. He says Aviva never warned him 
that this could happen.
background
Mr S holds a number of pension plans with Aviva which were taken out from 1989 onwards. 
One of plans was taken  out in 1999  with Friends Provident (now part of Aviva) with an initial 
gross contribution of £100 per month  increasing by 5% each year  until the age of 60. 
Mr S received an illustration which showed that, at age 60, his fund might be worth £80,000 
using an assumed growth rate of 5%, which could provide him with an annual  pension of 
£5,450.
Mr S continued to contribute to the plans and in July 2018 he requested  some  projections of 
what he could expect  at retirement.  The projections  were provided for all of his plans 
together and showed the total fund values to be £96,152.62. They went on to show that  at 
age 60, the total projected fund value would be £111,000, based on the lowest assumed 
growth rates  and might provide a pension  of £3,380 per annum.
Mr S says he understood the information  gave projections for all his pension  plans 
combined, as opposed  to the illustration from 1999  which was only for one of his plans, but 
he complained  to Aviva as he couldnt understand why it was suggested  he might receive 
less pension income at retirement from a higher fund than he was told he would get in 1999 
from a smaller fund.  He  said that as the original illustration didnt contain any warnings  
about the possibility that annuity rates could change he thought the policy  had been mis-
sold.
Aviva didnt agree. It said that the original  documentation did make reference  to both interest 
rates and inflation affecting the amount  of pension income Mr S might receive. And the 
decline in annuity  rates over the last 20 years meant that a bigger fund was required to 
purchase the same level of annuity.  
Mr S remained unhappy  with the response and brought  his complaint to us.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and recommended it wasnt upheld.  He 
explained that, as people  were living for longer, providers now needed to pay pension 
income for longer and therefore the rate at which they provided the income had been 
reduced (the annuity rate). 
In addition, he also said that Avivas illustration had been set out in accordance  with the 
regulators guidance at the time and he didnt think it had misled Mr S or that the plan had 
been mis-sold. 
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed used the illustration that was provided to him in 1999  as the 
basis for his decision  to take out the pension. He thinks the matter of life expectancy  should  
have been taken into account within the illustration as it was most likely only to ever go up 
and therefore  annuity rates were always likely to go down, which  should  have  been  pointed 
out within the risks of the plan. Mr S added that if hed been made aware  of the impact  of 
Ref: DRN73899702annuity rates  at the time he would have paid in a higher level of contributions and enjoyed 
greater tax benefits and ultimately greater returns.  
But as no resolution  could be found  the complaints been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S says that hes been given various  illustrations  for his pension plans which show  
different fund values  at his normal retirement date  and he accepts that there were 
warnings which said this could happen. 
However, he says the original pension was mis- sold to him because the illustration didnt 
mention the effect of annuity rates on the final income figure, which  would have impacted on 
his decision of what to do, had he known.  And I have some  sympathy  for Mr S position  here 
as I understand  his disappointment that his funds will provide a much lower  income  now than 
his original illustrations in 1999 projected.  But I dont think  Aviva has acted unfairly here  or 
that the pension was mis-sold  which I know will disappoint Mr S, so Ill explain why.
When Mr S took out his personal pensions he would  have had a key features document 
made available to him. Within the document  was the following summary  of two of the risk 
factors of the plan. 
The value of your plan is not guaranteed and can go up and down depending on investment 
performance and when you decide  to start benefits, the level of pension that can be 
purchased will depend on the value of your fund and on interest rates available  at the time.
So when Mr S took out his plans he should have  been aware that his fund would be based 
on investment performance and the resulting annuity or pension income would be 
determined by interest rates. Theres no evidence Aviva made any guarantees to Mr S 
regarding his fund value or the residual income hed receive from the fund.
In 1999 Aviva was required  to set out its illustrations  in accordance with the regulators 
requirements for that time. Im not aware  of any guidance from then that required providers 
to explicitly point out the risks of annuity  rates  changing. 
What I would have  expected Aviva  to have done  was to include a warning that the final 
pension income  might be affected by other  factors. And I think  Aviva did that by explaining 
the risk of the effect that interest rates and inflation  might have on any future  annuity.  From 
what Ive seen Aviva set out its original illustration following the rules outlined by the 
regulator at the time as shown by the following extract:
These figures are examples only and are not guaranteed - they are not minimum or 
maximum amounts. What you will get back depends  on how your investments grow.
You could get back more or less than this.
All life assurance  companies use the same  rates of growth  for illustrations but their 
charges vary. They also use the same rates to illustrate how funds may be converted 
into pension income
Do not forget that inflation would  reduce  what you could buy in the future with the 
amounts shown.
Ref: DRN73899703Your pension income will depend on how your investments grow and on interest 
rates at the time you retire.
Mr S has said he did see the warnings that related  to the risks attached  to investment 
performance. But I think the other  statements around inflation and interest rates made  it 
equally as clear that the likely future pension income could vary depending  on other external 
factors.
In 1999 Aviva wouldnt have been able to foresee the long term decline in annuity rates  that 
has followed, and which has affected the whole industry. And I dont think  it misled  him with 
regards to explaining how the pension  might work.  Im satisfied the documentation it 
provided at the time of sale was appropriate  and confirmed the risks associated with the 
pension. 
Ultimately here Mr S hasnt complained  about  the performance of his pension  plan but that 
the original illustration misled him by not pointing out the possible effect of annuity rates on 
his final pension income. But I dont think thats  Avivas responsibility as theres  no evidence 
its illustrations  didnt  adhere to the guidance from the regulator at the time. 
my final decision
For the reasons  that Ive given I dont  uphold Mr S complaint against Aviva  Life & Pensions 
UK Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019. 
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7389970