K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Canada Square Operations Limited (Canada Square) mis-sold  him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy. 
background
Mr B bought the policy in 2004  at the same time as taking out a credit  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
It seems  that this credit card and PPI were  taken out during an online application.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Bs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint because:
Canada Square  has shown us example screenshots that theyve said are reflective of 
what Mr B would have seen when applying for this policy  online.  Ive considered 
these screenshots  alongside what we know more widely  about  how Canada  Square 
sold PPI online around the time that this PPI policy was taken out. 
Ive not seen anything to suggest that Canada Square didnt follow their normal sales  
process during  this sale. The example  screenshots show that two options  would have  
been presented  for PPI  Yes to accept and No. to decline. The application  
data from this sale shows that PPI was added to the account  so it seems reasonable 
to assume that Yes  was selected.
On balance, I think its more likely  than not that Canada  Square made Mr B aware 
that he had a choice about  buying the PPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Canada Square  didnt recommend the PPI to Mr B so it didnt have to check if it was 
right for him. But it did have  to make sure Mr B got the information he needed  to 
decide if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information Canada Square  gave  Mr B about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this 
type of cover. Based on what  Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it 
would have been useful for him if something  went wrong. It also looks  like the PPI 
was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him 
off taking out the cover.  
Ive taken into account Mr Bs comments,  including what  hes said about:
Ref: DRN73973102The nature  of his work meaning he wouldnt be made redundant. But although Mr B 
may have been in a relatively secure  job, nobody can accurately predict the future 
and having this PPI policy would help protect Mr Bs credit  card repayments  if he was 
made redundant.
His sick pay entitlement. But after six months Mr Bs sick pay would have decreased  
to half pay. This PPI policy  could have paid out for up to 12 months  per accident or 
sickness claim. So I still think  that Mr B could  have found the PPI useful.
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7397310