K820x#14complaint
Mr S says Santander UK Plc mis-sold him a mortgage payment protection insurance (MPPI) 
policy.
background
Mr S took out an MPPI policy with a mortgage  in 2001. He paid a monthly  amount  for the 
policy, which provided cover for unemployment  only.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr S disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ss complaint because:
Mr S completed  an application form specifically for the MPPI. So I think Santander made  
Mr S aware  that he had a choice about  buying the MPPI, and that he chose to take it. 
Santander recommended the MPPI  to Mr S, and it seems to have been  right for him 
based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances  at the time. He had a small amount of 
savings, but the MPPI wouldve paid out for up to 12 months   which  is longer than his 
savings wouldve lasted if he didnt  have the policy. 
Mr S has mentioned that he had a car which he couldve sold,  plus equity in his property 
and life, critical illness and holiday insurance  policies.  But I dont think  these wouldve 
provided a realistic means  to keep up with his mortgage repayments  if he was 
unemployed. Its likely  he wouldve  needed his car, and the only way to release the 
equity in his home wouldve been to sell it. And the insurance  policies wouldnt have 
paid out if he was made  redundant,  but in other unrelated  circumstances.  
Mr S said he had an income protection policy, but hes been unable to provide any detail 
about what it covered. So theres  not enough evidence  of this for me to conclude  the 
MPPI was unsuitable   for example if he already had similar cover  in place. 
I think  Santander couldve explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. But even if it 
had, I think Mr S would  still have bought it. 
Its possible  that Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mr S doesnt appear  to have  been  affected  by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr Ss comments.  But these points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
Ref: DRN71178372For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 May 2019
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7117837