K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  that TSB Bank plc (TSB)  failed to change her address when she asked 
them to urgently. She says this meant her former landlord was able to figure out where she 
worked. This caused her a great deal of anxiety  when  she saw him driving  around  the area.
background
Miss B has told us shed  been sexually harassed  by her former  landlord. This isnt disputed. 
She moved  house  and says that, in May 2018,  she went  into her local branch of TSB to 
update her address. She says she told a member of staff of the threat  posed  by her landlord.  
And she asked for her records to be changed to her new address urgently. Miss B has 
provided a detailed account  of what took place when  she visited the branch.
In early June, she visited another branch of TSB and discovered that her address hadnt 
been updated. Branch staff updated her details there and then but confirmed that her May 
2018 statement  had already been  sent to her old address. Miss B told us that this left her 
upset and worried and after the banks mistake, she saw her former landlord,  who hadnt 
known where she worked, driving  around the local area. Shes  told us she moved addresses 
in May. And that she didnt see her landlord  anywhere after this.
After she visited another  previous address in a different area a few months later, Miss B was 
also able to show us that a new bank  card had just been sent there.  This was where Miss B 
had first opened her account several years  earlier but hadnt  lived for a long time.
Miss B believes that seeing her landlord  driving  around was connected to the banks 
mistake. She told us that seeing him caused  her great anxiety as she thought she might be 
in some danger. She complained to TSB and requested  compensation for the distress  
caused. But the banks told us that it had no record of Miss B visiting their branch in May. Its 
also said that changes  of addresses are an ordinary, daily customer  request and the 
changes take effect  immediately.  The branch has said they dont remember  any customer 
telling them about being harassed by a former landlord.
Miss Bs complaint came  to us and our investigator  thought that TSB should pay her £300 in 
compensation.  The bank didnt agree so the case has come to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
TSB has told us that theyve no record of Miss B visiting their branch  in May, but this seems 
to me to be a reasonable step to take when moving house in such circumstances. And Im 
struck that when Miss B subsequently described the staff member  she said shed spoken to, 
the bank obviously  took this seriously.  We know this because  they emailed  us, saying the 
manager had spoken to the staff member  in question. So, the bank obviously thought they 
knew who Miss B was referring to. She also provided a detailed  recollection of events which 
accords with bank process.
When Miss B later visited the other  TSB branch in early June, she took the trouble to check 
whether her address had been  updated,  I think this suggests that Miss B had made the 
earlier branch visit, as shes told us. So, I think its more likely than not that Miss B did visit 
her local branch in May to change her address. But this wasn't  carried out properly.
Ref: DRN76928062Its not disputed  there  was a serious  issue between  Miss B and her former  landlord. Having 
looked at Miss Bs May 2018 bank statement myself, I think  its unlikely her landlord couldve 
identified her location from items on the statement. But in fact, its agreed the statement was 
sent out in the first week of June.  And Miss B has told us that she didnt see her landlord 
anywhere after shed  moved addresses  on 30 May.  So, I think  the fact that Miss B saw her 
landlord in the area she worked  in late May was just an unpleasant co-incidence. Because  
this was the area he lived. So, there werent any direct consequences of the banks mistake .
That said,  I understand why Miss B drew  the conclusion she did, and I acknowledge how 
upsetting it would be. I appreciate her anxiety at seeing her former landlord and believing 
she was in danger.
As TSB were known to be experiencing widespread IT problems at this time,  the failure to 
update Miss Bs address  may well have related to these issues.  And the fact that as late as 
December 2018,  TSB were still sending correspondence to Miss Bs very old address  
elsewhere - six months after shed  confirmed her new address in branch - leads me to 
believe that despite what theyve told us about  the ordinary nature of updating  address  
details, TSBs processes  couldnt be relied  on at this time. Miss Bs very old address was 
only deleted from their system when she telephoned TSB in January 2019.
Although Miss B has requested £20,000  in compensation, I dont think  this accurately 
reflects the trouble and upset she has experienced. While the banks error didnt have the 
consequences Miss B thought, her assumptions  were reasonable. So, I accept Miss B was 
caused legitimate  worry and distress.  And, I think it would be fair and reasonable for TSB to 
give Miss B compensation of £100.
the response to my provisional  decision
Both Miss B and TSB accepted my provisional  decision, so the case has been passed back 
to me to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also considered  again  my provisional  
findings.
I was pleased to see that both sides accepted my provisional decision.  That means I have 
no reason to depart from the findings Ive already reached in this case. So, my decision 
remains the same.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that the banks error  
did cause legitimate worry and distress. And, I direct TSB Bank plc to give Miss B 
compensation of £100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 June 2020.
Ref: DRN76928063Simon Stanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7692806