K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C, represented by a claims management company (CMC), complain that they 
were given unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC.
background
I issued a provisional decision on Mr and Mrs Cs complaint, an excerpt  of which  is attached 
and forms part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I felt the complaint should be upheld. In brief, I 
thought the recommendation made to Mr and Mrs C to invest  in three  funds that were highly 
reliant upon equity  performance was unlikely to be suitable  given  their lack of investment  
experience.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both Mr and Mrs Cs representative and Lloyds accepted the findings set out in my 
provisional decision. So I remain of the view that the complaint should  be upheld.  
fair compensation
In assessing what would  be fair compensation, I consider that my aim should be to put Mr 
and Mrs C as close to the position they would probably now be in if they had not been  given 
unsuitable advice.
I think Mr and Mrs C would have invested  differently.  It is not possible  to say precisely what 
they would  have done, but I am satisfied that what I have set out below is fair and 
reasonable given Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances and objectives when they invested. 
what should  Lloyds do? 
To compensate Mr and Mrs C fairly, Lloyds must:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs Cs investment  with that of the benchmark 
shown below and pay the difference between the fair value and the actual value of 
the investment.  If the actual value is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is 
payable.
Lloyds should  also pay interest as set out below. 
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
Ref: DRN75491442investment 
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
interest
PEPs still existsfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple per 
year from date 
of decision  to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days 
of the business 
being  notified 
of acceptance)
actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Lloyds should 
use the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds with 12 to 17 months  maturity  as 
published by the Bank  of England. The rate for each  month  is that shown as at the end of 
the previous month. Those rates  should be applied to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.  
why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
Mr and Mrs C wanted capital growth with a small risk to their capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices  
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It 
would be a fair measure for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a 
higher return.  
I consider that Mr and Mrs Cs risk profile  was in between, in the sense that they were  
prepared to take a small  level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, the 50/50 
combination would reasonably put Mr and Mrs C into that position.  It does not mean that Mr 
and Mrs C would have  invested 50% of their money  in a fixed  rate bond  and 50% in some 
kind of index tracker  fund. Rather,  I consider  this a reasonable  compromise  that broadly 
reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs C could have obtained from investments suited to their 
objective and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN75491443my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  my final decision is that I uphold  the 
complaint and direct Lloyds Bank  PLC to pay compensation to Mr and Mrs C as set out 
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75491444EXCERPT OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs C, represented  by a claims  management  company (CMC),  complain that they were given 
unsuitable investment advice by Lloyds Bank PLC.
background
Mr and Mrs C were advised  by Lloyds  in 1998. They were  in their early  50s, both worked in a 
business they owned (valued at £250k)  and earned £32,000 and £18,000 respectively. Theyd  never 
invested before.
It was recorded that they had £32,000 on deposit of which they were advised to invest  £12,000 across 
two PEPs, one in each of their names, using  three funds,  all of which  were predominately  equity 
based.
Lloyds felt the advice had been suitable and wouldve  been fully explained  to Mr and Mrs C in robust 
discussions at the time. It felt they were left with sufficient money  on deposit and noted  that the 
investments had been retained to date, without change, even since their potential  unsuitability had 
been brought  to their attention by the CMC.
The complaint was referred to this service but our investigator agreed it shouldnt be upheld, mainly 
on basis that it looked  like Mr and Mrs C had capacity for a higher level of risk  for instance,  owning  
the business and in all likelihood having some other money not noted in the fact find. So, he felt they 
were likely to have accepted a higher level of risk than might otherwise have been expected of first-
time investors.
In response, the CMC reiterated Mr and Mrs Cs lack of investment experience and the over-reliance  
on equity performance created by the recommendation, especially as the three funds were  very 
similar and there wouldve been some overlap,  ie the funds wouldve invested in some  of the same 
companies. The CMC  also explained that Mr and Mrs C hadnt owned the whole business  other 
family members had been involved.
As no agreement could  be reached, the matters been referred to me to review.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Mr and Mrs C were business  owners  and some way from retirement. They were earning  a reasonable 
amount that left them with quite a large  monthly disposable income.  So, on the face of it, they were  in 
quite a comfortable  position and, as a result, did have the capacity to take some  risk with their money. 
But theyd not invested  at all before. And, as such, I cant see that it was suitable to recommend  three 
funds with such  a high reliance on equity performance.  Their attitude  to risk was recorded as 
medium, but theres  no indication as to how this was determined. And theres nothing in the 
summary and recommendations report issued at the time that indicated that they were  looking to 
take a higher risk than might be expected given  their lack of experience.  The rather brief report  simply 
said that the recommendation agrees  with the clients attitude to investment risk.
I think  theres a strong  argument that the recommendation  really shouldve  involved a greater degree 
of diversity and in doing so involved a reduced reliance  on equities. 
I note that Mr and Mrs C have maintained  the PEPs  to date and that this suggests  there have been no 
affordability issues. But I have  to look at the circumstances at the time of the advice and make a 
Ref: DRN75491445finding as to the suitability at that point. And doing so, I cant see that putting  in excess of a third of 
their money  into quite high risk funds,  with such a narrow asset range, was likely to be suitable. 
The ownership  of a business  (and its not clear  to what degree they did own it) doesnt in my view 
necessarily indicate an inclination towards taking a greater  level of risk. On the contrary, it could  be 
said that the risks associated with the running of a business might lead to a propensity to take less 
risk with money outside  of the business. 
So, on balance,  I dont think theres  sufficient evidence to support a finding that this was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs C. 
Ref: DRN7549144