K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that he was mis-sold a payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy by 
Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide).
background
Mr A took out a credit card with Nationwide in 2004.  At the same time PPI was added to his 
account. It wouldve  helped cover the repayments on his card for up to 12 months at a time if 
he couldnt work due to an accident, sickness or redundancy.  It also provided life cover for 
the balance. 
Mr A says that he wasnt told the cover was optional. He says he didnt  need  it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr As complaint should  be upheld.  Mr A disagrees,  so his 
complaint has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr As 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Given the number  of years which have passed  since the sale, neither party has retained  
useful records about the sale. Its not clear how the credit  card was taken out  for example  
in a branch or by post.  But from what this service knows about  Nationwides sales at the time 
Im satisfied that by whatever means  the sale took place that Mr A wouldve been given a 
choice about taking the PPI. I dont have any evidence other than Mr As recollections to 
suggest otherwise.  
Nationwide didnt give personal recommendations about PPI. So it didnt need to make sure 
the policy was right for Mr A. But it did need  to make sure Mr A had enough information 
about the policy to make his own decision about  it.
Its possible Nationwide didnt give Mr A all the finer details he ideally should have been  
given. But I dont think even if Mr A had all the information hed have made different decision 
about buying the policy. I say this because Mr A was eligible for the policy and wasnt  
affected by any terms which mightve  made it more difficult for him to make a successful 
claim, such as those related to self-employment  or existing medical  conditions.  
I think Mr A wouldve  understood  enough about  the policy to know  that it wouldve helped  
cover his credit card repayments if he couldnt  work. Mr A says he had enough cover from 
his sick pay and savings  and another insurance policy not to need the PPI. I havent seen 
any evidence of these,   but it was up to Mr A to decide whether he had sufficient cover from 
his existing resources,  because Nationwide didnt advise him to take it. 
The cost of the policy was lower than many similar policies on the market  around the same 
time. And I havent  seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable  for Mr A.
Ref: DRN75576132So I dont  think Mr A lost out as a result of anything  Nationwide mightve done wrong in 
relation to the sale, which means Nationwide doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr A.
But Nationwide has paid back some  of the PPI to Mr A because:
Nationwide got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr A about  that. Because Nationwide didnt tell 
him, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nationwide  has paid back the amount  of commission and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI wasnt mis-sold, so Nationwide doesnt  have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to 
Mr A.
But Nationwide does  have  to pay back to Mr A any commission and profit share  it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already done this, so I dont 
award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7557613