K820x#14Complaint
Mr F has complained that Santander UK Plc registered a CIFAS marker against  his name.
Background
Santander closed  Mr Fs account  and registered  a CIFAS marker after someone had 
deposited two cheques in his account  for £39,310  and £32,000. The first cheque was 
returned marked unpaid and the second was returned as suspected  fraud  or counterfeit  
cheque. Mr Fs debit  card and PIN were used to make the deposits.
The relevant  transactions  and activities are shown  in the table below.
Date Time Activity Verification
21 November 2018 21:45
21:46
22:22ATM Incorrect PIN 
Incorrect PIN
Correct PIN
21 November 2018 22:23 ATM deposit   
cheque for
£39, 310 Chip and PIN
22 November 2018 Log on to online 
banking
23 November 2018 Cheque returned unpaid
23 to 29 November 
2018Log on to online 
banking
30 November 2018 16:09
18:16
18:59
20.07
22.24ATM deposit   
cheque for 
£32,000
Log on to online 
banking
ATM balance 
inquiry
Log on to online 
bankingChip and PIN
Chip and PIN
3 December 2018 Second cheque  
returned marked 
suspected fraud 
or counterfeit
Ref: DRN74145292Santander blocked his account  and made  inquiries.  It subsequently closed his account.
Mr Fs response
Santander asked  Mr F about  the cheques. He said he knew nothing about them. He said he 
was at work  when the cheques were paid in. 
Mr F also confirmed  that his debit card was with him when he was at work. He said he hadnt 
lost his card and it hadnt gone missing. He said no one else knew his PIN or banking details 
and he doesnt  keep a written note of these details. 
He said he lives alone.
Santanders response
Santander concluded that Mr F knew about  the cheques, after completing  its inquiries. It 
said:
his card and PIN were used to deposit  the cheques
his card and PIN were used at the same ATM,  before the first cheque was deposited.  
This means whoever deposited the cheques also had his card and knew his PIN
hed logged on to online  banking and was monitoring the account after the cheques  
were deposited
In addition, the first cheque was made  payable  to him using the initial of his first name and 
his full surname.  When this was returned, a second attempt was made with a cheque written 
out in his full name, including his middle name.  The names are unusual.  Santander didnt  
think it was likely that an unknown third party would know or guess his full name.
It decided hed misused his account  by depositing the cheques himself, or if not him, by 
allowing someone  else to use his account  for fraudulent purposes. For this reason, it closed 
his account and registered a CIFAS  marker.
Investigators view
Mr F wasnt happy with Santanders  decision and so he brought  his complaint to this service.
He doesnt think  Santander has properly investigated his complaint. Hes told us the
cheques dont match his handwriting or his signature. He said the names on the cheque  are 
wrong. And he said CCTV footage would show it wasnt he who deposited the cheques but 
Santander didnt  get the footage.
The investigator looked into his complaint but decided not to uphold  it. He considered that 
the evidence linking  Mr F with the cheques, namely his card and PIN, strongly  suggested he 
know about them. And he thought it was unlikely that an unknown third party had stolen the 
card and used it because Mr F maintained that no-one  else knew his PIN and that he had his 
card with him at all times.  
 
Also, there was evidence that hed logged in to his online banking  and so he would have 
seen the cheques when they were paid in. Yet, he didnt report them.  
Mr F didnt  accept the investigators view. He has asked for an ombudsmans  final decision. 
He maintains that Santanders investigation was inadequate and that it should have checked 
the handwriting  on the cheque and CCTV footage.
Ref: DRN74145293My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint, for broadly the same reasons as the investigator.
The bar for recording a CIFAS marker is a high one. The bank  must  have  a good reason to 
believe it could have  suffered a loss and/or it reasonably believes it has grounds to press  
criminal charges as a result of the activity on the account. This should  be more  than just a 
suspicion or concern.
It follows that the bank  must have carried out sufficient checks to satisfy this requirement. 
Given the impact a CIFAS marker  can have  on someone,  the bank is expected to keep a 
record of these checks so it can evidence the decision it reached  to record the CIFAS 
marker.
Having reviewed the evidence, I am satisfied that Santander met the test for recording a 
CIFAS marker  and that it carried out sufficient checks. And despite what  Mr F has said, Im 
not persuaded he didnt  know about the cheques.  In coming to that view,  Ive taken into 
account the following evidence.
Debit card and PIN
Mr Fs debit  card and PIN were used to deposit  the cheques at ATMs.
Ive noted that the ATMs  were  in different parts of the country and that there  were  two 
incorrect PIN entries, before the first cheque was deposited. I think this makes  it less likely 
that Mr F was the person  who paid in the cheque, as he would have known his PIN. 
However, it also seems from the statements that he seldom used his card for this account.
Ive thought about whether someone  took his card and replaced it. However, Mr F has been 
adamant that he had his card with him at all times. But even if someone close to him 
removed his card and replaced  it without him noticing, that still doesnt explain how they 
knew the PIN. And Mr F has consistently  said he didnt share his PIN with anyone or keep a 
written note of it.
Santander also points  out that, had the cheques  cleared, an unknown  third party couldnt 
withdraw or transfer  the money without the card and PIN or access  to his online banking. 
Again, hes confirmed that he hasnt shared his online banking  log on details  with anyone 
else.
So despite,  the incorrect PIN entries, I consider its more likely  than not that he knew  about 
the cheques and either paid them in himself or allowed someone else to do so.
Online activity
Santanders online audit  trail shows that Mr F logged on to his online account  after the 
cheques were deposited. It said the cheques  would not have shown on his available  balance 
but would  have shown on his current balance  of the account. However,  Mr F did not report 
the cheques at the time, despite  there  being  a considerable space of time between  the two 
cheque deposits.  I think he would have seen those  cheques  especially as they were for large 
amounts.
Name on cheques
Ref: DRN74145294Ive looked at the two cheques. The second  one spells out Mr Fs forenames and surname in 
full. The names  match  his names  on his driving licence. Admittedly, there  is an error. The 
middle name  has an incorrect letter. 
But his forenames  are not common.  I thinks  it very unlikely someone  who didnt know him 
would randomly guess  his name.
Of course,  its easy to find out a persons  name.  A stranger could easily  find out this 
information. Equally,  someone who knows him might use his name on the cheque. Ive 
considered that the handwriting and signature dont  match his writing and signature, but this 
makes little difference. Someone else might have written out the cheques. But the use of his 
full name  on the second cheque, coupled with the evidence of the debit card and PIN, 
indicates that he did know about the cheques. 
Similarly, his absence  on CCTV  footage would not exonerate him. The banks position is that 
he must have known about  the cheques, even if he didnt deposit  them  himself.  
For the sake of completeness, I have also checked Mr Fs timesheet from work  but Im afraid 
I think the information is inconclusive. The sheet doesnt tell me what  hours  he worked on 21 
November or 30 November 2018.
In summary,  I consider that Santander carried out sufficient checks, which show  its more 
likely than not that Mr F knew about  the fraudulent cheques, even if he didnt pay them in. In 
these circumstances,  I consider he has misused  his account and that Santander was entitled 
to register the CIFAS  marker. I wont be asking it to remove it.
The investigator has explained why Santander closed the account. I agree with his 
explanation.
My final decision
My final decision is that I am not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 February  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7414529