K821x#15Complaint
Mr S complains that he was unfairly charged by Ald Automotive Limited for missing service  
stamps on his logbook  when  he returned  a leased car.
Background
Mr S had a leased car with Ald and when his agreement came to an end it was collected  by 
an agent acting  for Ald. The agent reported  several areas of damage and missing  service 
stamps on the log book.  The report said the cost of the missing service  stamps  was to be 
advised. Ald charged  Mr S £350 plus £252  for damages.  
Mr S disputed the charge and said the car had been  serviced  at a main dealership and he 
had the invoices. He said the agent  was aware  of this. He also challenged one of the 
damage charges  and Ald agreed to remove this reducing the sum due by £50. Ald refused to 
forgo the £350  charge  for the missing service history  and so Mr S brought his complaint to 
this service where it was considered by one of our adjudicators who recommended the 
charge be halved.
She noted the inspection was carried out on 30 July 2018 and the missing stamps were 
listed as price to be advised. Mr S was told the cost would be £350 on 2 August 2018  and 
the car was sold at auction the following day.
She also noted the terms and conditions of the lease  and that Mr S was liable for any 
missing servicing or an incomplete logbook, but she thought he wasnt  given enough time to 
dispute this charge or to provide any evidence that hed had the relevant services 
completed. She said that if Mr S had been  given  the opportunity to provide the service 
history, it is likely the vehicle couldve sold for a higher price. She suggested  Ald write off half 
the charge.
Ald didnt agree and said Mr S had a contractual  responsibility to provide a stamped service  
book and due the speed with which cars were  sold on it didnt offer customers  a grace period 
to supply information. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate the terms and conditions of the contract  Mr S signed and Ald expects all the 
relevant information  to be available  when the car is collected. Mr S has said that he had the 
car serviced  by a main dealer and he had been  led to believe  the log book had been 
properly stamped. This is backed up by the invoices he has provided which shows  the car 
was serviced as required.
The collection report doesnt  spell out the consequences of the missing stamps and if it had I 
think Mr S could  have produced the invoices which would have shown the car had been  
serviced and those could have been  taken with the car. This would have allowed Ald to have 
achieved a higher price.
Ald says it turns round cars quickly and it is entitled to do so, but it must accept that this can 
lead to situations such as that experienced by Mr S. I agree with the adjudicator that the 
Ref: DRN78759372liability should be shared equally between Mr S and Ald. He could have had the invoices 
available and Ald could have made clear what would happen if the log book wasnt stamped 
and allowed Mr S time to submit the invoices. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Ald Automotive  Limited  to reduce 
the charge for the missing log book stamps to £175.  Under the rules of the Financial  
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr S to accept or reject my decision before 
24 February 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7875937