K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about four payment protection insurance (PPI) policies taken out with loans 
in 1998 (two loans), 1999 and 2000.
Mr and Mrs P say that Nationwide Building Society mis-sold them  the PPI policies.
background
Mr and Mrs P were  sold four PPI policies alongside four loans they took out with Nationwide. 
The loans were  all in joint names. The first three PPI policies only covered Mr P, but the PPI 
policy taken out in 2000 covered Mrs P.
When our adjudicator looked  at the complaint, they found that the first three PPI policies 
werent mis-sold.  But they also found that the policy sold in 2000 was mis-sold.
Nationwide disagreed. So the complaint has been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ps case.
Ill deal with the first three polices first. 
PPI policies taken out in 1998  (two) and 1999
Nationwide has provided copies of the loan applications completed for these three sales.  On 
these, I can see that the PPI policies are presented as optional. Both Mr and Mrs P have 
signed the applications agreeing to the information on them. So I think  that Nationwide  made 
it clear that Mr and Mrs P didnt  need  to take out the PPI polices, but they chose to do so  
although I can understand if they dont remember this as the sales  took place a long time 
ago.
Nationwide didnt recommend the PPI policies to Mr and Mrs P so it didnt have to check if 
they were right for them.  But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs P got the information they 
needed to decide if they was right for them. 
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs P about the PPI policies wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the times the policies 
were taken out,  it doesnt look like Mr P was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover - so they could have been  useful for Mr and Mrs P if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
policies would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
PPI policy taken out in 2000
Ref: DRN74056092Ive decided to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps compliant about this policy  I dont think  Nationwide  
gave Mr and Mrs P clear enough  information  about it. I say this because the policy  sold to 
cover Mrs P excluded claims made for pre-existing medical conditions.
I think this would have  mattered to Mr and Mrs P because  Mrs P had an existing medial  
problem which she had suffered from since 1994.  And I dont think  Mr and Mrs P wouldve 
bought the policy if Nationwide had given them enough information  about it. So, I think Mr 
and Mrs P have lost out because of what Nationwide did wrong. 
Nationwide has raised some concerns about  the pre-existing condition  that Mrs P had  
specifically that this was not mentioned by Mr and Mrs P when they originally brought their 
complaint to us. It has requested evidence of the condition. But I dont think this is 
necessary. Ill explain  why.
When our adjudicator looked  at the complaint, they realised  they needed further information 
about a potential gap in employment for Mr P. Mr P then told us that hed taken time off work 
due to Mrs Ps medical condition  which prompted  us to ask further questions  around this, 
and subsequently to uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint about the policy sold in 2000.
So while Mr and Mrs P may not have  declared  the condition  at the outset, it came to light 
when the service asked  Mr P about an unrelated matter  and Mr P then recalling the 
reasons surrounding it. I do not find this unreasonable, and Im satisfied that Mrs P did have 
a pre-existing condition.  So I still think that the complaint  about  this policy should be upheld.
what the business should  do to put things right for the PPI policy  taken out in 2000
Mr and Mrs P borrowed extra to pay for the PPI, so their loan was bigger than it shouldve 
been and they paid more  than they shouldve  each month. So Mr and Mrs P need to get 
back the extra theyve  paid. 
So, Nationwide should:
Work  out and pay Mr and Mrs P the difference between what they paid each month on 
the loan and what they wouldve paid each month  without PPI.
Add simple interest to the extra amount Mr and Mrs P paid each month  from when they 
paid it until they get it back. The rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs P made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Nationwide  can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest.  Nationwide must give Mr and Mrs P a certificate 
showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ps compliant about their PPI policies sold in 1998  (two policies) 
and 1999.
Ref: DRN74056093I do uphold Mr and Mrs Ps complaint  about  their PPI policy sold in 2000  Nationwide  
Building Society should put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019 
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7405609