K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC, trading as Barclaycard, has lent to her 
irresponsibly and that it hasnt treated her fairly. Shes being helped  with her complaint by 
her representative.
background
Mrs C opened a credit card account  with Barclaycard in April 1998 and she took out a loan 
from another part of the bank of £10,000 in 2005 which  she says she used to repay her 
credit card debt. She received a letter from Barclaycard in November 2018 in which it said 
that a review had identified  that, for customers that had fallen behind on their payments, it 
hadnt always met its expected standards for assessing their circumstances or engaging with 
them. And it agreed to refund all interest  and fees applied to affected customers  accounts 
during the period from October  2013 to July 2016. But Barclaycard had defaulted Mrs Cs 
account in 2015 and sold it to a third party. So the refund of £351.38  in fees and interest was 
offset against the balance  owed on her account. 
Mrs C complained to Barclaycard that the credit card and the loan had been provided  to her 
irresponsibly and that it hadnt treated her fairly. It said that it hadnt been able to evidence 
any errors by it so was unable to support her complaint. She wasnt satisfied with its 
response so complained to this service. Her complaint about the loan is being  dealt with 
separately.
The adjudicator didnt recommend that this complaint should  be upheld.  He said that the 
actual sale of the Barclaycard took place  longer  than six years  ago and it was also more  
than three  years since he would ve expected  that Mrs C ought to have reasonably  been  
aware that she had reason to complain  about  the sale of the Barclaycard. So he said that he 
was unable to consider  the irresponsible lending aspect of her complaint.
And he said that Barclaycards  response  to how it had treated some  customers  between  
October 2013 and July 2016 seemed reasonable. He said that Barclaycard had 
communicated with Mrs C and her representatives  regularly during that period and agreed a 
number of reduced payment plans as well as interest and charges freezes  and that a 
default was applied only after several repayment plans had failed and payments been 
missed. So he didnt  agree that Mrs C was treated unfairly by Barclaycard.
Mrs Cs representative  on her behalf - has asked for this complaint to be considered  by an 
ombudsman. He says,  in summary,  that:
the alleged  indebtedness arises from a revolving account credit  agreement and, as a 
result, doesnt expire by virtue  of the Limitation Act 1980;
if the indebtedness and complaints arising  are time barred, then it must follow that 
any claim for the alleged indebtedness is also time barred and that the third party 
debt owner is not able to pursue a claim for it;
Mrs C is financially unaware and has no financial acumen so wouldnt have known 
that she had reason  to complain about  the sale of the credit card; and 
the third party  to which the debts been  sold has taken responsibility  for any mis-
selling of the credit card.
Ref: DRN79132092my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont have a free hand to consider every  complaint that is referred  to us. Our rules, 
which we are required by law to follow, say  amongst  other things  that we cant normally 
deal with a complaint if its referred  to us more than six years  after the event complained of; 
or (if later) more than three  years  from the date on which  the complainant became aware  (or 
ought reasonably  to have become aware) that she had cause for complaint. This is set out in 
the rules relating to this service  and not the Limitation Act 1980.
Mrs C complains that the credit card was mis-sold to her by Barclaycard. But she opened 
that credit  card account in April 1998  and that is when I consider that any irresponsible  
lending wouldve taken  place  as thats  when the credit was provided to her. So the event 
about which she complains happened  in April 1998  but she didnt  complain to this service 
about that until December 2018   which is more than six years after the event complained 
of.
And there has been extensive and detailed  correspondence between Mrs C and Barclaycard 
about her account  over many years. So I consider that Mrs C ought reasonably to have 
become aware  that she had cause for complaint more than three years before she 
complained to this service. 
The credit card was provided to Mrs C in April 1998   nearly 22 years  ago. And Barclaycard 
says that due to the amount of time thats  passed  since then it doesnt have complete 
information about the application process. But, for the reasons set out above,  I find that this 
service doesnt have the legal power to consider  Mrs Cs complaint that Barclaycard has lent 
to her irresponsibly. 
There have clearly been issues with Mrs Cs credit card account. She took out a £10,000 
loan in 2005, some of which she used  to clear her credit  card balance. Barclaycard says that 
it reduced Mrs C credit  limit and removed the cash facility from her account in November 
2009 and that its agreed  repayment  plans with her. It says that it was contacted  by a debt 
management company  acting  on her behalf in 2014  and an informal repayment  plan was set 
up under  which it accepted  reduced payments and it suspended interest on the account. 
Mrs C wasnt able to return to the required contractual  payments and a termination notice 
and a default notice were  sent to her in early 2015. She didnt make the required payment so 
the account was defaulted  and sold to a third party in August 2015. That third party  didnt 
provide the credit to Mrs C and it wouldnt be responsible for the way that the credit was 
made available to her. 
Barclaycard wrote to Mrs C and other customers in November 2018 because a review had 
identified that, for customers that had fallen behind on their payments, it hadnt always met 
its expected standards for assessing  their circumstances or engaging with them. And it 
agreed to refund all interest and fees applied to affected customers accounts during the 
period from October  2013 to July 2016. Mrs Cs account had been sold to a third party  
before that letter was sent so Barclaycard said it had asked the third party to reduce Mrs Cs 
outstanding balance by £351.38.
Ref: DRN79132093A credit card provider  is required to respond  to a customers  financial difficulties positively  
and sympathetically. That doesnt mean that its obliged to refund charges, or to take any 
other particular action, as whats  appropriate in each case  will depend on the customers 
individual circumstances.
I consider that the actions that Barclaycard has taken in response to Mrs Cs financial 
difficulties show that it has responded to those financial difficulties positively and 
sympathetically. Although  it did write to Mrs C in November 2018 to say that it hadnt  always  
met its expected standards  for some customers,  Im not persuaded that theres  enough 
evidence to show that it failed to deal with Mrs C fairly and reasonably. And it has reduced 
her debt to the third party by £351.38.  So Im not persuaded that it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require it to take any further action in response to her complaint.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.  
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7913209