K820x#14Complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Bank  of Scotland  plc mis-sold them  a life assurance policy.
Background
In 2002, Mr and Mrs C met with Bank of Scotland to talk about securing additional lending 
against their home. Mr and Mrs C say they were in financial difficulties and needed to 
consolidate some  of their existing debt. They said they were  told they had to take out a 
mortgage protection plan for their application to be processed for the lending.
Bank of Scotland recommended Mr and Mrs C take out a joint life policy to cover £70,500 
which was the amount  of their original mortgage  and the additional borrowing. The policy  
was to last the same  term. It cost around  £106 each month.
Mr and Mrs C complained  as they were  told this was compulsory. They explained that they 
were in financial difficulty and didnt need  the additional cost. They also feel the policy  was 
unsuitable as it covered  both of them but the mortgage was entirely paid out of Mr Cs 
salary. Overall, they said they wouldnt have taken this out had they not been told it was 
compulsory.
Our adjudicator didnt  feel Bank  of Scotland had done something wrong. They  explained that 
there wasnt enough to say that the policy was a condition of the lending, but in any event 
the recommendation was suitable  for Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances so it hadnt been mis-
sold.
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to make a decision. They provided 
additional information including details of other policies, their financial difficulties at the time 
and details of Mr Cs pensions. They maintain  that this wasnt a suitable recommendation 
and that it was clear  their financial  position showed they wouldnt have taken this out if they 
hadnt been told it was compulsory. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly, I want to say that Ive considered all the detailed points and information Mr and Mrs C 
have submitted. Ive not addressed each point or piece  of evidence individually,  but rather 
considered everything  to address the issue of whether this life policy  was mis-sold. Having 
done so, Im not upholding this complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs C have said they were  told this policy was compulsory and this is the only 
reason they took it out. I understand they strongly  believe  this was the case. Ive had to look 
at the evidence we have,  alongside what they have  said to reach  a decision on this. Bank  of 
Scotland have  told us that it wasnt a condition  of the lending  to take out life cover. And, from 
what I understand, mortgages  from Bank  of Scotland didnt have any conditions relating to 
life cover at the time. So, from this, I dont think  it was a condition of the lending.
Ive thought about whether Mr and Mrs C were told that it was compulsory, as this is the crux 
of their complaint.  Its difficult  to say they were told they needed to have this policy  in place, 
but I do think its likely they were strongly  recommended to take it out. From the point of sale 
Ref: DRN76551552documents Ive seen  theres nothing to suggest  it was compulsory, or that Mr and Mrs C 
were told they had to take it to apply for their borrowing.  But I can see that the advisor 
recommended Mr and Mrs C take this out to protect  their family should one of them  pass 
away. So, I think its likely they were told they should  have the policy,  rather than being told it 
was needed to apply for the lending. Because of this, the recommendation needed  to be 
suitable for their circumstances  at the time.
Mr and Mrs C have provided  us with information  to show us they were  struggling financially 
in 2002. I can appreciate  this was a very difficult time for them  and I understand they wanted 
to reduce their outgoings. So, I think they took this policy out because it was strongly 
recommended to them. But I dont think it was unsuitable for them.
At the time Mr and Mrs C were taking out additional lending they had two dependent 
children. The mortgage was secured on their property and they had existing unsecured debt. 
If one of them passed away, the liabilities of the mortgage, house  expenses,  debt and raising 
their children would  only fall to one of them. Mrs C has explained that she would sell the 
house if Mr C had passed away, but this policy wouldve avoided  that situation.  Mr and Mrs 
C explained that their salaries were very different, so the policy didnt need to cover  Mrs C 
as the mortgage payments were all made out of Mr Cs salary.  But I think  had either  one of 
them passed  away, this policy  wouldve  ensured  the family could stay in their home at a 
difficult time, especially  as both of them are responsible for repaying the mortgage as Mrs C 
was the mortgage holder and Mr C was the guarantor.
Mr and Mrs C have provided  us with details of other cover they had at the time. Their  
policies which had life cover were relatively minimal  and it appears they were used as 
savings vehicles at the time. Mr C did have a number of pension policies which had some  
death benefit attached,  although the death benefit wasnt  guaranteed. I agree with Mr and 
Mrs C that these may have covered the amount of lending they had taken  against  their 
properties. But as Mr C was the main earner, having  a policy  to pay off the mortgage  would  
mean Mrs C could use any benefit  from Mr Cs pensions  to supplement the income lost and 
help raise their children.  So, I dont think the presence of these pensions made the 
recommendation unsuitable.
Finally, Ive considered  the affordability  of this policy.  Theres no doubt that Mr and Mrs C 
were struggling financially  at the time and theyve  also provided evidence  of later requests 
for borrowing. But Im considering whether  the sale of this policy was suitable so Im looking 
at their circumstances  in 2002, when it was sold. I can see that the fact find completed  by 
the advisor at Bank of Scotland  talked  about  their income.  Specifically,  it appears they had 
around £300 disposable income each month after committed monthly  expenditure. Mr and 
Mrs C say this wasnt  the case but its clear  to me a discussion around it took place. And 
Mrs Cs bank statements from the time dont show that their committed  expenditure 
exceeded what was listed on the fact find. The policy cost around £106 per month.  This is 
quite a large amount of their disposable  income. But I cant  see it was unaffordable  for them.  
I understand the nature of their original meeting with Bank  of Scotland was to reduce 
outgoings by trying to consolidate their debt, but I dont think  this policy was unsuitable for 
their needs.  And it does  appear to be affordable when looking at the information from the 
time.
I should point  out here that Im looking solely at the sale of the life assurance policy in this 
decision. I can see Mr and Mrs C have raised concerns in their submissions about 
affordability and issues  with their credit  cards and loans. This isnt something  Im considering 
under this complaint.
Ref: DRN76551553To summarise, Ive not seen enough  to say that this policy was a condition  of Mr and 
Mrs Cs lending. But I do think it was strongly  recommended, and I think this 
recommendation was suitable for them in their circumstances. Whilst they were trying to 
reduce their outgoings,  I dont think taking on this policy was unsuitable given the benefit that 
it provided. I also think that it was something  they could afford at the time. So, I dont think 
Bank of Scotland has done  anything  wrong  in recommending this policy.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2021.
Charlotte Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7655155