K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2002. Mr R says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  are in agreement that this policy was taken out following the completion of a 
postal application.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Rs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think BOS  made it clear that Mr R didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out  although  I can understand why he may not remember  this.
I say this because  Ive seen a copy of Mr Rs credit  card application. On the 
application there was an option  to tick if PPI was to be added to the account. A tick 
has been placed next to this option and Mr R has signed the overall agreement.  So   
I think this indicates  what Mr R wanted.
Ive carefully considered  what Mr R has said about feeling that he had to take PPI as 
it was part of the deal.  But the evidence Ive seen  doesnt support what hes said.      
I think that the PPI was presented as separate to, and not a condition  of the credit 
card. 
BOS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr R so it didnt have to check if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr R got the information  he needed to decide if it 
was right for him. 
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr R about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type 
of cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable.     
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the 
cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr R has said - including  what hes said about not needing PPI 
because of his existing means of making his repayments. But having carefully considered 
what Mr R has told us, I still think that he had a need for PPI. I say this because:
this policy could  have  paid out for longer than Mr Rs savings likely would have 
lasted. Having this policy also would have allowed Mr R the option  of not needing to 
use his savings to make his repayments, keeping them  intact for future use. It also 
Ref: DRN78499662would have allowed  him the option of being  able to use his savings to pay for other  
living expenses that he may have had.
the other insurance policy  that Mr R has mentioned seems likely to be a private 
medical insurance. This is not directly  comparable  to PPI as medical  insurance  will 
normally pay a benefit if a medical claim, usually for treatment, is made. It wouldnt 
necessarily pay out if Mr R was unable to work or if he was made unemployed. 
This policy would  have paid out for longer than Mr Rs sick pay entitlement.
So these points dont  change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything  
Mr R paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mr R back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mr R now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7849966