K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains that a van he is funding through a finance agreement  with FCE Bank Plc 
(FCE) was faulty when  he took receipt of it. Hed like to be allowed to reject the vehicle and 
terminate his agreement.
background
Mr D took receipt of a new van on 23 February  2018. He financed  the deal through a hire 
purchase agreement  with FCE. But on the same  day he collected it, the van broke  down due 
to a flat battery. And within  the first three days Mr D highlighted  other  issues to FCE. He 
said:
the van hadnt been valeted
there wasnt an owners manual
there was a dent in the door panel
there were marks on all three  headrests
there was a further dent and some scratches
the battery hadnt been secured
the engine  was stalling between gear changes
fluid was dripping  from under the dashboard
the radio had stopped working  for a time
Over the ensuing weeks further issues were complained about. Oil, AdBlue  and exhaust  
warning lights were  reported to the dealership.
Many of the issues were  resolved but Mr D still complains  that the radio regularly cuts out 
and, when its working, the reception  is awful. He also says a crease  and dent in the door 
remain unresolved.
In March he told FCE he had become aware he had a 30 day right to reject  the van and that 
he wanted to do so.
But FCE didnt agree. They said that repairs had been successfully completed and the dents 
Mr D referred  to had been caused when the van was in his possession.
So Mr D referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided his opinion.  He 
thought it was clear  that if Mr D had known about  his rights to reject the vehicle in the first 30 
days he would have  notified FCE earlier. He thought Mr D was right not to expect a new 
vehicle to experience any faults and, as thered been so many and it was clear all the issues 
had still not been rectified,  he believed it would be fair to allow Mr D to reject the vehicle; 
terminate his finance agreement and have  his deposit returned  to him. He also thought FCE 
should return any instalments Mr D had made towards his finance agreement when the 
vehicle was off the road and suggested  they pay Mr D £200 to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience hed been  put to.
FCE accepted  the investigators view and so did Mr D but in addition,  he wanted FCE to 
refund his GAP  insurance; consider recompensing him for loss of earnings; repay the 
scrappage scheme  allowance  hed benefitted  from; refund  the expense  hed incurred 
shelving out the inside of the van and refund the cost of oil replacements  incurred since the 
investigator had provided his opinion, as thered been further breakdowns.  FCE wouldnt 
agree to refund the GAP insurance as it wasnt something the agreement financed. They  did 
Ref: DRN79573782agree that shelving the inside of the van was a consequential loss and they would therefore 
refund the £1,600 it cost Mr D to have  this done.  But Mr D wanted  the other factors  to be 
considered as well and he therefore asked  for a final decision by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view and for similar reasons.  Please  let me explain why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is a fair outcome.
was the van faulty  at the point of supply?
Mr D acquired  his van under a hire purchase agreement.  The relevant law says that the van 
should have been of satisfactory quality when supplied. If it wasnt then FCE is responsible 
and Id think it fair and reasonable to ask them to put this right.  
Here I note that FCE has accepted the faults  were present from the onset and rightly  allowed 
Mr D to reject the vehicle. So I wont comment on the faults other than to say I agree with the 
opinion the investigator came  to. Its clear Mr Ds van had faults from the beginning and its 
clear he should  be allowed  to reject it and be compensated for the distress and 
inconvenience hes suffered. He should  also be reimbursed for any consequential losses 
that hes experienced as a result of this issue. 
Having considered this redress I think the investigators suggestions have been reasonable 
in the circumstances and Im going to ask FCE to take those actions. I know thats not quite  
what Mr D wants, so please let me explain.
GAP Insurance
This wasnt paid for by the finance agreement and FCE therefore  arent  responsible for it. It 
was a separate agreement. But Mr D wouldnt have had to cancel it if it wasnt  for the issues  
with the van he has. So if there are any cancellation charges that Mr D can evidence to FCE 
they should pay them.
lost earnings
Mr D says hes lost money  and has needed to cancel jobs as a result  of the faults  the van 
developed. Im not persuaded  by the evidence  Ive seen, that losses  were necessarily 
unavoidable or that FCE could have foreseen the costs  involved if the van had broken down 
and their liability for those  costs. So I dont think it would be reasonable to ask them to repay 
the earnings Mr D says have been lost.
Ref: DRN79573783the shelving and lining  of the van
Its clear that these costs  cant be recovered  by Mr D. Hes provided an invoice for £1,600  
and I think its therefore fair to ask FCE to refund this. 
scrappage scheme  allowance
This allowance  was available at the time Mr D agreed terms on the van. Mr D has told us 
that the scheme finished at the end of September.  The investigator provided his view in July 
and the subsequent delays have been as a result of Mr D disputing additional payments so I 
dont think it would be fair to hold FCE responsible  for that. It may also be the case  that 
alternative discounts are available  on new vehicles  from this manufacturer and others. And I 
dont think it would be reasonable to suggest  the discount Mr D managed to obtain on this 
vehicle would no longer be attainable  elsewhere, or in another format. So I dont think it 
would be fair to ask FCE to refund  this.
refunding further  service  costs
I can see that Mr D has had to take the van back to the garage because of oil dilution 
problems and hed like these costs refunded. But the additional services have been 
completed since the investigators  suggested  settlement in July and as Im not intending to 
deviate from that settlement and I think it was reasonable, I wont be asking FCE to refund 
these costs.
distress and inconvenience
Its clear that Mr D has been inconvenienced by FCEs failure  to accept  the rejection of this 
vehicle earlier. Its therefore  fair that they compensate him for this inconvenience and in the 
circumstances I think £200  is reasonable. 
So overall, I agree with the investigators  opinion. I explained to FCE that whilst I realised the 
GAP insurance wasnt funded by the credit  agreement  the cancellation of that insurance was 
a consequential  loss that I didnt  think Mr D wouldve had to pay if he hadnt rejected the 
vehicle. They didnt  think it should be included in any redress  but Ive thought  about this and 
disagree with them.  So, as Ive said, if Mr D can provide a receipt  to FCE Ill be asking them 
to refund the cost to him.
I also explained to FCE that, in line with our normal practice, I thought it was fair to add 8% 
simple interest to the instalment  repayments.  They didnt disagree with this so it forms part of 
the redress.
Ref: DRN79573784my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell FCE Bank Plc to:
cancel the finance agreement at no further cost to Mr D
collect the van at no cost to Mr D
refund  Mr Ds deposit and add 8% simple interest per annum  from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
pay Mr D £200 to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience hes 
experienced
refund  £1,600 in consequential  losses to cover  the expense  of fitting out the interior  
of the van 
refund  any GAP insurance cancellation charge Mr D can evidence  to them
refund  five instalments of £316.89  and the £10 finance facility  fee to compensate    
Mr D for the time he has been without his vehicle  and add 8% simple  interest  from 
the time the relevant  payment was made  to the date of settlement
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 June  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7957378