K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited refused to let him reject a faulty  
car.
background
In June 2017 Mr V bought a second  hand car which was funded by a conditional sale 
agreement and a part exchanged car. It cost £12,663 and had done  15,569  miles.  Shortly 
after he acquired the car Mr V noticed  a ticking sound from the clutch, a door mirror was 
vibrating and parts of the paintwork were peeling off. He took it back  to the dealer and it 
agreed to repair  the wing mirror, but it didnt agree that there were other faults. Later it 
offered to carry out a smart repair to two of the door sills, but I gather this wasnt done  as 
Mr V needed  the car and wasnt able to accept a courtesy car due to limitations  on his 
license. 
Mr V says he had been told the car had only one previous owner  and it came  with a 
manufacturers warranty and promise. He says that he thought it might have been in an 
accident and that it had been owned  by a rental company. He also says that he was led to 
believe that he was taking out a personal loan.
In October  2017 the dealer arranged for an independent inspection. The report says the 
wing mirror needed to be repaired and further  inspection was required for the clicking clutch 
pedal. It concluded that both offside doors had been  repainted and this was done to an 
acceptable standard. The only other issue picked up was the steering wheel alignment was 
slightly out. 
Mr V complained to Clydesdale and it arranged for another independent inspection by a 
different company. This picked up the wing mirror fault and noted  there  were  some minor 
faults, but concluded that these were  unlikely to have been  present at the point of sale.  It 
also noted that the two seatbelts appeared to have been replaced  along with the front 
windscreen and there  had been some work done on parts of the paint work. This report 
noted the service  book  showed it had been  owned by a rental  company.
Having considered the two reports Clydesdale rejected Mr Vs claim.  It said there was no 
evidence that any of the faults were present at the point of sale. It also said that it wasnt 
present at the meeting  with the dealer and couldnt  comment on what  Mr V had been told. 
Mr V brought his complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who didnt recommend it be upheld.
He said the independent  reports didnt  provide  evidence that the car was faulty at the point 
of sale and he didnt  believe Mr V was entitled  to reject it. Nor did he think there was a clear 
issue with what Mr V said he had been  told about the cars history.
Mr V didnt agree and said that the dealer hadnt recorded all his visits. He didnt agree with 
the independent reports and asserted the paintwork was chipped.  He believed the car had 
been in an accident and he had spoken to the previous insurance company to confirm this, 
but it hadnt put it in writing. He also said Clydesdale had been slow to respond to him
Ref: DRN70907952my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Clydesdale is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
Mr Vs car was second  hand and therefore it is not reasonable to expect it to be in perfect 
condition. However,  it should  be of a satisfactory  quality. Cleary  Mr V thinks  it is not of such 
a quality and that is regrettable. I can only rely on the evidence provided  and due weight 
must be given to the two independent  reports.  Neither support Mr Vs request that he be 
allowed to reject the car or be given a sizable refund.
Both reports identify several minor issues and the wing mirror  was repaired in 
December 2017  by the dealer. I appreciate Mr V says this didnt work  and I gather  it has 
agreed to replace it which I consider  to be a fair offer.
As for the cars history I cannot say what was said by the salesman, but I note that the 
service book shows the name of the previous owner and that information was available  to 
Mr V at the time of acquisition. I believe there was only one owner, albeit it was car rental  
company.
I have also considered the ownership promise which came from the manufacturer  which  
doesnt offer the level of perfection that Mr V seems  to think. It confirms that a multi-point 
check has been carried out and the car meets its standards. It shows  that the car has been 
valeted and it offers a 12 month  warranty. I cannot see that the terms have not been met.
I can see that there has been some work done on the car. Our adjudicator  asked the dealer 
for more information on the cars  history  and it says the warranty  company has no 
information about it being in an accident. It has recorded that the car has had some minor 
refurbishment. I appreciate Mr V says he was told otherwise by the previous insurer,  but I 
have no written evidence  to support this claim.
Ref: DRN70907953I cannot say what  was said at the time of the sale regarding the finance agreement, but I 
consider the paperwork was sufficiently clear and I cannot say that Clydesdale  sought to 
mislead Mr V. Nor has it delayed dealing with his complaint  once the matter was with this 
service it quite rightly declined to deal directly with Mr V.
In conclusion I note Mr Vs strength of feeling and his disappointment  with the car, but I 
cannot say that the business  has done anything wrong.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or reject  my decision 
before 1 December  2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7090795