K821x#15complaint
Ms P complains  that the car she acquired through a conditional sale agreement  with 
Close Brothers Limited (CBL) wasnt of satisfactory  quality.  She wants  to reject the car.
background
Ms P entered into a conditional sale agreement with CBL in March  2018  to acquire a used  
car. She says that she experienced issues with the car from the outset. She says the engine 
management light was on and when she asked about this she was told it wasnt anything to 
worry about because  the car had just been serviced. However, as she was experiencing 
issues the car was booked in for diagnostic  tests. She says that the pump needed to be 
replaced and a few weeks  later the injector failed. Ms P says that the car then starting 
jerking and she was told a new battery  was needed which she had to pay for.
Ms P says that a grinding noise she had reported  hadnt  been dealt with and so the car was 
booked into a different  garage on 23 July 2018. When  Ms P took the car to the garage  for 
investigation, it broke down with issue being  identified as the clutch and gearbox. Ms P 
contacted CBL and was told that the dealer  had the right to attempt a repair. She says she 
wasnt kept informed  of what was happening  with the car. 
Ms P collected the car on 3 August and it was booked in for further diagnostics test on 
10 August. At this point Ms P says she was told there was an issue with the mass airflow. 
She says she wasnt able to drive  the car at this time as is kept going into limp mode. 
CBL arranged for an independent inspection report to take place. This happened  on 
6 September 2018. The inspector wasnt able to comment on the transmission repairs due to 
running issues which needed further investigation.  
On 26 September  a further inspection took place which confirmed a loss of power and listed 
issues with the diesel  particulate filter (DPF) and turbo pressure. It was suggested that a 
DPF regeneration  was required.
CBL says that Ms P contacted it about  issues with the cars transmission. It says she said 
the gearbox was making grinding  noises  and jamming.  She asked to reject the car but it said 
that the dealer had to be allowed an opportunity to carry out a repair. It says the dealer said 
the car would be taken  to a specialist and it would look to replace the gearbox, clutch and 
flywheel. CBL agreed to make a contribution towards this repair and the repair took place  at 
no cost to Ms P. It says that Ms P asked  for a full service to be carried  out but this wasnt 
agreed to. Following the repair,  Ms P contacted  it to say the repair  hadnt  been successful, 
that the car was losing power  and that the mass air flow had been disconnected. 
CBL arranged for an independent inspection to take place.  The report didnt  comment  on 
any failed transmission repairs due to the running issues which  needed further investigation.  
Further investigation was arranged and the issues were found to be linked to the diesel 
particulate filter (DPF) and turbo pressure. CBL says it spoke with the mechanic and it was 
explained a DPF regeneration was required  and that this issue  had caused the air pipe to 
disconnect. It says the mechanic said the issue was unrelated to the previous repairs and 
was a common issue caused by normal usage. It didnt think  there  was an inherent fault that 
was present at the point of supply.  
Ref: DRN71481692Our adjudicator didnt  think there  was enough evidence to say that the issues  Ms P had 
experienced were  present or developing at the point of supply. However  she did think  that 
CBL could have done  more to assist Ms P. Because of this she recommended that CBL 
refund Ms P the cost of the hire car she paid for between 16 and 19 August, refund Ms P 
one monthly payment (if this hadnt already happened) and pay Ms P £150 for the distress 
and inconvenience  she had been caused. 
CBL said that the monthly instalment had been  refunded in October 2018 and that it agreed 
to the additional £150 compensation. It didnt agree to refund  Ms P the hire charges she had 
incurred as it said it wouldnt do this when the hire had been arranged without it being 
informed and it had already refunded Ms P for her loss by refunding  a monthly  payment. 
Since the view was issued on this complaint,  Ms P has said the gearbox is still sticking and 
that she is still experiencing the issues that she was told had been resolved. She has also 
said that further problems have arisen.  Ms P says that the car has broken down three times 
and that each time a different error  light flashes  on the dashboard. She says she doesnt feel 
safe driving the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms P acquired a used car through a conditional  sale agreement in March 2018. Under the 
regulations, specifically the Consumer Rights act 2015 (CRA 2015), CBL can be held liable if 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply.  Satisfactory  quality takes into 
account factors such as the age and mileage of the car. In this case  the car was registered 
in October 2010  and at acquisition had been driven around 97,000 miles.
Ms P experienced a number of issues with the car within the first few months. Repairs  were  
undertaken to the pump and injector  and then the gearbox,  clutch and flywheel were 
replaced. This, along with a battery replacement which Ms P paid for, all happened  within  
around four months of acquisition.  
However, Ms P acquired a used  car which had already been driven around 97,000 miles. I 
note the comments  about the issue with the injector  being an electrical malfunction in the 
injector itself which suggests it was a fault present at the point  of supply. Given this it is 
reasonable that this repair was undertaken at no cost to Ms P. I do not have any further 
details in regard  to the pump but again, as this happened so soon after acquisition I find it 
reasonable that repairs were undertaken at no cost.
The car then broke down  and it was found  the gearbox, clutch and flywheel all needed to be 
replaced. I can understand  that given the issues Ms P had experienced by this time that she 
wanted to reject the car. 
Under the CRA 2015 after the short term right to reject has passed  the dealer is given an 
opportunity to repair before a final right to reject is given if the repair is unsuccessful.  As 
repairs had already been undertaken  by this time, I think that had the issue  with the gearbox, 
clutch and flywheel been established  as being present from the point of supply then I think  
rejection would have been reasonable. However, in this case I do not find I can say that 
these issues were  present  at the point of supply. Although I dont have  the mileage at the 
point of the replacement gearbox  being provided, the inspection report dated 6 September  
Ref: DRN71481693had a mileage  of over 105,400 recorded. The gearbox repair  took place at the start of 
August after which Ms P said she was unable to drive the car for a period. Therefore, I find it 
reasonable to accept  that Ms P was able to drive around 8,000 miles in the car before the 
gearbox failure. Given the car was around eight years old at this time and had a total 
mileage of over 105,000 I dont find, without further  evidence that I can say the failure was 
due to a fault that was present at the point of supply.
The gearbox, clutch and flywheel were  all replaced at no cost to Ms P and so, in this case,  I 
find this was a reasonable remedy.
Following the repair,  Ms P reported  the car going  into limp mode and she was concerned  the 
repairs carried out werent successful. The inspection carried out confirmed the car was in 
limp mode and because of this the inspector wasnt able to carry out a test of the cars 
transmission. Further investigation identified issues with the DPF.
Given the mileage that had been driven  since acquisition  and the nature of the issue 
identified, that is to do with the DPF, I find that it was more likely than not that the issue was 
due to wear and tear rather than a fault present at the point of supply. 
Ms P has said that she has experienced further  issues with the car and had to have repairs  
undertaken in order to pass  an MOT  in November 2019. I have looked  at the MOT  history  
and can see that in November 2019, the cars mileage was around  124,500.  Repairs were 
required but based on the items listed these appear to be wear and tear items. Following the 
repairs the car passed the MOT.
Overall, I do not find that I have  enough  evidence to say that the current outstanding issues 
with the car were  present  at the point  of supply the car. I do agree that more  could  have 
been done when the car was inspected to prevent further delay and inconvenience. 
Therefore I agree  with our adjudicators recommendation of a further £150 compensation 
and I note CBL has also agreed  to this.
CBL refunded Ms P a months payment to cover  the time she was without  the use of her car. 
I agree  this was reasonable while the issues were being investigated and resolved. Ms P 
incurred hire car charges during this period and has provided evidence of one hire period 
cost. While I understand why Ms P had to hire a car I do not find that CBL is required to 
refund this cost.  I say this because it has already refunded Ms P a months instalment so she 
wasnt paying for the car for that period so any costs  for transport she incurred would be for 
her account.  I have looked  through CBLs notes and can see it said it wouldnt refund hire 
charges and so Ms P was aware  of this at the time.
Overall, I think the fair resolution to this complaint  is that CBL pays Ms P £150  compensation 
which is additional to the refund of a months payment that has already been  made.
Ref: DRN71481694my final decision
My final decision is that Close Brothers  Limited should pay £150 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience she has experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7148169