K820x#14complaint
Mr W and Mrs F have complained about  the decision by Society of Lloyds  (SoL)  to decline 
their claim under  their residential property insurance policy for damage to their roof. 
background
Mr W and Mrs F contacted SoL to explain  that capping timber  attached  to the roof fascia  of 
their property had been  dislodged in a strong wind and they wanted to claim under the policy 
for the cost of repair.
SoL acknowledged that the policy provided cover for storm damage but noted that the 
recorded wind speed on the day the damage occurred was not exceptional. It said it would 
therefore need to survey  the damage to determine its cause.
After arranging for a drone survey  of the roof, SoL declined the claim. It considered that the 
roof fascia  was suffering from wear and tear and this had allowed the capping  timber to be 
lifted off by general winds.  
Mr W and Mrs F complained to Sol about its decision. They said that certain factors meant 
that the wind to which  their property was subject could be significantly stronger than the 
nearby recorded  wind speed. They considered  the photographic evidence  showed the timber 
which was blown off to be in good  condition, as were the nails which had been  holding it in 
place and which were  still attached to the roof. They therefore  disputed that the damage was 
down to wear and tear and must therefore  have  been  due to the very strong  local winds.
SoL wouldnt change  its position. Mr W and Mrs F therefore referred their complaint to us. 
They provided a letter from their roofing contractor in which he confirmed that in his opinion 
the timber blown from the roof had been  in good condition  and that the damage had been 
caused by high gusts of wind. 
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. She considered it 
had been fair for SoL to decline the claim.
Mr W and Mrs F didnt accept the investigators  findings. They  reiterated that the design of 
their property and neighbouring properties effectively created wind tunnels  between the 
properties when  the wind was blowing in a particular direction and this meant the recorded  
wind speed nearby didnt  necessarily reflect the true wind speed affecting  their property on 
the day the damage occurred. They furthermore said that SoLs  argument  that the roofs  
timber fascia was suffering wear  and tear didnt make sense because  this wasnt  relevant to 
the damage which occurred. They maintained that nothing could have  caused  the damage  
except high winds.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
Ref: DRN70986942The policy provides cover for storm damage. The policy doesnt define  a storm but we 
would normally take this to mean violent winds, usually accompanied by precipitation. 
Records from a weather  station less than a mile from the insured property show that on the 
day the damage occurred there was a peak  gust of 41mph and no precipitation. While a 
wind speed of 41mph  is regarded as a gale, I wouldnt  consider these conditions  to 
constitute a storm. I note the explanation  from Mr W and Mrs F about the potential for wind 
speed to be far greater  around their property  because of the local factors but, beyond the 
damage which occurred  to their property,  I have seen no evidence  to support that there were 
storm conditions on the day in question. I therefore  consider it was reasonable for SoL to 
decline the claim for storm damage.
Even if there  were  no storm, Mr W and Mrs F had cover for accidental  damage under their 
policy and so might still have been  able to make a successful claim. However, SoL declined 
the claim under this heading also as it considered the damage had arisen due to wear  and 
tear. It said the wood  fascia to which the capping  timber  had been  attached  was in a poor 
state and there were  signs of nail fatigue.  It said this meant that the timber  capping had 
gradually become  loose  before eventually  being lifted by the wind.
Mr W and Mrs F dispute this and say the timber capping itself was in good condition  and had 
only been installed some  four years earlier. Their roofing contractor has confirmed that the 
timber capping was not subject to rot or decay and that he believed it had simply been blown 
vertically from the roof by high winds, leaving the retaining nails in place.
I have taken account of the roofing contractors comments. However, I consider the 
photographic evidence indicates that the roof fascia and nails were in poor condition.  On 
balance, and bearing in mind  the evidence suggests  on the day the wind was no more than 
gale force gusts, I am persuaded  by SoLs  opinion that although  this damage may have 
manifested itself suddenly  during  these  winds, it had actually occurred gradually  due to wear 
and tear. The policy specifically excludes  cover for damage caused  by wear and tear. I 
therefore consider  it was fair for SoL to decline the claim. 
Mr W and Mrs F have also raised  concerns  over the poor handling  of the claim and the fact 
that SoL sent them a letter which had someone  elses name at the top. I agree that SoL 
made errors. These  included poor communication with its contractors  resulting in a short 
delay before the damage was surveyed, and also in using the wrong name  in a letter sent to 
Mr W and Mrs F. However,  Im satisfied that these errors didnt materially affect the outcome 
of the claim and I dont  consider that compensation is warranted.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 March 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7098694