K822xcomplaint
Miss W complains that a car she obtained through a hire purchase agreement  with 
Oodle Financial Services Limited is not of satisfactory quality. She wants Oodle to accept 
her rejection  of the car.
background 
Miss W obtained  a second hand car using  a hire purchase agreement  with Oodle on 15 May 
2018. During a test drive, before shed signed  any paperwork, she reported a knocking noise 
from the steering  wheel and that the steering was pulling. She waited at the garage for 
around four to five hours while repairs  were  carried out, then signed the paperwork and 
drove the car away.
Miss W said the problems were still present and she reported  them  to the supplying  garage 
the next day. She wasnt able to return the car until around three weeks later. By this time, 
an independent garage had inspected  the car. It confirmed  a problem with the steering and 
also reported that the front brake discs were  worn and two tyres were cracked and worn. 
The supplying garage carried  out some repairs. It offered  to replace two tyres and to correct 
the tracking. But Miss W collected  the car without the work being  done and continued to 
drive it. 
Oodle said there wasnt  any evidence to show the car wasnt  of satisfactory quality when it 
was supplied. And that the supplying garage  was still willing to correct the tracking, change 
the tyres  and investigate  a problem with the sun-roof. But Miss W wanted  to reject the car 
and referred her complaint to this service. She told us that shed replaced  all four tyres at her 
own expense,  together  with three wipers, and that shed  also paid £250 for a 
service/inspection. She also reported  further problems with the clutch and the flywheel.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He concluded that the 
car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied. He said repairs had been carried  out 
on two occasions,  but that the faults still remained,  so Oodle should accept Miss Ws 
rejection of the car and cancel the finance agreement.
Oodle didnt respond to the investigators  view,  so the complaints been passed to me for a 
final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering whats fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where  
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.
The hire purchase agreement is a regulated consumer credit  agreement.  As such,  this 
service can consider complaints relating to it. Oodle is the supplier of goods  under this 
agreement and is responsible for a complaint about their quality.
Ref: DRN79793962The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  theres  an implied  term that the 
quality of goods is satisfactory. As such, in order to uphold  this complaint I would have to be 
persuaded that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality and so a breach of contract has taken 
place.
In deciding whether  a car is of satisfactory  quality, some of the factors  to consider are its age 
and mileage when  it was supplied and how long after supply the fault/s materialised.
The car in this case was around five years old when  it was supplied  in May 2018 and its 
mileage was around 93,000 miles.  Its normal to expect some repairs due to wear and tear, 
particularly in a second-hand car. But Miss W reported problems with the steering when she 
test drove  the car. She reported the same problem the following day, following a repair.  This 
suggests to me that a fault was present when the car was supplied  and that the repairs 
carried out on 15 May didnt correct  the problem.
An independent inspection a few days later confirmed that there was a problem with the 
steering. It said there was excessive movement  internally on steering rack. It also found:
The offside rear tyre was badly  perished and worn and puncture .
The nearside rear tyre was wearing inner  edge and perishing.
The front discs were warped juddering under braking.
The brake pads  should be changed.
Im mindful that the problems with the tyres and the brake pads  and discs  are likely to be due 
to wear and tear. And that its reasonable to expect such  repairs would be needed to a 
second-hand car. I can also see from the supplying garages job sheet that the wear on the 
tyres wasnt enough to make them illegal   although  it offered to change them as a gesture 
of goodwill  - and the brake discs were still within specification and didnt need changing.
So I dont  think these  items mean the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.  
I think the key issue  is the problem with the steering. Miss W reported  a problem on the day 
the car was supplied  and the garage  carried out repairs.  These didnt solve  the problem. 
This leads  me to conclude that the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was supplied.
In the circumstances, its reasonable that Oodle  via the supplying garage  - is given  the 
opportunity to carry out a repair. I consider its had two opportunities to do this. Firstly on the 
day of supply. And secondly  when Miss W returned  the car in June. Oodle says that in June 
its clear from the job sheet that the garage had taken the car in for an inspection only. 
Although these words  are on the job sheet, its also clear that some  repairs were  carried  out 
 the column joints were  tightened and greased. The garage  identified that the tracking 
needed to be corrected, but didnt  do this. It had the car for more than two weeks, so I think  it 
was given the opportunity to resolve  the fault, and failed to do so.
I think its unreasonable to expect  Miss W to give the garage  a third chance to try to repair 
the fault. It really  is only entitled to one chance, and its had two. So I find its fair that Oodle 
should now accept  her rejection of the car and cancel the agreement with nothing further for 
her to pay, removing it from her credit file.
Ive also considered whether Oodle should  refund  any of the payments Miss W has made 
under the agreement. But, as shes continued  to drive the car, I think  its fair that she pays  
for this use. Likewise,  she should have to pay for the normal costs  of running a car, such  as 
insurance.
Ref: DRN79793963But Miss W told us shes  paid some  costs towards  fixing wear  and tear items on the car; 
namely four new tyres and three wipers, plus she paid £260 for the car to be 
inspected/serviced. We contacted Oodle to let it know this would be included in my decision.  
It said it was prepared to pay Miss W £574.16  (the equivalent of two months payments) as a 
contribution towards  her costs and that this would be in full and final settlement of her 
complaint. Ive already set out above why I dont  think this payment is enough to 
compensate Miss W for the unsatisfactory quality of the car. And I think, in addition  to what 
Ive set out above, Miss W should  be refunded in full for the costs  shes incurred.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Oodle Financial Services  Limited should:
1.Cancel the agreement with nothing further to pay.
2.Collect the car at no cost to Miss W.
3.Pay Miss W the value  of the car it took in part-exchange as a deposit  - £1,200.
4.Refund the cost of four new tyres, three  wipers  and a service/inspection, once proof  of 
cost has been  provided by Miss W.
5.Remove the finance agreement from Miss Ws credit file.
Items 3 and 4 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Oodle Financial Services Limited to take off tax from this 
interest. Oodle Financial Services Limited  must  give Miss W a certificate showing how much  
tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 August 2019.
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7979396