K820x#14complaint
Mr M has complained about the performance of the assets held in his Self-Invested Personal 
Pension (SIPP) with Standard Life. In particular he has complained about the risk 
assessment that was carried  out in 2013. Mr M believes  that his Attitude to Risk was 
exaggerated by Standard  Life. Mr M has also complained about the performance of his 
investment in the Strategic Investment Allocation  Fund (SIA).
Mr M argues that his investment has fallen in value in real terms and that it failed to meet  the 
investment objectives  that he had set. 
Mr M wants compensation for the disappointing performance of his funds.
background
In 2013 Mr M transferred  the value of his Occupational Pension  Scheme  (OPS) benefits  into 
a SIPP  with Standard Life. 
Mr M was 58 years  old and was employed  as Managing Director of a business. He was 
earning about £200,000  p.a. He was a member of a company pension scheme but had in 
place Fixed Protection so that he could not accrue  any further pension benefits.
It was agreed that that Mr M would transfer the value of his accrued  OPS benefits to a new 
SIPP as this would provide higher death  benefits for his children.  Mr M was married  with two 
teenage children  and was concerned to ensure that his children inherited something from his 
pension when both he and his wife died.
I note that Mr M has not complained about the advice to transfer out of his company pension  
scheme into the SIPP and I have therefore  not investigated the actual transfer.
Mr M completed a detailed Attitude to Risk questionnaire for Standard Life in 2013. In this he 
confirmed in his answers  that:
He understood  investment markets and the risks associated  with them.
He was happy to take a lower risk with an expected average 3% p.a.c.  annual  
return. (This was the middle option shown  on the questionnaire).
He was happy to invest in a portfolio that reduced his potential returns but then 
limited the maximum loss.
He wanted  moderate capital growth  but aimed to preserve the initial  investment  
value.
He was willing to accept short term fluctuations for long term returns.
He was looking at meeting  his objectives over 5 to 10 years.
He was able to withstand  a loss on the pension  portfolio of between  10%-25%.
In response to question  16 on the Attitude to Risk Questionnaire that concerned Capital 
Growth Goals Mr M stated that:
Regardless of my goal,  I want to preserve my capital in absolute  terms.
There was then a discussion about  Mr Ms attitude to risk and it was recorded in a file note 
that Mr M had a low to medium attitude  to risk. The attitude to risk would have been 
assessed as medium but for the answer  to question 16 (set out above) and it was agreed to 
discuss the response to this question with Mr M.
Ref: DRN75877712On 27 June 2013 during a telephone conversation between  Mr M and the business it was 
noted that Mr M was indeed willing  to accept a medium attitude to risk. His pension  fund at 
that time was around £1.9 million. He and his wife owned shares worth over £200,000  and 
had ISA investments  that were worth  approximately £100,000. Mr and Mrs M owned a house 
that was worth £1.5 million and further  land that was worth  £100,000.
Mr M did not want to see a significant  drop in the value of his assets.
On 17 July 2013 a very detailed investment proposal was put to Mr M by Standard Life. He 
accepted this proposal and Mr Ms pension plan with Standard Life was set up on 23 August 
2013. It was then invested in a range of UK and overseas equities and bonds  with about one 
third being  invested  in the SIA fund.  
The SIA Fund was described by Standard Life as:- 
As a client of Standard  Life Wealth you will have a portfolio  of investments  
such as equities,  bonds, property and cash. Sitting alongside those investments 
will be the SIA Fund  where an additional and entirely separate  set of assets are 
actively managed  to complement the assets in your portfolio.
Different types of investments behave in different ways. For example, bond markets  
can be strong when equities are weak. The SIA Fund allows  your Client  Portfolio 
Manager to balance the potential risks in the main portfolio by investing in vehicles  
that behave differently  to the main portfolio investments.
The SIA Fund also allows your client portfolio manager to access  a range  of 
sophisticated investment  tools  that are not available  to traditional  fund managers.
Overall this helps to minimise the impact of market falls, providing more  reliable  
investment performance  and it aims  to increase the certainty of the delivery of your 
individual financial goals.
Standard Life also said later that: 
The Strategic Investment  Allocation  Fund is designed to be used as part of a 
strategic approach  to individual client wealth objectives and should  not be 
considered as a standalone investment.
The fund is designed  to generate an absolute return when viewed with other  
assets in the clients  portfolio. As a result,  if other  assets in the portfolio are 
performing well, this fund may not produce  a positive return.
The use of derivatives  in the fund may result in increased volatility  in the funds price. 
Due to the leveraged nature of derivatives, gains  and losses can be greater than 
associated with traditional investment instruments.
The fund will have the ability to hold short derivative positions. This means  that the 
fund will not necessarily follow market  trends  i.e. if stock markets rise the fund may 
not do so at the same rate, or at all.
  
On 2 September 2014 Mr M was recorded  as being happy with the investment performance 
that had been achieved  on the SIPP. It had grown  by LIBOR+6.5%  over the 12 months 
against the target of LIBOR+3.5%.
 
Ref: DRN75877713In 2016 Mr M paid a lump  sum from the SIPP to his ex-wife as part of his divorce settlement 
and had drawdown some of his tax-free cash entitlement.
In February 2016  the SIPP was ahead of its target  of LIBOR+3.5%. However following a 
number of wrong investment calls by the fund managers the performance of the SIPP  
deteriorated in 2016. 
On 3 October 2017 there was a meeting to discuss the performance of the SIPP. The return  
since inception achieved  had been  10.71% against the target of 18.01%. Whilst 
disappointing it appears that the business  explained the reasons for this poor performance to 
Mr M.
On 8 February 2018 a report was produced by Standard Life on the investment performance  
of the assets in Mr Ms SIPP.  
On 14 February 2018 the business wrote  to Mr M. The adviser  at Standard  Life stated in an 
email that:
Although you came out as a Medium  Risk investor (risk category 3) I would say the 
maximum risk you should consider is Lower  to Medium Risk (risk category 2).
On 19 February 2018 Mr M complained to Standard  Life about  the management the assets 
in his SIPP. Mr M argued that its objective was to produce positive returns regardless of 
market conditions in line with a risk appropriate benchmark. Mr M noted that in particular the 
SIA Fund had performed very badly.
Standard Life responded on 27 February 2018. The letter set out that Mr Ms SIPP was then 
worth some £1.25 million  and that the total return it had achieved was 10.94%.  The 
benchmark rate of LIBOR+3.5% was however  up 20.07%. Mr Ms attitude to risk was 
assessed at that time as being Medium Low
Standard Life stated:
We always  look at our portfolios as a whole, and the SIA Fund plays a crucial part 
in our target-return methodology. In simple terms, it generally accounts for 1/3 of a 
client portfolio where the other  2/3 is a mix of traditional assets such  as equities, 
bonds, infrastructure etc. The SIA Fund  is there to smooth out the returns from the 
wider marketplace. It is a touch simplistic to say that when equity markets rise, the 
SIA Fund will fall (and vice-versa) but this will likely  tend to be the case.  The benefit 
of this is that when  equity  markets fall, and fall badly,  the SIA Fund  will cushion the 
blow somewhat.
Standard Life noted that since  January 2008 the medium low risk portfolio had produced a 
return in line with the objective of the fund of LIBOR+3.5%.  Standard  Life did not uphold  the 
complaint.
  
On 30 April 2018 Mr M complained to the Financial Ombudsman Service  about the way that 
his SIPP  was being managed. He argued that the investments held were  inappropriate  given 
his attitude to risk. He considered that the SIPP  had reacted excessively to the unexpected. 
As an example Mr M referred to the fact that US interest rates had not risen as Standard  Life 
had expected. The result  was that the performance  of his SIPP had been very disappointing.
The adjudicator then reviewed the complaint and issued  his view on 7 March 2019  in which  
he did not uphold  the complaint. He noted  that Mr M was initially  classed as a medium  risk 
Ref: DRN75877714investor. He stated that if Mr M had wanted  to ensure that the funds did not fall in value he 
would have raised the matter shortly after the meeting held with Standard  Life in 2013.
The adjudicator then looked  at the management of the SIPP. He noted that the fund was 
invested for the long term and that just because the short-term  performance had been 
disappointing there was no requirement on Standard  Life to change  its approach.  To change  
the approach  Standard Life would have had to crystallise any losses on the investments the 
fund held. If it was anticipated the prices of these  assets could recover then the decision to 
retain them would be found to be the correct one over the long term.
The adjudicator noted that Standard  Life was aware  that the recent performance of the SIPP  
had been disappointing and was taking steps  to try and improve  it. However, the adjudicator 
noted that Standard Life was acting as a discretionary fund manager of the monies in the 
SIPP and therefore  had the freedom  to select the assets and to follow  the strategies that it 
felt was appropriate for Mr M. The adjudicator  did not uphold the complaint.
Mr M did not agree with the adjudicator and asked for his complaint to be referred  to an 
ombudsman. He stated  that his attitude to risk was never medium  it was always medium/low 
and it was only on that basis that he transferred to Standard Life. Mr M states that he ticked 
the box saying  that he was a low risk but was persuaded by Standard  Life to increase this to 
medium. He does not agree that he wanted to invest all of his pension in a medium  risk 
discretionary fund management  arrangement.
As agreement has not been reached  the complaint has been referred to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2013 Mr M completed a Risk Profiling Questionnaire. This indicated that in answers to 
most of the questions  posed that he was classed as a medium risk investor.  In answer  to 
some questions he had been classed as a high-risk investor but there was however one 
question 16 where  the answer was out of line with the medium attitude to risk. This response  
would have reduced his overall risk rating.  
Question 16 states:
Capital Growth Goals: there will be a trade-off between the risk taken on your 
portfolio, the initial investment and the possibility of achieving your goal. Your  client  
manager will discuss your goal in detail as part of your profile  review
Mr M selected option A which  stated:
Regardless of my goal I want to preserve my capital in absolute  terms.
Standard Life stated that the answer to this question meant Mr M came  out with a risk rating 
of 2 and the benchmark  return was LIBOR+2%.
Due to the fact that the response  to this question was not in line with the responses to the 
other questions I note that a telephone call was held with Mr M on 27 June 2013  to discuss 
the response to this question. 
During this telephone call (which I have listened to) Standard Life stated the responses to 
the questions  on the risk questionnaire 2 were high; 8 were  medium  to high;  and 3 were 
Ref: DRN75877715medium. It was just the answer  to Q16 that brought him down to a Risk Rating of 2 of low-
medium  This reduced the benchmark rate of return.
Mr M also stated  that:
any investment placed should have the protection  of the capital as its. . sort of the 
whole point of the whole  thing.
Mr M went on to say that he was aware  of the risks involved in investing money and that he 
was very comfortable being a medium risk investor  so the benchmark would be 
LIBOR+3.5% and not the lower LIBOR+2%  that it would have been if Mr M had been 
assessed as having a medium-low attitude  to risk. Mr M confirmed at that time he was happy 
to be assessed  as having a medium attitude to risk.
I also note that the very detailed  personalised  proposal  that Mr M subsequently  received  
from Standard  Life on 17 July 2013  set out in several  places  that Mr M was going  to be 
treated  as having  a medium  attitude  to risk. It highlighted  on Page  2 of the proposal  that:
Investment  Objective
To grow  the capital  of the portfolio  whilst  managing  risk to a 'Medium'  level  and 
targeting  a return  of 6 month  Sterling  Libor+3.5%.
Goal  Type
Capital Growth
Risk  (Vola tility)
Medium  - You are prepared  to accept  an average  amount  of risk during  the time 
horizon  of your investment  but have  a strong  desire  to reach  your goal.  You are 
looking  for a balance  of risk and reward,  with the aim that, in the longer  term,  higher  
returns  may result  than from  a lower  risk portfolio.  You are willing  to accept  that the 
value  of your investment  will fall and rise and you may get back less than you invest.
There  was a risk that Mr M might  get back  less than he invested  and that the value  of the 
investment  would  rise and fall.
I have  seen  no evidence  that on receipt  of the proposal  that Mr M contacted  Standard  
Life to say that he was not a medium  risk investor  or that he did not want  the value  of his 
investment  to fall. I therefore  have  to conclude  that at that time Mr M was happy  with the 
proposal  that he had received  from Standard  Life.
                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                                
At the review in September 2014  the fund performance was ahead of the benchmark that 
had been set and there  is no evidence that Mr M was unhappy  with the investment  
performance of the SIA 
However by 27 February 2018 the position  had declined and the SIA Fund was well behind  
the benchmark that had been set.
 
It is clear that Mr M is very unhappy  with the recent  investment performance  of the SIA fund. 
Standard Life explained that the SIA fund positioned  itself to benefit from an increase in US 
interest rates and certain  currency  changes that did not happen. As a result the fund 
suffered losses. 
Ref: DRN75877716It is of course important to realise that it is impossible  to predict what  will happen in 
investment markets in the future and it is the role of the investment manager  to position the 
funds that they manage to benefit from any predicted future events.  The greater a fund 
managers confidence is in his own forecasts the larger an investment they may make.  With 
the larger investments  the greater is the potential gain if the managers forecasts  are correct 
but the greater  are the losses if the managers forecasts are incorrect. 
Sometimes an investment  manager  will get their predictions right and the fund they are 
managing does well. An example of this is when the investment was initially made  by Mr M 
into the SIPP. It is clearly very unfortunate  that the fund managers expected  US interest 
rates to rise when they did not but this was not foreseeable at the time the investment was 
made.
The agreement Mr M had with Standard  Life was it should manage  his money on a 
discretionary basis. This means Standard Life was authorised to make all the investment 
decisions on Mr Ms behalf  without  reference  to him, whilst taking account of his assessed 
attitude to risk at all times.  
I have seen no evidence  that the fund was being  managed inappropriately and I have also 
seen no evidence that Standard Life tried to hide the disappointing performance  of the SIA 
Fund or the reasons why this had happened. Standard  Life took a large position on the basis  
that it expected  interest rates in the US would rise that unfortunately did not happen. It was 
this that has resulted in the disappointing performance of the SIA fund.
I note that Mr M has argued that this investment in the SIA was inappropriate for him as it 
was too high risk. However it is important to look at a portfolio as a whole when assessing 
the amount of risk the portfolio is taking.  It is not reasonable to view part of it in isolation. The 
SIA Fund was designed to act as a balance to the rest of the portfolio.  So if more traditional  
asset classes fell in value the SIA Fund would most  likely rise and vice versa. This is 
explained in the investment proposal from Standard  Life which states:
The correlation between  different investments within  a portfolio is very important. If 
we create  a portfolio that has low or negative correlation  to each other,  we can 
access higher returns for the same level of risk. Thats why we aim for maximum 
diversification within each  client portfolio.  This is why the Strategic  Investment 
Allocation fund serves to diversify the exposures found in the rest of your portfolio 
and allows  us to dampen down volatility associated  with the riskier, but higher 
performing, assets.  In this way it encourages stable growth  and aims  to maximise the 
certainty of you achieving your financial goals. 
While the SIA may have  been higher risk than Mr M wanted, when his total portfolio is 
looked at, in the round, I am satisfied that it met the risk profile that Standard  Life stated that 
it would  be following i.e. Medium.
I have reviewed the quarterly investment report that was produced by the manager for the 
three months to the end of March 2016.  It was during this quarter that Mr Ms portfolio fell by 
3.24% against  a target return of 1.03%. (The report noted that over the last 12 months           
Mr Ms funds had fallen by 4.4% when the target was a positive return of 4.23%)
Standard Life explained that it had taken positions  to benefit from expected future changes 
that had not happened  and this is what had led to the disappointing performance in the 
quarter. Standard Life was hopeful that the positions  that it had taken would come good  in 
the longer term.
Ref: DRN75877717I as an ombudsman cannot uphold a complaint on the basis  that the investment manager 
made a wrong  decision or decisions.  In this case Standard Life had the responsibility  for 
taking the investment decisions and if Mr M is unhappy with the performance of his 
investment managers  he is, of course, able to transfer his funds to a new manager.
I therefore do not uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited  and I make  no 
award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 March  2020.
Adrian Hudson
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7587771