K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains about how HSBC UK Bank  Plc dealt with the closing  of his account and the 
withdrawal of his overdraft.
background
Mr F says he went over his overdraft limit by about £600. He says he spoke to HSBC and 
agreed that he would pay that amount back which he did on 30 November 2018. Mr F says 
he then received a final demand from HSBC which he says is unfair as he was told he just 
needed to pay off the £600. He says the account  defaulted  which  is wrong in the 
circumstances and that he then repaid the full amount. Mr F would like his credit file updated 
to remove any adverse data and disputes  receiving all of the letters  from HSBC  which  he 
says HSBC may have  created after his complaint.
HSBC says it closed  the account at the end of December 2018. It says Mr F had previously 
told it he was in financial difficulties and it suggested  to Mr F that he speak with its specialist 
debt team but he refused.  HSBC says it sent Mr F a number of letters about the overdraft 
and told him the full amount was repayable.  It doesnt accept misleading Mr F or acting 
unfairly.
Mr F brought  his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt uphold  it. The investigator 
listened to the calls between the parties  and thought Mr F had told HSBC he was in financial 
difficulties but would  be able to repay the £600 by 19 November 2018 and then shortly 
afterwards  repay the full amount. The investigator  didnt think the £600 was paid and so 
didnt think HSBC made a mistake  by sending Mr F a final demand  for the full amount. The 
investigator thought  HSBC had a duty to accurately report the account position to the Credit 
Reference Agencies and didnt think  HSBC had made a mistake or misled Mr F.
Mr F doesnt accept that view and doesnt  believe HSBC has released all of the calls 
between them. He says he was told he had 180 days before the account entered collections 
and says it was clear that he was told if he paid the £600 the collection process would be 
cancelled.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the investigator. I realise  Mr F will be disappointed by my decision.
I have listened  to the call between the parties on 13 November 2018 and having  done so Im 
satisfied Mr F made clear  on a number of occasions that he intended to repay HSBC the full 
account balance  that week. I think Mr F said that he had most  of the money  and that there 
was no point just repaying the amount that would have brought the account below the 
agreed overdraft level.  Im also satisfied that during that call HSBC  explained to Mr F  that  
there would be an impact on his credit  file if a payment wasnt made and that its specialist 
team could speak  to him if he wished which Mr F said he didnt wish to do so.
I can see from HSBCs  records  and Mr Fs account  statement that Mr F didnt pay off the full 
amount as he said he would but paid £600 into the account on 30 November 2018. So I 
dont think HSBC made a mistake by demanding the full amount be repaid and by restarting  
the process to close the account.  I also think HSBC  had sent numerous  letters  to Mr F about 
the account and I dont  think  it likely HSBC has created  those letters following Mr Fs 
Ref: DRN70250032complaint. I think the reason HSBC sent the final demand was because  Mr F hadnt repaid  
the full amount as he said he would or paid the £600. 
Im satisfied that HSBC  has a duty to accurately report  the position of its customers  accounts  
to the Credit Reference  Agencies. And I think HSBC  has acted in such  a way here.
Overall I dont think HSBC has acted unfairly or misled Mr F. I think it set out in a number of 
letters what  its position was and gave clear information in the call between  the parties of 13 
November 2018  the implications for Mr F if he didnt repay  the money or bring the account 
within the overdraft  level by a certain time.  For those  reasons I cant fairly ask HSBC  to 
amend Mr Fs credit file. I also think that Mr F could have repaid the full amount if he wished 
when he received the final demand at the end of November 2018. And I dont think that 
during the call of 5 December 2018 he was told not to pay the amount and wait until the 
outcome of his complaint.
Banks and building societies should treat cases of financial  difficulties positively  and 
sympathetically. I find HSBC did act in such a way here. I can see that it cancelled pending 
charges and offered Mr F the opportunity  to speak to its specialist team which  Mr F declined.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7025003