K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited (BGI) wouldnt repair  a leaking pipe 
which prevented  his central heating boiler  from working, when he called on BGI under his 
home emergency insurance policy.
background
On 29 January 2018 Mr M took out a home emergency policy with BGI covering his boiler, 
controls, and central heating system,  including the pipes connecting these. On 2 February 
2018 Mr M called  on BGI under his policy  because  his boiler wasnt working.
BGIs engineer found it wasnt working  because  there was no pressure in the system. He 
topped up the system but his notes say he noticed a leak in an underfloor pipe at a T 
junction that has been disturbed. The notes also say builders had damaged the pipes, and 
he had advised  Mr M to get them  repaired by a third party  after which  BGI would return  to 
sort out the boiler issues.
Mr M paid £330 for a plumber to attend  and repair the pipe. BGI then returned and got the 
boiler working again. Mr M complained  to BGI that its engineer should have repaired the 
leaking pipe on his first visit. He considered the pipe was covered by his policy. He wanted  
BGI to refund the £330 hed paid and compensate him for the upset and inconvenience hed 
suffered.
Mr M didnt  get a response  from BGI. It said its service manager had tried to contact Mr M 
several times to discuss his complaint without success. So it had closed its file.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld.  She said on the first 
visit the BGI engineer had determined that the damage to the pipe had been  caused by 
builders employed by Mr M. So Mr M needed  to get the leak repaired before BGI would 
proceed with the boiler issues.
It was true, as Mr M said, that pipes in the central  heating system were  within  the policy.  
However the policy excluded:
"Pre-existing faults
Damage caused  by anyone but us"
As the pipes  had been damaged by builders who were taking up Mr Ms floor, we wouldnt 
expect BGI to cover a claim where the damage  was caused by a third party.
Mr M responded to say that the builders didnt cause the damage to the pipe but had 
removed the flooring  to expose  the broken pipe ready for BGI to fix it.
The investigator pointed  out that the policy didnt cover pre-existing damage.  So the issue  
needed to have occurred after the policy was taken out (in the period of insurance) in order  
to be covered. It wasnt possible to take out this policy to cover an issue  that was already 
present.
Ref: DRN70686492Mr M said the damage did occur after the policy was taken out...the burst pipe caused  the 
pressure to drop in the heating system ....that  happened instantly. He asked for his 
complaint to be reviewed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M took out his policy at the end of January 2018.  He was sent a letter dated 29 January 
2018 confirming  that his policy ran from 29 January 2018 until 28 January 2019.
Mr M says the burst pipe happened  without  any external action after the policy  was taken 
out, that is on or after 29 January 2018,  and the builders were only involved after the leak 
had occurred. I havent seen any evidence to support this. But even if this is the case, the 
damage to the pipe still wouldnt  be covered by the policy.
The policy wording dealing with Central  Heating  Breakdown says:
Whats included
All repairs to the heat and hot water  system  on your property  including:
 The pipes that connect the central  heating  system
Whats not covered
Anything that happens within the first 14 days of you taking out the product
So as the damage to the pipe occurred, on Mr Ms evidence, within the first 14 days  of him 
taking out the policy  it wasnt covered by the policy. It follows that I cant say BGI has done 
anything wrong  in not meeting the cost of repairing the pipe under  the policy.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint,  and make  no order  against British Gas 
Insurance Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7068649