K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains his British Gas Insurance  Ltd (BGI) homecare insurance policy wouldnt 
cover repairs  to a gas pipe in his home.  And that exclusions in the policy, affecting his gas 
pipes, werent identified by BGI engineers during previous service  visits.
background
Mr K has a BGI Homecare  insurance policy.
Mr K was having a new kitchen fitted, when the fitter identified a small gas leak between the 
meter and the kitchen. So Mr K contacted  BGI who sent an engineer  to investigate.  He 
identified the leak was in the under-floor  pipework connecting the meter and kitchen. But 
because this was under a concrete floor, and wasnt protected with cladding,  the policy  
wouldnt cover  replacement or repair. It was suggested Mr Ks piping be re-routed within his 
house, which he declined.  So, Mr K installed an induction hob rather  than retain a gas one. 
Mr K complained to BGI. He was unhappy  the policy didnt cover the repair  of the pipe. He 
was also unhappy  the fact his gas pipes were routed under a concrete floor wasnt 
highlighted as a potential issue during previous  service visits. BGI responded, but didnt 
uphold Mr Ks complaint.  BGI said because Mr Ks pipes were under  a concrete floor, with 
inadequate protection, repairs  to them wouldnt be covered under his policy. And that hed 
have been aware  of the terms and conditions, and restrictions,  when he took out this policy.
Unhappy with this, Mr K brought his complaint to us. He said hes had cover for a number of 
years to cover such an eventuality. And this problem hadnt been mentioned by BGI 
engineers during previous  annual  services. He advises hes had to pay over £300  for the 
new hob he installed,  and this isnt the first claim hes made under the policy thats been 
refused. Mr K also thinks the BGI engineer didnt properly check  for the source  of the leak.  
He asks for compensation and advice  what his appropriate level of cover  should be.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. In summary, she said the pipes, being  under 
concrete and unprotected, were a pre-existing fault and wouldnt be covered. There  was no 
requirement for BGI to have checked if Mr Ks pipes were capable  of being covered before 
providing this. Unhappy with this, Mr K asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
my provisional findings
In my provisional findings, I advised I was minded to uphold Mr Ks complaint in part, and 
said as follows: 
Mr K has a BGI Homecare  policy,  which provides amongst other things an annual service,  
and covers boiler and controls and central heating on a service  and repair  basis. Ive looked 
at each of these sections within the policy to see whats covered and what isnt. The boiler 
and controls section, which appears most  relevant, provides cover for:
A replacement of the gas supply pipethat make your boiler work if we cant repair
This appears  to be the only part of Mr Ks policy that makes reference to gas pipes being 
covered. So, Ive looked at the policys definition of a gas supply  pipe  which  is as follows:
Ref: DRN78595422the pipe that connects your gas meter  to your gas boiler and other gas appliances  
you have on your property
This suggests the pipe between the meter and hob would be covered for replacement. But, 
the general exclusions within the policy, listed at page 30 of the policy  document,  also state:
Pre-existing faults  Our products dont  include cover  for any faults or design faults 
that  we couldnt reasonably have  been  expected to know  about before. For 
example, faulty  pipes  that dont have  the correct protection, which  are buried under 
concrete floors
Its not in doubt  the pipe in question is routed under a concrete floor, and its now known the 
pipe isnt clad with the correct protection.  So, based  on the above, I think  its clear the policy  
doesnt cover repairs  to any leak in the under-concrete  gas pipes in Mr Ks house, provided  
BGI couldnt be reasonably expected to know about  it before.
However, Mr K firmly  believes BGI should  reasonably have known about the cladding and 
concrete floor fault when  he took out the policy, and so the above cladding  exclusion should 
not apply. He points to the various  service visits during the time hes had the policy as 
evidence of times BGI engineers could have reasonably identified  how his pipes were  
routed. So, Ive looked at what Mr Ks policy says regarding service  visits.
The policy provides a first service to be undertaken after the policy  is taken out. A first 
service is defined within the policy as follows:
where we may visit you after you first take out a product  covering your boiler to 
check and confirm whether we can cover you. See page 27 for details
And the general  conditions at page  27 of the policy say the following about a first service:
At the first service  our engineer will check thatyour boiler or central heating and 
ventilation dont have  any pre-existing faults AND
If we findit has an existing fault well either: Tell you what  needs  to be done to fix it 
 and how much itll cost [OR] Offer you a different product or level of cover
The policy also provides  an annual service, which is defined as:
A check each year to ensure your gas boiler,  appliance,  or central  heating  is safe 
and working properly  See pages 27 and 28 for more details
And the general  conditions at pages  27 and 28 say the following about annual services:
One of our engineers  will visit your home once a year to check  that your appliance, 
boiler or central heating and ventilation is working safelyWell also test the gasses 
your appliance  or boiler produces  AND
During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist  which shows you exactly  what 
weve looked at. If we find a problem or fault that needs to be fixed, well tell you 
about it
Ref: DRN78595423It appears clear from the above that a first service is designed to only check certain things  
it makes no mention of gas pipes  for instance. And the annual service also limits what the 
engineer is required  to check. Ive now seen a copy of the first service  checklist, which lists 
all the tasks an engineer is required to undertake, and the only pipes  requiring to be checked  
are radiator and visible water pipes  for water  leaks and operation.
However, Mr K says the leak engineer  identified  the pipes werent properly  clad from a 
quick visual inspection  and so surely the service engineers, and particularly the first 
service engineer, would  have noticed this too. I think there  is some  merit in this belief, so I 
asked Mr K to confirm where in his kitchen the gas pipes exit from the concrete floor. Mr K 
responded, explaining  the pipes exited in two places:
The first point was behind the door to the kitchen and supplied  the old central 
heating boiler.  The pipe was clearly visible exiting  the floor. The second point 
supplied the hobvisible by removing the kickboard at the base of a kitchen unit.
So, the point where the pipe exited the floor and fed the hob was hidden.  I dont think BGIs 
engineer would have been  expected  to remove the kickboard to check  this exit point as part 
of the initial  service. But the pipe feeding the boiler does appear to have been  visible  exiting 
the floor. As mentioned above,  the first service  engineer had to check if the boiler had any 
pre-existing faults, and if found Mr K would have been told about  them.  Whilst there was no 
fault with the boiler, the cladding fault would appear  to have been visible  to the first 
engineer  it appears directly under the boiler the engineer  was checking.
That being  so, I dont think BGI can reasonably  rely on the policy exclusion as the problem 
with the under-concrete pipe wasnt a fault they couldnt  reasonably have been expected to 
know about before.  So, I think  BGI should have told Mr K, at or close  to inception, that his 
pipes werent properly clad and wouldnt be covered for replacement in the event of a 
subsequent fault. But they didnt, so I think they should have offered to meet Mr Ks claim.
This raises the next question  what would  likely  have happened  if BGI had said to Mr K they 
would meet his claim, and locate/fix the underfloor leak. Its impossible to answer  this with 
certainty. However, I see Mr K refused  BGIs offer to re-route his gas pipes after the leak had 
been identified  (albeit at a cost to him)  a process  that would likely have created significant 
mess and upheaval  given  the floor was made  of concrete.  That being so, I think  it seems 
unlikely hed have  decided differently had BGI offered to locate and fix the leak, and replace 
the pipes, under the policy  it would  have created the same level of mess and upheaval.
I should also comment on what would  likely  have happened if Mr K had been  told his gas 
pipes wouldnt have  been covered at inception. Mr K could have chosen a policy from 
another insurance company. However,  the cladding/concrete  floor exclusion is a common 
feature in similar policies,  and the policy Mr K chose provided other valuable benefits.  So, I 
cant conclude its likely  hed have chosen a different insurance company at the time. So, I 
think even had the fault/issue  been  identified at inception, its unlikely Mr K would have done  
anything differently  I think  its likely hed still have purchased the insurance policy  with BGI.
Mr K says BGI should pay for the cost of the new hob he had to install, once it was clear  he 
could no longer have a gas hob. As Ive said above,  I think BGI should have offered to fix the 
leak under  the policy. And I accept if the leak had been fixed, Mr K wouldnt have needed to 
purchase the induction hob instead.  However, Ive already said I think it seems unlikely Mr K 
would have agreed to the replacement works, and so the gas hob was always going to need 
Ref: DRN78595424to be replaced - the cost of the new induction hob was an expense that was always  going to 
be required. That being so, I dont think BGI should have to pay the cost of the new hob.
Mr K is also unhappy the engineer didnt do enough  to check if the leak was from a visible 
part of a pipe  above ground in other words. Mr K rightly  says if it was visible,  the policy  
would cover fixing it, and he wouldnt have had to spend extra  on a new hob. So, I asked 
BGI to confirm what steps the engineer took to test where the leak came from, and why it 
was decided the leak was hidden. BGI responded, advising as follows:
The engineer used  his gas detection probe on all surface pipework but it did not pick 
anything up on any of the surface  pipework.  Engineer also tested the probe on a 
known source to make sure his detector was working correctly.  He also did a 
tightness test and disconnected  the appliance which proved the gas leak was on the 
carcass and not on any of the appliances
Im aware Mr K says the engineer didnt make any checks, so I can only form a view based  
on what I think is likely to have happened. And I think  its more likely, given the dangers 
associated with a gas leak, the engineer did carry out these safety  tests.  So, I think the 
engineer conducted sufficient tests,  in the circumstances, to try and identify where  the leak 
source was. And Im satisfied this showed it was most likely underneath the concrete floor.
Which brings me to the issue of compensation. I think  its clear BGI made mistakes in the 
way they dealt with Mr K. They  should have identified the cladding issue at the initial service. 
And the failure  of their first service engineer to identify the cladding issue  impacted how BGI 
approached dealing with Mr Ks recent  claim. Its evident these failures  caused  Mr K a great 
deal of distress and inconvenience  particularly given the amount of time hes had to spend 
dealing with the claim and subsequent complaint. I think BGI should  pay Mr K compensation 
for this distress and inconvenience, and taking all of the above into consideration I think  
£300  fairly  reflects the levels of inconvenience  Mr K suffered.
Finally, Mr K asks for advice what his appropriate  level of cover should  be. Im afraid I cant 
assist in this regard - our service is here to look at complaints, but not to offer advice.
response to my provisional  findings
Mr K hasnt responded to my provisional decision,  but I have received a response  from BGI.
BGI explain their engineer  would have completed an initial  inspection  at the point of the 
policy inception to make  sure the boiler  was in good  working order and that repairs could be 
undertaken  parts  were  available   if the boiler  broke down. BGI goes on to say that the 
agreement to cover the boiler would still be governed by the terms and conditions of the 
policy, and the exclusions. And that it was a customers responsibility to check these to 
make sure the policy met their needs,  taking account of the relevant exclusions. 
BGI dont think its reasonable for the engineer, at this point, to list all of the exclusions that 
may apply   this is why they provide terms and conditions. BGI says Mr K would have  been  
aware of these, and the clear exclusions contained  within. BGI feels their engineer acted 
correctly in the circumstances. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78595425BGI say their engineer, at the initial inception inspection, was there to check  the boiler  was 
in good working  order  and capable  of being repaired. But, I dont think BGI have really 
addressed the point  that I felt it was reasonable for their engineer to have identified the pipe-
cladding issue at the first service. 
The policy provides for, amongst other things, a replacement of the gas supply pipe - the 
pipe connecting  the gas meter to the boiler and other gas appliances on the property. And 
its clear the policy  mentions the pre-existing cladding/concrete floor fault exclusion. And 
when talking about the first service, the policy says [an engineer] may visit to check  if BGI 
can provide cover, and at that first service will check that your boiler or central heating and 
ventilation dont have  any pre-existing faults. And that, if any are found, they will be 
highlighted. So, there is a requirement to check the boiler, central heating and ventilation  
here  theres  no specific mention of the supply pipes. 
But, the cladding  issue appears to have  been clearly visible directly under the boiler. And the 
replacement of the gas supply pipe is something specifically covered (subject to exclusions) 
under Mr Ks policy. So, even though the policy says the first service focuses on the boiler 
and central heating, I dont think its reasonable for BGI to say their first-service engineer did 
nothing wrong  by failing to notice  an obvious  fault that the policy  specifically excludes. 
It seems  clear  the first service is designed  to inform both BGI and Mr K about the limits of 
what can be covered under Mr Ks policy, right from the outset. As Ive said before, whilst I 
dont think BGIs engineer  had to go looking for faults (the exit point behind the kickboard for 
instance). I think Mr K was entitled to an expectation  that obvious  faults  would have been 
identified and alerted to him. This didnt happen, which  here I think it should have done. 
So Ive seen  nothing  in the response  from BGI that leads me to alter my previous conclusion,  
and accordingly  depart from my proposed outcome set out in my provisional decision.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require 
British Gas Insurance Ltd to pay Mr K £300 compensation for distress and inconvenience  
suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Mark Evans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7859542