K820x#14complaint
Ms B says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms B applied for a credit card in a branch of Halifax in 2002. The PPI was added  to the credit 
card at the same time and covered her repayments  if she couldnt work due to disability or 
unemployment. It also included life and critical illness  cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been  mis-sold. Ms B disagreed,  so the complaint 
was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website. And Ive taken this into account in deciding  
Ms Bs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided that the PPI wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Ms B says she was pressured into buying  the PPI. Thats a serious allegation which  I dont 
thinks supported by the evidence Ive seen. 
Halifax should have  made it clear  to Ms B that the PPI was optional  and got her agreement 
before adding it. While I cant be sure what was said in the meeting,  Ive looked closely at all 
of the information I have  about this sale, including what  Ms Bs said about not being made 
aware the PPI was optional.
Halifax has sent me a copy of the credit card application Ms B signed  and dated. It included 
a clear and prominent  box to mark if she wanted  PPI and a separate box next to it for 
another insurance product  it was selling. Theres a printed cross in the PPI box, but not in 
the other box. I think the application, together with experience of how Halifax sold PPI at the 
time, suggest there was a discussion between Ms B and the adviser about insurance. And 
that she chose  to take PPI, knowing she didnt have to.
I think Halifax recommended the PPI to Ms B. This means it had to look into whether PPI 
was right for her. I dont  know if it did that. But, from what Halifax  has sent me and what  
Ms Bs told me about her circumstances at the time of the sale, I think  the PPI was right for 
her in any case because:
She was eligible for the PPI. And I dont think she was affected  by any of the main 
things the PPI excluded or limited cover for. 
She says she was entitled to enhanced sick pay from her employer  for a time. But 
the PPI benefits  would have paid out on top of that and for longer, at up to 12 months 
per claim. The PPI included unemployment  cover too. Unlike  the help she says shed 
have got from her husband,  the PPI benefits were  guaranteed.  Overall, I think the 
PPI would have  been of use to her. 
Ref: DRN74668812Theres nothing to suggest Ms B couldnt afford the PPI. And, if she no longer wanted  
it, the PPI was flexible  enough that she could have cancelled  it at no extra cost.
Halifax also had to make  sure it told Ms B enough about the PPI for her to make  up her own 
mind about  whether it was right for her. And it had to do this in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way. I dont know for sure how much information Halifax  gave Ms B or how well it 
was explained.  But, for the same reasons I think the PPI was right for her, I dont think better 
information would have made  a difference to her decision  to take it out.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Ms B paid for it. But Halifax has already offered  to give Ms B back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Ms B now Ive issued my final decision, if it hasnt 
already done so.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7466881