K822xcomplaint
Mr E complains that Cabot Credit  Management  Group Limited (Cabot) instructed a third 
party to attend  at his home and as such breached the General Data Protection  Regulations  
(GDPR) by providing them with his personal information without his consent.  He also 
complains that he never received a Notice of Assignment (NOA) assigning  the debt, or 
notice that third party agents had been instructed.
background 
Historically, Mr E held a credit card account  with Egg, which was terminated  on the 
1 August 2009  because the minimum contractual payments  were  not being  made.  The debt 
was ultimately assigned to Cabot in late December 2009. They  wrote  to Mr E providing him 
with a NOA  of the debt on 6 January 2010. Due to the passage of time the NOA  is no longer 
available. At that time Mr E was being advised by StepChange and Cabot received regular 
monthly payments  until 16 May 2018.  Prior  to that, in May 2016, Cabot had instructed their 
agent NCO Europe Ltd (NCO) to manage  the account and advised  Mr E of that.
In June 2017, Mr E requested copy documentation from Cabot, pursuant to the Consumer 
Credit Act (CCA),  but they failed  to respond. Mr E reminded Cabot in May 2018 that he was 
awaiting the CCA documentation,  which they then sent to him on the 2 August 2018.  Cabot 
say they made further attempts to contact  Mr E but were  unsuccessful.  So, on the 
28 November 2018 they passed  the account  to their agent ResolveCall (RC).  At the same  
time they wrote to Mr E advising that they wanted to discuss a repayment  plan and that RC 
would visit Mr Es home with the intention of discussing the debt unless he contacted them.
Mr E sys he did not receive  the NOA and feels Cabot has breached GDPR by giving his 
personal information to RC. He is also unhappy  that Cabot did not respond  to his initial CCA 
request for documentation.
Cabot did not accept that they had breached the GDPR believing they were entitled  to share 
information with their agent. They  also deny  that they failed to send Mr E the NOA  of the 
debt. However they did accept that that could have done more  to keep Mr E informed and 
could have monitored his CCA request better. So, in recognition  of that failure in service  they 
offered to reduce the outstanding balance on his account by £200.
Mr E was unhappy with Cabots response  and so the investigator  looked into the complaint 
and found that in so far as not receiving the NOA and the instruction of NCO that the 
complaint was out of time and we couldnt  look at it. In relation to the remainder of Mr Es 
complaint, he found that there  had been  failings in the level of service  provided by Cabot but 
the offer to reduce Mr Es balance by £200  was fair and reasonable. As Mr E didnt agree, 
the complaint  has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I will consider whether Cabot acted fairly 
and reasonably in its dealings  with Mr E. I aim to address all relevant points with a view to 
reaching a fair and reasonable  decision based on the evidence  before me. I take into 
account both sides views. But, where  evidence  is incomplete, inconclusive or contradictory, 
Ref: DRN75713372then I have to come  to a decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  I consider 
what is more likely  to have happened  in the light of the available  evidence and the wider 
circumstances of the case.  
Failure to notify  Mr E of the Assignment of the Debt to Cabot, and the instruction of NCO.
Cabot became the legal  owners  of Mr Es account on the 29 December  2009.  It says it 
advised Mr E of this in writing on the 6 January 2010. But this service  cant consider 
complaints which  are brought more than 6 years after the event complained  about or, if the 
complaint is brought later than that, 3 years  after a customer  ought to have been reasonably 
aware they had cause  to complain. This means  Mr E had until the 6 January 2016 to bring  
his complaint to our service.
There is an exception however that if the failure  to meet these  time limits  was as a result of 
exceptional circumstances,  or the business consents to the complaint being  considered,  and 
then we can consider  it. Here Cabot doesnt  consent. So Ive considered whether any 
exceptional circumstances  exist and I dont think they do. I have taken into account Mr E 
suffered from depression  in 2009-10, but I also note that he was being  advised by 
StepChange at that time and beyond. So I think on balance he was not so badly affected by 
his depression that he couldnt have given them instructions on this point too, or indeed 
raised it with Cabot himself. For these  reasons, I believe no exceptional circumstances  exist 
and this element  of his complaint is out of time.
The instruction of RC and breach of confidentiality
I am satisfied that the original Egg credit card account debt has been  legally assigned to 
Cabot, and they are now the legal owners.  As a matter  law Cabot were entitled to instruct 
agents to act on their behalf, and in so doing any agent then represents Cabot. There was 
therefore no breach  in confidentiality in instructing RC, and by the very necessity of the 
agency, any information passed  to RC was in my view lawful.  Ive thought about whether it 
was reasonable  to instruct RC to attend at Mr Es home, and I think it was. I say that 
because Cabot were  getting no response  on the substantive issue of repayment,  and wrote 
to Mr E to advise him that they would be doing just that. That gave Mr E the opportunity  to 
contact them  to provide the information they were seeking without requiring any attendance.
 
I understand Mr E feels there has been  a data breach here, but I repeat  our investigators 
comments that it is not the role of this service  to decide whether or not theres  been  any 
such breach, because that falls within the remit of the Information  Commissioners  Office.  
The Response to Mr Es CCA request
This is a point Cabot  accept. They  have  confirmed that his initial  request was overlooked,  
but that they did ultimately respond  to him when he reminded  them  that his request 
remained outstanding.  Cabot has accepted their failings and agrees they should offer 
compensation to Mr E. So, the sole issue is what the correct level of compensation ought to 
be. In my view the £200 offer of compensation made to Mr E is fair and reasonable. It is in 
line with the awards  this service would make for distress and inconvenience in 
circumstances like these, and I think it is enough to put matters  right.
Although Mr E will probably be disappointed  with my decision,  I have come to the same 
conclusion as the investigator. So I cant say Cabot has acted unfairly  and Im not upholding 
this complaint. 
Ref: DRN75713373my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Cabot. Cabot has 
already made an offer to reduce Mr Es account  balance by £200, in order  to settle  the 
complaint and I think this offer is fair in all the circumstances.
So my decision is that Cabot Credit Management Group Limited should reduce Mr Es 
account balance  by £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7571337