K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J, who are represented by a third party, complain that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) 
mis-sold them a single premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  in July 1989 in 
connection with a loan as well as alongside further borrowing they took out in March  1992. 
The PPI provided  cover for accident, sickness and unemployment.
background
Mr and Mrs J say Lloyds made them think they had to take out the PPI to get the loan 
borrowing they needed. They also say they felt pressured to buy the policy and it wasnt 
explained to them.
 
Lloyds says it isnt responsible for the PPI sale. It says the Business A is responsible for 
selling Mr and Mrs J both policies. 
 
When Mr and Mrs J complained to us, our adjudicator thought Lloyds  wasnt  responsible for 
looking at the PPI mis-sale complaint. Mr and Mrs J disagreed  with our adjudicators view 
and asked for the matter to be looked at again. 
In my provisional decision dated  5 March 2019  I explained  why I didnt think Lloyds Bank Plc 
was responsible for the sale of PPI to Mr and Mrs J. Heres an extract:
Having looked at the evidence, I dont currently think  that Lloyds sold Mr and Mrs J the 
policies. It therefore  follows  that if Lloyds did nothing  wrong during the PPI sale, I will not be 
upholding this mis-sale complaint against Lloyds.  I will explain  why.
Ive looked at all the evidence provided  by Lloyds and Mr and Mrs J about the sale.  This 
includes correspondence and some sale paperwork.  
Having carried out searches,  Lloyds says it didnt sell the PPI and hasnt  been  able to find 
any evidence on its own electronic systems to show it might have done,  or that Mr and Mrs J 
had taken a loan with Lloyds. Ive reviewed copies of these results. Lloyds also told us that 
Mr and Mrs J were customers but didnt have a loan account. 
So Ive looked  at the evidence and information we have. From the available  sale paperwork, 
I see that in June 1989, Business A provided Mr and Mrs J with a schedule,  showing their 
loan and the amount of PPI included  with it, which theyd  signed. Ive also seen a letter  from 
Business A confirming  that the loan monies had been provided.  In respect of the 1992 loan 
Ive seen a copy  of the proposed credit  agreement,  which  also included the PPI. This is 
accompanied by a letter from Business A, asking Mr and Mrs J to take the time to consider 
the agreement  for at least a week before the final agreement would be sent to them to sign. 
Taken together, all this information suggests to me that on each occasion the lending and 
PPI were being handled by Business As representative and that Business A took 
responsibility for the sale of the PPI. . 
So from what Ive seen  so far, Im currently satisfied Mr and Mrs J didnt buy their PPI from 
Lloyds. And given that I currently  think Lloyds wasnt responsible  for the PPI sale,  it follows  
that it also wasnt responsible for carrying out the PPI sale properly.
developments
Ref: DRN76341672Both Lloyds  and Mr and Mrs Js third party representative have been sent a copy of my 
provisional decision. They havent  responded with any further comments. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  party  has provided  with me with any further comments, having received a 
copy of my provisional decision, I will now be making a finding that Lloyds is not responsible  
for the sale of PPI to Mr and Mrs J. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank Plc is not responsible for looking at this PPI mis-sale 
complaint. It follows that Lloyds Bank  Plc is also not responsible for a possible mis-sale of 
the policy. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Michael Goldberg
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7634167