K820x#14complaint
Mr F and Mrs F say Bank of Scotland Plc (trading  as Halifax) mis-sold  them  a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1999 Mr F and Mrs F bought PPI at the same time as they applied to re-mortgage. The 
policy was in Mr Fs sole name and gave  him protection  against  accident, sickness and 
unemployment. They paid a monthly  amount for it. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr F disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  PPI is on our website and Ive followed it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr F and Mrs Fs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr F says they werent aware  they had PPI. On Mr F and Mrs Fs mortgage application 
form they signed  to confirm  they wanted to take out PPI. They  then went  on to complete 
and sign a separate PPI application form answering a number of questions  to confirm  
Mr Fs eligibility  for the cover. This form also set out the cost of the PPI separately. Mr F 
says they must have signed for it unknowingly, but I think the documents  made clear 
what they were  agreeing  to. And I would have expected  them  to read them before 
signing. Overall,  I think Halifax made  it clear  to Mr F and Mrs F that the PPI was optional, 
and they agreed to take it out for Mr F.
Halifax recommended  the PPI for Mr F, and I think it seems  to have been right for him 
based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time. He was entitled to at least  six 
months full pay if he was sick and some  redundancy  pay. But the PPI would have paid 
out in addition to his work benefits  and for up to 24 months for all accident, sickness and 
unemployment claims. And it would have allowed  him to protect any lump  sum 
redundancy payment giving increased financial security. 
Mr F said they had savings worth around £4,500 but the PPI would have allowed them to 
use their savings to cover  other living costs whilst Mr F wasnt  working, or to keep them 
intact for their future needs. Mr F also said they had two endowment  policies and he was 
entitled to a death-in-service benefit. But these are different kinds  of financial products 
and wouldnt  have  helped  with monthly  mortgage  repayments in the same way as PPI. 
He said family would have helped too, but thats  not suitable  alternative protection. Its 
not guaranteed and peoples circumstances can change.  Mr F and Mrs F were  borrowing 
quite a large sum over a long period,  secured on their home.  So the effects  of not 
keeping up with the repayments  could  have been  serious for them. Overall, I think the 
PPI would have  been useful for them if Mr F was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Ref: DRN73996502Its possible  Halifax didnt give Mr F and Mrs F all the information they needed before 
they decided  to buy PPI. The cost was clear on the PPI application  form however, and 
the PPI was competitively  priced  and apparently  affordable.  And Mr F doesnt  appear to 
have been affected  by any of the main  exclusions  or limitations (such as those affecting 
people with pre-existing medical  conditions or on certain  types of employment  contract).  
Overall, I dont think better information  wouldve changed  their decision.
It follows I dont think Mr F and Mrs F have lost out because of any problems with this sale. 
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7399650