K820x#14complaint
Miss W has complained about Aviva  Life & Pensions UK Limiteds decision to decline her 
claim under her employers group income protection insurance policy. 
background
Miss W was a member of her employers group income protection  insurance  policy, held with 
Aviva. The policy,  after a deferred period of 26 weeks,  would pay a monthly benefit for up to 
five years if Miss W were unable to perform her occupation due to injury or illness.
In 2017, Miss W stopped  working due to hypertension and anxiety.  She remained off for 
more than 26 weeks and so made  a claim under the policy.  Aviva accepted this and began  
paying benefit. In October  2017, Miss W returned  to work and benefit payments stopped.
In April 2018, Miss W again stopped working because of anxiety.  She made a claim under 
the policy and asked that it be linked  to her previous absence, meaning the deferred period 
would not need to be served.
Aviva declined the claim. It considered  that Miss Ws absence  was due to work-related 
factors rather than health factors.
Miss W was unhappy at Avivas decision.  She referred her complaint to us.
In February 2019,  our adjudicator recommended that the complaint should  be upheld  in part. 
He considered there was insufficient  information  to decide on whether Miss Ws claim was 
eligible for benefit and that Aviva should  therefore arrange for her to undergo an 
Independent Medical Examination (IME), the findings of which  should  be binding  on Aviva. 
Both parties  agreed to this course of action and the complaint file was closed.
Later that month, Miss W underwent the IME by a consultant psychiatrist, Dr B.
Based on Dr Bs report, Aviva told Miss W it was standing by its decision to decline her 
claim.
Miss W continued  to feel that Aviva  had acted unfairly. She again  referred  her complaint to 
us. She insisted that she was suffering from mental  illness and not simply work-related 
stress. She considered that Aviva had presented information to Dr B, and interpreted her 
report, in a biased way. She also raised concerns about the substance of Dr Bs report.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion,  
based on Dr Bs report, it had been  fair for Aviva to decline Miss Ws claim.
Miss W didnt accept  the investigators findings.  She considered that in coming to its decision 
Aviva had discounted other medical  evidence and the findings  of a court that her anxiety 
constituted a disability.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
Ref: DRN75873672my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy defines  incapacity as:
"the members inability  to perform on a full or part-time basis  the duties of his or her job role 
as a result  of their illness or injury"
This is therefore the criteria which Miss W needs  to meet  for her claim to eligible.
Following the earlier  complaint,  both parties agreed that Miss W would undergo an IME and 
that if this found  in favour of Miss W then Aviva would accept the claim.
Im satisfied that Aviva arranged the IME in line with the adjudicators recommendations. 
This included in respect of the background medical  information given to Dr B and the 
questions which Dr B was asked  to answer.  I recognise that Miss W thinks  Aviva included  
superfluous information which was designed  to undermine her case  but I disagree that it did 
so and, in any event, I consider that Dr B should have been sufficiently experienced to 
determine the relevance of the various pieces of information.
Dr B diagnosed  that Miss W was suffering  principally from agoraphobia. She also thought 
that Miss W had significant  anxiety  traits  in her personality. She noted that Miss W had just 
begun a gradual return to work. She considered that the reason Miss W had stopped 
working in April 2018 was because of work-related stress. In view of this, she considered it 
likely that Miss W would have been  fit to perform her occupation at that time if shed been  
working for another  employer, or if her current  employer had taken adequate steps to 
address her concerns.
I recognise that Miss W disputes  the reports findings but Dr B is an expert in the relevant 
field and it was agreed in the settlement of the earlier complaint that an IME of this kind was 
the way to determine Miss Ws entitlement to benefit. Dr B had access  to the relevant 
background medical evidence and examined Miss W before she wrote  her report. I therefore 
see no reason to doubt Dr Bs opinion.
Miss W says she is suffering from a mental  illness. Dr B acknowledged that Miss W was 
suffering from agoraphobia. But she also said that work-related stress was the apparent  
reason that Miss W stopped working  in April 2018.  She confirmed that, in her opinion,  
Miss Ws agoraphobia and anxiety  issues wouldnt  have prevented Miss W from doing her 
job for another employer. She said that it was important for Miss W to receive support to 
manage her workplace issues rather than medicalise all her problems.
Miss W has referred to a change she requested to a psychologists report  in June 2018. She 
thinks the un-amended report may have strengthened her case.  I cant see that the change 
she requested was likely to make a significant difference  but, in any case, I consider that she 
should really have raised this point as part of her previous complaint. Instead, she agreed 
that the success of her claim  should be determined by an IME.  
Miss W has explained that she no longer works  for her employer and that she has taken it to 
court for disability  discrimination.  She says that in a preliminary hearing, the judge has ruled  
Ref: DRN75873673that she suffers from hypertension and anxiety, and that these are disabilities. I havent  seen 
evidence of the preliminary  hearing  but, in any case, Miss W has still provided no new 
medical evidence  to challenge  Dr Bs opinion.
Given that Dr B thought  the factors which prevented  Miss W from working  were  specific  to 
her place of employment,  and that it was likely she could have performed her occupation  for 
another employer,  I consider it was reasonable for Aviva to say that she did not meet the 
policys definition of incapacity. I therefore am satisfied it was fair for Aviva to decline the 
claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7587367