K820x#14complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the way CIS General  Insurance Limited  has handled a claim under a 
buildings insurance  policy.
background
Ms Gs property  has a septic tank that drained into a soakaway in a field belonging to a 
neighbour (N1). She says she has a legal right for this (an easement). In March  2015 Ms G 
made a claim to CIS after N1 cut through the drainage pipe and dug up the soakaway. CIS 
accepted the claim and appointed a loss adjuster to handle it.
Since N1 didnt agree for the soakaway to be reinstated on his land, CIS decided to install a 
new sewage treatment  system on Ms Gs land.
Ms G says CIS installed  two failed  sewage systems. CIS apologised for this and paid £700 
compensation. It also appointed a new loss adjuster and a firm of solicitors.  When more 
damage and faulty workmanship was discovered,  CIS sent a further compensation payment  
of £1,050.
Ms G now has another new working  sewage system but the treated  water  comes out into a 
ditch across the road from her house without permission from the landowner (N2). CIS has 
tried without success to obtain  such permission. So its only a temporary measure and a 
different solution  is needed.
Ms G complained to CIS that her claim had been running for over three years and she was 
no further forward. CIS said that following a site meeting at Ms Gs property with its loss 
adjuster, drainage engineer and solicitor it was agreed that the best option  was now to 
connect to a sewage treatment plant owned  by the local water authority. This is located  at 
the rear of property  belonging  to another neighbour (N3). So the consent  of N3 would be 
required. It said if consent couldnt  be obtained  it would look into enforcing the easement.
Ms G brought her complaint to this service.  She would like CIS to appoint a new project 
manager to take responsibility for the claim, take action to enforce the easement and pay 
compensation for the trouble and upset  shes  suffered.  Our adjudicator didnt uphold the 
complaint. He thought that overall  CIS had treated Ms G fairly  and reasonably.
As Ms G didnt  agree,  the matter has been referred  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms G made previous complaints to CIS, including one in February 2018. I confirm Im only 
looking at how CIS has handled  Ms Gs claim from February 2018. Thats because Ms G 
didnt bring her earlier complaint to this service  and is now out of time to do so. 
Clearly it is very unsatisfactory for Ms G and her partner that the claim  has gone on for so 
long and that the various attempts to provide  an alternative drainage system have failed or 
been unsatisfactory in some respects. But this is a very  difficult  and complex claim. The 
length of time its taken  seems to me not due to delay and inaction  on the part of CIS or a 
Ref: DRN79723512failure to project  manage the claim but because of complexities with each of the possible 
solutions, in particular the need for consent or co-operation from other landowners.  I dont 
think the appointment of a new project manager  would necessarily help to overcome these 
obstacles.
Ms Gs preferred option is reinstating  the easement which her property has over N1s land. I 
can understand that since shes  legally entitled  to this, she doesnt want  to give it up in 
favour of what she views as less satisfactory  options. But CISs  obligation  is to repair  the 
damage and its up to it to decide  the best way of doing this from a practical and cost 
perspective provided it carries out a lasting and effective repair. 
CIS has looked into a number of permanent drainage solutions. They all have drawbacks, 
often involving the need for consent  from a neighbour and difficulty in obtaining such 
consent. In weighing up the different options  CIS took advice  from various professionals.  I 
can see that it fully explored  the option  of enforcing the easement.  It decided  against this on 
the ground that there might  well be practical difficulties in doing  so and the risk that N1 might 
cause further  damage in future causing Ms G to have the same problem all over again. I 
dont think this was an unreasonable conclusion in the circumstances.
CIS has said that Ms Gs legal expenses cover might cover a claim against  N1 for nuisance  
and damage to property.  She should  provide it with further details  of her claim if she wishes  
to pursue this. 
Ms G says CISs preferred alternative  option of connecting to the local water authoritys 
treatment plant isnt feasible as only foul water  can go into this plant. That would mean a 
separate tank and pump to separate the surface water from the foul water as the surface 
water would still have  to be discharged onto the land across the road. CIS says that because  
the proposed  scheme is dependent on consent  from the neighbour, it hasnt been fully 
developed and it will ensure this is taken  into consideration  at the relevant time. I havent 
seen any expert advice to support Ms Gs view that this option  isnt feasible. So I dont think 
CIS has acted unreasonably  in saying that it will look into this further if the neighbour 
consents.
Ms G and her partner have undoubtedly suffered much stress  and inconvenience as a result 
of their neighbours actions and this claim. I think CIS has been sensitive to the impact  this 
matter has had on them. Although Ms G feels that at times CIS and its advisers have tried to 
bully her and her partner into accepting its favoured solution, I think  actually it was more  a 
case of reminding her of the duty of a policyholder to co-operate with it in resolving the claim 
properly and its rights in terms of deciding how best to settle the claim.
Although I have much sympathy for the position  Ms G and her partner find themselves in, 
overall I dont think theyve been  treated unfairly or unreasonably by CIS. 
Ref: DRN79723513my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7972351