K821x#15complaint
Mrs and Mr S say Aviva Insurance Limited mis-sold  them a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 2002.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint be upheld. Aviva disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered what Aviva has said, but Ive still decided to uphold Mrs and Mr Ss 
complaint. This is because I dont think Aviva gave Mrs and Mr S clear enough information 
about the policy, during the telephone sale of the policy.  I say this because  the policy didnt 
cover claims arising from a medical condition that Mrs S suffered from, and I think its 
unlikely theyd have  taken the policy if theyd  understood  this. Its likely there was a 
conversation about the medical  condition  during  the sale, as the documents  that came  after 
the sale referred to it, and said it wasnt covered.  But it wouldnt be surprising if 
Mrs and Mr S didnt  notice this as it was a rather technical document.  And I have no 
evidence that Aviva did clearly bring this restriction in the policy to Mrs and Mr Ss attention 
during the actual sales call. 
Mrs and Mr S have  said throughout  that they thought they were buying life insurance,  and 
this tends to support my conclusion it was likely the policy and its terms werent  made clear 
to them.  
Aviva says there is a record  of Mr S making an unsuccessful claim in 2009.  But this doesnt 
mean that, at the time of the sale, they understood what they were  applying for and what  the 
restrictions were. 
I dont think Mrs and Mr S would have bought the policy  theyd had enough information 
about it. So, I think theyve lost out because  of what the business  did wrong. 
fair compensation
Aviva should  put Mrs and Mr S in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Aviva should:
Pay Mrs and Mr S the amount they paid each  month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
Ref: DRN72975082If Mrs and Mr S made a successful claim under  the PPI policy,  Aviva can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Aviva Insurance Limited to take off tax from this interest.  
Aviva must give Mrs and Mr S a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mrs and Mr Ss complaint. 
I require Aviva Insurance Limited to pay Mrs and Mr S compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7297508