K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls  Marketing Limited (an 
Appointed Representative of Alexander  David  Securities Limited) to transfer his pension  to a 
self-invested personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint on 16 September 2020.  The background 
and circumstances  of the case and the reasons why I was minded to uphold  it were set out 
in that decision. A copy is attached and it forms part of this final decision.
I asked both parties to send me any further evidence  or arguments that they wanted  me to
consider.
Alexander David Securities Limited  didnt provide any further evidence or arguments.
Mr Ms representative said it had nothing further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive seen no reason to
depart from the findings set out in my provisional  decision  to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  attached,  my final decision  is
that I uphold  Mr Ms complaint.
I order Alexander David Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr M as set
out in my provisional  decision.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 November 2020.
David Ashley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN79784172Copy of Provisional  decision
complaint
Mr M has complained about the advice he was given by St Pauls Marketing Limited (an Appointed 
Representative of Alexander David Securities  Limited)  to transfer  his pension to a self-invested  
personal pension (SIPP) and invest in an unsuitable investment.
background
Mr M, through  his representative,  complained to Alexander David  in August 2018.   I understand 
Alexander David didnt provide any material  response to the complaint.  The representative   
subsequently referred it to us.
One of our adjudicators  looked  into Mr Ms complaint. He asked Alexander  David for its files and to 
provide any evidence it wanted us to take into account. Despite reminders, he received no response.  
The adjudicator therefore  assessed the complaint on the evidence that had been presented.
The background  to the complaint was set out by the adjudicator in his assessment.  He said Mr M was 
advised by St Pauls  Marketing Limited to switch the value of his existing personal pension of around 
£24,000 to a self-invested  personal pension (SIPP) in 2016. 
At the time of the advice Mr M was in his late 40s. The only investments he held were  his personal 
pension that was used  to fund the SIPP,  an £8,000 wine investment and around £4,700  in cash. An 
illustration for the SIPP  noted the funds were to be invested by a discretionary fund manager  (DFM). 
There were  adviser charges, annual  charges  for the SIPP  and an annual  management  charge for the 
DFM service. The majority of the transfer value was invested in debentures for a single company.
The adjudicator concluded  from the evidence  hed seen  that St Pauls introduced Mr M to the SIPP 
provider to open the SIPP. This had been confirmed by the SIPP provider. The adjudicator said he 
was satisfied  that St Pauls/Alexander David were responsible for the advice  to transfer.  And no 
evidence had been provided to the contrary.
The adjudicator said he didnt think it would normally be considered appropriate to recommend setting  
up a SIPP with such a modest  transfer value.  He thought the advice  and set up costs for doing so 
would have had a detrimental effect on the value of Mr Ms accumulated pension from the outset. And 
the deduction of those charges would require  the underlying investments chosen to provide additional 
investment growth in order to recover the deductions  within a reasonable  period of time.
In addition, he said the relatively  modest transfer value  wasnt sufficient  in order  to take advantage  of 
anything other  than a relatively small  number  of the wider  range of investment options available to a 
SIPP compared to a personal pension. The adjudicator said investing in unlisted securities wasnt 
appropriate for Mr Ms circumstances as a medium  or lower risk investor. These investments were 
speculative and high risk. And there was no guarantee the loans and/or interest would be repaid on 
time and there was no ready market on which  they could  be resold. He didnt think Mr Ms limited 
investment experience meant he was the type of investor for whom  a DFM service was appropriate.
Overall, the adjudicator thought  it was Alexander  Davids advice to switch to the SIPP  and to invest  in 
the DFM which led to the losses Mr M had suffered. And without the advice to set up the SIPP,  the 
DFM investments wouldnt have been made.
The adjudicator sent his assessment of the complaint to Alexander David. However it didnt  provide a 
response. Another adjudicator subsequently wrote  to both parties  on 4 January 2019 setting  out how 
he thought compensation should be calculated. And explained that the complaint would be passed to 
an ombudsman for review and to make a final decision.  No further evidence or arguments were 
provided.  
Ref: DRN79784173my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Alexander David didnt respond  to Mr M original  complaint or to the adjudicators requests for 
information. It didnt provide any further evidence or arguments in response to the adjudicators 
assessment. So theres only very limited evidence  available to establish  what  happened at the time of 
the transfer and investment.  
Ive carefully considered the evidence that is available including Mr Ms recollections of events. 
Alexander David/St Pauls hasnt disputed what Mr M said in his complaint to it, or what the 
investigator said in his assessment. 
Im also mindful  that this is one of a number of complaints  we have received and which I have seen 
against St Pauls Marketing Limited; all of a similar nature,  involving  seemingly similar circumstances  
and the same  investments. 
Clearly I need  to consider each complaint on its own facts. But Ive noted  that what  Mr M has said 
about St Pauls role is consistent with what other complainants have described. So I think  what  he has 
said is plausible. And taking everything into account, I have found  it credible.  
Mr M completed a complaint  form for us a copy of which  was sent to Alexander David. In the 
complaint form Mr M said St Pauls Marketing had advised him to transfer the personal  pension to the 
SIPP and then invest in what he now knew to be Corporate Loan  Stock. He said he now realised  the 
advice was wholly inadequate and unsuitable,  He said he believed he was mis-sold the SIPP  and the 
investment and had lost everything. 
Mr M has told us that he was initially contacted by St Pauls  by telephone.  The documentation  shows 
St Pauls  Marketing were  involved from the outset. Mr M subsequently  transferred his pensions  to the 
SIPP and invested  in the debenture. In my experience its unusual  for someone of Mr M background  
and experience to want to transfer  an existing pension  in order to invest  in this type of investment 
without prompting. 
Im satisfied that St Pauls initiated  the investment  in the debenture. It was aware of where  the 
investment was going to be made  through the DFM and facilitated it. Mr M has said St Pauls  advised 
him to use his pension to invest in the debentures, the investigator said he thought it likely  St Pauls 
had recommended the investment and it wasnt suitable  for him. And the firm hasnt disputed  this. In 
all the circumstances and on the balance  of the evidence  available, I think  its more likely than not that 
advice was given.
St Pauls  Marketing was the promoter  for the debenture,  but Im satisfied, on the limited evidence  
available, that it went beyond just promoting it and was involved in arranging the investment (as well 
as recommending it). Mr M has described its involvement  and the documentation  that is available is 
consistent with what he has said. 
These debentures were a non-readily  realisable  security. The promotional material I have seen 
referred to debentures as illiquid; said that there might be no market for them even  after listing, and 
said that investors might  need to hold them to redemption. COBS 10 required St Pauls  Marketing to 
assess Mr Ms knowledge and experience in the investment field relevant to the specific type of 
product or service offered or demanded so as to enable the firm to assess  whether the service  or 
product envisaged is appropriate.
Mr M had no significant investment knowledge  and no experience of making  investments of this 
nature. The debentures were high risk and speculative  and clearly not appropriate for   Mr M given his 
background, knowledge and circumstances
Ref: DRN79784174The FCA is responsible for consumer protection. Its Principles for Business  are a general  statement 
of the fundamental obligations on the firms it authorises. These include Principle 6, that it must pay 
due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly, and Principle 9, that it must  take 
reasonable care to ensure the suitability  of its advice and discretionary decisions for any customer 
who is entitled  to rely upon its judgment.
In my view switching  a pension can be a fairly complex transaction with a number  of different factors 
to weigh  up and consider.  Mr M was an ordinary  retail  investor.  He doesnt appear to have had any 
particular experience  or knowledge of this type of transaction or the complex and higher  risk 
investments he was invested into. I think Mr M was entitled to rely on the firm providing  advice that 
was suitable to his circumstances.  It was acting in its professional capacity and was obliged to take 
reasonable care to ensure the suitability  of its advice and to act in Mr M interests. 
Mr M has said he wanted  a lower risk investment  and the pension transferred  was his only pension 
provision. Hed got very limited capacity  for loss. I think it was clear  that the debentures werent 
suitable or appropriate for Mr M and this should have been clear to St Pauls. So I dont  think  St Pauls  
acted in Mr Ms interests. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied that if St Pauls hadnt advised  Mr M to transfer and invest  
in the debentures or if it had told him it wasnt appropriate or suitable  for him, he wouldnt have 
transferred and invested in them.  Accordingly, Im satisfied that St Pauls  failures caused Mr M to 
transfer and invest in a product that he would otherwise not have invested into. And Im satisfied its 
failures caused  the losses  that Mr M has claimed.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I uphold Mr Ms complaint. I intend to order Alexander David
Securities Limited to calculate and pay compensation to Mr M on the following  basis.
fair compensation
In assessing what would be fair compensation, my aim is to put Mr M as close as possible to the 
position he would probably now be in if he had been  given suitable advice. I think Mr M would have 
invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely  what he would have done, but I am satisfied that 
what I have set out below is fair and reasonable  given  Mr Ms circumstances and objectives  when he 
invested.
what should Alexander David do?
To compensate Mr M fairly Alexander David  should:
Compare the performance of Mr Ms investment with that of the benchmark  shown below.  If the fair 
value is greater  than the actual value, there is a loss and compensation is payable. If the actual value 
is greater  than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  also pay any interest as set out below. If there is a loss, 
Alexander David Securities Ltd should  pay into Mr Ms pension plan to increase its value by the 
amount of the compensation and any interest. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges  and 
any available tax relief.  Alexander David Securities  Ltd shouldnt pay the compensation  into the 
pension plan if it would  conflict with any existing  protection  or allowance.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to pay the compensation into Mr Ms pension plan, it 
should pay that amount direct to him. But had it been possible  to pay into the plan, it would have 
provided a taxable income. Therefore the compensation should be reduced to notionally  allow for any 
income tax that would  otherwise have been paid. The notional allowance should  be calculated  using 
Mr Ms actual  or expected marginal  rate of tax at his selected retirement  age.
Ref: DRN79784175I think  M M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer  at the selected retirement  age, so the reduction should 
equal the current basic rate of tax. However,  if Mr M would have been able to take a tax-free lump 
sum, the reduction should be applied  to 75% of the compensation.
In addition, Alexander David should:
Pay Mr M £250 for the distress and inconvenience Im satisfied  the matter has caused him.
Provide details of the calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple  format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Alexander David  Securities Ltd considers  
that it is required by HM Revenue  & Customs  to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it 
should tell Mr M how much it has taken off. It should also give Mr M a tax deduction  certificate 
if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus Benchmarkfrom
(start date)to
(end  
date)additional interest
SIPP still exists for half the
investment:
FTSE UK
Private
Investors
Income Total
Return Index;
for the other
half: average
rate from fixed
rate bondsDate  of 
transferDate  of 
decision8% simple  a
year from date
of decision  to
date of
settlement if
settlement  isnt
made within
28 days of
Alexander
David being
notified  of
Mr Ms 
acceptance of
this decision
Actual value
This means  the actual  transfer  value of the SIPP at the end date.
If, at the end date, the debenture is illiquid (meaning it cannot be readily  sold on the open market),  it 
may be difficult to find the actual value of the SIPP. So, the value should be assumed to be nil to 
arrive at fair compensation. Alexander  David Securities Ltd should take ownership of the illiquid 
investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider / administrator. This 
amount should be deducted  from the compensation and the balance paid as above.
If Alexander David Securities Ltd is unable  to purchase the debentures its value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation.
Alexander David Securities Ltd may wish to require  that Mr M provides an undertaking  to pay it any 
amount he may receive from the debentures in the future.  That undertaking  must  allow for any tax 
and charges that would be incurred  on drawing  or receipt from the pension plan. Alexander David 
Securities Ltd will need to meet any costs in drawing up the undertaking.
Ref: DRN79784176Fair value
This is what the sum transferred from the pension provider, plus any charges  incurred  within the plan 
on t date had they grown in line with the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when  using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark, Alexander David  
Securities Ltd should use the monthly average rate for the fixed  rate bonds with 12 to 17 months 
maturity as published  by the Bank of England. The rate for each month is that shown as at the end 
of the previous month. Those rates should be applied  to the investment on an annually  
compounded basis.
Any additional sum paid into the SIPP should be added to the fair value  calculation from the point in 
time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income  or other  distribution  out of the SIPP should  be deducted  from the fair value at 
the point it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue any return in the calculation from that point on.
SIPP Fees
The investigator recommended  that Alexander David pay five years worth of SIPP fees if it couldnt  
buy the investment. I think this is reasonable  as Mr M hasnt  got the opportunity to close the SIPP or 
switch to another pension if the illiquid debenture remains in it. So if Alexander David Securities  Ltd 
cant buy the investment and it remains  illiquid, it should pay Mr M an amount equal  to five years of 
SIPP fees based on the current tariff. This is in addition  to the compensation calculated using a nil 
value for the investment.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Mr M has said he was a lower risk investor; and I think his circumstances were consistent with 
someone who only had limited capacity for risk. In the circumstances, I dont think  Mr M would have 
transferred with suitable  advice.
But given I dont know exactly how he would have invested if he had been suitably advised  even if 
he had remained  with his original scheme, I think the index I have outlined  above is an appropriate  
benchmark and is a reasonable proxy  for the lower level of risk that Mr M was willing and able to 
take.
The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve a reasonable  return  without risk to their capital.
 The FTSE  UK Private Investors Income total return  index  (prior to 1 March 2017,  the 
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index)  is made up of a range of indices  with 
different asset classes, mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair measure for 
someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return. 
I consider that Mr Ms risk profile  was in between, in the sense that he was only prepared  
to take a small level of risk to attain his investment  objectives. So, the 50/50  combination  
would reasonably  put Mr M into that position. It does not mean  that Mr M would have 
invested 50% in some  kind of index  tracker investment.   Rather  I consider this is a 
reasonable compromise  that broadly reflects the sort of return  Mr M could have obtained  
from investments suited to his objective and risk attitude.
David Ashley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7978417