K820x#14complaint
M, a limited company, complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc did not process cheques posted 
through a letter box at a local branch as it had done  before.
background
M says it had been using  this letter box to post cheques since its account was opened in 
2016. It told HSBC  that one had not been  processed in August 2018.  HSBC found other 
cheques in the letter box - one dating  back to 2017.  It said that this was not a letter  box for 
the branch and it offered  M other  ways  of making  these  payments.
Our adjudicator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld.  He said that there had 
been a genuine misunderstanding.  And HSBC did not have to offer such  a service.
M did not agree. It said that HSBC  had offered this service by processing cheques posted  in 
this way in the past. It needed  the facility as the director works unsocial hours and does not 
have access to other means of banking. HSBC had not told him before that it would not 
process cheques in this way.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
HSBC has said that the letter box was part of an area office that is now not used. It thinks 
that in the past staff from that office  have passed  cheques to the branch for processing.  I can 
see that the branch manager  has said that M can still use this letter box provided  it emails 
the branch - so its staff know there will be a cheque to collect. 
I understand that all but one of the cheques were payments  from Ms current account to its 
savings account.  M says as a result that it thought that the money was banked  and that the 
funds in the current account were  available to it. HSBC asked M whether it wanted the 
cheques to be processed when it found  out what happened.
I agree  with our adjudicator that this was a genuine misunderstanding. HSBC  had in the past 
tried to be helpful by processing cheques that it found had been  left in the letter box. But this 
was never  a formal  service or advertised  as such.  The letter box wasnt  checked after the 
relevant office  closed  and I dont have a reasonable basis to find that this was a mistake. 
HSBC has offered alternative ways for M to bank including an informal  service  using  this 
letter box as a goodwill  gesture. I think that this is a reasonable response to what  has 
happened. I wont be asking it to do anything  further.
Ref: DRN71048962my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7104896