K821x#15Complaint
Mr R complains that Lex Autolease Ltd imposed hire charges  while  he found a buyer for his 
leased car at the end of the agreement.
Background
Mr Rs lease agreement cane to an end and he found a buyer  for the car. Lex supplied a 
quote and the car was due to be sold, but the buyer  withdrew. Mr R found another buyer and 
the sale went through on 2 September 2018. Mr R says he stopped using the car in July and 
second buyer paid the same price as the first was prepared to pay.
Lex charged Mr R for the period up to 3 September when the buyer  paid over the agreed  
sum. Mr R complained but Lex said the terms if the agreement entitled it to charge for the 
period Mr R had use of the car whether he chose to use it or not.
Mr R brought his complaint to this service  where  it was considered  by one of our 
adjudicators who recommend  it be upheld. He noted the terms and conditions  of the 
agreement allowed Lex to charge for the period beyond the end of the lease.  Although it 
didnt receive payment  for the car until after 30 days he didnt think it had lost out. He felt that 
it would  be fair and reasonable for Lex to forgo the additional lease charges.
Lex didnt agree and said it was Mr Rs choice not to use the car and it had acted within the 
agreed terms and conditions. It didnt feel it should pay for something over which it had no 
control. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have given this matter a lot of consideration and I have some  sympathy  with the arguments  
put forward by Lex and this is a finely balanced decision, but I have concluded that I should  
uphold the complaint. I will explain why.
While I take due note of the legal position my role is to decide  on what  I consider to be fair 
and reasonable.  On 11 July Lex gave a quote to the first buyer of £12,120.38  based on a 
mileage of 48,000  miles which was valid for 30 days. The sale fell through and second  quote 
was issued on 17 August  for £11,904.25 based  on a mileage of 48,343. So the failed sale 
which was the responsibility of Mr R cost Lex a little over £200. 
Mr R says he wasnt using the car during this period, but that was his choice.  However, I 
note the mileage increased  a little between the two quotes. I have also taken  note of a call 
by buyer  two to Lex on 17 August in which she says Mr R is waiting for the delivery  of a new 
car. She said she would  speak to Mr R to find out about the delivery date of his new car and 
in the meantime she will send in the completed  paperwork. Of course  the fact he was he 
may have  been  waiting  for a new car doesnt necessarily mean  he was using the old one.
So on the one hand Mr R exercised his choice to sell the car and any delay in the sale 
cannot be regarded  as the responsibility  of Lex. On the other  hand  the car was sold without  
any cost to Lex. If it had taken possession of it then it would have had the cost of collection,  
Ref: DRN71420982cleaning and preparation for sale. Also it would have been sold at auction and it is quite 
likely that it would have  realised less than the sum paid by the buyer.
So looking  at the situation from a fair and reasonable perspective,  which  is my remit, I dont 
consider that Lex has lost out by the unexpected delay. So while  I can appreciate  the line it 
has taken I have concluded after much deliberation to uphold  the complaint.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Lex Autolease  Ltd to forgo the 
final two invoice sums totalling  £335.85. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr R to accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7142098