K820x#14complaint
Mr As complained as director  of W, a limited company, that One Sure Insurance Limited 
caused W a financial loss when it made  a mistake setting up his motor trade insurance 
policy.
For ease Ill refer to Mr A throughout my decision instead  of W. 
background
Mr A bought a policy through One Sure,  which  is a broker, in an advised sale. When  buying 
the policy One Sure asked Mr A how many years no-claims discount (NCD) he had. He said 
he had six years, across  different vehicles.  One Sure placed  his insurance with an insurer on 
the basis of having six years  NCD.
When One Sure asked  Mr A for proof  of his NCD it realised his NCD hadnt  been accrued on 
one policy. This meant the insurer wouldnt accept he had six years NCD and after a number 
of discussions the policy ultimately cancelled on 19 December. One Sure accepted it should 
have questioned Mr A further about his NCD when hed said it was across different vehicles.
One Sure refunded  the premium Mr A had paid for the policy and put it towards  a new policy 
it arranged to start on 20 December. This new policy was placed  on the basis  of Mr A having 
two years NCD rather than six. It paid all the fees associated with the cancellation with the 
exception of a £35 administration fee. It also arranged for the insurer to record the policy as 
having been cancelled by Mr A so he didnt have any adverse cancellation markers against  
his name.
Mr A didnt think this was good enough. He said hed spent over six hours on the phone 
trying to sort things out and also had to cancel work on 20 and 21 December as he didnt 
know if he would have  insurance. He said hed had to tell staff they werent  getting  paid and 
had to let down customers which affected Ws reputation. He was also unhappy that the new 
policy was £80 more  a month and said he hadnt  had time to shop around for a cheaper one.
He said he was aware of other insurers who would have accepted his NCD even though it 
had been accrued across different vehicles, so thought he could have got a cheaper policy 
elsewhere.
Mr A let us know his new insurer had accepted hed got three  years  NCD rather  than two 
years. So he questioned  whether One Sure had given him the correct premium  refund.
One Sure said Mr A had signed  for the cancellation  letter on 14 December so he had a week 
to sort things out before his policy was cancelled. It said it didnt think  it should be 
responsible for him having  to cancel clients as it had arranged  a new policy  within a day of 
him calling.  
I issued a provisional decision on Mr As complaint on 22 July 2019  where  I explained why I 
intended to find that One Sure had already fairly  compensated him. In that decision I said:
One Sure sold Mr As policy in an advised  sale. In line with industry guidelines, that means it 
needed to take reasonable steps  to make sure his policy was suitable for him. One Sures 
accepted it made an error when setting up the policy. So my role is to consider whether its 
done enough to put things right.
Ref: DRN77429082I can see from its notes that there  were  a number of calls between  One Sure  and Mr A 
between 12 November and 5 December where  his NCD was discussed  and the possibility of 
Mr A paying  an additional  premium.  However  on 13 December - when One Sure  established 
the insurer wouldnt cover  Mr As circumstances - it asked the insurer to cancel his policy  in 
seven days time. Ive seen that Mr A signed  for this letter at around 3pm on Friday
14 December.
Mr A doesnt  think One Sure gave  him enough  notice  of the cancellation  as he understood 
the policy terms said he should be given a minimum of 21 days notice. However  I can see 
his motor trade policy says it will give seven days notice and its his legal expenses  policy  
that provides 21 days notice. So Im satisfied One Sure asked the insurer to cancel the 
policy in line with the terms and conditions.
One Sure said it tried to phone Mr A on 18 December  but wasnt  able to get hold of him until 
the next day. Mr A said hed phoned One Sure earlier that week  but wasnt able to provide 
any phone  records to show  this as he hadnt subscribed to that service from his phone 
provider.
One Sure has sent a screenshot  to show it searched  for any calls from Mr A between
14 December and 18 December, and it hasnt been able to find any. I can see One Sure  
sent an email to Mr A at 16.35  on 18 December to say it had tried to call him earlier  in the 
day to make him aware  of the cancellation but hadnt got hold of him. It asked him to get in 
touch. It also sent a text at 16.32  on 18 December asking him to get in touch and another  
text at 09.45 on 19 December to say his policy was due to be cancelled and to get in touch.
If Mr A had spoken to One Sure between 14 December and 19 December I think  its unlikely 
it would  have sent those messages.
I can understand why Mr A recalls having  spoken  to One Sure  between  14 December and
18 December due to the number of calls that took place over the previous weeks. But on 
balance I think its more  likely he didnt. So Im persuaded that he didnt phone  One Sure 
until 19 December which was the day his policy was due to cancel.
Once One Sure had spoken to Mr A it arranged  a new policy  for him by the end of the day.
And while I can appreciate why Mr A cancelled his clients for the following day I dont think I 
can fairly or reasonably hold One Sure responsible  for these losses.  Thats  because  while  it 
made an error it gave  Mr A seven days notice that his policy was going  to cancel which  was 
enough time for him to make alternative  arrangements,  albeit at some inconvenience.  So I 
dont intend to ask One Sure to pay for any losses Mr A incurred due to cancelling work for 
two days.
I do accept that One Sure caused  Mr A inconvenience, so Ive thought about how much its 
paid him to compensate for this.
One Sure said Mr A had paid £461.82 as a deposit and made a first payment of £183.70.
This means  hed paid a total of £645.52. There was a charge of £631.17  for the 65 days     
Mr A had his previous  policy.  However  One Sure refunded this amount towards  his new 
policy.
It also refunded the additional £14.35  hed paid and put it towards  his new policy. One Sure  
also gave Mr A a discount of £150.53 from his new policy.  Im satisfied this is a form of 
compensation. And that means One Sures paid Mr A a total of £761.05  when deducting the
Ref: DRN77429083£35 administration  fee it charged. While I dont think One Sure  should  have  charged  Mr A 
any fees associated  with changing his policy Im not going to interfere with the £35 
administration fee because of the amount of compensation its already paid.
Ive listened to calls between Mr A and One Sure and he spent a lot of time of the phone  
trying to resolve things.  However its already paid £761.05 in compensation and thats more 
than I would have  awarded for that. So while I dont think One Sure  needs to compensate
Mr A for having had to cancel clients, I think its gone some way towards doing so. This 
seems fair and reasonable in these  circumstances.
I cant consider how much  the insurers charged for the new policy, only how any error
One Sure made impacted on it. That means I also cant consider whether the insurer  
refunded the correct  amount once  the correct three years NCD had been applied instead  of 
two years.
One Sures said the cancelled policy didnt affect the premium charged by the new insurer  
and the increase was due to the reduced  no-claims discount. I appreciate Mr A said he could  
have shopped  around for a cheaper  premium but wasnt able to as hed needed to have 
declared a cancelled policy. But I think One Sure would have been able to confirm  to another 
insurer that the cancellation wasnt his fault.  And in any event I havent seen a quote  from 
another insurer to persuade me that Mr A could have got a cheaper premium if hed shopped 
around.
I appreciate this isnt the outcome Mr A was hoping  for but I dont intend to ask One Sure to 
pay any further compensation.  Thats  because  I think its done enough to fairly compensate
Mr A for what went wrong.
Mr A didnt agree with my provisional findings.  He said:
One Sure was adamant that a new insurer would be found so he didnt think  he 
needed to reply until the final day.
One Sures terms and conditions say theyll give 21 days  notice for cancellation
One Sure said the insurer cancelled the policy but my decision said it was One Sure
He also asked:
If One Sure had said it would sort out a new policy before his was cancelled?
How often One Sure failed to provide full disclosure or omitted documents or 
information? 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent made a finding on whether One Sure was adamant  it would find a new insurer  
because that was superseded by its letter giving seven days  notice of cancellation which  
was signed for on 13 December.  I also note that One Sure did find a new insurer  for Mr A, 
on the same  day, when  he called on 19 December. 
Ive checked One Sures  terms and conditions  and the only reference  I can see to 21 days 
notice of cancellation is for his legal expenses policy which is a different policy to his motor 
Ref: DRN77429084trade one. In any event  the terms of his motor  policy say We or your insurance  intermediary  
can cancel this policy by giving you 7 days notice either in writing or by registered email. So 
I think One Sure gave  Mr A the correct amount of notice. 
I have an email from One Sure to the insurer that says can you please agree to cancel this 
policy on a pro rata basis. On that basis I think its most likely it was cancelled  by One Sure. 
One Sure knew that the insurer wouldnt offer cover  for the same premium so cancelled the 
policy to avoid there being any adverse markers  against Mr As name  by the insurer 
cancelling the policy instead. 
I can confirm to Mr A that One Sure provided the information I thought was necessary to 
enable me reach a decision.
Mr As comments havent persuaded me to depart from my provisional findings. So for the 
reasons set out in the background  I dont uphold this complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Sarann Taylor
ombudsman
 
Ref: DRN7742908