K820x#14complaint
Ms G is unhappy with ensure Insurance Limiteds (esure)  handling  of a claim shed made for 
subsidence under  her buildings  insurance policy. Any references to esure  in my decision  
include its agents. 
background
In the summer  of 2018, Ms G contacted  esure to express concern her property was
displaying signs of subsidence. esure  appointed a subsidence management company to 
inspect the property and report back.  This company concluded the most  likely cause of the 
subsidence was a nearby tree, but the ownership of the land where the tree grew was 
unclear.
Ms G was unhappy with esures handling of the claim. She said there had been delays in
carrying out the emergency  repairs to make her home secure,  and the repairs  that had been
carried out werent at the level shed expected. Ms G was particularly concerned the
replacement patio doors were not of the same standard as those originally there. esure  said
they were fully A-rated, both appropriate for fitting  and of a higher rating than the original 
doors. esure  said until the main cause of the subsidence had been resolved  any
repairs would only be temporary, but it would continue to carry these  out as required.
In October  2018, Ms G complained about esures  handling of the claim. esure  acknowledged
its communication around the claim could  have been better. It paid £200 in recognition  of the
trouble and upset  experienced.
The local authority appeared to acknowledge ownership of the tree, and asked for it to be
monitored for nine months. Ms G expressed some concern  the monitoring wasnt  carried  out
every eight weeks as agreed  and thought  this added to the delays shed already 
experienced.
Over the next few months,  Ms G had concerns about the continued movement of her home, 
and the impact this had on the temporary repairs. Ms G highlighted a number of problems 
she experienced, including the fitting  of the patio doors, a leak in the garage,  damage to the 
guttering and movement  of the patio  slabs. esure  says it was likely repairs would continue to 
be carried out until the cause of the movement had been addressed. It said the ongoing 
issue with the doors  not fitting were  as a result  of the property continuing to move.
In March 2019, esure agreed to cash settle  the damage  to the patio.  It noted  the patio hadnt
been damaged  as a result  of subsidence, but rather it hadnt  been laid on an adequate  sub-
base, and this was the cause of the damage. It said it would settle this as a gesture of 
goodwill. 
However, many other of the concerns raised  by Ms G remained unresolved.  She and her 
partner remained frustrated at what seemed  to be a lack of progress. In November 2019, 
esure made the decision to allow the local authority a little more  time to assess  the more  
recent results of the monitoring.  Unfortunately, the local authority didnt respond. esure  
indicated it had decided  to move forward with underpinning the property  and carrying out a 
root barrier.
esure agreed to let this service investigate everything that had happened as part of this
claim, rather than limiting our investigation up to the final response.  Our investigator
Ref: DRN72695562considered everything  that had happened up to the point he reached his opinion.  He thought
esure had progressed matters with the local authority as quickly as hed expect in the
circumstances. He said the period of monitoring for the property didnt seem excessive.
However, our investigator thought the handling  of the claim  since the final response in
October 2018 had fallen  below the standard hed expect,  and he recommended  esure  pay a
further £350 in recognition of the trouble and upset experienced.
esure didnt  accept the investigators conclusions. It said he ought to have considered its
decision to cash settle the patio as a gesture of goodwill. It says it provided evidence to
show it consistently contacted the local authority to try and resolve the claim.
Ms G said the claim continued to be badly managed, supported by the fact the most recent
monitoring was overdue. She also mentioned what had happed in the weeks  following our
investigators opinion  and wanted this service to consider these concerns.
I issued a provisional decision on 9 June 2020.  My provisional findings said:
I can see the fact this matter remains unresolved  is both worrying  and frustrating for Ms G.
As our investigator has said, while Ms G feels we should consider the handling of everything
to date, were not going to do so. For the reasons the investigator  explained,  Ive only
considered events up until the date he shared his opinion  with both sides. If Ms G remains
unhappy, she can make  a new complaint if shes not already done  so.
Ms G is concerned a number of repairs have been  carried in their home, out but these dont
appear to have been lasting or effective.  esure  has explained until the cause of the
subsidence has been resolved, any repairs will be of a temporary  nature. I dont intend  to
direct esure take any further action in respect of this part of Ms Gs claim at this point, I think
its done what I would expect in the circumstances.
Ive reviewed esures handling of the case,  and its clear there have been  frequent and
consistent attempts  to contact the local authority to clarify who owns the land where the tree
is based. Despite  what Ms G believes,  Im persuaded that esure have made reasonable
attempts to resolve this matter. I also think the timeframe for monitoring the property is in line 
with what wed usually  expect to see in subsidence claims. I can understand Ms G says the
monitoring appointments were often  late. Like the investigator,  I dont think  this had a
significant impact on how long its taken to resolve  the claim.
I agree  Ms G has been  put to some inconvenience  during  the course of the claim in respect
of the temporary  repairs. She and her partner made  arrangements to be home only to
find contractors havent turned  up as arranged. Theyve had to accommodate repeated visits
to put things right where errors have been  made. The incorrect fixings for the patio  doors are
such an example of this.
Our investigator recommended esure pay an additional  £350 in recognition of the frustration
and inconvenience  Ms G experienced. I can see she has been very concerned about the
state of her home  for almost two years now, and she and her partner have seen it worsen
during this time.
I accept Ms Gs claim has been  unresolved for a long time.  I think  the majority of this is time
is down to the unusual circumstances around  who owns  the land where the tree is based.
And some of this is as a result of the fact that until the cause of the subsidence has been
Ref: DRN72695563resolved, only temporary repairs can be carried out, so the overall condition of her home
may have  worsened  during the life of the claim.
And there have certainly been  instances  where esure, or its agents, could have given Ms G
a better  level of service.  esure acknowledged  this in its final response and paid £200 in
recognition of this.
However, when deciding what I think is a fair and reasonable  resolution,  I have to bear in
mind esure decided, as a gesture of goodwill, to make a payment of £1,150.28 towards the
patio repairs, despite the evidence the damage had not been  caused by subsidence. The
reports Ive seen indicate the damage was as a result of the sub-base not being  adequate
for the patio slabs to be laid on.
With this in mind, I think the steps esure took - in paying £200 compensation and making the
cash settlement of £1,150.28 - is a fair and reasonable outcome. I dont agree further
compensation is warranted  for the reasons Ive set out. While Im sorry to disappoint Ms G,
despite her strength of feeling  around  this matter,  Im not intending to direct esure to make
any further payments  in respect of the issues Ive considered.
esure didnt  have any further  comments  to make in response to my provisional decision. 
Ms G and her partner responded to the provisional decision, saying they didnt agree the 
cash settlement for the patio slabs had been a gesture  of goodwill. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see this remains a difficult situation for Ms G and her partner. Their home, through  no 
fault of their own, has been  the subject of movement and a number of temporary repairs for 
over two years. Theyve expressed both concern and frustration at how slow the progress in 
carrying out lasting  repairs  has been  since the claim was accepted by esure.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, this claim is complex, and the eventual resolution has 
been delayed  by a third party. I am sympathetic to Ms Gs circumstances, but the fact this 
claim is still unresolved doesnt, in itself, mean  that esure hasnt handled  the matter well.
Ill turn now to the matter of the patio slabs. Ms G and her partner say, in their view, the 
damage to the patio  slabs was caused  by subsidence.  Ive not been provided with any 
further evidence  to support this. 
While I accept its possible that subsidence  could have contributed to the damage,  the 
information available to me (and previously sent to Ms G) indicated the primary cause for the 
damage was because the patio slabs had deteriorated over time, and the policy  didnt 
provide cover for wear and tear. esure also said the slabs had been  laid on an inadequate 
sub-base. And while Ive carefully considered the response to my provisional  decision, Im 
more persuaded  by the information  provided by esure in this respect  for the same  reasons I 
set out in my provisional decision. I dont  think the slabs were  covered by the policy  as theyd 
deteriorated over time, and were not laid on an adequate sub-base.  esure chose to cash 
settle this part of the claim as a gesture of goodwill, so Im not intending to reach a different 
decision in relation to this part of the claim.    
Ref: DRN72695564Ultimately, the key issue causing concern  for Ms G is the fact her claim remains  unresolved. 
Subsidence claims can often be long running, but this one has been  delayed as a result of 
the local authoritys  involvement. But I dont think this is something that is within  esures 
control, given that there have been significant  delays from the local authority. From  what I 
have seen, esure has followed up expected responses within reasonable timeframes.  
However, I remain of the view there have been  points during the claim where esure  could 
have done better, and the communication from its agents was lacking. Even  if the patio slabs 
part of the claim hadnt  been settled, I still havent  seen sufficient evidence to show  esures 
handling of the claim  has fallen below  the standards Id expect. Ultimately, I cannot hold 
esure responsible for the fact that, up until the point of our investigators assessment, the 
claim remained unresolved. And on that basis, Im not intending  to direct esure to increase 
the compensation its paid for the trouble and upset Ms G has experienced or take any 
further action  to put things right.
While I realise  my decision  will be disappointing  to Ms G, I hope  she can understand why I 
think this is a fair outcome. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2020.
Emma Hawkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7269556