K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1991. Miss W1 and Miss W2 say Nottingham  Building Society  (Nottingham) mis-sold them 
the PPI.
background
The PPI policy initially covered both Miss W1 and Miss W2 for a benefit of £100 per month. 
In 1994 it was changed to cover Miss W2 only and I gather Nottingham Building Society has 
already paid back to Miss W2 all the premiums paid to the policy  from that point. So this 
decision only applies to the premiums paid before that.
For those remaining premiums, Nottingham  Building  Society  has already offered to pay back 
half  the premiums for Miss W2s share of the cover.  So it is only Miss W1s share of the 
cover, paid from 1991 up to and including 1994, that remains in dispute.
Miss W1 took another policy in her own name  covering her only that I understand started in 
1994. Were considering that policy separately  so I wont  comment on that sale here.
I sent Miss W1 and Miss W2 and Nottingham  a provisional decision explaining why I thought 
Miss W1s  share of the cover wasnt mis-sold and why, as well as paying back Miss W2s 
share of the cover, Nottingham had to pay back to Miss W1 and Miss W2 some of the cost of 
Miss W1s  share of the PPI. I said Id consider anything else Miss W1 and Miss W2 and 
Nottingham wanted to give me by 7 February 2019.  Miss W1 and Miss W2 replied with more 
points. I havent  received  any new points from Nottingham.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss W1 and Miss W2s case.
The PPI was sickness, accident and unemployment  cover for Miss W1 and Miss W2s 
monthly mortgage costs.  If Miss W1 or Miss W2 made a successful claim, the PPI would pay 
£100 each month to help cover the monthly mortgage costs. Based  on the policy  document 
Miss W1 and Miss W2 have sent us, it appears  the PPI claim payments could last for up to a 
maximum of 24 months for sickness (or accident)  and up to 12 months  for unemployment.
Nottingham thinks it should pay back Miss W2s share of the cover and has offered to do so. 
So I wont  comment here on Miss W2s share  of the cover. What I say in the rest of this 
section (except for the last paragraph) relates to Miss W1s share of the cover only.
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why.
I havent anything  to suggest  the PPI was added without Miss W1 and Miss W2 agreeing  to 
it first. But Miss W1 and Miss W2 have  said Nottingham told them they had to take the PPI to 
get the mortgage, as well having to take buildings and contents insurance. They have also 
said they feel they were  pressured into buying the PPI.
Ref: DRN75490592To apply  for the mortgage Miss W1 and Miss W2 filled in a mortgage application. An internal 
note printed later the same month says Payment Prot £0. The following month  the note 
was amended with £0 was crossed out and replaced with £100. 
Miss W1 and Miss W2 say this shows  that Nottingham told them the PPI was compulsory. 
But I dont think it does.  I think  it shows that by that point  the plan was for PPI to be taken 
with the mortgage. But the note doesnt show why or what  brought that about.
From what  I have  I cant say exactly how Nottingham presented the PPI at the meeting or 
meetings in 1991. But given how long ago this was, this isnt surprising. What I have doesnt 
show that Nottingham made it clear to Miss W1 and Miss W2 that they had a choice about 
taking the PPI. But neither does it show that Nottingham didnt make this clear. 
Papers from the sale suggest buildings insurance was compulsory but dont suggest the PPI 
was compulsory. I think this adds weight to the idea that Nottingham mightve said buildings 
insurance was compulsory, like Miss W1 and Miss W2 have said. But I dont think its 
contradictory to say this doesnt add weight to their suggestion that Nottingham said the PPI 
was compulsory. I think its plausible  that what Nottingham said about the different types of 
insurance with differing  requirements was different. 
Bearing in mind the time that has passed,  I wouldnt expect Miss W1 and Miss W2s 
recollections of the sale to be detailed or vivid.  With this in mind,  what Miss W1 and Miss W2 
recall being told at the sale isnt, on its own, enough to make  me think Nottingham  misled 
them like theyve said. Overall what I have doesnt make me think  Nottingham misled  them.
Taking everything into account,  what I have doesnt  make me think Miss W1 and Miss W2 
didnt agree to the PPI or werent  given  a choice about taking it. And I havent  seen  enough 
to make me think Nottingham  pressured them into the PPI or didnt give them  a real choice. 
I think the PPI was likely sold on a non-advised basis. So Nottingham didnt have to check  it 
was right for Miss W1 and Miss W2. But Nottingham did have to make sure Miss W1 and 
Miss W2 got the information they needed to decide  if the PPI was right for them.
Miss W1 and Miss W2 say the sale was all done on the day and no information was given to 
them. I dont know exactly what information they were given about the PPI. So its possible 
this information  wasnt as full or as clear as it shouldve  been. But I cant  say they didnt want  
this type of cover  because I havent seen  enough  to make me think  they didnt choose to 
take it. And from what Ive seen  it doesnt  look like Miss W1 was affected  by any of the 
exclusions or limits on the PPI cover  so it wouldve  been useful if something went  wrong.
The cover was cover for Miss W1 and Miss W2s mortgage  a long term liability secured on 
their home. And the work sick pay Miss W1 has told us about  wouldve likely lasted for six 
months with two weeks of statutory  pay after that. So Miss W1 and Miss W2 could suffer a 
loss of income if Miss W1 was too sick to work.  
The PPI would pay out for up to twenty four months for a successful sickness or accident 
claim  and on top of Miss W1s work  benefit. It also had unemployment cover. It looks like 
the PPI was affordable. And by helping with mortgage costs,  the PPI benefit would leave 
Miss W1 and Miss W2s savings free to meet other expenses at what could be a difficult time 
if Miss W1 was unemployed or too sick to work. 
Ref: DRN75490593Taking everything into account,  I dont think better  information would have put Miss W1 and 
Miss W2 off taking the cover.
Im grateful  to Miss W1 and Miss W2 for the detailed attention theyve given  to all these 
matters in their responses to our enquiries throughout. Ive thought  about all their points, 
including what theyve  said about  it being in the interests for Nottingham to push the PPI and 
about how it was unlikely they would  question the PPI sale because the mortgage was 
dependent on it. But Ive explained  Im not persuaded  that Miss W1 and Miss W2 were  
misled about having  to take the PPI. And there  isnt enough to make me think  they werent  
given a real choice about it.
Ive said above  why Ive not commented in detail  on Miss W2s  cover. What Miss W1 and 
Miss W2 have  said about Miss W1s employment  status and benefits being  similar doesnt  
change my view that her cover wasnt mis-sold. My reasons for that view are set out above. 
Having considered all Miss W1 and Miss W2s points, these dont change my decision. What  
Ive said above  means  Nottingham doesnt  have  to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Miss 
W1 and Miss W2.
But Nottingham will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Miss W1 and Miss W2 because:
Nottingham got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have  told Miss W1 and Miss W2 about that. Because Nottingham 
didnt tell Miss W1 and Miss W2, that was unfair.
To put that right, Nottingham has basically offered (for the part of the premiums it isnt 
refunding in full) to pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 
50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Nottingham will also pay back half of the cost of the PPI  the part of the premiums it says 
were for Miss W2s share of the cover.
what the business needs  to do
For the part of the premiums  it isnt refunding in full, Nottingham has to pay back  to Miss W1 
and Miss W2 any commission and profit share  it got that was more than 50% of the PPI 
premium. Nottingham should also pay back to Miss W1 and Miss W2 any extra  interest they 
paid because of that.
Nottingham should pay back to Miss W1 and Miss W2 the extra they paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of the PPI. 
Nottingham should also pay Miss W1 and Miss W2 8%* simple interest on each payment 
(15% before  April 1993).
For the part of the premiums  that Nottingham  has said it will refund  in full (the half that 
relates to Miss W2s cover), Nottingham  should:
Pay Miss W1 and Miss W2 what they paid each month for that part of the premium 
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year (15% before April 1993)*.
Ref: DRN75490594*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss W1 and Miss W2 can claim back the tax if they 
dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Nottingham Building Society does not have to pay back  
all of the cost of the PPI to Miss W1 and Miss W2.
But Nottingham Building Society  does have to refund in full half the PPI premiums  in the way 
Ive described above and, for the rest of the premiums, pay back  to Miss W1 and Miss W2 
any commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W1 and 
Miss W2 to accept or reject my decision before18 March 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7549059