K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited is responsible for poor service  in 
connection with a home emergency insurance  policy.
background
Where I refer to British Gas, I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include 
engineers and others insofar as I hold that company responsible for their actions.
Mr T has a house with pipes installed some  time ago. More  recently  British  Gas (or strictly a 
sister company of the insurance company) installed a new boiler in about 2012.
British Gas did annual  services and certain  repairs. It (or strictly a sister company) also did a 
power flush in April 2016 and May 2017.
In early 2018 Mr Ts wife was nearing  the end of her life. Mr T contacted British Gas for help 
because his radiators  werent heating up properly.  British  Gas declined to help unless Mr T 
paid for new pipes at an estimated cost of £8,000.00  to £10,000.00.
Mr Ts wife passed away in February  2018.
In late March 2018 Mr T engaged his own plumber. The plumber provided  a letter saying 
that the problem had been that the heat exchanger was blocked and he couldnt clear it. He 
suggested a new heat exchanger. But in April 2018  Mr T paid for the installation of a new 
boiler. He also cancelled his British Gas policy.
Mr T complained that British Gas had been  wrong  that the problem was with his pipes. He 
brought his complaint to us in September 2018.  Mr T claims the cost of the new boiler and 
compensation for distress and inconvenience  including periods without heating.
our adjudicators opinion
Our adjudicator said that he was unable to consider  anything to do with the sale and 
installation of the boiler (in 2012) as that wasnt part of a contract of insurance.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  He didnt think that 
British Gas had acted unreasonably  in recommending - since  2015 - that Mr T had a re-pipe 
of the system in order to prevent future  problems.  As Mr Ts plumber hadnt provided any 
information to dispute that recommendation or explained the cause of the blockage,  the 
adjudicator didnt think British Gas had acted unreasonably in declining Mr Ts claim.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr T 
and to British  Gas on 8 November  2019. I summarise my findings:
The blockage of the heat exchanger is likely to have been with sludge. I kept in mind 
the policy terms relating  to sludge and to making improvements. So I wasnt minded 
that British Gas treated Mr T unfairly  by declining to repair  his blockage in early 2018.
Ref: DRN76210312Subject to any further information from Mr T or from British Gas, my provisional decision was 
that I wasnt minded  to uphold this complaint. I didnt intend  to direct British  Gas Insurance 
Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Mr T disagrees with the provisional decision.  He says, in summary,  that:
We should consider  his complaint  that a boiler  recommended by the company and 
fitted by the company should last for more than six years.
Instead of a re-pipe of the system, his plumber resolved the breakdown by a far 
cheaper solution, which has presented no subsequent problems whatsoever.
It is not unreasonable to question the British Gas opinion,  quote, and price.
To replace the heat exchanger rather than the boiler wouldnt have been  cost 
effective. 
The crux of the argument is an entirely  different opinion as to the cause of the 
problems, with the company's  being  a considerably more  expensive method of 
resolution.
More recently, Mr T has sent us a report from a director of an independent  plumbing  and 
heating company. It included the following:
My assessment of the system
Obviously from looking at the paperwork I was expecting to find plastic  pipe fitted to 
the radiators on the system, or maybe even to the airing cupboard  or boiler This was 
not the case, all pipework  on the system is copper I checked every single radiator, 
the boiler, the airing cupboard, I checked under  the floor in the airing cupboard  and 
all I could find was copper In fact I checked the hot and cold pipework to see if there  
has been a mix up between the different pipework No, this was also copper 
pipework
British Gas has responded to that. It says,  in summary, as follows:
Our original  advice  is sound assuming that Mr. Ts system does contain  non barrier  
plastic pipework. The third party report claims that it does not. I find this difficult to 
understand as I believe  the housing estate where Mr. T had non barrier  plastic  pipe 
installed in every house. We have re-piped the system of a close  neighbour to Mr. T 
for this very reason.  I cant  imagine  that weve been  giving this advice consistently for 
so long without  confirming that the system has non barrier plastic pipe within  it. I can 
only assume that the system is made up of a combination  of plastic and copper and 
the third party  has not identified  the plastic pipework .
my findings
The Financial Ombudsman  Service has power  to look into complaints about regulated 
financial services by regulated financial firms. We dont have power to look into complaints 
about the sale and installation of central heating boilers by companies  which  arent regulated  
financial firms.  
Ref: DRN76210313I agree  with the adjudicator that the sale and installation of the boiler in about  2012 wasnt 
part of a contract of insurance. So I cant comment on the quality or durability of the boiler or 
any magnetic filter. And I cant comment on what the installer shouldve told Mr T about  his 
pipes at that time.
Subject to that, Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I understand it, air and water inside metal (especially ferrous metal)  parts  of a central 
heating system will together cause  corrosion into sludge that will impede or block circulation.
And non-barrier pipework is plastic  pipework  without  a barrier against  air entering the water 
system. So I can see that non-barrier pipework would facilitate sludge.
From its records, I see that British Gas first said in March 2015  that Mr T needed a re-pipe. 
In 2016 British Gas did a flush.
And in May 2017 it made a record as follows:
REFLUSHED ADVISED NON BARRIER PIPE SHOULD BE RE-PIPED 
From that I find that the engineer had done  another  flush and advised that non-barrier pipe 
should be re-piped. 
Mr T renewed his policy from mid-October  2017.  He had cover for his boiler,  central heating 
system, plumbing and drainage. The yearly premium was nearly  £450.00. 
The policy covered repairs  and an annual service. The policy also covered  a replacement for 
Mr Ts boiler if British Gas couldnt repair it and it was less than seven years old.
However the policy didnt cover  a power  flush or improvements. And the policy terms 
included the following:
Whats not covered
Damage caused  by limescale, sludge or other debris  if weve  told you before that 
you need to carry  out repairs, improvements or a British Gas Powerflush , or a 
similar process, but you havent done  so
Pre-existing faults
Our products dont include cover for any faults or design faults that:
 Were already there when your boiler,  appliance or system  was installed
 Weve told you about before and you havent fixed
Making any improvements
Where weve  told you that an improvement is necessary, we may not continue to 
make repairs on that part of your boiler,  appliance  or system unless the work  has 
been carried out
I find that British Gas had told Mr T he needed to carry out repair or improvement by re-
piping the non-barrier  pipework. But Mr T hadnt got that done.
Mr Ts plumbers letter  included the following:
Ref: DRN76210314 the problem was not with the system  but with the boiler  the heat exchanger 
was blocked  I fitted  and commissioned  the new boiler on the 11 April 18. There 
were no problems with any pipework or radiators during the commissioning and there 
have been none thus far to date.
Neither Mr T nor his plumber  has told us the estimated cost of a new heat exchanger. But I 
accept Mr Ts statement that the new boiler was a less expensive  option than re-piping. And 
the new boiler has worked well since April 2018.
The blockage of the heat exchanger in the old boiler is likely to have been  with sludge. So 
Im satisfied that sludge had damaged the heat exchanger  and British  Gas had told Mr T 
before that he needed to carry out repair or improvement by re-piping the non-barrier 
pipework. So the policy excluded the damage  to the heat exchanger.
I would only find it fair for British Gas to rely on such exclusion if it was correct in telling Mr T 
he had non-barrier pipework. I am faced with conflicting evidence  on that issue.
The director  of the independent plumbing and heating company personally  inspected the 
pipework and reported that it is copper   not non-barrier plastic.
But in my experience  much central  heating pipework  is typically hidden  from view by floors 
and walls. And something had made Mr Ts system prone to sludging. 
The British  Gas records show  that the engineer had spent all day completing the flush in 
May 2017. After  doing that, the engineer advised  that non-barrier pipe should be re-piped. 
So the engineer hadnt used non-barrier pipework as a reason to avoid doing the flush. I find 
it likely  that the engineer  had correctly identified non-barrier pipe as the reason for sludging  
and the need for repeated  flushing.
So I dont  find that British Gas treated Mr T unfairly  by declining  to repair  his blockage in 
early 2018  unless he had a re-pipe.  I say that notwithstanding  that the sludge was blocking 
the heat exchanger rather than pipework. And  although the boiler was less than seven 
years old  I find that it had been  damaged by sludge so British  Gas wasnt  obliged  to 
replace it.
Therefore I dont find it fair and reasonable to direct  British  Gas to pay compensation to Mr T 
for his outlay  or for the extra distress and inconvenience of having no heating at an already 
very difficult time for him.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I dont  uphold  this complaint. I 
dont direct British Gas Insurance Limited to do any more in response to this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 February  2020.
Christopher Gilbert
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7621031