K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains on behalf of his mother, Mrs K. She is unhappy with the quality of repairs  to 
and the installation of her kitchen by Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) following her 
home insurance claim for water damage.
background
In December 2017 Mrs K made a clam following a leak in her bathroom  which  had affected 
the kitchen below. As a part of her claim, RSA arranged for asbestos  tests to be carried  out 
on the kitchen  ceiling. While doing  that, the contractors damaged  the kitchen units. RSA 
agreed to install  a completely new kitchen, because of problems over the matching of units. 
Mrs K wasnt  happy with the quality of the work.  Mr K advised they believed RSA was 
responsible for two gas leaks, which were only noticed because of the smell and could have 
had very serious  consequences.  He further  said that apart  from the quality of work,  RSA 
hadnt installed the kitchen Mrs K had chosen. He showed us a report  from a kitchen fitter 
who identified a number  of issues including poor finishing, lack of boxing  in, sharp, poorly  
fitted handles,  uneven units and the extractor  fan and cabinet positioned too close  to the gas 
hob. He provided a quote for a new kitchen (not including appliances).
RSA had the kitchen inspected by two firms of loss adjusters.  It concluded that the work 
could be repaired.  Some units  needed  replacing  but overall a new kitchen wasnt  needed. It 
said its contractors werent responsible for either gas leak. The first had been resolved by its 
contractors but it had occurred before the contractors arrived.  The second one was in 
February 2019 when  the contractors hadnt worked  at the property  for a couple of months,  
and their work had been Gas Safe certified.  It said it was prepared  to send out a different 
contractor to carry put the remedial repairs, or Mrs K could have her own contractor carry out 
the repairs. Or it could pay a cash settlement based  on what it would pay its contractors to 
do the job. It sent her a payment  of £100 compensation. Mr K said this has not been 
accepted but asserted that RSA was willing to pay compensation of £250, which  they 
rejected.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that the kitchen should be repaired, rather 
than replaced. He said that RSA should  pay the costs of repair by a contractor  of Mrs Ks 
choice, and that it should increase the compensation  to £500. He didnt  believe  RSA was 
responsible for either gas leak. RSA agreed with that view.
Mr K didnt agree and the matter has been  passed to me for further  consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr K has showed us a report from a kitchen fitter who looked at the quality of the installation.  
He recommended that the whole kitchen  be taken  out and a new one fitted. The following 
issues were noted:
Handles very sharp and not indented  correctly  
Pipework not fully boxed  in in several places
Soil pipe not fully boxed in
Ref: DRN70837642Unnecessary joint in the worktop   this should  have been  one complete worktop
Extractor hood not ducted outside 
Up stand cut too short   not finished  correctly
The hob and hood are off line with each other.  The cabinet  is over hanging the hob and 
is a fire hazard
Upstands not sealed with any silicone.
Unit above  the fridge  isnt level
Worktop not scribed into the wall correctly and not sealed  at all. Upstands  missing.
A random hole been cut out of the side of a unit
Silicone seal not finished  properly
No plinth sealing strip.
The fitter criticised the overall quality of the kitchen for the reason that it came from a 
particular supplier. On questioning by RSA, he said he wouldnt repair  a kitchen, only replace 
it, and didnt have  an account with that supplier. It does appear  that the company he works 
for supplies luxury ranges  of kitchen.
RSA hasnt disputed  the issues set out by the kitchen fitter. Its loss adjuster assessed that 
there were these further issues:
Framing and unit around fridge freezer set too far forward  for Mrs Ks liking.
Wall units set too low. Mrs K wants them higher
Fridge freezer - door is damaged. This occurred  when Mrs K entered the room, not 
knowing that the contractor had pulled the unit forward, and her DIY protection was not 
in place
But it believes that the kitchen can be repaired and that theres  no need to install a new one. 
I think that approach  is reasonable  looking at all the issues it seems to me that this can be 
resolved without a complete replacement of the kitchen. I think it reasonable that the kitchen 
be repaired  rather than replaced. RSA offered to send out a different contractor to do this or 
for Mrs K to have her own contractor do it. I think that offer was reasonable.
Mrs K says that the kitchen installed is not the one she chose. The contractors deny that she 
made any issue about this to them,  and that Mr K only raised it afterwards. Ive seen the list 
of units and the kitchen range. RSA has shown  us a statement from the supplier to say that 
Mrs K came to the showroom and chose that particular  range. She was also given samples 
of the colours,  and chose the colour. Im not persuaded  that the wrong kitchen was installed.
As for the gas leaks, there were  two such leaks. The first was in November 2018, which  the 
contractors say happened before they started work. The leak was traced  to a pinhole  in a 
pipe, which  was cut out and replaced. 
The second  leak occurred  in February  2019  after Mrs K reported a smell of gas. She had an 
emergency repair carried out under her gas contract. The repair sheet just says that the 
meter was capped  and an olive put in the gas tap. RSA has suggested  that because  Mrs K 
removed a splashback,  she may have disturbed  the joints.  I think  thats speculation, but I do 
note that the contractors  had long since finished work at the property. And that the work they 
did was Gas Safe certified.  So whilst  I can understand Mr Ks and Mrs Ks concern I havent  
seen sufficient evidence  to link either  leak to the work done by the contractors.
Ref: DRN70837643RSA has agreed to put matters right. My view is that it should either send out new 
contractors to carry out the repairs, as set out above, or, at Mrs Ks option  pay the cost of 
her employing a contractor to do the work, at that contractors  rates.  Mr K should seek  
approval of any estimate for repair before arranging for the work to be done. But I would 
hope that RSA would be able to agree this quickly, since  it has said it would  agree  to 
proceed on that basis.
As regards  compensation, I can understand Mrs Ks disappointment  at the quality  of the 
repairs. I understand that she feels the contractors were rude and dismissive towards her 
and that she felt she was being  pushed into signing a certificate of satisfaction. Looking  at 
the overall quality  of the repairs I think that was inappropriate. Ive also noted that she has 
hurt her hand  on the sharp handles, so it would be in her interests to get the repairs sorted 
out. I appreciate that because of the situation this year, this hasnt been able to proceed as 
quickly as she no doubt would have liked. But I dont think  RSA is responsible  for that. I think
that the suggested compensation of £500 is fair and reasonable. I believe that RSA has sent 
£100 compensation Mrs K, but Im not clear  whether she returned  that. If she has retained it, 
RSA only has to pay the balance.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc to:
carry out the remedial repairs to Mrs Ks kitchen, as set out above,  or at Mrs Ks option, 
pay the reasonable cost of a contractor  of her choosing to do the said repairs,  at that 
contractors rates.
pay Mrs K £500 compensation. This includes  any previous compensation payment paid 
by RSA in respect of this issue, so if Mrs K has retained any such  payment it needs to 
just pay the balance.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 December  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7083764