K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc mis-sold him a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy which Mr R took out in 2000 with a 
personal loan.  Mr W says that HSBC sold him the PPI in a meeting at one of HSBCs 
branches when  he was applying for a loan to buy a car. The cost of the premium  was added 
to the loan and attracted interest.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld.  Mr W disagreed with the 
adjudicators view, so the case has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case. Having done so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mr W says that he didnt  agree to take out the PPI policy and didnt realise at the time hed 
been sold it with his loan.
HSBC doesnt  still have much documentation from the time of the sale.  I dont find this 
particularly surprising given how long ago the sale took place. HSBC says it cant be sure 
how the PPI was sold. But Ive no reason to think that Mr W is wrong in thinking that the PPI 
was sold to him in an HSBC branch  - this seems the most likely way for it to have been sold 
to him.
HSBC has provided  a sample copy of the sales documentation used at the time. Part of this 
documentation is a Creditor Protection  Declaration  form, which Mr W would have been 
required to sign. In doing so, he was confirming  that hed decided  to take loan protection and 
that hed received a copy of the loan protection policy document.  The credit agreement he 
signed would also have shown details of the cost of the PPI separately  to his main  loan.  And 
I think he would have  queried why this had been added to the agreement  if he hadnt  agreed 
to take it.
So from what Ive seen  - together with what I know more generally  about HSBCs sales 
practices at this time - I think its most likely  that Mr W knew  at the time that he had a choice  
about buying PPI and actively  decided  to do so. But I can understand why he may not be 
able to recall this now after such a long time. 
Ref: DRN78803692I think its most likely  that HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr W. This means that it needed 
to make sure it was suitable  for him. And from what I know of his circumstances at the time,  I 
cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been suitable. I say this because:
He appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations. Mr W says he was self-employed at the time of the sale. But I 
dont think this would have made  it more  difficult for him to make a claim under the 
policy. So this didnt  make  it unsuitable  for him.
Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for him.
The policy would have protected Mr Ws loan repayments if he couldnt  work  because of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.  Mr W has that he had a number  of other  ways  
he could have made his loan repayments  if he couldnt work.  Ive thought  carefully about 
these other means, but I dont think that these were  sufficient to make this cover  
unsuitable for him. I still think he would have valued the extra security that this PPI policy 
provided and been  willing to pay for it.
The policy didnt offer a proportional  refund  of the premium if the loan was cancelled  
early. That meant  that the policy was relatively  inflexible. But theres nothing to show  me 
Mr W was likely to repay the loan early when  he took it out. So I dont think this meant 
the policy was unsuitable for him.
Its possible that HSBC  didnt give Mr W all the information it should have done about  the 
PPI policy  at the time of the sale. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the policy  
was unsuitable  for him, I dont think better information would have stopped  him from buying  
it. I think he would still have thought the policy gave him useful cover at an affordable  price.
So I dont  think Mr W has lost out by anything which HSBC may have done wrong when  
selling this PPI policy to him.
Ive thought about what Mr W has said about  why he didnt agree with the adjudicators view, 
but this hasnt changed my mind. I know that this will be a disappointment to Mr W, but I still 
dont think his complaint  should be upheld.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  Im not upholding this complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7880369