K822xcomplaint
Mr B is unhappy that Calpe Insurance Company  Limited  (Calpe)  accepted and settled  a 
claim from a third party on his motor insurance  policy, which has left him needing to repay a 
significant amount  of the policy excess.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in November 2019. I explained that I was 
intending to partially uphold  Mr Bs complaint in part. 
Heres what I said in my provisional decision:
background
 
There have been  several businesses involved in this complaint who acted on behalf 
of Calpe. For ease  of reference Ill refer only to Calpe by name in this decision, even 
when referring to the actions of its agents/representatives.
Mr B was in a collision  in November 2018. He says he and the other driver agreed 
not to involve their insurance companies as there  was minimal damage.
In March 2019 the third partys insurer contacted Calpe to report  the claim. Calpe 
wrote to Mr B and asked  him to provide his version of events and some supporting 
documents. The letter said that if the requested information wasnt  received within 
seven days, it would instruct the broker to issue a seven-day cancellation notice  on 
his policy  and would be forced to settle the claim.  Calpe didnt receive  this 
information, so it arranged for the cancellation notice  to be given,  settled the claim 
and cancelled the policy. 
The third-party vehicle  was considered a total loss. After deducting salvage and the 
third-party excess, Calpe  settled the claim for £2,164.59. This amount  is lower  than 
the £3,000 all sections  excess on Mr Bs policy. Mr B hasnt paid this amount, so 
Calpe is pursing him for the outstanding  amount.
Mr B says the accident wasnt  his fault. He says Calpe didnt do enough to 
communicate with him during the claim which meant  he couldnt  challenge  the third-
party costs  and/or version of events. He also says he was mis-sold the policy as his 
excess amount wasnt made  clear  enough.
One of our investigators  looked into Mr Bs complaint. She explained that Mr B had 
bought his policy through a broker. She said this meant Calpe werent responsible  for 
how the policy was sold so she wouldnt be able to consider  his concerns about the 
sale as part of this complaint. She thought Calpe had made several attempts to 
contact Mr B during  the claim and that the evidence  he supplied didnt detail his 
version of events. Based on the available  evidence she thought  Calpes decision to 
accept and settle the claim was fair and reasonable.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion. So, because  no agreement has been 
reached, the complaint  has been passed  to me to decide.
Ref: DRN73093192my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case Calpe wasnt involved  in the sale of Mr Bs policy  and as such, it isnt 
responsible for the information he was provided at the time. So, Ill not be considering 
Mr Bs concerns about the sale of the policy in this decision. 
Mr Bs policy  allows  Calpe to take over the defence or settlement of any claim  a 
standard term in motor  insurance policies. His policy document  also explains the high 
policy excess and Mr Bs responsibility to meet that cost in the event of a successful 
third-party claim. On page 18 under the large  heading Your  obligation to pay/repay  
the excess it says:
XS Direct motor policies  carry  a high all sections excess  which is detailed 
on Your Schedule  of Insurance.. The Excess applies  to damage or injury  
claimed by a third party. You are liable for any claim (by You or any third 
party) made  on Your Policy up to an amount of the value of the Excess on the 
Policy. For example, if You are involved in an incident where  a third party 
makes a claim against You and there is no damage to Your Car, You will be 
liable to pay The Underwriters the amount up to the value of Your Excess.  If 
You are deemed liable for any such claims,  The Underwriters will make 
payments on Your behalf to settle  the claim on the best terms available  as 
outlined in Condition  1 of Your Policy. It is therefore imperative and in Your  
interest to cooperate  fully with XS Direct in settling  any claim to allow every 
opportunity to reduce the claims cost. When the Underwriters make 
payments to settle  such claims  on Your Policy, We will send a letter informing 
You of the payments  made and request payment up to the Excess  amount 
within 14 days of the date the letter is issued.  In the event payment is not 
received within  that 14 day period, We or the Underwriters reserve the right to 
immediately invoke the cancellation  clause  on Your Policy and Your  Policy 
will be cancelled  after a further 7 days.
The excess  fee specified on Mr Bs schedule of insurance is £3,000. Based on that 
and the above, Im satisfied that, under the terms of the policy, Calpe was entitled to 
accept and settle the claim and seek repayment of the excess  from Mr B. But I also 
need to decide whether its actions have been fair and reasonable taking into account  
the particular circumstances  of this case.
Mr B says Calpe didnt engage with him during the claims process. But from what  Ive 
seen Calpes claim notes  show that it made several  attempted calls to Mr B in March  
2019 as well as sending him an accident  form  to be completed and returned within 
seven days. Calpe says it didnt receive  this information. 
Mr B says he emailed Calpe the information  it requested within the seven days. But 
Calpe says the email  wasnt received because it was larger  than its maximum file 
size limit of 20MB. Calpe says Mr B would have  received an error message when 
attempting to send  the email and that its IT department tested this when investigating 
Mr Bs complaint. 
Ref: DRN73093193Based on everything  Ive seen, Im satisfied that Mr B was given the opportunity to 
give his version of events  before Calpe settled  the claim. Im also satisfied that, on 
the balance of probabilities, Calpe didnt receive  the information it requested  when 
Mr B first attempted to send it. I say this because Calpe followed the process of 
cancelling his policy  which  it said it would if it didnt  receive  the relevant 
information. Calpes  notes also dont show receipt  of any information, and Mr B 
himself has said the file he sent was 22MB.
Calpes call notes indicate that Mr B confirmed he was pulling out of a side road 
when the collision  occurred. And the information Calpe received from the third party 
was that Mr B collided with their correctly proceeding vehicle when he pulled out of a 
side road. The third-party insurer also provided a vehicle condition report  and a 
breakdown of the damage to the car  showing that it was a total loss. 
Calpe considered the third-partys version  of events against the Highway Code when 
it decided to accept  liability. As it didnt have any evidence disputing the third-partys 
evidence Im satisfied it made  a fair decision.  I note that Mr B did subsequently 
provide his completed accident form. But from what Ive seen he didnt give any detail 
about how the collision occurred or why he believes it wasnt  his fault. So even if it 
had been received at the time, I think its unlikely that Calpe would  have reached  a 
different decision.
Overall, I think Calpes  decision to accept the claim  and seek  repayment of the 
excess from Mr B was fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
Ive also considered the cancellation of Mr Bs policy, and whether it should mean 
that he is due a refund of premiums. 
Mr Bs policy  was cancelled after 10 months, but he paid the full 12 months  worth  of 
premiums. Our service  usually  says that a policyholder should only be required to 
pay for the time they were  on cover,  unless the insurer has paid out for a claim.
Although Calpe has settled a claim  on Mr Bs policy, the value of the claim was less 
than the excess  and as such Mr B is being pursued for the full amount  of the claim. 
As it is Mr B who will be covering the cost of the claim, I dont think  its fair that Calpe  
should be able to keep two months premiums for a period where Mr B wasnt  on 
cover.
Calpe has argued  that Mr B hasnt actually paid anything,  so it has incurred a 
financial loss. It also says that the policy  terms do not allow  for a refund of premiums 
if a policy  is cancelled after eight months.  
Ive thought carefully about Calpes argument here.  I accept that the policy terms do 
state that no refund is due after eight months. But I dont think thats fair as it means 
the refund  schedule  doesnt reflect the actual  spread  of claims. For cancellation and 
refund purposes  offering no premium  refund  indicates that there are no claims made 
in the last few months of the year when that isnt the case.  
Ref: DRN73093194I dont think this is fair or reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Bs complaint. I think  
Calpe can only fairly charge  Mr B for cover on a pro-rata basis  for the time it was on 
risk. I accept  that Mr B hasnt yet paid anything toward  the excess and so currently, 
no refund  is due. But I think Calpe should  reduce  the amount  it is pursuing Mr B for  
by the value of the two months premiums he ought  not to have paid. I also think  it 
would be fair for Calpe,  or its agents, to agree a suitable repayment plan with Mr B 
for the amount he owes, rather than pursuing  him for the balance in full.
I said I was intending  to direct Calpe to reduce the amount it was pursuing Mr B for by the 
value of the two months premiums he ought not to have paid, and to accept a suitable 
repayment plan,  rather than demanding he repay  the amount  in full. 
I asked both parties to send me any further comments  and information they might want  me 
to consider before I reached  a final decision. 
Calpe responded to say that it accepted my findings. Mr B responded with some  pictures  of 
the email he attempted to send to Calpe on 14 March 2019. He said he spoke  with Calpe 
about the incident on several occasions, so doesnt  understand  why it didnt call him when it 
didnt receive the evidence  it requested. He asked how he was supposed to know about 
Calpes maximum file limit.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. 
Ive thought carefully about the additional  arguments put forward  by Mr B. The pictures  he 
has sent do show that he attempted to provide information to Calpe in time. But I didnt doubt 
that this was the case when coming  to my provisional decision. I accept that Mr B tried to 
email Calpe. But based on the available  evidence, I dont think  Calpe  received  the 
information.
Calpe has explained  that Mr B shouldve received  an error message when sending a file that 
was too large  for it to receive. It says it had its IT department test this from an email account  
from the same provider used by Mr B and it received the error message. Mr B has also 
confirmed himself that the email he attempted to send was larger  than 20MB. So, I think  its 
more likely than not that the email didnt deliver  to Calpe and that Mr B would have received 
an error message  notifying him of this.
Because Calpe  didnt  receive the information it requested from Mr B, I dont think its 
subsequent actions were unfair or unreasonable.
Calpe has now agreed to reduce the amount it is pursuing Mr B for and to accept a 
repayment plan,  rather than insist the amount is repaid in full. I think this will deliver a fair 
outcome to Mr Bs complaint.
Ref: DRN73093195my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above, and in my provisional decision, I uphold Mr Bs 
complaint in part. 
Calpe Insurance  Company Limited should:
Reduce the amount it is pursuing  Mr B for by the value of the two months  premiums  
he was not on cover for
Accept a suitable repayment plan for the outstanding amount rather than demanding 
it be repaid in full
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020. 
Adam Golding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7309319