K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that Pepper (UK) Limited  T/A Engage Credit  wont  let him port his mortgage 
to another property.
background
In 2007 Mr W took out an interest only mortgage  with GMAC RFC having received advice 
from a broker. The mortgage  was for around  £247,000 and was taken out over a 15 year 
term.
The mortgage had a discounted interest  rate for the first two years  (Bank of England base 
rate plus 1.0%).  After  two years, the interest  rate increased to Bank  of England  base rate 
plus 2.1% for the remaining  term of the mortgage.
At various points since taking out the mortgage, Mr Ws loan has been transferred between 
different lenders. The current lender  is Pepper  (UK) Limited (trading as Engage Credit).
In 2018 Mr W asked  Pepper if he could port his mortgage to another  property. He wants to 
downsize and repay part of his interest  only mortgage. Pepper  said it had taken the decision 
not to offer the facility  to port at the moment.  Mr W complained and Pepper  didnt  uphold  his 
complaint.
Our investigator thought Pepper  had treated Mr W fairly as it wasnt  letting  any customers  
whose loans were  owned by the same company apply to port their mortgages. 
Mr Ws said that hed specifically asked  for a portable mortgage. Hes really  unhappy that his 
new loan owner  wont honour what he considers were in the terms of his original mortgage 
loan. Mr W asked that an ombudsman look at his case again  and reach  a final decision.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision, dated 8 March 2019, setting out why I was considering 
upholding this complaint. I said:
Ive looked at the mortgage documentation provided to Mr W when the mortgage was taken 
out with the original lender. 
Section 10 of the mortgage offer said you can keep  this mortgage should  you move to a 
new property. For details  see the attached terms and conditions. Then in section 6 of the 
special conditions:
If, in the future, you want to move home you may be able to transfer this mortgage product 
to a new property  without incurring any ERC. This option is available to you subject to your 
meeting certain  criteria and our approval.
I can see why Mr W was hoping hed be able to port his mortgage to another  property. Im 
also mindful that Mr W will have to pay an early  repayment charge (ERC) if he moves  to 
another lender and repays his mortgage with Pepper before the end of its 15 year term. 
Ref: DRN70128822Mr W doesnt think he will be able to get a mortgage  elsewhere  although  Im not sure if hes 
met with a broker to discuss  his options. Mr Ws concerned that at his age he wont get a 
mortgage on similar terms again. 
Ive given careful consideration to the reasons why Pepper has said it wont let Mr W port his 
mortgage. Its said this is because following the transfer of the mortgage to it, the porting 
facility has been  subject to an in depth  review by members of its senior management  team, 
our legal team and our compliance team. Due to regulatory constraints it has made the 
commercial decision not to accept porting applications at this time.
Pepper wasnt willing to share its internal policy with us although this was requested as part 
of our investigation. So I dont know what constraints it refers to. But I note from the 
Financial Conduct  Authoritys register that it has full permission to enter into a regulated 
mortgage contract as lender, so it doesnt appear  to me at the moment  that there are any 
regulatory constraints  on its ability to allow  Mr W to port; rather, it appears to be a matter of 
choice.
It seems  to me that Peppers commercial  decision  not to look at porting applications at this 
time has an unintended consequence on Mr W and that it is treating him unfairly as a result.  
Peppers said to us that it didnt look at Mr Ws porting  request. It told Mr W that it doesnt 
offer the facility  and so wont look at his application.  By Peppers refusal to engage with 
Mr Ws request,  this means that Mr W is effectively  forced to take his mortgage  to another 
lender  even  though his mortgage is portable. So, if Mr W is to reduce his mortgage debt 
and monthly commitments, this means he must  incur an ERC and exit his mortgage early. 
This seems unfair.
I consider that Mr Ws application to port to a lower value property might well place both him 
and Pepper in a better  position. Mr W wants to downsize to a smaller property and repay  a 
significant proportion  of his interest only mortgage - although  I note there will still be some  
element of ERC to be paid on the proportion of the debt Mr W is repaying.  Overall, this will 
reduce Mr Ws outgoings each month - and may even give him a chance to move  some  or 
even his entire mortgage onto a capital repayment  basis. 
I think Peppers failure to engage with Mr W has put him at a disadvantage  and this does 
seem to be because his mortgage  loan has transferred between lenders. I think  this goes 
against the spirit of the regulation intended  to encourage lenders to maintain  an active 
dialogue with borrowers, and to explore and support the development of viable plans to 
repay interest only mortgage borrowing. And it goes against the terms of his mortgage offer,  
which says that the lender will consider  applications to port.
I said I thought Pepper  should  look again  at Mr Ws request to port his mortgage.  I thought  it 
would be reasonable (and potentially in the best interests of both parties)  to allow Mr W to 
port his mortgage  to another property of lower value and to reduce his interest only 
borrowing. I also thought  Pepper should  pay Mr W £200 for the trouble and upset  it had 
caused him by not considering his request sooner and the impact  this has had on him.
responses to my provisional  decision
Pepper said:
-it wouldnt apply an ERC if Mr W moved  his mortgage elsewhere;
Ref: DRN70128823-having reviewed  its position, there arent  regulatory constraints that have prevented  
it porting Mr Ws mortgage and it shouldnt have said this. It had made  a commercial 
decision to stop accepting porting applications;  
-the terms and conditions of Mr Ws mortgage have remained unchanged since  it was 
transferred to Pepper; 
-the terms and conditions also said that it was recommended  that you take 
independent professional financial  and legal advice regarding portability  before 
deciding whether you request this facility;
-Peppers decision to decline  all porting applications is not varying the terms of the 
mortgage, but it was  a commercial decision to amend  our internal policy .
Mr W replied to my provisional decision to say he didnt think the award Id proposed went  
far enough. 
Since my provisional decision Ive been  in contact  with both Mr W and Pepper. Mr W has 
given us further information  about  his plans  both in terms of moving  house  and his plans to 
repay his mortgage  when  it expires since my provisional decision. Im grateful to Mr W for 
the details hes explained to us about his financial position and his wider situation.
Pepper has now agreed to consider Mr Ws request  to port his mortgage once hes found  a 
property hes interested  in. It has spoken with Mr W directly about this and said it would pay 
Mr W the £200 compensation I had thought was appropriate.
Mr W asked for me to make a final decision on this complaint as he wasnt  satisfied with the 
compensation offered. He felt a payment of around £1,000  was more appropriate.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im pleased that Pepper has now agreed  to consider an application from Mr W to port his 
mortgage. While Mr W has said he doesnt  currently have a property in mind  that hed like to 
purchase, Pepper has said it will consider an application to port the mortgage in the future 
should his situation change. Pepper has also agreed to pay Mr W the £200 of compensation 
that I thought was reasonable  in my provisional decision.
Mr W doesnt have a property at present that he is considering buying but Pepper has said it 
will consider  future applications.  To be clear, Pepper  should give any porting application 
made by Mr W fair and reasonable assessment. If Mr W was to make  an application to port 
and Pepper was to decline this, Mr W may think Pepper  had done  so unfairly. In such a 
situation, Mr W should complain to Pepper  about  this in the first instance. And if Mr W 
remains unhappy with Peppers response, he is able to bring his complaint to us.
trouble and upset  payment
Ive thought about everything Mr W has said about why he doesnt think  the compensation 
Ive awarded was fair. I can see why Mr W is disappointed with the level of compensation I 
set out. Mr Ws mentioned other previous issues hes had with Pepper to explain why hes so 
unhappy with his mortgage lender. 
Ref: DRN70128824Im only able to consider  the specific issues made within this particular complaint when 
deciding what compensation I think should  be paid to settle this matter. Other  issues  should 
be raised with Pepper in the first instance and, if Mr W remains  unhappy  with Peppers 
response, can be brought to us. We would then investigate those new issues  as a separate 
complaint and decide if we thought further compensation was appropriate.
Ive thought about whether the compensation awarded is high enough. To do so Ive 
carefully considered  how we typically  approach  compensation  payments for similar  
complaints. Ive also thought again about what Mr W suffered as a result of Peppers  actions 
and the level of distress  and inconvenience caused.  Ive also considered whether any 
financial loss was incurred by Mr W as a result of Peppers refusal to consider a porting 
request sooner when determining what should  happen now to put things right.
Im persuaded that Mr W would have had a loss of expectation because  of Peppers actions. 
As hes said, he thought  he had a portable  mortgage  and was disappointed to be told his 
new loan owner  thought  otherwise. I also accept  that hes experienced some  inconvenience 
in making his complaint. However,  I dont think this issue has caused further suffering or 
distress to Mr W. Overall,  taking into account the wider circumstances, I still consider that an 
award of £200  for the trouble and upset caused  by Peppers refusal to previously consider a 
porting request is fair and reasonable to settle  this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint against Pepper (UK) Limited should be upheld.  
Pepper should honour its offer to consider  Mr Ws application to port his mortgage, and pay 
Mr W compensation of £200 for the trouble and upset  caused to him to settle the matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Emma Peters
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7012882