K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains about the short term loans  he took out with Casheuronet UK LLC trading as 
QuickQuid. Mr M says that he had financial problems when he took the loans and he wasnt 
able to repay them. And he borrowed  from other payday lenders during these periods.
Mr M also says he has health problems that have impacted on his ability to manage his 
finances. So this lending has caused  problems for him and his family. 
background
Mr M took out two loans  between April 2017 and May 2018. Some of the information 
QuickQuid has given  us is shown below. 
loan one was for £100. It was taken out on 4 April 2017 and had a repayment of 
around £130. It was repaid on 12 May 2017
loan two was for £300. It was taken out on 24 May 2018  and had three monthly 
repayments of (around)  £82, £68 and £384
Mr M has had problems  repaying loan 2, I understand a balance is still outstanding. 
QuickQuid has looked at Mr Ms complaint and said that it shouldnt be upheld. It said that it 
did appropriate checks before approving the loans. And these checks showed that the 
lending was affordable. It also said that Mr M wasnt dependent on the lending and there 
was a large break between the two loans he took.   
One of our adjudicators looked  at what Mr M and QuickQuid said. They  thought Mr Ms 
complaint shouldnt be upheld. He thought that QuickQuid had made proportionate checks  
before approving these loans. So he thought that QuickQuids decisions to lend were 
reasonable. 
Mr Ms representative didnt agree with our adjudicator. She said that: 
at the time of the second  loan Mr M had borrowing with other lenders that he was 
struggling to repay
he had health  problems which may have  made  it difficult for him to manage his 
money and he may not have provided reliable information to QuickQuid
So as no agreements been reached  the complaints been passed to me to me to issue  a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Having done so, Ive decided to not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Before lending money to a consumer a lender should take proportionate steps to understand 
whether the consumer will be able to repay what theyre borrowing in a sustainable manner. 
Ref: DRN77045592A lender should gather enough  information  for it to be able to make an informed decision on 
the lending. The lending  shouldnt adversely impact a consumers financial situation.  
The guidance and rules themselves didnt set out compulsory  checks.  But they are clear that 
any checks needed to be proportionate and could take into account a number of different 
things. This could include how much was being  lent, the size of the repayments  and what  the 
lender found out about the consumer. 
So Ive firstly looked at whether QuickQuid performed  proportionate  checks.  If I think  that the 
checks were proportionate then it usually wouldve been reasonable for it to lend. But if 
QuickQuid didnt do proportionate checks Ive looked at whether it wouldve been apparent 
to it that the loan repayments were affordable had it done better checks.  QuickQuid should  
put things right if its likely  to have then found  that the loan repayments were unaffordable.   
QuickQuid says it looked at: 
Mr Ms monthly income, it recorded this as being £657 before loan 1 and £1,400  
before loan 2 
Mr Ms monthly expenditure was recorded as being £375  before loan 1, and £575 
before loan 2 
it compared these  amounts  to average expenditure statistics to make  sure they were 
reasonable
it used credit report information to validate  Mr Ms expenditure, in particular it used 
this to look into his other credit  commitments
And based on what it saw from this it thought  it reasonable  to lend to Mr M.
why I think QuickQuids checks were  proportionate 
Using the figures above which Mr M had given to QuickQuid he had a monthly disposable 
income of just under £300 before loan 1 and just over £800 before loan 2. So, given the 
information QuickQuid  had, as a starting  point, the loan repayments wouldve seemed 
affordable. 
But Mr Ms representative has said that his financial situation wasnt good and at times he 
had difficulty managing his money. I have thought about whether QuickQuid should have 
seen this, or made  more checks to find out more about Mr Ms situation. 
I can see that Mr M did have other  short term loans  at times. But Mr M didnt borrow  a large 
amount for loan 1. And he didnt have any problems repaying this loan.  There was a long 
gap between loans  1 and 2. So I dont  think, in this case, the loans he took from QuickQuid 
indicated that he had a dependency on this type of lending.  
And Ive thought about Mr Ms health  problems. I cant see that QuickQuid was made  aware 
of these until after he had taken his loans. And, I dont think  it was evident  from the loans 
themselves that Mr M was having financial problems. This didnt become clear until after 
loan 2 was approved. So I dont  think it wouldve been reasonable to expect QuickQuid to 
have found out about this. 
Overall, taking two loans over a longer  period of time doesnt suggest financial difficulty in 
itself. I havent seen anything in the rest of the information provided to suggest that it was 
unreasonable for QuickQuid to rely on the information it had. So I dont think  further checks  
Ref: DRN77045593were needed  given the proportion of the amount being borrowed in relation to what Mr M 
declared as his monthly disposable income.
So I think QuickQuids decisions to approve  loans 1 and 2 were reasonable and Im not 
upholding Mr Ms complaint about  them.  
But I would remind QuickQuid of its responsibility  to treat Mr M positively and 
sympathetically in respect of any money he may owe to it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Andy Burlinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7704559