K822xcomplaint
Miss C complains Morses Club PLC was irresponsible when lending her money and that 
correct affordability and credit checks were  not carried out. 
background 
Between June  2013 and August 2015 Miss C took out nine loans ranging from £300 to £600. 
I have addressed loans one to six in a separate complaint as Miss C took these loans out by 
a company that has since merged with Morses Club. By October  2015  Miss C had started to 
struggle to make the payments to loan six. 
In 2018 Miss C complained to Morses Club that the loans had been unaffordable and mis-
sold to her. Morses Club did not agree. It said it had done proper affordability checks  and 
concluded that Miss Cs disposable income, based on information provided by Miss C, was 
sufficient to afford the repayments. Miss C didnt agree and brought  her complaint to this 
service. 
Initially our adjudicator concluded  that Morses Club should have done more  to ensure loans 
seven to nine were affordable to Miss C, and concluded they werent.
 
Morses Club disagreed with this view and argued  it had undertaken checks that were 
proportionate to the amounts borrowed.  And it said it was entitled to rely on the accuracy 
and sufficiency of information provided  by Miss C as to her financial status. Our adjudicator  
agreed and amended her view. 
Miss C wasnt  happy and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman. She said Morses 
Club should have  known at the time that she was on a debt management plan, as it wouldve 
been recorded on her credit  file.
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mis 
C and Morses Club on 23 January 2019. I said: 
Miss C took out loans  one to six with an organisation  that has since  merged with Morses  
Club. My provisional findings relating to those  loans are relevant in deciding whether or not 
Morses Club undertook appropriate  checks for loans seven to nine; details of which are in 
the table below. In that decision, I determined that subject to further information loans five 
and six were unaffordable. It follows then that loans seven to nine were also unaffordable. 
Loan Principal Charge Date  sold Date settled Repayments
7 £600 £450 17/3/15 31/8/16  (debt sold) £21.00
8 £600 £450 18/6/15 31/8/16  (debt sold) £21.00
9 £500 £375 25/8/15 31/8/16  (debt sold) £17.50
Morses Club said it is legal and accepted  to be able to borrow up to £500  each time while  in 
an Individual  Voluntary Arrangement (IVA) and the loan amounts werent substantial. Miss C 
was in a debt management plan,  which is similar to but not the same as an IVA. But I accept 
in theory  that Morses  Club was legally able to loan Miss C money.
It also said the checks it did were  proportionate  to the amounts borrowed.  It said on loans of 
this value checking bank statements is not proportionate and its possible to borrow much  
Ref: DRN75482502higher sums from lenders  without checking  bank statements.  Morses  Club said Miss Cs 
payment record across the majority  of her loans was nearly  perfect, which is why she 
received further  loans  and that payments being  made regularly would suggest the loans 
were affordable. 
My view is that proportionate checks for loan one would be different to those that may be 
needed for loans  seven  to nine. 
I determined in my other provisional decision that the checks  done were proportionate for 
loans one to four. Morses Club said it did a credit check for loan one. By the time Miss C 
applied for loan five, loans  three and four were  still outstanding; loans five and six were for 
higher amounts; and Miss Cs disposable  income  was static. At this point I considered  it 
appropriate for further checks on affordability to have been done,  in addition  to relying on 
Miss Cs income and expenditure self-assessment;  for which  evidence  was never sought. 
Had it been done then, or indeed had Morses Club done so at the point of the application for 
loan seven, it wouldve  seen on her credit file that Miss C was in arrears with a payday loan 
in August 2013 and had defaulted  on it by February 2014. Im satisfied this wouldve been a 
red flag for further checks at that point,  including possibly  viewing  Miss Cs bank statements.
FromLoans
(outstanding balance)Total of 
repaymentsDisposable income 
(Weekly  income)
Loan 7  17/3/15Loan 5 (£439), loan 6 
(£665) and loan 7£59.50 100 (300)
Loan 8  18/6/15Loan 6 (£467), loan 7 
(£798) and loan 8£59.50177 (220)
Lack of detail in the 
outgoings
Loan 9  25/8/15Loan 6 (£341), loan 7 
(£609), loan 8 (£861) and 
loan 9£77.00165 (300)
From wages to benefits
Morses Club agreed to refund the interest on loans eight and nine, because accounts  six 
and seven had not been repaid at the times they were issued, and Miss C has obviously 
struggled to repay these  loans. Miss C applied for loan seven three months after loan six 
and hadnt paid off loans  either of loans five or six. Miss Cs stated disposable income had 
dropped between loans six and seven  from £120 to £100. 
Ive looked at the loan applications. For loan eight  there is a lack of detail describing Miss 
Cs outgoings and for loan nine her income  changes from wages to benefits.  This itself does 
not disqualify Miss C from further  borrowing, but does indicate a change in circumstances 
which would warrant further  checks.  However, no additional checks were done  for any of 
loans seven, eight  or nine. 
I believe additional checks  for loans five and six would  have  impacted  Morses Clubs  
decision to agree to loan seven. Morses Club said at no point during its lending was a debt 
management account shown on Miss Cs credit  file while it lent to her, as it first appeared in 
2017. It said the accounts showing  in her debt management plan are with another  debt 
management specialist,  L, and four of them are Morses Club accounts. 
Im not disputing this, but Morses Club hasnt provided any evidence a credit  check was 
done on Miss C after loan one. And had one been  done at any point after loan two the late 
Ref: DRN75482503payments and default wouldve been  seen. While I cant say this itself wouldve prevented 
Morses Club from agreeing further loans, Im satisfied it wouldve been enough to trigger 
further checks for loan seven. 
Morses Club said it had spoken to Miss Cs debt management specialist, H, and discovered 
Miss C had not declared her loans to it, which  it believed showed an intent by Miss C to 
deceive both parties.  And it believed that by refunding interest  its rewarding this behaviour.  
It said many  previously adjudicated cases had advised that Morses  Club could rely on the 
accuracy of information  the customer provides, and if the customer  did not provide accurate 
information to enable it to make  a decision it could not be held at fault.  Im not disputing that 
Miss C has not been entirely truthful. She had a responsibility to provide accurate 
information to all parties. But this doesnt  completely  absolve Morses Club of its own duties 
to do other  due diligence as the loans became more frequent and for higher values. In 
addition, my role is to look at the individual circumstances of the complaint. 
I was pleased Morses  Club had agreed to refund interest on loans eight and nine but, 
subject to any further evidence I may receive, I believed it should go further and refund 
interest on loan seven also. 
Both Miss C and Morses  Club agreed  with my provisional findings. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My provisional decision was sent to Miss C and Morses Club and both parties accepted  it. 
So I see no reason  to depart from its conclusions. 
Ref: DRN75482504my final decision
My final decision is to instruct  Morses  Club PLC to:
Refund all interest  and charges that Miss C paid on loan seven;
Refund all interest  and charges that Miss C paid on loans eight and nine, if it hasnt  
already done so;
Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement;
The total refund should be paid towards the outstanding capital balance; 
oIf the refund clears  the outstanding capital balance, the remaining funds 
should be paid directly to Miss C;
oIf the refund doesnt clear the outstanding  balance, Morses Club and Miss C 
should agree  on an affordable repayment plan; and
Remove any negative  information about loans seven, eight and nine from Miss Cs 
credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss C to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Maxine Sutton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7548250