K820x#14complaint
Mr Z and Mrs B, through their representative  Mr R, complain about the policy excess  for 
escape of water claims that applies to their home insurance policy sold by Fresh Insurance  
Services Group Limited.
background
Mr R, on behalf of his parents  Mr Z and Mrs B, purchased a home insurance policy in 
August 2018 through Fresh, having  first obtained a quote from a price comparison website. 
The policy was purchased on an advised  basis and during the sales call Mr R was asked 
about previous  claims his parents had made.  Mr R said his parents had made four previous 
escape of water claims. Fresh then checked  with the underwriter whether it was prepared  to 
offer Mr Z and Mrs B a policy given the amount  of claims  they had made. The underwriter 
agreed to do so for a premium of £570.31  which was significantly more  than the quote  
obtained on the price comparison  site. 
During the call the endorsements to the policy  were  explained one of which was that there  
would be a £2,500 excess for escape  of water claims to which Mr R agreed.  Following the 
call the policy documentation was sent to Mr Z and Mrs B and this included the policy  
schedule which set out the applicable  endorsements  that had been applied.  
On 1 April 2019  Mr Z and Mrs B contacted Fresh to make a claim for damage  caused to their 
home by an escape  of water. On being  told that there was an applicable policy excess  for 
such claims of £2,500 they made  a complaint. Mr R said to Fresh that such an excess was 
excessive, that they hadnt been told at the time of the sale that it would be applied  and that 
the policy information provided had been confusing and misleading.
 
Fresh looked into their complaint but didnt  think itd done anything  wrong.  Fresh  said that 
during the sales  call, Mr R had indicated he was happy to proceed with the purchase  of the 
policy on his parents behalf. And it said he had been provided with clear  and accurate  
information both before the policy was purchased and within the policy  documentation sent 
out afterwards. 
Unhappy with the outcome of Freshs investigation, Mr Z and Mrs B complained to this 
service. Our investigator looked into their complaint but didnt recommend that it was upheld. 
The complaint was passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  With regret  for any disappointment it will 
cause Mr Z and Mrs B, I dont think their complaint  should be upheld. Ill explain why. 
I agree  that an escape of water excess of £2,500  is higher than typically  found  on most 
insurance policies.  But the terms on which cover is offered are the underwriters to decide. It 
will look at the risk it is being asked to take on and charge what  it considers  a fair price for 
doing so. A policyholders claims history  is an important factor that underwriters consider 
when deciding what to charge for cover. And I can see that here, Fresh  checked  with the 
underwriter at the time of the sale whether it would  be willing to offer Mr Z and Mrs B cover 
given the significant number of escape  of water  claims theyd made in the past. 
Ref: DRN77867032It appears from the sales call that the underwriter was only willing  to accept cover for escape 
of water if the policy was endorsed to include a £2,500 policy excess. But I cant  look here at 
the terms that the underwriter has applied to the policy. Thats  because  this complaint is 
about the sale and its Fresh thats  responsible for that.  
This appears  to have  been an advised  sale on the part of Fresh.  That means it must 
highlight any unusual,  onerous or restrictive  terms and make sure that the policy is suitable 
for Mr Z and Mrs Bs needs. Ive seen the Demands and Needs statement they were sent 
by Fresh after the sales phone call. It says the statement  is based  on the information they 
provided to Fresh and that it reviewed the policies within its range. It goes on to say We 
would ask that you read this document carefully and together with the rest of your insurance 
information and contact us immediately with any queries. The document  finishes by stating:  
Any demands or needs that we could  not meet are shown below: All demands and needs 
have been fulfilled with your policy.
So whilst Fresh wasnt responsible for determining what  the escape of water excess  would  
be, I am satisfied it drew  Mr Rs attention to it during  the sales call and that he was happy to 
proceed. And Im satisfied  that it made  sure that the policy was suitable for Mr Z and Mrs Bs 
needs.
Fresh also had to make sure that the escape  of water excess endorsement was clearly 
displayed and referred to within the policy documentation  sent to Mr Z and Mrs B after the 
sale. I can see that the letter sent to them enclosing the policy documents  stated: Please 
check that the information you have  provided to us is correct.Please ensure that you read 
and understand  the information sent to you and contact us immediately with any queries. 
And that the policy schedule lists a number of endorsements  that apply to the cover  of which  
there is one about  escape of water claims. That says: Increased Peril Excess   It is noted 
that the excess in respect of Escape of Water is increased to £2500 for each and every 
loss. 
So I think the policy documentation sent to Mr Z and Mrs B after the sale was clear and 
straightforward so I cant reasonably agree  with them that it was confusing or misleading.   
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Z and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 July 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7786703