K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains Compass Wealth Management  Consultants Limited caused him a financial 
loss by leaving his pension savings in a cash fund when  they transferred to a SIPP. 
background
In April 2016 Mr N was advised by a financial advisor to consolidate his three pension plans 
and transfer them to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP) with the provider of his largest 
plan. Mr N was approaching retirement  age and wanted to draw his pension benefits  flexibly  
and release funds  to repay a financial obligation of around £30,000.  At the time the financial 
advisor (Mr B) worked  for a firm Ill call W. Mr B told Mr N he was in the process  of selling 
his firm including its retail  clients  to Compass.  So Mr B completed the SIPP  application form 
to transfer all three of Mr Ns plans and arranged for Mr N to pay the initial  advice fee of 
£750 to Compass  not to W, although Mr B issued the suitability letter on Ws headed paper. 
Mr B said Compass would complete the transfers  to Mr Ns SIPP. 
The transfer of Mr Ns occupational defined benefit scheme didnt progress, but the transfer 
of his two personal  pension  plans  totalling around £70,223 to the SIPP took place in May 
2016. When trying to find out what had happened  Mr N was told by Compass the merger 
with W hadnt taken  place and he should  contact Mr B. Mr N was worried  the transfer  to the 
SIPP may not have  been in his best interests. And also that having transferred, his funds 
remained in a cash fund rather  than being invested, which he believes caused him a 
financial loss. So he complained, saying he wasnt sure whether W and Mr B or Compass 
was responsible. 
Mr B and Compass both said the other party  should be responsible  for the complaint. Mr B 
confirmed he had sold his retail business and clients to Compass  in April 2016, after which  
time he was no longer  authorised to provide regulated financial advice on fund choice, asset  
allocation or carry out trading. He said he passed Mr Ns details to Mr A at Compass 
expecting him to contact  Mr N about  this. 
In October  2016 Mr N met with Mr A from Compass, who wasnt comfortable with the advice 
given by Mr B in relation to transferring a defined benefit scheme. He arranged to invest the 
funds in Mr Ns SIPP (now valued at just over £69,000) in the IMS Cautious Portfolio. But 
Compass maintained  W should be held responsible for any complaint in relation to the 
transfer as Mr B had given the advice. Mr N thought hed lost around £9,200 by the funds 
remaining in cash between May and November 2016 so he complained to this service. Mr N 
has subsequently moved away from Compass.  
Mr Ns complaint was allocated to one of our investigators who identified  it needed  to be 
split, as two businesses were involved. She set up one complaint against Mr Bs firm W 
and the other against Compass.  She requested information from Mr B, Compass  and the 
providers of Mr Ns personal pensions. Having reviewed everything  she didnt uphold the 
complaint against  W, as she thought the transfer met Mr Ns objective to take his benefits  
flexibly. But she agreed with Mr B that once the transfer to the SIPP had taken  place the 
investment element of the complaint  was the responsibility of Compass. Shed seen 
evidence Mr B had quoted Compasss  agency  and FCA number on the forms not those of 
W, which  suggested Compass  was aware  that Mr N had become a client. She was also 
satisfied Compass received the initial fee of £750  and would receive the ongoing  advisor 
charge of 0.75% of the plan value from June 2016  onwards which  Mr N had agreed to. As 
Mr Ns funds should have  been invested on receipt  rather than remaining in a cash fund she 
Ref: DRN70508592upheld the complaint against Compass and set out how she though it should put things right 
for Mr N.
Compass disagreed  with the investigators  view. So its been passed to me to make a 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Compass  hadnt given any reason for rejecting the investigators view, and quite some 
time has passed since then I asked  for its comments. Compass said thered been  no merger  
between itself and W, it had simply novated  or taken responsibility  for some of Ws retail  
clients, including Mr N. But as Mr B had given the advice and he never worked for Compass  
it would  be unfair to hold it responsible for failing to ensure Mr Ns funds were invested  
correctly in the SIPP. Mr B should have set out the investment strategy for the SIPP as part 
of the advice and could  have done so, as although  he didnt transfer to Compass it believed 
hed continued  as a financial advisor until September 2016. 
Compass says Mr A wasnt comfortable  with Mr Bs recommendation that Mr N transfer his 
occupational scheme to the SIPP. But that didnt  actually  take place, as only Mr Ns two 
personal pensions  were transferred. I dont think being uncomfortable  with the advice given 
by Mr B meant Compass didnt have to provide  any service to Mr N once hed been  
accepted as a client.  
In any case, this complaint is not about the advice  given  to Mr N to consolidate and transfer  
his personal pension savings into a SIPP  theres  no dispute that was given by Mr B when 
he worked for W. This complaint is about  what happened when Mr N became a client  of 
Compass in May 2016. And I think at that point,  having accepted an advice fee and ongoing  
advisor charges  it was obliged to deliver  some service to Mr N. I say this particularly as 
Compass charged Mr N a further  advice fee of 0.90% when he met Mr A in October 2016 to 
arrange to invest  the funds within the SIPP wrapper. 
I havent looked in detail  into the transfer of business from W to Compass. But I dont think 
its relevant whether it was intended  that Mr B retained responsibility for Ws clients  after 
they transferred.  Once those clients including Mr N transferred across to Compass  they 
became its responsibility,  and if Mr B didnt join Compass presumably another of its advisors 
(like Mr A) would take them over. Compass says Mr N would have been contacted for an 
annual review at some point but that would presumably  be a year later and not when  he 
first became  a client. 
Compass says it only received Mr Ns fees because Mr B quoted its agency number, but I 
think its likely he did so with Compasss knowledge and agreement.  This is supported  by 
Mr Bs handwritten note of the April 2016 meeting with Mr N which  says he told him 
Compass will have all papers and will finish it off. The note says Mr B has posted papers 
and file to [employee] @ Compass. [Employee] told me Compass Std agency no. 
Ive also seen a letter dated 19 April 2016 prior to the suitability letter from Mr B to Mr N 
which says As you know & I discussed  I have  sold my business to Compass Wealth 
Management and this transaction will go through  their offices.  They will be sent any 
paperwork and I will telephone them to make  them aware of what is happening . 
Ref: DRN70508593Compass hasnt said whether Mr B did telephone with an update  or to ask Mr A to contact 
Mr N specifically. But it hasnt disputed it received a copy  of Mr Ns welcome pack from the 
SIPP provider in May 2016  or that the transaction would have appeared on its new 
business report.  Ive seen a copy of the pack sent to Compass  dated  4 May 2016 which is 
headed Your clients new Active Money Self Invested Personal Pension. Under Whats 
next it reads Please pass this pack  on to your  client. They  should read and check  all the 
information .. (my emphasis). 
The following  page  shows  the balance transferred as just over £66,638,  and under 
Investment  details it reads
[SIPP provider] Investment Policy   0.00% 
Additional investments                 100.00%.  
I think its reasonable to assume Compass  would  have followed the instructions to pass the 
pack on to Mr N and advise him to read it carefully. But I dont think this information would 
have alerted Mr N that he remained in a cash fund. However I would expect Compass to 
have checked  the funds  were invested  in line with the information  theyd been provided with, 
as part of their initial  contact with him. The file included the attitude to risk (ATR) analysis 
completed by Mr B which had assessed Mr N as having an ATR of D (balanced) with the 
description You prefer to invest in a broad range of core stock-market  linked 
investments..  which  suggests  Compass  was provided with sufficient information  to 
determine whether  Mr Ns SIPP was invested correctly  and that he didnt choose to be 
invested in cash. 
Compass now says the funds remained  in cash until Mr A arranged  to invest  them  because  
Mr Bs suitability  letter suggested he was thinking of drawing down his pension funds. 
Having reviewed the contents of that letter I dont agree.  The form with Mr Bs handwritten 
notes which  Mr N signed at their meeting on 14 April 2016  does  note the consolidation of his 
plans to the SIPP ready for drawdown . But the suitability letter dated 27 April 2016 said 
transferring would give Mr N the availability  of drawing benefits in all sorts of ways  when 
you decide you need to (my emphasis). 
In the Investment choice  section of the SIPP application form which Mr B completed  during 
his meeting with Mr N in April 2016  theres a handwritten entry  which has been made  then 
crossed out (presumably  by Mr B). And instead theres an entry in the section below to place 
100% in the SIPP bank account  (cash account) which  is where the charges are paid from. I 
think this supports Mr Bs expectation that Compass would contact Mr N to finish it off and 
arrange for his funds  to be invested, as Mr B believed he wasnt authorised to. 
Mr N did want  flexibility to draw his benefits  and had mentioned to Mr B his wish to release 
some funds to settle an outstanding financial obligation. But I dont think this means he 
intended his entire fund to remain in cash, or that he was planning  to draw down the entire  
fund imminently. And as Mr N doesnt  appear  to have withdrawn funds to repay that 
obligation when  the SIPP was invested  by Mr A in October 2016 I dont think its reasonable 
to suggest the funds  were left in cash at Mr Ns request. 
So taking everything into consideration I think Compass should  have been proactive when 
Mr N became one of its clients in May 2016,  and ensured his SIPP  was invested correctly 
shortly thereafter, checking if he needed to release funds. So I uphold the complaint and 
require Compass to put things right by calculating  any loss Mr N made by the funds 
remaining in cash between May and November 2016. It should do this as follows:
Ref: DRN70508594Calculate any growth in Mr Ns pension  funds from when  it transferred  to the SIPP  in 
May 2016 to when  it was invested  in November 2016 (Value A)
Calculate the investment growth  Mr Ns fund would have achieved had it been 
invested over the same  period as arranged by Mr A from November 2016 (Value B)
Calculate the difference between Value A and Value B.
If this reveals a loss, Compass should pay this into Mr Ns SIPP.  If this is not 
possible, then it should be paid to Mr N in cash. If this is the case then a deduction 
should be made to reflect that 75% would  be taxed at Mr Ns marginal rate and 25% 
would be tax free.
A clear explanation  of this calculation should be provided to Mr N. 
Compass should also pay Mr N £200 to reflect the poor service  he experienced. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  Compass Wealth Management Consultants Limited should put 
things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 December  2020.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7050859