K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that First Central Insurance Management Limited didnt detail his 
previous years premium  paid correctly on his renewal invitation for his motor policy.
background
When Mr R received his renewal invitation,  he noticed  the amount it stated he had paid the 
previous was greater  than what  he actually  had paid. He said this was misleading when 
trying to compare what his new premium would  then be.
He complained to First Central,  who agreed  it could have been clearer  but that as he made a 
change to his policy mid-term  the figures quoted  were within the regulation guidelines.
Mr R remained  dissatisfied and brought his complaint to us. The adjudicator thought  First 
Central had done  enough  in acknowledging  its renewal invitation could have been  clearer.  
He also thought First Central had adhered  to the regulation guidelines.
Mr R didnt agree so his complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding this 
complaint, Ill now explain  why.
Our role is to see whether a business, First Central  here, did anything wrong and if it did, did 
it do enough to put it right?
Here, First Central acknowledged its renewal invitation could have been clearer  and it said it 
has raised the issue with its marketing department.  It also explained where  the figure for Mr 
Rs previous premium had come  from and why it was higher. This was because Mr R made 
a mid-term change. Had he then bought the policy at the date of the mid-term change this 
figure would have been what  he would  have paid for that policy from that date for an entire 
policy year.  As it was, Mr R wasnt  actually  charged this higher figure due the policys ability 
to permit a mid-term change with payment of an additional premium of £21.55, and more 
importantly given the timing within the policy year of the adjustment.
As the adjudicator explained  to Mr R, the regulator,  namely the Financial Conduct Authority 
lays out the rules for insurers and details  what their renewal invitations  must include. So I 
wont repeat  them here,  save  that those rules do cover the situation where a mid-term 
adjustment has been made. It tells insurers to annualise the premium, which is what First 
Central did. It told Mr R what his premium would have been  with the mid-term adjustment. 
Mr R thinks it should have  simply annualised  his extra premium payment,  rather  than the 
entire risk over a policy year.  
Theres no dispute it was mis-leading  to Mr R. But I think  First Central did enough  to 
acknowledge this and to explain it to Mr R. 
Theres no evidence that Mr R suffered any loss concerning  this, other  than the 
inconvenience of having to seek clarification  and then complain.  
Ref: DRN75312852Lastly, as the adjudicator explained  this service isnt the Financial Conduct Authority so I 
have no authority to enforce its rules  in the manner  Mr R believes this service  should. 
Further, Ive no authority to make  punitive  awards or fines. 
my final decision
So for these reasons, its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2019.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7531285