K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains about the way Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  responded when he 
was in financial difficulty.
background
Mr S experienced problems paying off various creditors.  One is Bank of Scotland  and it 
discussed what he could  do to make repayment.  Mr S complains about  the way he was dealt  
with and says he wasnt helped by Bank of Scotland and it didnt show any flexibility despite  
him being a long standing  customer. He says other  creditors have agreed long term 
solutions that dont involve defaulting  his accounts. Its only Bank  of Scotland  that he has 
faced issues with. He thinks  the information  given by Bank of Scotland  was vague.
Bank of Scotland said in its final response that its collections department gave  Mr S three 
options. The first two of paying back the arrears  or doing so in three repayments werent 
possible because Mr S didnt have enough disposable income.  The third option was to close  
the account and transfer  it to recoveries. This wouldve resulted in interest  and charges 
being stopped and a default being  issued. Mr S was initially happy  with this. But he later 
became unhappy  when  it explained this could take about 65 days and the debt could be 
transferred to a debt collector or sold on. It cant say what other creditors  might  do and it 
would assess Mr S income and expenditure to see what he could afford  to pay back  each 
month.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
The terms of Mr S credit card agreement with Bank of Scotland permit it to sell the 
debt. Although Mr S may not want this its entitled to do so. 
Bank of Scotlands explanation of what was likely to happen if it sent the account  to 
recoveries is reasonably detailed. And he cant make a finding  on what  might happen 
in the future. 
Since February 2019 Bank of Scotland has been in contact with Mr S and it put a 
hold on his account to allow him to fill in an income and expenditure form. When it 
received this disposable income information it questioned if it was accurate. It said it 
would consider taking payment over three months but didnt think this would be 
enough. So, it said moving the account  to recoveries seemed like the only option.  
Bank of Scotland engaged with Mr S to find out more about his situation  before 
making its decision. It was reasonable for it to default the account. It did enough.  It 
also handled  Mr S complaint satisfactorily.
Mr S remains unhappy. In summary  he says he offered to start up a plan.  But Bank of 
Scotland ignored this. He was treated badly and the bank wasnt interested in helping. Other 
creditors have been only too happy to help. It read the income and expenditure information  
incorrectly and presumed he couldnt  pay anything. It didnt  engage about  the income 
figures. It wasnt  a responsible lender.  A default  wasnt fair and reasonable when all his other  
creditors made the effort to resolve  things. He was bullied by the advisor.  
Bank of Scotland points out that no further payment has been made into the account since  
January 2019.  A plan couldnt  be agreed  as it didnt  believe Mr S had any disposable income  
Ref: DRN73025182to do so. He couldve  also made  payments into the account even though no plan was 
agreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S has provided detailed submissions to support  his complaint. Ive read and considered  
them all. But my findings are expressed in considerably less detail. And they focus on what  I 
think are the main issues.
I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Bank of Scotland has an obligation  to treat Mr S positively and sympathetically when he is 
experiencing financial difficulties. But that doesnt  mean it has to accept any proposal  for 
repayment he puts forward. 
Mr S also complains that other creditors have dealt with him differently  and in his view more  
reasonably by agreeing long term arrangements with him. That may well be the case. But 
what other businesses  do is a matter for them and doesnt oblige Bank  of Scotland to follow  
suit or mean that if it takes  a different approach it is doing anything wrong.
I think Bank of Scotland has engaged with Mr S reasonably.  It has communicated  with him 
since February 2019 about his situation  and made a number of proposals to him. It also 
obtained income and expenditure information  from him. Mr S says it didnt engage with him 
about his income  but it is entitled  to rely on what he said in the form. And it decided that he 
didnt have enough disposable  income to make repayment in three instalments as it wanted. 
As a result I think Bank of Scotland reasonably concluded that the only option  was to default  
Mr S account and pass it to recoveries.  I also think it gave Mr S a fair explanation of what  
might happen even if it couldnt  say for sure what the future held.
Overall, although I understand Mr S strength of feeling and frustration I dont think on 
balance that Bank of Scotland  has treated him unfairly or done  anything wrong. And 
although I sympathise  with the unfortunate situation hes found himself in I dont think  I can 
now fairly or reasonably require it to do anything  more or differently as Mr S would like.
I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7302518