K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that Watford Insurance  Company  Europe Limited  settled a claim  made by a 
third party after an alleged  collision with his car. And that they failed to respond  to his 
request for information relating to that claim.
background
Mr N has a car insurance policy with Watford which covers both himself and his wife to drive  
his car.
The policy is administered by another company, which also deals with claims and with 
customer complaints on Watfords behalf. For ease of reference, Ill simply refer to Watford  
when describing  actions taken on their behalf by the other company.
In December 2018, Mr Ns wife went to work in the car. When she returned to where  it was 
parked after work, she found a note on the windscreen saying that the car had scraped 
another vehicle  when  parking.
That evening, Mr N sent a text message to the telephone number given in the note. He said 
his wife had scraped the other car and he could see scratches on his own car. He offered to 
resolve the matter  without  involving  insurance companies.
After speaking to his wife later, Mr N decided she couldnt have collided with the other car. 
He says he realised  he was being  scammed and reported the matter to the police.
A few days  later, Watford  contacted Mr N to tell him a third party claim had been  made  and 
they would  investigate before making a decision.
A month or so after that Watford informed Mr N theyd settled the claim on a without 
prejudice basis.
Mr N complained to Watford. He said theyd made a decision without looking properly at the 
note left on his car. He believes  the note proves the claim was bogus because  the third party  
didnt claim to have seen the alleged incident.  And he wanted Watford to reject the claim and 
fight it in court if necessary.  
He also asked for copies  of all documents relating to the claim.
Watford didnt uphold  Mr Ns complaint. They said they had no option but to settle the claim 
given Mr Ns admission of liability in the text he sent to the other driver.
Mr N wasnt happy with his response  and complained to us. Our investigator looked into it 
and partly upheld  the complaint. 
She didnt  think Watford  had done anything  wrong in the way they handled the third party 
claim. But she said theyd  failed to deal with Mr Ns request for information. She asked them  
to provide the information Mr N had requested and pay him £50 in compensation for his 
trouble and upset.
Mr N disagreed with this outcome and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.  
Ref: DRN72394472my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N appears  to believe that the terms of his policy mean hes entitled to instruct Watford  to 
reject the claim and fight it in court if necessary.
Thats not the case. The policy is clear  that Watford can and will choose how to resolve any 
third party claims, irrespective of the policyholders  wishes.
So, Watford  clearly acted  within the terms of the policy when they decided to settle  this 
claim. 
However, the question  for me is whether  Watford acted fairly and reasonably.  I can look 
beyond the strict terms of the policy and consider whether Watford  carried out sufficient 
investigations and whether their decision is reasonable given the evidence available.
If Watford did act arbitrarily in making this decision,  or if they failed to obtain or take into 
account the relevant evidence, I could uphold Mr Ns complaint.
However, I dont think they did. Ill explain why.
Watford clearly considered both Mr Ns and the third partys versions of events. They 
obtained photographs  of both cars taken at the relevant time. They  were  provided with proof 
that the third partys  car was repaired and the cost of those repairs.
They also took into account the fact that Mr N admitted liability  to the third party in the test 
message he sent on the day of the alleged incident.
Taking all of that into account,  I cant say that its unreasonable or unfair for Watford to 
conclude that they had little or no chance of successfully defending  the claim.
Mr N says he acted in haste in sending the text and that it was only after speaking to his wife 
that he realised she hadnt in fact scraped the other car. 
I can understand that, but it doesnt alter the fact that he plainly admitted liability.  Whilst Mr N 
may feel frustrated if he believes he has been  the victim of a scam, I dont think Watfords 
decision not to fight the claim is in any way questionable given the content of the text 
message.
I also note that Mr Ns policy contains  a very clear instruction that policyholders should not 
admit liability  for any accident or damage before  discussing  it with Watford.
I am going to uphold  Mr Ns complaint in part though.  Hes provided proof that in February  
2019 he requested copies  of all documents  Watford  held relating to the claim. I dont think 
Watford responded to that request in a way that was fair or reasonable.
Watford have questioned whether the original request  from Mr N was a formal subject 
access request under  data protection legislation. I think thats a red herring. Mr N clearly 
asked for copy documents. He appears  not to have been provided with them, or told that he 
couldnt have  them for whatever reason, or told how to make a formal  request.
Ref: DRN72394473I neednt go into detail  on this. Watford have now admitted they didnt deal with the request 
effectively and theyve  eventually provided  Mr N with a response.
Im satisfied the £50 suggested by our investigator is reasonable compensation for the 
trouble and upset  Mr N was caused by Watfords failure to handle  his request effectively.
I understand Mr N is unhappy  with Watfords  response to his request now that hes received 
it. They say theyve removed third party details  and are entitled to do so. He thinks  the 
amount of redaction  has made the documents entirely meaningless. 
Weve advised  Mr N to take any complaint about this to the Information Commissioners 
Office, whose role is to enforce the relevant  data protection legislation.  
For the sake of complete  clarity, if Watford have already  paid Mr N £50 in compensation, Im 
not suggesting another £50. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr Ns complaint in part.
Watford Insurance Company Europe  Limited should  pay Mr N £50 compensation for his 
trouble and upset.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7239447