K820x#14complaint
This complaints about some transactions Mr and Mrs S undertook in 2010  with their 
mortgage and mortgage endowment policies. They say The Financial Research Partnership  
LLP (FRP) advised them to surrender their endowment policies yet didnt change  all their 
mortgage onto a repayment basis.
Mr and Mrs S have  been represented  by their daughter. For ease  of reading, I will simply 
refer to Mr and Mrs S in this decision, however any reference to Mr and Mrs S should be 
taken to mean their daughter making  submissions on their behalf  where  appropriate.
background
In 1989 Mr and Mrs S took out a £47,500  interest-only mortgage on a three-year deferred 
interest basis and a mortgage  endowment  policy.
In 1992 they borrowed a further £3,000 on an interest-only basis and took out a second 
endowment policy with the same provider as the first one.
In 2000 they borrowed a further £12,000  on an interest-only basis and took out a third 
endowment policy,  this time with a different provider.
In 2003 Mr and Mrs S complained to the policy provider of the first two policies that theyd 
been mis-sold. The policy provider didnt uphold  their complaint, and the complaint was later 
referred to us about a decade later, when we said it had been brought  to us outside the 
timescales allowed.
This brings  us onto the period Mr and Mrs S are complaining about here. In 2010 there were 
various changes  made by Mr and Mrs S, they:
Surrendered their three  endowment policies for a total of around £30,500,
Switched £30,000 of their approximately £64,000 mortgage onto a repayment  basis,  
Moved the mortgage from the lenders standard variable  rate of over 4% to a tracker 
rate of under 3%, and
Took out a decreasing  term assurance  policy each with a starting  sum assured of 
£30,000.
In 2014 Mr and Mrs S then switched  the rest of their mortgage to repayment and amended 
the end dates of the various  sub-accounts.
In 2017 Mr and Mrs S complained about what happened in 2010. Mr and Mrs S originally  
said all their financial transactions (from 1989  up to and including  2010) had been 
undertaken on the advice of a financial adviser  that Ill call Mr D. More recently Mr and Mrs S 
have said they didnt meet with Mr D in 2010 and that they met with FRP instead.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed and so its been passed  
to me to decide.
Ref: DRN76136492my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I trust Mr and Mrs S wont take it as a 
discourtesy that Ive condensed their complaint  in the way that I have. Although  Ive read 
and considered the whole file Ill keep my comments to what  I think  is relevant. If I dont 
comment on any specific point its not because Ive not considered it but because I dont 
think I need to comment  on it in order to reach the right outcome. 
Before I can consider whether or not anything went  wrong  in 2010 I need  to be satisfied 
that FRP actually advised  Mr and Mrs S to carry out the actions theyre complaining  about.  If 
I dont think FRP advised them,  it follows, that FRP cant be said to have mis-advised them.
This has been a very unusual case and its taken  some  time to try to piece together  as 
much as we can now  what happened. So, I apologise to both sides  for how long its taken 
to reach  this point.
Mr and Mrs S have  more recently  said FRP advised them on all the actions they undertook  
in 2010. Ive considered this point carefully  but Im not persuaded by it.
Weve received copies  of the original application forms from Mr and Mrs S mortgage  lender 
from 1989 and 1992, and both these show the mortgages were introduced by a property 
services business incorporating Mr D. That same property services  business was an 
appointed representative of the policy provider for the first two mortgage endowment  policies 
at the time these  were sold. So its likely the first two mortgage endowment  policies and the 
mortgages they were  set up to support were all sold by that business, albeit Mr and Mrs S 
dealt with Mr D.
We dont have a copy of any mortgage paperwork from 2000 that shows  how the mortgage 
advance was applied  for. But we do have  a copy of some of the paperwork for the 
endowment policy that was taken out at the same time.  We specifically asked Mr and Mrs S 
for their recollections of the 2000 sales and they said,  I quote [Mr and Mrs S] are certain 
that [Mr D] transacted  this business. However, the paperwork from the mortgage  
endowment policy provider shows that policy was introduced by a completely different 
business, unconnected to both Mr D and FRP.
The paperwork from Mr and Mrs S mortgage lender  in 2010 indicates no separate financial 
adviser was involved;  as far as the mortgage  lender is concerned no advice was given either  
by it, or by Mr D and/or FRP. In addition, the paperwork to surrender  the mortgage  
endowment policies only shows FRP helped to facilitate the surrenders, theres nothing to 
show these were done due to advice from an employee of FRP to do so. 
Ref: DRN76136493The only thing we have  to indicate FRP advised Mr and Mrs S to surrender the endowment  
policies and then didnt arrange to switch the mortgage entirely  to repayment in 2010  is 
Mr and Mrs S word  that is what happened. Normally Id say this is good evidence, however 
here we have had some  very differing recollections.  Thats not to say I think  theres anything 
untoward in Mr and Mrs S differing recollections. It is entirely understandable, considering  
how long has passed, that memories fade.  But Mr and Mrs S are asking us to uphold this 
complaint based  just on their recollections of what they say happened,  where theres nothing 
in writing to support that. Mr and Mrs S said:
In a 2013 complaint to the decreasing  term assurance policy provider  Mr and Mrs S 
said those policies  had been  sold by Mr D in 2010. It was the policy  provider that told 
them the plans  had been sold by FRP instead.
On our complaint  form Mr and Mrs S completed  and signed in 2017 in answer to the 
question asking for the details of the adviser, Mr and Mrs S answered Mr D.
Also on our complaint  form Mr and Mrs S wrote In May 2010  [Mr D] contacted 
clients
In an email to a member of our staff when  the complaint was first brought to us 
Mr and Mrs S said The contact was initaited  [sic] by [Mr D] They also said 
under the advises [sic] of [Mr D] the policy  was encashed
In a later email to that same member  of staff Mr and Mrs S said Also at our meeting 
with [FRP] on 18.05.2017,  he did not indicate  that [Mr D] was not part of FRP
In a follow-up email Mr and Mrs S said  dating back  to 1989 when [Mr and Mrs S] 
commenced transacting businss  [sic] with [Mr D] up to and including  when the 
endowment policies were encashed  and the transfer of the mortgages.
In an email to our adjudicator Mr and Mrs S said In 2010 the review of the 
Endowment and Mortgage was initiated by [Mr D]
In that same email  to our adjudicator Mr and Mrs S have said we find it 
unreasonable that FRP disassociating from Mr D.
It was only after our adjudicator explained the changes to the mortgage  and the encashment 
of the mortgage  endowment policies in 2010  didnt appear to be on the advice of FRP, and 
Mr D didnt work for FRP, that Mr and Mrs S changed their submissions, now saying:
In 2010  [FRP] contacted [Mr and Mrs S], this was not a meeting initiated by 
[Mr and Mrs S]. Following this their mortgage endowment policies were 
re-brokered.
As previously  advised, [FRP] contacted [Mr and Mrs S] in 2010  in relation to their 
Mortgage and Endowment (it was not [Mr D]).
[Mr and Mrs S] were contacted by [FRP] in 2010 (not by [Mr D] as suggested).
[Mr D] was not present at this meeting.
Ref: DRN76136494When deciding how much weight  to place on Mr and Mrs S recollections I must keep in 
mind the clear and irrefutable contradictions in what theyve said. To start with they were 
insistent that it was Mr D they met with in 2010.  It was only when we told them that meant 
we couldnt hold FRP responsible as Mr D didnt work for  or represent  FRP that they 
changed their minds and said Mr D wasnt present and it was FRP they met with.
Its clear that something unusual happened as for some of the time Mr and Mrs S have told 
us they were having their financial business  transacted by Mr D he wasnt  authorised  to do 
so. That said, Im satisfied Mr D has never  been an employee of FRP, nor has he been 
authorised to act on its behalf and thats  all I need to decide  here.  Its clear  FRP obtained 
Mr and Mrs S information somehow, but how and why that happened isnt something Ive 
got the power to consider  in this complaint against  FRP about what happened  in 2010. 
Its also clear  decreasing term assurance  policies were set up for Mr and Mrs S by FRP in 
2010, but those policies  met the need Mr and Mrs S had; that is, to provide life assurance 
protection for the £30,000  of their mortgage that had been switched to being  on a repayment  
basis. All I can decide here is whether  I think  FRP advised Mr and Mrs S to surrender their 
policies and then didnt advise to them to switch their mortgage  to being fully repayment, and 
based on the paperwork Ive got and Mr and Mrs Ss own original submissions I cant find 
that to be the case.
When considering  any complaint  like this, as Mr and Mrs S are the ones bringing the 
complaint against  FRP, to uphold the complaint Mr and Mrs S version needs to be more 
likely than FRPs version; not just as likely . Having considered everything I cant  say 
Mr and Mrs S version (that FRP advised them to surrender the policies  and not amend their 
mortgage entirely to repayment) is anything more  than just as likely, which isnt enough for 
me to uphold their complaint.
I know this decision will disappoint Mr and Mrs S but despite a lot of time, effort and 
investigation weve not been  able to get to the bottom of exactly  what  happened  in 2010. But 
in terms of this complaint  against FRP (which is all that I can consider) the evidence simply 
doesnt support  that FRP gave regulated financial advice to Mr and Mrs S for anything  other  
than the decreasing term assurance policies. It follows, therefore, that I simply cant uphold  
their complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service,  
Im required  to ask Mr and Mrs S to accept  or reject  my decision  before 24 March 2020.
Julia Meadows
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7613649