K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that Calpe Insurance Company  Limited unreasonably delayed finalising a 
claim he made on his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr S says he reported the theft of his car to the police half an hour after it was stolen on the 
evening of 28 April 2018. He reported  it to his broker the next day. Calpe registered the 
claim on 30 April 2018. By 11 May 2018  Calpe had received  its investigators  report into the 
incident, plus all the documents it had asked Mr S to provide. 
Meanwhile, Mr S had advised Calpe that the police told him on 30 April 2018  theyd 
recovered the car after it was abandoned following a police chase. He told Calpe the police  
said the driver who ran away from the scene was a potential  suspect  for the theft. He was 
later identified and arrested.
On 22 May 2018 Calpe received a report from an independent engineer, who said his car 
was a total loss and valued it at £11,700. On the same  day, Calpe asked its investigator to 
get a copy of the police  report.  It later told Mr S that it could take several months to get one. 
In September  2018, as the report hadnt arrived, Mr S asked Calpe to call the police to get 
confirmation of his account  of events. He said they had a suspect for the theft. Calpe didnt 
contact the police, and it didnt receive the police report until 21 December 2018. 
Meanwhile, Mr S had made a complaint to Calpe. On 31 August 2018  in its final response  
letter to Mr S, Calpe  said it was standard procedure in theft claims to request a police report. 
It said it had no control  over the response from the police  and that it was entitled  to consider 
the report as part of the process of validating Mr Ss complaint. Mr S then complained to us. 
In December 2018, one of our investigators  said she thought all the evidence pointed  to 
Mr S having  made a valid claim. She didnt think it was fair and reasonable for Calpe  to wait 
for the police  report in this case. She said she didnt think it would add any new details that 
were relevant. So she said Calpe should settle the claim, refund the car hire charges Mr S 
had paid (plus  interest)  and pay him £250  compensation  for distress and inconvenience.
Calpe said the investigator couldnt  know what might be in the police report until it was 
received, and that it was possible until then that Mr S may have given it false details.  It said 
he . could  have been driving home  from the pub after a few drinks and fled the police 
when they attempted to stop the vehicle.   The investigator pointed  out that the details shed 
seen suggested  the police  had apprehended a third party  after the police chase. Shortly  
afterwards, Mr S told her that Calpe now had the police report  and had said it would settle 
the claim by paying  for his written-off  car. 
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr S said he reported the theft to the police immediately. I think  it would have been easy for 
Calpe to check that that fact with the police. He said he reported it to his broker the next day 
Ref: DRN76083992 so Calpe  could also have checked that by making a call. Mr S said the police told him 
theyd chased  the stolen  vehicle when it was spotted on a motorway on 30 April 2018. He 
said theyd told him on 5 May 2018  that they had a suspect. I think all these facts could have 
been confirmed  had Calpe simply called the police.  
Calpes investigator  said Mr S provided  a detailed account of events concisely and without 
evasion. She assessed him as credible  and said hed be a reliable witness  in court.  She also 
said the police had confirmed that Mr Ss car was involved in a police chase and was 
abandoned after a collision  two days after Mr S first reported the theft to the police. 
Given all these circumstances, I dont think its at all clear why Calpe thought Mr S may not 
have given an accurate account of events to it and might even have crashed the car. Calpe 
relies on the fact that the investigator  said it should  get a police  report  to confirm  that his 
account to Calpe was the same as that reported  to the police. In many cases, it may be vital 
to obtain a police report - and it may not take too long to do so. But I think Calpe should have 
considered whether it really needed to get one in this particular  case. 
Not only had the investigator  concluded  that Mr S was entirely credible, but the basic  facts  
showed that a third party was involved in a police chase and a collision. So it was always  
likely that a criminal investigation would take place. Inevitably, that was going to delay the 
police report. Calpe  must have been aware  of that. In the end it was almost eight months 
after the theft that the report arrived. As is usual in cases of this type, that was only after the 
Crown Prosecution Service  had decided what charges to bring  against  the third party.  
During this period, Mr S was without  his car whilst he waited for Calpe  to settle his claim. He 
had co-operated  with it fully from the start.  Hed provided all it asked him for, including  both 
of the cars keys.  I dont think Calpe has shown that it had reasonable grounds to think  his 
claim wasnt entirely genuine. The date he reported the theft meant  he couldnt have been 
involved in the subsequent crash. I think the facts available in April 2018  (plus the 
investigators report in May 2018) were  sufficient for Calpe to make a decision on the claim 
much earlier than it did.
Mr S works on various shifts. I think he did his best to limit his losses  by relying  on lifts to 
work for much of the time he was without a car. But he had to hire one for 45 days when lifts 
werent available.  Hed made Calpe aware of this by July 2018.  In my opinion, it would be 
fair and reasonable for Calpe to refund Mr S for the car hire charges. I think  he was very 
inconvenienced by not having a car or the means  to buy one for so long.  I think  he was also 
confused and upset by Calpe not accepting - or taking steps  to confirm - the verifiable facts 
he put forward. So I think it would  also be reasonable for it to pay him £250 compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN76083993my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Calpe Insurance  Company Limited 
to do the following:
Refund the car hire charges Mr S paid (subject to receipts) 
Add interest to the sum due, at the simple yearly rate of 8%, from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement
Pay Mr S £250 compensation for distress  and inconvenience
If Calpe thinks its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to withhold income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Mr S how much its taken off. It should also give him a tax deduction 
certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax if appropriate. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7608399