K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that a loan agreement he entered into with Clydesdale Financial  Services 
Limited trading  as Barclays  Partner  Finance (BPF) - and through which  he acquired a new 
kitchen - was misrepresented to him. He also complains about problems he had with the 
kitchen he bought and about the amount of interest payable on the loan agreement.
To settle matters he only wants to repay the amount borrowed, but not the interest.
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  on it can be found in my 
provisional decision which is attached to and forms part of this final decision.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I was proposing to partly  uphold Mr Ms 
complaint.
I invited both parties to let me have any further  submissions before I reached  a final 
decision.
Mr M agrees with my provisional decision. BPF is also broadly in agreement  subject to Mr M 
paying them  £25,000 within a reasonable time.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party has provided any further information or arguments  for my consideration,  I 
see no reason to depart from the conclusions  I set out in my provisional decision. It follows 
that I uphold  this complaint in part.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. And I direct  Clydesdale  Financial 
Services Limited to:-
   unwind  Mr Ms fixed sum loan agreement so that it is cancelled - subject to Mr M 
paying to Clydesdale  Financial Services  Limited £25,000 within  4 weeks  of his 
acceptance of this decision;  and
   remove any negative information about  the fixed sum loan agreement from Mr Ms 
credit file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73796152copy extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr M complains that a loan agreement  he entered into with Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited 
trading as Barclays Partner Finance (BPF) - and through which he acquired  a new kitchen - was 
misrepresented to him. He also complains about problems he had with the kitchen he bought and 
about the amount of interest  payable on the loan agreement.
To settle  matters he only wants to repay the amount borrowed, but not the interest.
background
In January 2017 Mr M bought  a kitchen on a supply only basis from a retailer. This was financed  
through BPF on a buy now pay later basis. Mr M says he didnt need  the finance because he had 
cash to pay for the kitchen.  He felt pressured into taking the finance because the retailers  staff said 
this was the only possible way to ensure he was happy with the final product and he was given only 
a limited time to accept the deal.
In July 2017, Mr M contacted  BPF to advise them that he had issues with the kitchen. BPF said 
they would forward his concerns on to the retailer and agreed to extend the buy now pay later 
period to ensure he wasnt disadvantaged.
In the middle of August 2017 Mr M contacted BPF to advise that he hadnt received a tool trolley 
which formed part of his agreement.
Mr Ms extended buy now pay later period expired in August 2018 at which  point BPF requested 
payment from Mr M. Hes unhappy BPF have added £22,618.40  interest to his agreement. Hes 
prepared to repay the amount he borrowed but hed like BPF to clear  the interest added to his 
agreement.
Our investigator didnt recommend that Mr Ms complaint should be upheld.
She didnt  think the loan had been mis-sold. She didnt know what  was discussed at the time he took 
out the agreement but she thought that as hed talked about the buy now pay later period with BPF 
and hed also said this was discussed with the retailers staff she thought  he ought to have been 
aware of terms and conditions surrounding  this.
Although Mr M had shown that he couldve paid for the kitchen without taking the finance,  she 
thought he was aware that the finance was provided on a buy now pay later basis so she couldnt  
say he was disadvantaged by taking out the finance agreement. And she couldnt say it was 
unreasonable to recommend taking the finance with BPF.
The agreement he took out with BPF gave  him a 12 month  buy now pay later period. If he paid 
back the money within the twelve month period, BPF wouldnt charge him interest on the 
agreement. If the amount  borrowed wasnt repaid in full before then, Mr M would also need to pay 
interest.
When he told BPF he was having some problems  with the retailer, BPF added  an extra two months 
to the buy now pay later period to give him time to resolve  matters with the retailer. The adviser 
confirmed this would extend the buy now pay later period to 5 August  2018. The adviser explained  
that she wouldnt  be able to extend the buy now pay later period any further at that time, but he 
could always get in touch  nearer  the time to see if this was something they could  consider.
The investigator hadnt  seen  anything to suggest  Mr M had agreed a further buy now pay later 
period with BPF. And as this period  had now passed, BPF requested payment of the loan 
Ref: DRN73796153(including interest). So she couldnt say BPF had acted unreasonably by requesting  repayment of 
the loan and adding  interest to the total amount payable.
BPF received  confirmation from the retailer  that the kitchen was supplied on 5 June 2017 so the 
agreement was activated  on this date. Because the kitchen had been supplied  by the time Mr M 
contacted BPF,  BPF forwarded  Mr Ms concerns on to the retailer.
Mr M forwarded to this service an email from the retailer  that confirms he would receive a tool 
trolley and gift voucher.  The investigator explained  that these items werent detailed  as part of the 
finance agreement so we couldnt consider  this part of Mr Ms complaint.
Mr M also said that the wine cooler  supplied  has never worked properly. The investigator explained  
that she couldnt look at this as it wasnt part of the complaint  he raised with BPF so hed need to 
raise this first with BPF.
Mr M disagrees strongly with the investigators  view so hes asked for an ombudsmans 
decision.
He doesnt see how the investigator can say BPF has acted fairly and reasonably in charging him 
interest of over £22,000  on an original purchase valued at £25,000 when hes made  clear  he didnt 
want the loan and had funds available  at the time to buy the kitchen.  He says the kitchen  supplier 
informed him on a number of occasions  that with the buy now pay later option in place until such 
time as they were fully satisfied with the order and had signed a formal  document to that effect,  no 
monies would be released by BPF to the retailer.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant  law and 
regulations, regulators rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and (where appropriate)  
to what I consider to have  been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The finance  agreement - that is, the fixed sum loan agreement in this case  - is a regulated 
consumer credit  agreement. As such, this service is able to consider complaints relating  to it.
The relevant law that applies to this complaint  includes  sections 56 and 75 of the Consumer  Credit  Act 
1974 (CCA).
In certain  circumstances  section  75 CCA gives a borrower under a credit agreement an equal  
right to claim against the supplier of goods or services or the provider of credit if theres been a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
Section 56 CCA is also relevant. This broadly says that any pre-contract negotiations conducted  
by the supplier are deemed to have  been  conducted by the supplier  on behalf of the finance 
company, here that is BPF.
Its worth clarifying that Im not deciding BPFs liability under  section 75 or section 56. Instead Im 
looking at whether  BPF,  as provider of the finance  has acted fairly in light of its obligations  
including the relevant law.
In this case I dont think theres been a breach of contract but I do think, on balance,  there was a 
misrepresentation. Let me explain why.
breach of contract
Ref: DRN73796154Mr M says the supplier  is in breach of contract because it failed to deliver all of the items hed 
ordered. He also says some  of the items didnt work  properly.  Ill deal with each of these 
separately below.
six units missing
Mr M says the supplier  wasnt able to source six units and failed to deliver these. Ive considered 
whether BPF should be jointly liable  for this together with the retailer. But I dont think it should. 
Thats because the breach  had already been  remedied  by the supplier.
By the time Mr M contacted BPF about the missing  units, the supplier  had already agreed that it 
would reimburse him for the costs of and fitting of the missing units. BPF confirmed that the supplier 
made the refund  to Mr M in the middle of July 2017  together  with a goodwill payment to reflect the 
delays.
tool trolley  and gift voucher
Mr M forwarded an email  from the supplier  that confirms  hed receive a tool trolley and gift voucher. 
These items  arent detailed  as part of the finance agreement so I cant  consider this part of his 
complaint. Mr M may wish to contact the supplier about this.
wine cooler not working properly
Mr M says the wine cooler has never worked properly.  I agree with the investigator that as this 
didnt form part of Mr Ms original complaint to BPF, we dont have  power to look at this part of his 
complaint.
misrepresentation
A misrepresentation  is a false statement of fact made by one party to another, which has the effect  
of inducing  that party to enter into a contract.  Ive explained  above that under current  law BPF  as 
the provider of finance under the fixed sum loan - is liable for a misrepresentation made  by the 
supplier at or before the point of sale. If I thought there had been a misrepresentation by the 
supplier Id expect BPF to do something about it.
The investigator has already  explained  that we have no way of knowing for sure what was 
discussed at the time the finance agreement was signed.  But I can look at all the circumstances to 
make a decision  on the balance of probabilities  about  what  I think was mostly likely  said at the 
time.
Im persuaded  by Mr Ms account  of what happened. I think its more likely than not the 
salesperson told him that if he entered into the finance agreement this would act as an insurance 
policy  in the sense that no monies would be paid and interest under  the loan wouldnt be 
triggered until hed confirmed in writing that he was satisfied with the kitchen supplied.
I say this because Mr M has provided a bank statement  to show he had money  available at the time 
to purchase the kitchen outright. That being the case, I cant  see Mr M had anything  to gain by 
entering into the loan agreement.  And because he had cash to pay for the kitchen outright  I dont 
think hed have entered into the agreement had he been given the correct information.
For the reasons  Ive explained above, I think its more likely than not that the salesperson  made  a 
material misrepresentation  as a result of which Mr M decided to enter into the loan agreement.
Ive also looked at the loan documentation Mr M signed. I dont think  theres anything that would 
have led him to think  that the loan documentation was inconsistent with the salesperson  telling 
him interest wouldnt be triggered until hed confirmed his satisfaction with the kitchen supplied.
Ref: DRN73796155I say this because the pre-contract credit information says: we will pay the amount of the loan to the 
retailer once we approve the loan and receive  the signed agreement or when the retailer has 
supplied the goods or services to you, if this is later. The loan agreement provides that: We will 
calculate the interest and add to the loan amount at the rate shown, beginning with the date we pay 
the retailer. This isnt inconsistent  with Mr Ms belief that monies wouldnt be released to the retailer 
until hed confirmed his satisfaction with the units.
Based on the information Ive seen Im satisfied that its more likely than not that as Mr M had cash 
available to buy the kitchen outright he only entered into the agreement as a result of the 
salespersons material misrepresentation.
It follows  that as Ive found it more  likely than not that the supplier made a misrepresentation which 
induced Mr M to enter into the loan agreement,  and taking  into account relevant law itis fair and 
reasonable that BPF is jointly and severally  responsible  for this  along  with the supplier. As well as 
in its own right.
It follows  that I require  BPF to put Mr M into the position he would have been in had he not entered 
into the loan agreement. The usual remedy for misrepresentation is to put the customer  back  in the 
same position  as he would have been  in but for the misrepresentation. This can mean unwinding  the 
agreement and the kitchen  units being returned and/or awarding compensation.
In this case Im aware that Mr Ms kitchen units have been  supplied and installed so its unlikely hed 
now want  and nor is it likely to be practical for him - to return the kitchen units. Im also aware  that 
BPF has released  monies to the supplier.
I think a fair and reasonable outcome here is to require BPF to unwind the loan agreement  but with 
Mr M repaying to BPF £25,000  being the cost of the kitchen units  he ordered  under the finance 
agreement. In addition BPF should remove any negative information about  Mr Ms loan agreement  
from his credit file.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint  in part. And I intend to direct 
Clydesdale Financial  Services  Limited  to:-
   unwind  Mr Ms fixed sum loan agreement so that it is cancelled - subject to Mr M paying  to 
Clydesdale Financial  Services Limited £25,000; and
   remove  any negative information about the fixed sum loan agreement from Mr Ms credit file.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7379615