K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  about the way esure  Insurance  Limited  handled their home  
insurance claim for smelling drains. 
background
In September  2018, Mr and Mrs P contacted esure. They said that when it rained they got a 
really bad smell in two of their bedrooms and that damp appeared every  six months  where 
esure had previously carried out a drain repair 4-5 years previously. 
As Mr and Mrs P intimated the smell was the result  of a previous  repair,  esure logged a 
claim and appointed a drain specialist to investigate; it attended but found  no issues  with the 
drains. At the end of October 2018, Mr P contacted esure again and suggested that the 
smell could  be coming  from a pipe that needed to be replaced. The drain  specialist 
reattended, located a displaced joint and said a 1m section of the pipe would need  to be 
replaced. 
As the smell was still present, Mr and Mrs P contacted esure again. They said the 1m repair 
hadnt been carried out and that it needed to be done along  with some other repairs  theyd  
identified. esure contacted its drain  specialist who apologised and said it would send 
contractors to carry out the necessary  work, which was then completed.  The contractor also 
commented that he thought the displaced joint wasnt the cause of the smell. It was later 
found that the damp Mr and Mrs P had reported at the rear of the house  was rising damp 
which wasnt covered  by the policy.  
Mr and Mrs P remained unhappy because the smell persisted  and with the service  theyd 
received; they complained to esure. It looked  into their complaint and issued  its final 
response on 20 November 2018.  esure noted  the repairs  to the drains  it was responsible  for 
had now been  completed and that some other minor drain  damage  identified was the 
responsibility of the local authority. It apologised for the problems Mr and Mrs P had 
encountered with its contractors and the un-necessary  delays that were  caused. esure paid 
Mr and Mrs P compensation  of £200 for the shortcomings in its customer service. 
Mr P asked esure to send  him a copy of the drainage  report and some photographs which it 
did in mid-December 2018. In January  2019  Mr and Mrs P reported that there was still drain 
gas odour  in their home which they wanted  rectified. esure appointed a loss adjuster to 
review Mr and Mrs Ps claim. In March 2019, it told Mr and Mrs P that esure wouldnt be 
investigating the cause of the smell entering  their home any further. It said it had been  
agreed between  Mr and Mrs P and esure in December 2018 that the all the identified  drain 
repairs had been  completed. It said itd also been agreed that they would themselves 
investigate and establish whether the smell was a peril related  issue and provide esure with 
any evidence in support. The loss adjuster said it was closing the claim until any such  
evidence was provided. And it said the damp issue was related to rising damp (so not 
covered by the policy).
Mr and Mrs P said they didnt agree to the claim being closed and complained  again.  esure  
agreed to appoint a different drainage specialist to investigate. That specialist concluded that 
the smell wasnt the result of any of the repair work esure had carried  out to the drains nor 
the result  of any insured peril covered by the policy. Still unhappy, Mr and Mrs P complained 
again. esure said it wouldnt be doing  any more  in relation to the smell Mr and Mrs P had 
Ref: DRN76212942reported but said if they wanted to provide an independent report  of their own to confirm  
what the issue was and how it was covered by the policy then it would  review  it. 
Mr and Mrs P complained to this service. Our investigator looked  into their complaint  but 
didnt think esure had treated them unfairly  or unreasonably, so he didnt  recommend  their 
complaint was upheld. Mr and Mr P disagreed  with our investigators  findings, so the 
complaint was passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
drain damage
I think esures contractors provided  Mr and Mrs P with poor customer  service  in relation to 
their claim for damage to their drains. First the contractor failed to notice  the crack/displaced  
joint so had to revisit.  Then, on discovering the displaced joint on the second visit, and 
identifying a repair was necessary, failed  to arrange  for the repair to take place. So, Mr and 
Mrs P were  put to the inconvenience  of contacting  esure again to ask that the repair be done  
and their driveway reinstated. I can see that this was done by the end of October 2018. 
On complaining to esure in November 2018,  I can see it apologised for the problems Mr and 
Mrs P had experienced with its contractor and paid them compensation of £200 for the 
trouble and upset  the poor customer service  had caused them. 
All insurance  claims attract a certain degree of inconvenience; thats to be expected.  But 
where an insurer, through its actions or words  makes an already  stressful situation worse,  
this service is able to make it pay compensation. When  deciding  what  constitutes fair and 
reasonable constitution in a complaint I have to have  regard  to this services  approach  to 
such awards. Having  done  so here, I think that compensation  of £200 for the trouble and 
upset esures contractors caused  Mr and Mrs P is fair and reasonable in the circumstances 
of their complaint.  Indeed, if their complaint  had passed across my desk  with no 
compensation having already been  offered by esure, its unlikely Id have awarded as much. 
That means I cant reasonably ask it to do anymore.
I note that Mr and Mrs P have said that £200  compensation is no more than they had to pay 
out for the policy excess on the claim anyway. Im unable to agree. I can see that the policy  
excess for their policy is £100. Policy  excesses are the policyholders contractual duty to pay 
and represent  the first part of the cost of any claim.  Without policy excesses, insurance 
premiums would be much more expensive. 
Ref: DRN76212943damp issues
I can see that Mr and Mrs P reported  an internal damp issue to the rear of their house.  I can 
also see that esure appointed a specialist surveyor to inspect the damp and who took some  
samples for testing. That naturally took a little while and when the cause was identified,  it 
was found to be the result of rising damp. esure declined this part of Mr and Mrs Ps claim. I 
dont think it did so unfairly. Rising damp is something that happens gradually and isnt 
something thats covered by Mr and Mrs Ps policy.  I note that Mr P told esures loss adjuster 
that he was undertaking injection drying  to address  the damp  issue in his diner  and hallway. 
I note that Mr and Mrs P told our investigator that damp was also appearing in the area 
around their waste pipe but I cant see that they have raised this (either as a potential  claim 
or a complaint) with esure yet. Until esure  has had the opportunity  to investigate any 
complaint Mr and Mrs P have in this regard and to issue  a final response,  this service  is 
unable to consider  it.
unpleasant odour
Mr and Mrs P have  reported to esure that they are experiencing an unpleasant odour in their 
home which they think could be due to a failed drain repair esure  undertook about 5 years 
ago. They have at times  referred to the odour  as drain fumes,  and at others  as sewage gas. 
As I understand it though,  the repair 5 years  ago was to external drains and not to Mr and 
Mrs Ps sewage or waste system. 
Not all damage a home sustains will be covered by a home insurance policy. Only damage 
caused by those perils  (or, insured events)  listed in the policy will be covered, for example 
damage caused by an escape of water, fire, flood or theft. If it can be shown that the 
damage has been caused by one of the insured events  listed in the policy then the insurer  
must pay the claim (unless it can successfully apply one of the policy exclusions to defeat  it). 
I can see that esure has told Mr and Mrs P that the smell they have reported isnt something  
thats covered  by any of the perils  in the policy.  I dont think that was an unreasonable  
conclusion for esure to have reached. Ive looked  at the policy  terms and I cant see that 
unpleasant odours would fall to be covered under any of the insured perils  listed. 
From its file, I can see that esure agreed to investigate  because it was concerned that its 
previous drain  repair may have failed in some way to have caused the smell now being 
reported. I can also see that it appointed a drain specialist  to investigate and that it attended 
twice  the second time discovering the displaced joint but also reporting to esure  that that 
was not the cause of the odour. A short while after, esure told Mr and Mrs P that it was their 
responsibility to find the cause  of the smell. esure said there was no evidence that it was the 
result of any previously undertaken repair nor had it been able to find that any of the insured 
perils listed in the policy could be said to have  caused it.
I can see that despite telling Mr and Mrs P this, esure agreed  in the spring  of 2019 to send 
out a different contractor to investigate the issue. It confirmed what  esure had already told 
Mr and Mrs P: that not only was the smell not attributable to any of the insured perils listed  in 
the policy, it wasnt being caused  by any of the drain repairs  esure  had undertaken. 
Unless Mr and Mrs P are able to show that the smell is the result of an insured event or a 
failed repair, I cant reasonably make esure investigate its cause any further. It sent out 
contractors on three  separate occasions, all of which agreed that the smell was neither the 
Ref: DRN76212944result of a failed repair or covered by the policy terms. I dont think  esure  has unfairly relied  
on the reports of its appointed  experts and I think it took reasonable steps to assist  Mr and 
Mrs P in trying to establish the cause. I cant  fairly  make it do any more. 
esure has offered  to review any evidence as to the cause of the smell that Mr and Mrs P are 
able to provide,  and I think  thats  a reasonable response to this aspect of their claim.  I 
understand that Mr and Mrs P have since found  the source of the problem and arranged for 
the issue to be fixed.  If they have any evidence which can show  that the odour  was caused 
by an insured peril then they can forward it to esure. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 September 2020.
Claire Woollerson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7621294