K822xcomplaint
Mr Ps unhappy with the way Sainsburys Bank  Plc has handled  a balance transfer request. 
background 
In April 2017 Mr P applied for a new Sainsburys credit card and he also requested  a £1,200  
balance transfer  onto his new account from a credit card he had with another bank. After  
applying he decided he wanted to cancel the application and he called Sainsburys a few 
days later on 29 April 2017.
Despite this Sainsburys opened the credit  card account on 8 May 2017 and the balance 
transfer was completed  the next day. Mr P contacted Sainsburys who said it would reverse 
the balance transfer. In June 2017  Sainsburys said it couldnt reverse  the balance  transfer 
and it suggested  Mr P should  trace  the payment through  his old bank. There  were problems 
in this being completed which went on for several  months. In the meantime the Sainsburys 
account accrued  interest and late payment charges. Mr Ps credit  file was also adversely 
impacted which  affected other future lending applications he made.
Mr P wants  his financial status restored to what it was before the balance  transfer, his costs 
covered and compensation including for the time hes spent dealing with matters.
Sainsburys said in its final response  that it shouldve explained to Mr P that until the balance 
transfer money was returned the new credit  card account required the minimum payments to 
be made. And if they werent it would  apply interest, charges and record late payment entries 
which might  lead to a default  being registered.  And this adverse information  could remain  on 
Mr Ps credit  file for six years.  Although  Mr P said his old bank had returned the money on 
28 June 2017  and hed provided  a tracking number  it hadnt been able to locate the money. 
It should have  subsequently asked  Mr P to contact  his old bank. But the money was 
apparently returned  by his old bank on 14 December 2017. Given  the discrepancies  in the 
apparent payment dates it needs more  information.  Upon receipt of this it will consider 
removing the late payment  entries and default. Until then they will remain as will the 
outstanding balance. But it has refunded £53.03  interest and £36 late fees and paid £150  
compensation for the service  provided.
Sainsburys subsequently increased its offer of compensation to £200 and agreed to remove 
the defaults from Mr Ps credit file.
Our adjudicator felt this complaint should be upheld. He said:
Mr P has located his call to Sainsburys on 29 April 2017 when he says he asked it to 
cancel the credit  card application. Having listened  to that call its clear  he asked it to 
cancel the application.  He was told it would be cancelled.
If this cancellation  had been  completed  the defaults wouldnt have  been  recorded on 
Mr Ps account. And this has had an impact on him. His car loan application was 
declined because of the default and he says he didnt want  to apply for a mortgage in 
case it was also declined. As a result  Mr P had to rent a car and he says this caused 
his wife stress at a time when  she had health  issues.
Ref: DRN71567832As a result  a payment  of £400 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused is fair and reasonable.  Mr P hasnt paid any interest  but the defaults should 
also be removed from Mr Ps credit file. 
Sainsburys has confirmed it agrees to increase the compensation to £400. 
Mr P has provided evidence that a loan with another finance provider was declined.  And he 
wants more compensation. In summary  he says he incurred £216 costs of hiring  an 
alternative car when  his car loan application  was declined. He also says hes spent 62.5 
hours on this matter which at £50 an hour equates to a loss of £3,125. Hes also lost out on 
0% interest offers and the extra  interest  hes paid as result  is over £350. So, his total losses 
are £3,609 excluding anything for the stress  caused to him and his family, not being able to 
move house  and the lifestyle  effects  all of this has had upon him.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear that Sainsburys hasnt handled matters  very well. It didnt action Mr Ps request to 
cancel his credit card and balance transfer application. And as a result  his new card account 
was opened and a balance transfer  he didnt want was made. Its also taken a long time for 
the various payments to be traced and for the balance transfer money to be refunded  to 
Sainsburys.
Sainsburys has also accepted it didnt tell Mr P, as it shouldve  done, that until the balance 
transfer money was returned the new credit  card account minimum payments needed to be 
made. And if they werent it would  apply interest  and charges to the account  and record  late 
payment entries  on his credit file. And this might lead to a default  being registered.
Sainsburys has already  taken some steps  to put things  right.  It has said its removed the 
defaults from Mr Ps credit  file although  it pointed out in November 2018 that it may take up 
to 60 days for the change  to appear  on his credit file. It also refunded the late payment fees 
and interest itd applied to the account.  Thats  all fair.  
Sainsburys has also agreed  to the adjudicators recommendation that the amount  of 
compensation it should pay to Mr P for the distress  and inconvenience caused  should be 
increased from £200 to £400. But Mr P says this isnt enough  to compensate  him for the 
expenses and losses hes incurred  and the stress hes been caused.
So, all that remains is for me to consider  what a fair and reasonable award  of compensation 
is in this case.
Its clear the adverse  information Sainsburys recorded on Mr Ps credit file had an effect on 
him applying  for credit. He says he was declined a car loan because of the defaults  
registered on his credit file. And his apparently poor credit  history prompted him to delay 
making a mortgage  application as he feared it would be declined.
Mr P would like to be reimbursed £216 for alternative car hire costs he say she incurred  after 
being refused  his car loan. But Im not convinced I can fairly require Sainsburys to meet this 
expense not least  as theres  nothing to show Mr P couldnt have applied for and been  given 
a loan elsewhere. And if an application  had been  successful  hed have had to pay the loan 
Ref: DRN71567833costs instead  of the hire costs. So, he hasnt actually demonstrated on balance that he has 
suffered any actual loss.
Mr P also says hes lost out on other 0% interest  offers and has paid £350  extra  interest as a 
result. But Ive seen  nothing  to show that this is the case. And theres nothing to indicate  he 
wouldve been granted any particular  0% offer at any time or conversely that he has made 
any applications and they were declined  solely as a result of what  Sainsburys has done. As 
a result I dont think I can fairly  or reasonably require Sainsburys  to compensate  Mr P for 
any extra  interest  he says he has paid.
Mr P also wants  compensating for the 62.5 hours  he says hes been engaged in resolving  
matters. Although I have  no doubt  he has had to spend time dealing  with Sainsburys and his 
old bank Im afraid this isnt something I think I can require Sainsburys to compensate him 
for particularly at the rate of £50 an hour.
All consumers spend some time and experience some additional  inconvenience  in dealing  
with a complaint  and putting things right. We wouldnt generally  recommend theyre  
compensated for this and Im not persuaded that I can reasonably depart from this approach 
in this case.
Mr P would like compensation for the resulting  negative lifestyle  effects  caused.  He says if it 
hadnt been for all the problems caused by Sainsburys he wouldve had a better car and 
moved house. But Im afraid that I dont think these lifestyle effects  can be quantified in any 
way. And given the complexities of the conveyancing process I dont  think theres anything to 
show that a successful house move  wouldve actually been achieved  whatever Sainsburys 
did. 
In addition Mr P says his wife was also stressed  by what was going on at a time when she 
had other  health  challenges. Although I sympathise  with the difficulties shes  experienced 
theres nothing to show Sainsburys was the cause of them. And whatever happened Mr Ps 
wife isnt a party to this complaint and I cannot  award her any compensation.
Even so its clear Mr P has been caused a significant amount of distress  and inconvenience 
by whats happened  over quite a time as a result of Sainsburys  failings. I also accept that 
this came at a particularly  inconvenient time for him when was experiencing other personal 
and family  challenges. And there  was an effect on his credit file and plans for buying  a car 
and moving house.  I agree with the adjudicator that this warrants  an award  of compensation 
for his distress and inconvenience.  
Sainsburys has now agreed  to pay a total of £400 compensation for this. I realise this is less 
than Mr P wants. But taking everything into account, including the level of awards we make, I 
think it is a fair and reasonable award  of compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
Mr P has experienced as a result of the way Sainsburys has dealt with him.
Overall, although I recognise  Mr Ps strength of feeling and frustration I dont  see any 
compelling reason  to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Sainsburys Bank Plc should, if it hasnt already 
done so:
Ref: DRN715678341.Remove any adverse  information about the credit card application and balance 
transfer from Mr Ps credit file; and 
2.Pay Mr P a total of £400 compensation. 
Sainsburys must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr P 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Sainsburys considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax 
from that interest, it should  tell Mr P how much  its taken  off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7156783