K821x#15complaint
Ms L complains that Metro Bank  PLC removed £1,400 from her savings account without her 
permission. The bank  say they were refunding the victims of fraud, but Ms L says she was 
also victim  of a scam so should not be held liable.
background
Ms L held a current account and a savings account  with Metro. 
In early 2019 she was looking for work  to provide additional  income,  and found an employer 
online offering  her work from home.  She was tasked with receiving money  in to her Metro  
account, and then sending on the money  using money remittance services. She was 
supposed to keep a small amount of each  transaction as her payment.
In total she received three payments, totalling  £1,400. One of the attempted  transfers  was 
blocked by the money  remittance service, so in total she forwarded  £1,014.  On the last day 
of the transactions Ms L transferred £1,500 from her current  account  to her savings account. 
This left her account  £3.83 overdrawn.
Metro then received  word  from the sending banks  that the transfers paid to Ms L were  the 
result of rent deposit scams. Metro blocked  Ms Ls accounts and prevented  any further  
transactions from taking  place. 
Ms L went in to a Metro  branch  and explained what happened. She said she had been the 
victim of a job scam. But Metro took the decision to close  Ms Ls accounts and sent £1,400  
from Ms Ls savings account  back to the sending banks. Ms L was sent a cheque for the 
remaining £100.
Ms L raised  a complaint  with Metro, saying this was unfair. Metro  looked at what happened 
but didnt think  they did anything wrong.  They accepted Ms L had unknowingly been in 
receipt of fraudulent funds, but said their terms allowed them to return  any fraudulent credits 
to the sending banks. They didnt offer to refund  the money to Ms L.
Unhappy with this answer, Ms L referred the complaint to our service.  Several  of our 
investigators looked in to what happened and gave their opinions.  Originally,  they were 
inclined to say Metro  hadnt done  anything wrong, but after further thought  they also 
accepted that Ms L had been  the victim  of a scam. And they felt that Metros account terms 
included a term that allowed the bank  to recover payments if they were the result of fraud.  
But they also felt that in the circumstances of the complaint it was unfair for Metro  to rely on 
this term  they felt it created a significant  imbalance in the rights and obligations to each 
party to Ms Ls detriment. The investigator said because of this the contract term was unfair 
and Ms L shouldnt be bound by it. They also felt it was unfair  for Metro  to use Ms Ls money 
to refund the sending banks.
To put things right they suggested Metro refund the amounts they had returned to the 
senders, less the money Ms L had kept,  plus 8% simple interest. They  also suggested  the 
bank pay £250  compensation  for the inconvenience of having  her account closed and the 
length of time the matter took to resolve.
Ref: DRN76466512Ms L accepted this, but Metro didnt  agree. Because no agreement  could be reached the 
case has been referred to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the fair and 
reasonable outcome is that Metro  should  compensate Ms L in the way the investigator  
recommended. Ill explain  why.
In making this decision Ive taken  into account  Metros own terms and conditions,  relevant 
industry guidelines and good  practice,  regulations such  as the Payment  Service  Regulations 
2017 (PSRs), legislation such as the Consumer  Rights  Act 2015 (CRA); as well as what  I 
consider to be fair and reasonable.
Its not disputed  that the transfers  Ms L received were the result of deception. So, I 
understand why it may seem reasonable to refund  the senders using the money  available 
from Ms Ls account.
But Im persuaded  that Ms L was an unwitting  party to the fraud. I say this because  her story 
of what she thought she was doing has remained consistent. She has provided the 
communication she had with the fraudsters, and I find this supports her being under the 
mistaken belief that she was performing  a legitimate  role.
Ms L did on occasion seek assurance from the fraudster that what  she was doing was above 
board, and each  time the fraudster reassured her they were a genuine  business.  She did 
retain some of the money,  but these were amounts the fraudsters  were  telling her to retain 
as payment for her services, and they were  a small proportion of the amounts transferred to 
her account.  Most of the funds she transferred  out as instructed, so there was little benefit  to 
her.
I find by the time Ms L had transferred out the £1,500 to her savings account shed realised 
something was amiss, likely because of the problems with the money remitter. But overall, 
Ive seen no evidence  that suggests Ms L knew about or was actively involved in the fraud. 
Instead, Im satisfied Ms L is also a victim of the fraudsters and has been used as an 
unwitting money mule.
All the payments into Ms Ls account were Authorised Push  Payments (APP). The APP 
Voluntary Best Practice Standards produced by UK Finance in October  2017  sets out 
standards for sending and receiving banks  to follow when processing  a claim for an APP 
scam. 
Although not all banks were party  to this, I consider the guidance to have been good industry 
practice at the time. 
There are several relevant principles here: 
The sending bank  should notify their customer that because  they authorised  the 
transaction, the right to the funds is with the recipient. 
The receiving bank  will need  to investigate and establish (to the extent it is able) 
whether the account  is fraudulent and if funds remain. 
Ref: DRN76466513The receiving bank  will need  to find evidence that the recipient has obtained the 
funds fraudulently. 
Following the receiving firms investigation, identified funds should always  be 
repatriated back to the sending firm at the risk of the receiving firm, subject  to various 
exceptions. One of these exceptions is where  there is a credible complaint or dispute 
from the recipient  of the funds. 
Therefore, good  industry practice  at the time said the receiving bank should investigate  
whether their consumer  had received  the funds fraudulently.  If they havent, the receiving 
bank is under no obligation  to return the funds to the sending bank.
In this case, Ms L had a credible complaint. She played no part in the scam that had 
defrauded the senders,  so didnt receive the funds as a party to the fraud.  It follows then that 
Metro werent under  an obligation to return the funds to the sending banks.
Ive also reviewed Metros  terms and conditions. The term Metro have relied on says:
8.2 Payment mistakes  and fraudulent  transactions
If we are made  aware  that a payment  into your account may be fraudulent or a 
mistake, we may take or recover this payment from you. This may happen even if:
 the funds are included  in the balance of your account:
 you have  used them to make a payment: or
 you have  transferred or withdrawn all or part of the funds.
If the fraudulent or mistaken payment  is paid into one of your savings accounts and 
taking out an amount  would cause a debit balance  to arise on that account, we may 
close your savings account and take from your current account  or cash account  an 
amount equal  to the debit  balance  that would have arisen on the savings account. 
We may be entitled to make a charge if taking the payment from your current account 
takes you over your overdraft limit - please  see our Important information  summary 
for more details. If you do not have a current account with us, we will take from a 
separate account (which we will set up in your name) an amount equal to the debit 
balance that would have arisen  on your savings account if we had taken the full 
amount from your savings  account.  We may then require  you to immediately repay 
the debit balance on this separate account  at any time."
Ms L thinks its unfair that her own money  was taken from her account  to refund the senders, 
She was unaware  of fraudulent source of the funds she received  and sent on, and acted in 
good faith. Under the CRA a term may be considered unfair if it causes a significant  
imbalance in the parties rights and obligations under the contract, to the detriment of the 
consumer (Section  62(4)). The CRA  also says that an unfair contract  term will not be binding  
on a consumer (Section  62(1)). 
Based on the facts  of Ms Ls complaint,  Im persuaded that the above term creates a 
significant balance  in the rights and obligations under the contract, which  was detrimental  to 
Ms L.
Ref: DRN76466514The term says Metro  can seek  to recover payments  that may be fraudulent  or a mistake  
which in essence  says that Metro  have no obligation to actually consider whether they think  
their customer received a payment fraudulently or not. It doesnt create any obligation on 
Metro to investigate  or consider the context of the payment, or to notify  Ms L if they intend  to 
remove the funds.  And it also allows Metro  to remove those funds, even if it creates  a debt 
for Ms L, which the bank can then apply charges on.
This is enough for me to conclude that the term is unfair  it allows  Metro  to create 
obligations on Ms L that are significantly detrimental to her. On that basis  I dont see that she 
should be bound by this term.
I also note that Metro retrieved the funds from Ms Ls savings account, and not the account 
the money was paid in to. Section 9.1 of Metros terms covers set off and says:
We can combine or set-off any money  you owe us with or against  any amount we 
may owe you (for example, use a credit balance in one of your accounts with us to 
pay off an amount you may owe in another account).

We may enforce our right  by using  money in accounts  in your name only or your 
joint accounts to pay anything you owe in just your name... If we decide  to offset 
funds, we will generally tell you personally  (and anyone  else entitled to the money to 
be used to reduce  or repay what you owe us) at least 14 calendar days  before doing 
so, unless we reasonably  think that you may move the money to prevent us from 
doing this. If we have not told you before we do enforce our right, we will tell you (and 
anyone else entitled  to the money) why and when we did so, and the amount taken 
from your account, as soon as possible after taking  the funds.
Im not satisfied this right has been used in the correct sense here, or that Metro had the 
right in the terms to set off this amount. At the time Ms Ls accounts were  restricted and the 
money in the savings  account ringfenced she didnt owe the bank anything, aside from the 
£3.83 the current account was overdrawn.  As a result, its unfair  that Metro rely on this term 
for removing  the money from her savings  account.
In any case, I think Metros actions  although  guided by a desire  to help genuine  victims of 
fraud  lead to an unfair outcome for Ms L. She acted  in good faith in accepting  and passing 
on the funds and hasnt benefitted  from most  of the money paid to her. Metro  were under no 
obligation to return  the funds to the sending banks,  and Im not satisfied they had the 
contractual right to use Ms Ls funds  to do so. In effect Metro have indemnified themselves 
using Ms Ls money, without any prior agreement  to do so, which I dont find to be fair or 
reasonable.
I find the fair resolution  here would be for Metro to return the funds from Ms Ls savings 
account  less the amount that she was overdrawn,  and the amounts she retained as 
payment from the fraudulent payments.
Once Metro received notice that Ms Ls account  had received fraudulent funds, its 
reasonable they took steps to restrict the account.  And their terms allow  them to close 
accounts that have been  involved in fraud,  whether  or not Ms L knew about the fraud or not 
So, I find Metro acted  reasonably both in freezing and then closing the accounts..
Ref: DRN76466515Metro accepts Ms L was an unwitting  participant also a victim of fraud. But despite this, it 
doesnt seem Metro treated her with sympathy  or care. Instead, they have held her 
responsible for losses shes neither caused nor benefited from. So, I can see why she feels 
distressed and upset  by Metros actions. Ms L has also been left without her money  for some  
time. I find its appropriate for Metro to offer her some  compensation for the upset and 
trouble she was caused., I find the amount of £250 is fair.
putting things right
To resolve  the matter Metro must
Refund the money in the savings  account  less the amounts  already returned, that 
Ms L retained from the transfers and the overdrawn balance. I make this to be 
£1,010.17.
Add 8% simple interest to this amount from the date the account was blocked to the 
date of settlement.  If Metro considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to 
deduct income tax from that interest,  it should tell Ms L how much its taken off. It 
should also give Ms L a tax deduction certificate  if she asks for one, so she can 
reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Pay Ms L £250 compensation to reflect the distress it caused her
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint, and direct Metro  Bank  PLC to pay redress  to 
Ms L as directed  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 September  2021.
Thom Bennett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7646651