K821x#15complaint
Mr O says Uncle Buck Finance LLP (trading  as Uncle Buck)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about six high-cost short term credit loans that Uncle Buck  provided to            
Mr O from January 2015 onwards. Mr Os last loan was provided  in September  2017.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Os complaint and thought  that he shouldnt have been provided 
with loans two to six. Uncle Buck didnt agree in full. So the complaint was passed to me for 
a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all the key relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Uncle Buck  needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr O 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Uncle Buck should  fairly and reasonably  have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided. Having 
looked at the overall pattern of Uncle Bucks lending history with Mr O, I think that Uncle 
Buck shouldnt have  provided the loans  from loan two. 
I say this because  the information Uncle Buck gathered showed that Mr O didnt have the 
disposable income to be able to make the repayments for loan two. By the time of loan 
three, I think  that a reasonable  and proportionate  check would have shown Uncle  Buck that 
Ref: DRN77942422Mr O had significant amounts of existing short-term loans elsewhere.  I accept  that there 
were a couple of breaks between the loans. But the credit checks  Uncle Buck  carried out 
showed that he was simply taking short-term loans elsewhere.
The combination of these factors ought reasonably  to have alerted Uncle Buck  to the fact 
that Mr O was in a cycle  of short-term lending and that any further loans were more likely  
than not unsustainable for him. 
Mr O had to pay interest and charges on loans that Uncle Buck  shouldnt  have provided him 
with. So I think that he lost out and Uncle Buck should put things right.
putting things right  what Uncle Buck needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr O paid on loan two to six;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement;
all adverse information about loans  two to six should be removed from Mr Os credit 
file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Uncle Buck to take off tax from this interest. Uncle  Buck 
must give Mr O a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Os complaint. Uncle Buck  Finance 
LLP (trading  as Uncle Buck) should pay Mr O compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2020.  
Jeshen Narayanan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7794242