K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1992 Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (trading at that time as 
Leeds Permanent Building Society) mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ss complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs S have  told us they cant remember the date they took the PPI. Halifax  says it 
was taken out in 1992  with a loan. Mr and Mrs S say they werent  given a choice about 
taking the PPI when they took the loan. They say it was sold as part of the package.  I dont 
doubt that this is Mr and Mrs Ss honest belief, and based on their best recollections. But the 
PPI started  over twenty five years ago. So I wouldnt  expect Mr and Mrs S to recall the sale 
in detail or vividly. With this in mind,  what Mr and Mrs S have said isnt enough on its own to 
make me think Halifax added the PPI at part of a package without giving Mr and Mrs S a 
choice about it.
I havent seen  anything else to make me think Mr and Mrs S werent  given a choice at the 
sale. Halifax hasnt been able to provide sales paperwork. So I dont know  how the PPI was 
presented. But given how long ago the sale was, this isnt surprising. So it doesnt make  me 
think the PPI was most likely mis-sold in the way Mr and Mrs S believe.
Overall there isnt much to go on and there isnt enough to make  me think Halifax  didnt give 
Mr and Mrs S a choice about the cover.
If Halifax recommended the PPI it had to check the PPI was right for Mr and Mrs S. Ive 
assessed the sale on that basis   which places on Halifax more responsibility  for the sale.  
But nothing Mr and Mrs S have told us about  their circumstances makes me think  the PPI 
wasnt right for them. For example, theres  nothing to suggest Mr and Mrs S couldnt have 
claimed on the cover if the need  arose. And from what theyve said,  Mr and Mrs S couldve 
suffered a loss of income in the event of unemployment or a prolonged period of disability. 
So they seem to have  had a need  for the cover. And the PPI benefit wouldve been paid in 
addition to any work sick pay or redundancy pay. I take into account also that the PPI was 
cover to help protect a mortgage  a long term liability secured on Mr and Mrs Ss home.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like the cover wouldve been useful for Mr and S if something 
went wrong. And with all Ive said above  in mind, Im not persuaded that better  information  
about the cover wouldve changed the decision Mr and Mrs S made about taking the cover.
Ive thought about all Mr and Mrs Ss points but, for the reasons Ive given above, these 
points dont change  my decision.
Ref: DRN72872952my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7287295