K822xcomplaint
Mr H is unhappy with the service hes received from TSB Bank  plc when his debit card was
only working intermittently.
background 
Mr H contacted TSB several times  in November 2018 because his debit card was working
intermittently. He told TSB the card kept getting blocked when he tried to use it. Mr H
explained that he had to walk to his local branch  to get money out. TSB apologised and
ordered Mr H a replacement card. They  raised  a complaint on his behalf and offered Mr H
£225 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed suffered and also paid £50 in
expenses. The complaint  was then closed.
Mr H contacted TSB again  later in November 2018.  He explained that he still hadnt received
the replacement  card. TSB then ordered another replacement card for Mr H. He contacted
TSB a week  later to let them know he was trying to use his card online, but couldnt, despite
having funds in his account. He was concerned he was going  to miss out on a deal for a new
mobile phone contract.
However, TSB were  unable to determine  what was causing the problem. Mr H explained  that
he had mental health  problems  and the ongoing  issues with his card were  affecting him. TSB
re-opened Mr Hs complaint and offered him a further £125 compensation which Mr H didnt
accept.
Mr H contacted TSB again  in December 2018 as hed received  a new card, but it was same
number as the old card. TSB told Mr H he should have received a card with a new number
and not a replacement card. So they ordered  another new card for Mr H.
There was further  contact in early  January  2019,  where Mr H asked for updates on his
complaint. He was told that it was still being  investigated.  He contacted them later that
month as he was still having issues  with his card and a further new card was ordered. He
again highlighted that the ongoing issues had been affecting his mental  health.
Mr H then contacted  TSB a week later as his card wasnt working. However TSB were still
unable to determine what was causing the problem. Mr H again  highlighted the stress  it was
causing him. He asked  TSB to provide  him with a non-contactless  card. The person he
spoke to ordered him a new card but it wasnt non-contactless. He was then transferred to a
senior adviser who told Mr H that TSB were aware of intermittent issues with some debit
cards including Mr Hs. The senior  adviser  ordered  Mr H a completely new card but again
this wasnt a non-contactless card.
A couple of weeks later,  Mr H got in touch with TSB again as he was unable to use his card. 
He had received  a new card but had no Personal Identification Number (PIN). He was told 
the old card had been cancelled and the PIN for the new card was the same as the old card.  
Mr H explained that he was confused because hed been told he was going to receive two 
cards but only one would work. Mr H again  explained that his mental health was suffering 
because of the issues hed been having  with the card.
Ref: DRN76916792In February, Mr H had to contact TSB again as he was still having issues with his card. He 
was told there was no block on the card and to try again in a couple of days. He then got in 
touch at the start of March for an update on his complaint. TSB explained that they were still 
looking into the matters  hed raised  but they were unable to give him a timescale as to when 
they could provide an answer. He spoke  to a manager and reiterated the issues hed been 
having and the stress  it had caused him. The manager ordered  Mr H a non-contactless card. 
Mr H then got back in touch a couple  of weeks later and said the problems had now been  
resolved.
However, he still hadnt received a response to his complaint and in June 2019 he brought
his complaint to this service.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in October  2019. In my provisional decision I said:
issues with the debit card
This must have been a very frustrating time for Mr H. When  he wanted to use his debit card,
he couldnt be sure his card would  work.  I would expect TSB to look properly at Mr Hs
problems and try and resolve them. I can see that they ordered him replacement cards
whenever he let them  know his card wasnt working. They also tried to order  a completely
new card but this was only after having  issued Mr H with three  replacement  cards that didnt
resolve his issues.
Unfortunately I cant say why Mr H had problems with his debit card.  The issue seemed to
start when  he was issued  with a contactless card and was resolved  when  he was issued with
a non-contactless  card.  But I cant say for certain if this was the main reason why Mr H was
having problems.
Sometimes it isnt always possible for banks  to find out why cards arent working  properly.
But I do think Mr H made it clear  to TSB that the issues started  when he got a contactless
card. He asked for a non-contactless  card in November but wasnt  issued with one until
March. I think  it would have been helpful if TSB had given Mr H a non-contactless card
earlier than they did.
impact to Mr H
Id like to start by thanking  Mr H for sharing his personal information  with us. I certainly
havent underestimated how hard hes found  the experience of dealing  with his complaint
and Ive thought very carefully about everything  hes said.
Theres no way I can begin to understand exactly how Mr H has been feeling but having 
listened to the phone calls he made to TSB, I have a good idea of the impact this complaint 
has had on him. I can understand how his personal  situation has been  worsened by the 
issues hes had with his debit card.
Mr H told TSB on several occasions about his mental health issues  and how the problems
with his debit card were  affecting him. Despite this, I cant see where TSB took any steps to
take this into account  and make reasonable adjustments  to its usual process.  It took TSB
four months to resolve the issue with Mr Hs debit card. During that time Mr H was unable to
use his debit card with any confidence because  of the ongoing issues.
Ref: DRN76916793On several occasions  Mr H wasnt able to use his debit  card online and in shops. This
caused Mr H a great deal of embarrassment.  And given his medical condition,  the impact  of
this on Mr H would have  been exacerbated. And I can see that Mr H took steps to resolve
the issue. He reported  the problem to TSB whenever it happened,  let them know exactly
when it started and what he thought the cause  was and even spoke to them in real time
when transactions  were  being declined so they could try to analyse the problem.
Mr H raised a complaint  with TSB about  the issue. The complaint was closed in November
but reopened when the issues started  again. Mr H is yet to receive any further response to
his complaint. TSB have said that once  they have sent their final response letter or summary
resolution communication, they dont have  an obligation to respond or respond within a
specific timeframe. I do not think it is fair to not have made reasonable adjustments  to this
process, given what Mr H told them  about his medical condition  and the impact  the issues
were having  on him.
I think Mr Hs complaint  should have been  prioritised and a real effort made  to give him a
response to the issues he raised. I appreciate that Mr H was told that he could have brought
his complaint to this service earlier than he did. But I think its reasonable that he wanted  an
answer before he came  to us.
The issue  he originally complained about  was never  actually resolved until March. And this
was only because someone listened to Mr H and issued  him with a non-contactless  card. So
I dont think its fair to say that because his complaint was re-opened there was no timescale
for a response. Especially  as Mr H told TSB about his condition  and the impact  of the issues.
I recognise the impact  the problems have had on Mr H. Ive listened to the phone calls hes
made to TSB and its clear that hes suffered  a great  deal of stress. There are some points
hes made where I unable  to make an award  because  I simply havent got any evidence,
such as the Black Friday  deal he missed out on and payments hes had to make to friends  to
take him to the branch. However this doesnt  mean I dont believe what  Mr H has said.
Ive taken into account the amount of compensation TSB have offered. In usual
circumstances, where  a consumer didnt have  the specific need for reasonable adjustments
that Mr H has, I think the £400 theyve offered would be sufficient. However I need to
recognise that Mr H has an individual set of circumstances which  makes  his situation
different. Mr H told TSB his mental  health  had deteriorated and he had to take medication to
help cope with the stress  caused  by the problems with his debit card. He also told TSB he
was concerned he would have to be sectioned again. But I cant see that TSB took this into
consideration when dealing with Mr H.
I think that TSB havent provided the level of service I would expect to see. And impact  on 
Mr H has been substantial. Having thought about the situation, I think  that £1000 is fair and 
reasonable compensation in this complaint.  And I think it fairly reflects  the impact  of the poor 
customer service  Mr H received from TSB.
Ref: DRN76916794TSB responded and accepted my provisional  findings. Mr H didnt agree with my findings. In 
summary, he said:
He was concerned  with the compensation Id suggested given  the time it has taken 
TSB to resolve his issues.
He was still waiting  to receive  a response  to his complaint from TSB and hed 
completely lost trust in them.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive reached the same  conclusion I set out in my provisional decision. I 
assure Mr H Ive considered the time taken by TSB to resolve the issues  with his debit card.  
And the time its taken TSB to investigate his concerns. But I dont think  I should require TSB 
to pay any more compensation  than I set out in my provisional decision. As Ive said, I think  
£1000 fairly  reflects  the impact  of the poor customer service hes received from TSB.
my final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require TSB Bank plc to pay Mr H £725 in 
addition to the £275 theyve already  paid for the distress and inconvenience hes suffered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 November  2019.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7691679