K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains on behalf of himself and Miss J that AXA Insurance  UK Plc has unfairly 
declined their claim for water  damage  to their home  under their joint home  insurance  policy.
background
Mr J said hes been the only occupant  of his home  since it was refurbished  in August 2017. 
He claimed to AXA when he discovered  damage caused by an escape of water in February 
2018. He said AXA relied on a term of the policy that excludes claims where a property is 
unoccupied and unfurnished. Mr J said his home was furnished and hed sent AXA evidence 
of living  there. He said he works shifts and has caring responsibilities  at another  location. 
AXA appointed a loss adjuster who visited Mr Js property in March  2018 and then referred 
his concerns to investigators.  Mr J said the investigator demanded his bills for proof of his 
living at the address, but Mr J said the address hadnt been updated at the time. He said 
from this and his water  usage, AXA wrongly  concluded he wasnt living at the property. Mr J 
said he uses the shower facilities at his workplace  and has very low use of water at home.
AXA said its loss adjusters and investigators  felt that the property wasnt  being lived in at the 
time of the incident. AXA said Mr J was listed at another address. It said his council tax bill 
stated the property is unfurnished and unoccupied, and the usage on his water  bill from 9 
July 2017 to 5 January 2018  cost £3.27.  It said other utility bills were estimates.
AXA said it checked with Mr Js council  who confirmed  they still have the property listed  as 
unoccupied, unfurnished  and empty, and this has been the case since  Mr J bought it. AXA 
said had it been  made aware Mr Js property was unoccupied it wouldnt have offered him 
cover. It said he had knowingly submitted false information that it was occupied  and was in 
breach of the fraud clause  within the policy.
AXA said the policy carries an exclusion clause for claims where the property  is unoccupied:
Unoccupied
Not permanently lived in by You or by a person  authorised  by You for more than 60 
consecutive days.
Mr J said AXA accused him of submitting false information and said his claim was fraudulent 
and his property  was unoccupied. He said this is irrational as he wouldnt pay for insurance  
on an unoccupied  property or have  registered  to vote there.  He said he had a fully furnished 
kitchen, bedroom  and other rooms. Mr J complained  to AXA about  its decline  of his claim.
Mr J provided  further documents about  his property to AXA.  AXA said these,  including his 
driving licence, were dated after the escape of water. It said the council tax bill is backdated 
and the council couldnt confirm when he moved  into the property.  It said the utility bills show 
very little usage which confirmed  the property was unoccupied other than for minimal visits. 
Mr J said he was registered  to vote at his property. He said AXA hadnt  properly checked his 
utility bills and it was an injustice to accuse him of fraud. Mr J said he wasnt provided with 
policy details from AXA when he took out the policy.
AXA said it was prepared  to retract the fraud allegation against Mr J but would continue  to 
repudiate his claim as it considered his property  to have been  unoccupied. 
Ref: DRN72232902Mr J remained  dissatisfied and brought his complaint to our service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Mr J had confirmed 
he wasnt staying at the property when the incident occurred due to bad weather. He said Mr 
Js relative attended the meeting with the loss adjuster as Mr J felt more  comfortable with 
this. The investigator  said the policy defines unoccupancy and having  considered  all the 
evidence he felt that AXA had made a fair decision  to decline the claim.
Mr J disagreed with the investigator saying his home hadnt been unoccupied for more  than 
four consecutive days and his use of gas and electricity was above the estimate.  Mr J said 
he had forgotten  to update the address for his driving licence and insurance. But he said he 
had paid full council tax from August 2017 and the council had incorrectly informed AXA that 
his property was unoccupied and unfurnished. Mr J said hed £15,000  on the repairs due to 
the water  damage. Mr J requested  an ombudsman review his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
AXA has relied on the occupancy clause within Mr Js policy to repudiate his claim.  It said 
there was no proof that he had been  residing at the insured address when the incident  
occurred. Its common  for insurers to exclude  claims for unoccupied properties as the risk to 
the property increases considerably when  no one is there. Although Mr J said he wasnt at 
home when  the incident occurred, he said he does live there normally.
When an insurer wants to rely on an exclusion clause  it has to show  that the clause applies 
in the circumstances of the claim and has been  applied fairly. AXA said its loss adjuster 
found a lack of furniture  and food in the property and its investigator requested utility bills, 
council tax and electoral  roll information.  AXA said this clearly demonstrated a lack of 
occupation of the property  by Mr J. AXA said it wouldnt have offered him cover had it known 
he wouldnt  be living at the property.
AXA has said it no longer  considers that Mr J was acting fraudulently.  Ive looked at the 
information provided by the parties  to see if AXAs decision  about Mr Js claim was fair. Mr 
Js utility bills show very low usage,  which is well below the estimates from these companies. 
Hi water  bill for six months water  usage is for £3.27  and is exceptionally low even if showers 
are taken at work. Mr Js driving licence and car insurance details were  only updated to the 
insured address after the incident.
So far as Mr Js council  tax is concerned payments hadn't been taken from his account since  
he moved to the insured address in August 2017. Mr J has since  contacted  his local council 
to change the status of his property, but must  have  been aware he wasnt being held liable 
for council  tax at the time of the incident.
When Mr J challenged AXAs decision about his claim, he sought legal advice near to where 
he used to live and where his caring  responsibilities are, not near the insured address. 
Neither is he registered at doctors  near to his insured address and he has no TV, or 
broadband contracts  there.
Ref: DRN72232903Based on the information I've seen, I don't think it was unreasonable  for AXA to have  
declined Mr Js claim by relying on the occupancy clause within  his insurance policy. AXA 
has said it is no longer  recording Mr Js claim as fraudulent and so there shouldnt  be any 
reference to this within his insurance records.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given above it is my final decision that the complaint is not upheld.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J and Miss J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 June 2020.
Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7223290