K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about Tesco Underwriting Limited declining  a claim under their 
home insurance policy, but for ease Ill refer to all comments and actions  as being those of 
Mr M.
background
Mr M found a damp patch  in a ground  floor room and a plumber  said that the source of the 
leak was from a ground floor shower  room. He said the grouting was faulty and the 
plasterboard had soaked through causing  the leak.
When Mr M telephoned Tesco to make a claim they said that although his policy covered  
him for escape  of water, this would only be for a leak from a pipe. Mr M explained  that a 
plumber had inspected  the shower  and said the damp was caused by faulty  grouting and 
incorrect plasterboard being used at the time of installation  which  meant the water  soaked 
through. Tesco told him that as the water had not escaped from a fault in the pipe, the policy  
would not cover him. I have listened  to that telephone call and Mr M is told that in order to 
make a claim, the leak must be from a fixed domestic installation  such as a pipe but as the 
leak is coming through the grouting, this is not covered. 
Tesco go on to explain that grouting is a maintenance related issue and is not covered by 
the policy. They say that if a pipe was leaking then this would be covered. Mr M asked if this 
information was within the terms and conditions  and assures Tesco  that he has read all his 
terms and conditions, and if he knew he couldnt claim for something like this he would never 
have taken the policy.  Mr  M provided  this service with photographs and a copy  of the report  
from his tiler which says that faulty installation is the reason for the water leak and this would 
not have been visible until the damp  had actually  set in.
Tescos terms  and conditions say 
What is covered 
Water or oil escaping from any fixed domestic  water or heating  installation, including  
underground drains and pipes or from any domestic appliance. 
Ref: DRN77853532And 
What is not covered
Loss or damage.
* that happens gradually over a period time  
* to the fixed domestic water or heating installation  
 Tesco say the damage is not covered by their policy, so Mr M raised  a formal complaint. In 
their final response letter, Tesco refer Mr M to the terms and conditions in their policy and 
the section relating to internal plumbing  and drainage. They  say that even  if the leak had 
been sourced  to the shower itself, it wouldnt have been covered because the policy  does 
not cover  Mr and Mrs M for loss as a result  of lack of general maintenance. 
Tesco also say that the policy does cover  Trace and Access,  but based on the information 
provided, this does not apply. Mr M did not agree and brought  his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator agreed with Tesco saying that as their terms and conditions were  applied 
correctly, she didnt  uphold the complaint.
Mr M said that he cant see what more he could have done  to maintain the shower and 
grouting, as there were  no obvious  signs of wear and tear. He says the shower  unit was 
already there when  he purchased the property 4 years ago and there is no way he would 
have known about the faulty grouting  and installation. He says he maintains his property to a 
good standard, and he doesnt  understand why he should  be penalised for something that 
isnt his fault. He doesnt  remember Tesco advising  about  maintenance  at the time he took 
out his policy  and says he wouldnt have taken  out the policy  if they had told him this wasnt  
covered. 
As he disagreed with our investigator, the matter has come to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and having done so Im not upholding this 
complaint and I will explain why. In order to make  a successful claim, Mr M must show that 
the damage suffered is covered by the policy. Having  read the policy and the report from the 
tiler, I am satisfied that faulty  workmanship  is not covered, and Tesco are following their 
terms and conditions when they decline the claim.  
I know Mr M will be disappointed with my findings because he feels that he is being 
penalised through no fault of his own,  as the shower  cubicle  was in place when he 
purchased the property.   
Mr M says Tesco didnt  advise him that maintenance was excluded  at the time he took the 
policy out, but lack of maintenance  is a standard exclusion  under all policies. 
So although  Mr M says said he wouldnt have taken out the policy in the first place if Tesco  
had told him  its likely  he wouldnt have got cover  for maintenance issues under any other 
standard policy. 
Ref: DRN77853533I wont be asking Tesco Underwriting Ltd to do anything  because it has acted reasonably 
and in line with its policy terms.  This simply is not an insurable loss.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M 
to accept or reject my decision before 4 March 2020
Sejal Karia
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7785353