K820x#14complaint
Miss O complains  about how Zurich Insurance Plc handled and settled a claim she made 
under her buildings  insurance policy for water  damage.  
background
Miss O lives in a privately owned  two storey flat within  a council block.  On 18 April 2018  an 
escape of water caused damage to both storeys of her flat. This escape  of water was due to 
a blockage in the main  soil stack leading to Miss Os flat, which  caused her sink to fill up and 
overflow onto the floor.  As a result her bathroom  flooring  and hallway ceiling sustained  
damage.
Miss O said damage was also caused  to her boiler, the flooring in her living  room  and 
hallway. And she stated that, during  this incident,  water leaked into the main  circuit box, 
which caused an electrical failure.  As a result  food in her fridge and freezer  had to be 
discarded. She also said her lights flickered.  
The terms of Miss Os lease stipulate that her buildings insurance  is arranged by her local 
council. This insurance is provided by Zurich. So, Miss O contacted  Zurich  in order  to make 
a claim under that policy for water  damage. 
Zurich said it was notified of Miss Os claim on 20 June  2018. It appointed a loss adjuster to 
attend Miss Os property and assist  it with her claim. Ill refer to the loss adjuster as C 
within this decision.  And, on 28 June 2018, C attended an initial visit of Miss Os flat during 
which it investigated the source of the leak and scoped  the repair works necessary to restore  
her property to its pre-loss state. 
Following this visit Zurich agreed to cover damage to the flooring in Miss Os lounge  and 
bathroom. It also agreed to cover  damage to the hallway ceiling and bathroom wall 
coverings. However,  it declined to cover damage to Miss Os hallway flooring, her boiler  and 
issues with her electrics as it said these were  all unrelated  to the escape of water. It also 
declined to cover any loss of food contents  due as this wasnt  covered under Miss Os policy. 
Miss O was dissatisfied with how Zurich  intended  to resolve her claim. So she referred her 
complaint to our service. Our investigator  looked into what had happened but they didnt 
uphold Miss Os complaint. Overall,  they thought Zurich had acted fairly. But Miss O 
disagreed and asked for her complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
My role is to assess whether I think Zurich made a mistake, or treated Miss O unfairly,  such  
that it needs to now put things right. And, having thought carefully  about  everything she and 
Zurich have said, Im afraid  to say that I dont think it did. I appreciate  Miss O will be 
disappointed by this outcome. But I hope she can understand the reasons behind my 
decision.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
must base  my decision  on the balance of probabilities. Ive read and considered  all the 
Ref: DRN79662032information provided by Miss O and Zurich, but Ill concentrate my decision on what I think  is 
relevant to decide the complaint. If I dont comment on any specific  point its not because Ive 
failed to take it on board and think about it, but because I dont think  I need to comment on it 
in order to reach what I think is the right outcome.
Miss Os policy provides cover for damage caused  by a range of perils that might happen. 
These are specific one-off events and include escape of water, for example. In order for a 
claim to be successful a policy holder would have to show  that the damage theyre claiming 
for was caused by one of the perils listed in the policy.
Theres no dispute that water damage  occurred to Miss Os property. Zurich accepts that this 
was caused by an issue with a communal  soil stack.  However, theres a dispute between  
Miss O, Zurich  and its appointed agents  about  the extent of the damage  that occurred and 
the correct outcome of this claim. 
Ive identified seven  parts to Miss Os complaint and I think it will make things clearer if I deal 
with them  separately. 
Electrical fault
Zurich said the kitchen light circuit and downstairs sockets were tested and found to be in 
good working order. Miss O requested that Zurich test her upstairs  lights and sockets. But it 
declined to do so as it said the location  of the escape of water  meant  the upstairs lights  and 
sockets couldnt have been affected.  
I understand that Miss O is unhappy  with that decision. But I dont disagree with Zurichs 
comments here. I say this because Ive seen evidence that the leak happened at a lower 
level. So, Im not persuaded the upstairs lights and sockets were  affected. 
I can see that both Zurich and our service invited Miss O to obtain an independent report  
confirming that the wiring  had been damage by the escape of water.  I understand that Miss 
O hasnt provided our service with any evidence on this issue.  So, I cant  fairly conclude that 
Zurich erred in declining to cover this part of Miss Os claim.
Boiler
I understand that Miss O told Zurich and our service that her boiler was damaged in the 
escape of water. But Zurich dispute  that. 
Miss O showed our service  correspondence that she received from her local council that 
showed her water tank was corroded  and the overflow pipe was incorrectly  connected to the 
sink. But Zurich has shown our service evidence that proves  a blockage to the soil stack  
caused the escape of water. 
Like our investigator I havent  seen  any evidence that demonstrates the boiler was damaged 
as result of the leak. It maybe that the leak in April 2018 highlighted pre-existing problems 
with Miss Os boiler of which she was unaware. And, overall,  Im persuaded Zurich properly 
investigated whether  it should cover a claim for repairing Miss Os boiler. Im satisfied the 
escape of water didnt  damage Miss Os boiler.  So, I cant  fairly ask Zurich  to replace it.
Lounge floor allowance 
Ref: DRN79662033Miss O wasnt happy with the flooring  allowance  Zurich  offered in relation to replacing  Miss 
Os lounge floor. I can see Zurich initially offered to pay her £20/m2 towards the cost of 
replacing this floor.  But Miss O said this wasnt adequate as the flooring was solid wood. So, 
Zurich increased the amount it was prepared  to pay to settle this part of Miss Os claim to 
£35/m2.
Miss O isnt happy with the value Zurich has offered for her replacement flooring. But, having 
carefully considered  whether the amount it offered  to settle  this part of Miss Os claim fairly  
reflects the value  of her damaged flooring, Im satisfied the revised valuation is based on a 
similar quality  to the flooring its intended  to replace. So, Im persuaded Zurich  has agreed  to 
provide flooring that matches  the quality  and specification  of Miss Os damaged  lounge  floor 
in line with the terms of her policy.
Bathroom tiles and flooring allowance
I understand that the bathroom  tiles had to be removed so the plumber that attended Miss 
Os flat could gain access to the leak. Im satisfied this is damage  that wouldnt have been 
caused but for the escape of water. In those circumstances  Id expect  an insurer to cover the 
cost of replacing any damaged tiles.
I can see Zurich has agreed to do so and its offered  Miss O £15/m2 plus VAT towards the 
cost of replacement.  Its clear that Miss O is unhappy with the amount shes  been  offered. 
She feels the tiles arent being  replaced  on a like for like basis.  However, Zurich has 
provided our service with evidence that shows a similar tile to the one Miss O chose, which 
retails at just over £15/m2 inclusive of VAT.  As this cost is less than the offer it made Im 
satisfied that the amount Zurich offered Miss O to replace her tiles is reasonable. 
I can see Zurich offered to pay Miss O £30/m2 towards the cost of replacing  her bathroom 
floor. Shes stated  that the offer Zurich has made is insufficient. But I havent seen any 
evidence from Miss O that demonstrates  this offer is unfair. And in the absence of that I cant 
fairly conclude Zurichs  offer is inadequate  or unreasonable.  
Defects to hallway flooring
Zurich obtained  evidence confirming that the damage to Miss Os landing  floor was pre-
existing and unrelated to the escape of water in April 2018. 
Wear and tear, or damage that happens  gradually, is excluded from Miss Os policy,  which  is 
in common with most home insurance  policies. This is because  insurance is intended to 
cover the unforeseen. And something wearing out or requiring maintenance isnt unforeseen.
I can see Miss O was invited by Zurich to obtain  an independent report to confirm the 
damage was caused by the flood. However,  I havent seen any reports or evidence from 
Miss O confirming  this. And in the absence of that I cant fairly conclude Zurichs  decision to 
decline cover  here was unfair. 
Claim for damage to contents of fridge and freezer
Miss O told our service that, as a result of electrical issues caused  by the escape of water, 
her she had to discard food in her freezer and fridge.  I can see Zurich  explained that it 
wouldnt cover  this loss because this insurance is a buildings only policy.  
Ref: DRN79662034Having read the terms of Miss Os insurance  policy  Im satisfied Zurich hasnt made an error  
here. I say this because  the policy covers the structure of your home and any permanent  
fixtures and fittings. So, I cant say its acted unreasonably  in declining  to cover the loss of 
Miss Os food.
Quality of the work undertaken
Miss O told our investigator that shes unhappy with the quality of the work that was 
undertaken. She also said the contractors Zurich  appointed havent completed tiling and 
plastering work in the bathroom.
Zurich has provided  our service with evidence which shows it told Miss O that if she 
remained unhappy with the quality of the work undertaken by its contractors she should 
obtain quotations for the necessary repairs. It also gave C authority to proceed  with any 
repairs once confirmed by Miss O.
Zurich said C contacted Miss O to discuss her concerns regarding the work it undertook. 
And she told it she didnt  want to proceed with any further work until her complaint with our 
service had been resolved. I can see Zurich has acted on Miss Os instructions here and 
placed this aspect of her complaint on hold.  In such circumstances  I cant fairly conclude  
Zurich has dealt with Miss O unfairly  or that it could have done  anything more to assist her.
I realise Miss O will be disappointed with this decision. But it brings  to an end what we, in 
trying to resolve her dispute with Zurich informally,  can do for her. Im sorry we cant help 
Miss O any further with this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss O to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 June  2020.
Julie Robertson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7966203