K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs P payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1987. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs P disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I will explain  why.
Mr and Mrs P have  said Bradford and Bingley  led them to believe they had to take PPI with 
their mortgage. The problem I have, in making a decision on this, is that I couldnt know the 
exact words used by the adviser and the tone in which they were said. It isnt necessarily 
wrong to strongly  advise  someone to buy an insurance policy,  even if the adviser  is partly  
motivated by making a sale  as long as the policy is actually something worth  
recommending. The closer it gets to making  someone feel they have no real sensible 
alternative to taking the policy,  the less acceptable  it is. But, as I say, I cant  be sure exactly 
what was said. And it wouldnt be fair to say Bradford & Bingley did something  wrong  unless 
I had stronger evidence  of this. And I can see that the documents themselves at least  
presented the PPI as an option. 
Ive looked to see whether there  are other  reasons the PPI might  have been mis-sold  but 
having done so, I dont  think  they apply.
I think Bradford & Bingley  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs P, and this means it had a 
higher standard to reach  during the sales process   it had to make  sure the PPI was suitable  
for Mr and Mrs Ps particular circumstances. Finding yourself unable  to pay a mortgage can 
lead to significant difficulties. And it looks to me as though a recommendation would  have 
been a suitable one, based on what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ps situation at the time.  I say 
this because:
Its likely  Mr P (the person covered) was eligible for the policy. 
The PPI would have  paid benefits at the same time as Mr P received any employer 
sick pay, and potentially for longer.  It would  have paid unemployment benefits in 
addition to any redundancy  pay. And it would have  put off the time when 
Mr and Mrs P would need to fall back on any savings or other means  they may have 
had for paying  the mortgage  and other  living costs. This all would have put 
Mr and Mrs P in a more secure position,  if theyd eventually lost income due to long 
term sickness or unemployment. 
Ref: DRN77010942Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it 
out. 
So I think the PPI would  have been potentially useful, and so a recommendation was 
suitable. 
Its hard to know how well Bradford  & Bingley explained the costs and benefits  of the policy.  
But I dont anyway think its likely that full and clear information about this would have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs P took the PPI.
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  didnt cover. 
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs P would  have been affected by any of these. And theyd be 
paying for it monthly, so they could cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation  
changed.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 December  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7701094