K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B have  complained about the decision taken by Shawbrook  Bank  Limited when 
they claimed under section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
Mr and Mrs Bs claim was in relation to a loan agreement taken out to finance solar  panels. 
Theyve said the supplier  of the solar panels  made misrepresentations and mis-sold the 
panels.
background
In 2015, a third-party supplier of solar panels,  PS, sold Mr and Mrs B an array of panels. 
The cost of the panels was around £8,000. Mr and Mrs B have said that various statements 
were made by PS at the time. These led Mr and Mrs B to, in part, believe the panels would 
achieve a certain  level of performance and, as a result, they would not be financially 
detrimental. PS also acted as a credit  broker, and sold Mr and Mrs B a loan from Shawbrook 
to fully pay for the panels. The term of the loan was apparently 15 years, with the full sum 
payable being  over £15,000. 
In 2018, after it became  evident to Mr and Mrs B that the panels were not achieving the 
result they expected, they initially contacted PS. PS said that the appropriate figures were 
contained in the paperwork Mr and Mrs B had been  given at the time of the sale.  Unsatisfied 
with this response, Mr and Mrs B claimed against  Shawbrook under s.75 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974 and pursued a complaint  about  this via this service. 
Shawbrook did make Mr and Mrs B an offer. It accepted that the benefits of the panels were  
not accurately  represented to Mr and Mrs B. And Shawbrook offered to restructure the loan 
so that it was, in effect, funded by the benefits  the panels would  likely  actually achieve over 
the term of the loan.  Shawbrook also offered to refund and pay interest  on overpayments  Mr 
and Mrs B had made, and to pay them £200 in compensation.
Mr and Mrs B were  not entirely satisfied with this though. They said that, as well as 
misrepresenting the benefits the panels  would achieve, PS had not presented  a clear picture 
of what would happen if and when Mr and Mrs B moved home. Theyve said they were led to 
believe they could  take the panels,  and the benefits,  with them.  As this was not entirely 
correct, Mr and Mrs B wanted Shawbrook to unwind  the loan agreement  and remove  the 
panels, putting them back in the position they would have  been  had the panels  not been  
sold. 
Our investigator thought that, as well as likely  misrepresenting  the benefits the panels would 
achieve, PS may not have given Mr and Mrs B full and accurate information about  how easy  
it would  be to move the panels and what would happen with all of the benefits they received 
as a result  of having them on their property. 
The investigator considered that, as well as making  the panels  self-funding  as had already 
been offered,  Shawbrook  should agree to waive any outstanding  debt owed  at the point  Mr 
and Mrs B moved to a new home   and so lost their entitlement to the full benefits. 
Mr and Mrs B agreed with this outcome, but Shawbrook  did not. Shawbrook said that there 
was limited evidence  that Mr and Mrs B intended to move at the time of the sale,  and that if 
they did move they might  achieve a higher sale price due to the presence of the panels  so 
it would  not be fair that they benefit twice. 
Ref: DRN70677922Our investigator wasnt persuaded to change  her opinion though. She felt that Mr and Mrs 
Bs testimony was clear that, at the time of the sale, they had intended to move during the 
term of the loan. And she also felt that the presence of the solar panels may have a negative 
impact on the marketability of the property, so she thought it was unlikely Mr and Mrs B 
would benefit  twice. 
This complaint has therefore been  passed  to me for a decision. 
Since then,  Shawbrook as provided  some terms and conditions Mr and Mrs B may have 
seen at the time of the sale. These do include reference to what would happen to the 
benefits the panels received if a customer were to move home. Shawbrook has said it is 
likely Mr and Mrs B would have confirmed  they had read and understood these terms at the 
time of the sale. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Largely speaking the key arguments in this complaint have already been resolved. 
Shawbrook accepts that PS likely misrepresented the benefits the panels would provide. 
And it has not been disputed that Mr and Mrs B would  not have entered the loan agreement  
had these benefits been correctly represented.  
So, the remaining  issues for me to determine relate to what the fair and reasonable outcome 
to this situation is. Shawbrook has also already agreed to make the panels self-funding by 
restructuring the loan agreement. It recognises  that it is only fair that Mr and Mrs B pay the 
same amount they are likely to receive  as a benefit  from the panels.  
However, Shawbrooks  calculations are based on Mr and Mrs B receiving this benefit for the 
entire term of the loan.  If they move  home,  they will likely lose their entitlement  to these 
benefits. (For the sake of completeness,  it should  be noted that it would technically be 
possible for Mr and Mrs B to contract  with the new owners of the property so that they did 
continue to receive the benefits. But this would likely come  at a cost and I do not consider it 
necessary to expand  on this further  here.)
It is not entirely clear  whether PS actively misrepresented the ability of Mr and Mrs B to 
move the panels  and the benefits. But it does seem likely that, when they asked if they could 
take the panels with them,  the answer they received was deliberately limited. This may well 
have amounted to an implied misrepresentation or misrepresentation by silence in making a 
statement which was only half true. 
However, I dont consider  it necessary  to make a finding here. Shawbrook already accepts 
that there  were misrepresentations at the point  of sale in relation to the achievable benefit. 
And that, had these  not been made,  Mr and Mrs B would not have entered the 
arrangements. So, whether  any further  misrepresentations  were  made  is not relevant to 
whether Mr and Mrs B would have  taken out the loan.
Ref: DRN70677923Similarly, the additional evidence that Shawbrook as provided  about the terms and 
conditions relating to moving add little weight  in my view. Firstly, Shawbrook has not actually  
shown that Mr and Mrs B most likely  saw this document. Secondly,  the relevant terms are on 
page 8 of a 10-page document. And even if they had an intention  to move at the time, I think 
that if they asked  PS about this and received  the verbal response they say they did, it would 
have been reasonable  for them to rely on this rather than consider this document in depth. 
Shawbrook has disputed  whether Mr and Mrs B had the intention  to move at the time of the 
sale. Having considered their testimony and their personal circumstances though, I am 
persuaded that they did have such an intention. Mr and Mrs B have referred  to the age of 
their children and their growing family; circumstances  which were known to them at the time. 
And I have  no reason  to doubt that their intentions  at the time of the sale were to move 
within a few years.
Like the investigator, I am not persuaded that the sale price of Mr and Mrs Bs property  will 
be greatly improved  by having the panels. Whilst the benefits  they would provide to any new 
owner are a factor, the presence of panels  on a property can also have a negative impact on 
the marketability  and sale price. There are many factors that impact on the sale price of a 
property. And I do not consider this should  be a determinative factor  in deciding the 
appropriate outcome  in this complaint. 
Ultimately, I consider Mr and Mrs B should not have to pay more  for the panels than they are 
likely to receive in benefits as a result of having  them. And these benefits will only be 
achieved whilst they remain in their property. So, in the particular circumstances of this 
complaint, the cost of the panels should also only be something  Mr and Mrs B have to meet 
whilst they remain in the property. 
putting things right
Shawbrook has calculated the likely benefits  of having the panels over the 15-year term of 
the loan. So, Shawbrook should restructure  the loan so that this is all Mr and Mrs B would 
have to pay if they remain in their property for the full term of the loan.
Where Mr and Mrs B have paid more in repayments  than they would have, based on this 
restructuring, Shawbrook should refund them the overpayment. Shawbrook should also add 
8% simple  interest to these overpayments, from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement. HM Revenue  & Customs may require Shawbrook to deduct tax from this interest,  
but Shawbrook  must  give Mrs and Mr R a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if 
they ask for one.
Shawbrook should  also pay Mrs and Mr R £200 compensation for the distress and 
inconvenience caused to them in the handling  of this s.75 claim. 
If Mrs and Mr R move  home, Shawbrook should waive  any debt that is outstanding  on the 
loan balance  at that time.  However,  this would be limited to the balance that would exist 
based on Mrs and Mr R keeping up with the payments of the restructured loan. Any arrears 
that did exist at the time of their house move  would still be payable by Mrs and Mr R. 
Ref: DRN70677924my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Shawbrook Bank Limited should put things 
right by doing what Ive set out above, where it has not already done  so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs and Mr R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 November 2020.
Sam Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7067792