K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) wrongly told her she could still 
withdraw £500 when in fact shed already exceeded  her cash limit. 
background 
In November 2018 Miss B called Barclays and asked them  how much she could withdraw  
within her cash limit. Barclays  were wrong to tell her she could withdraw £500 and Miss B is 
unhappy that, as she did, shes faced interest charges on this amount.
Barclays has accepted  they made an error.  They have explained that Miss B wasnt charged  
a cash transaction  fee on this advance and they offered to pay her £25 in recognition  of the 
error theyd  made. But they explained that, as Miss B had the benefit of the funds, they 
wouldnt return any interest as this was always due. 
Miss B was disappointed with their response  and she therefore referred her complaint to this 
service. Barclays  reviewed the case again and noticed that theyd made an additional error. 
Theyd credited  and not debited the £500 withdrawal  and had had to rectify this situation.  So 
Barclays made an additional offer of £100  to compensate Miss B for the inconvenience this 
may have  caused.  Our investigator  recognised  Barclays had made  mistakes  but thought  
their offer of compensation was now reasonable in the circumstances and he didnt think  
they needed to increase it any further.
But Miss B was still dissatisfied and said that Barclays offer was poor recompense  for the 
time and energy shed put in getting  all this resolved.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise Barclays have  made  errors here but I think the compensation theyve now 
offered is satisfactory. I know that will be disappointing for Miss B but please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Barclays wrongly advised Miss B that she could withdraw an additional £500. But they didnt 
charge her a transaction fee, of £14.95, for this and usually would have. Its true that shell 
pay interest on the £500 until shes  paid it back but this would always  have been due on any 
cash advance and its clear Miss B has had the benefit of the money.  So I dont think  
Barclays need to refund that interest  and I think their offer of £25 to compensate  her for the 
wrong information they provided, is reasonable in the circumstances.
Barclays final response was confusing and didnt identify that £500  had been credited 
instead of debited. I can understand  that Miss B would have been  confused and frustrated 
Ref: DRN71418092by it. But Im grateful  for Barclays recent, more thorough, analysis that has highlighted this 
additional error. Its clear  this was rectified quickly but I think theyre  right to offer additional 
compensation here. Their mistakes have, as Miss B points  out, caused  her some 
unnecessary inconvenience. But I think Barclays offer of £100  compensation is sufficient in 
the circumstances. 
The total compensation paid is now £125 and Miss B has not been charged  a £14.95 
transaction fee. I think thats fair and I wont be asking Barclays to take any additional  action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I uphold  this complaint and tell Barclays to pay Miss B 
£125, or the balance of this that hasnt yet been  credited, to compensate her for the distress 
and inconvenience  theyve caused  her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 April 2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7141809