K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Miss F says Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Fs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Ive seen a copy  of Miss Fs mortgage  application and theres a section related to PPI. 
The box opting  for injury,  illness  and unemployment cover.  Other details, including the 
level of benefit  required, has been entered. Miss F says she didnt tick the box for PPI, 
and that this was done  without her approval. But she signed the mortgage application so 
I think the choices  selected on the form are likely to reflect what she wanted. If she 
hadnt wanted the PPI there  was a box that could be ticked to say PPI not required  
which was left blank.  On balance I think its likely B&B made it clear that Miss F didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand 
why she cant remember this.
B&B didnt recommend the PPI to Miss F so it didnt have to check if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Miss F got the information she needed to decide if it was 
right for her. 
The information Miss F was given  about the cost and benefit was clear. The cost of the 
policy was laid out in the mortgage  offer document as £19.50 per month, and the 
monthly benefit was stated as £300 in the mortgage application and offer document.  But 
the information about other aspects of the policy, such  as limitations and exclusions 
wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it looks 
like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the 
time it doesnt look like she was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover - so it would have  been  useful for her if something went wrong.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.
Miss F feels  strongly  that she didnt need the PPI. She says she had some sick pay she 
couldve relied on. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to any sick pay she wouldve 
received  and for longer. The PPI wouldve paid out for 12 months if she was unable  to 
work because of accident, sickness or unemployment. Miss F also says she had savings 
and that she couldve  relied on her family  to help make  her repayments. But having the 
PPI meant she wouldnt have to rely on her family whose ability to help would depend  on 
their own circumstances at any given time. And having the policy meant she could use 
her savings  to cover  other necessary expenses at what  couldve been a difficult  time. But 
in any event Miss F was given  clear information  about the cost and benefit of this policy 
before she took it out. It was up to her to decide if she wanted to take the policy  with this 
in mind, and I cant see that shes lost out as a result of anything  B&B did wrong here.  
Which means B&B doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss F. 
Ref: DRN76959482But B&B will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss F because : 
B&B got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Miss F about that. Because B&B didnt  tell Miss F, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Miss F has basically  offered  to pay back  the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
Ive thought about everything Miss F has said  but for the reasons Ive already explained  I 
dont think the PPI was mis-sold. 
what the business needs  to do
B&B has to pay back to Miss F any commission and profit share it got that was more  than 
50% of the PPI premium. B&B should  also pay back to Miss F any extra interest she paid 
because of that.
B&B should  pay back to Miss F the extra she paid each month because  the commission  and 
profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. B&B should also pay Miss F 8%* 
simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Miss F can claim  back  the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford and Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Miss F.
But Bradford  and Bingley Plc does  have to pay back to Miss F any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss F to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2019.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7695948