K820x#14complaint
Ms G is unhappy with the way Cabot Credit Management Group Limited  (trading as Cabot 
Financial (Europe) Limited)  has dealt  with her in relation to old debts.
background
Ms G had three  credit accounts with two different  businesses and, after falling into financial 
difficulty, Cabot  purchased the debt from the two credit providers. While Ms G doesnt 
dispute that she has these accounts, she doesnt agree she owes  the amount Cabot are 
asking her to repay. 
Ms G has complained that:
Cabot wont give her a statement of account or other documentary evidence  regarding 
the amount  they are asking  her to repay.
Cabot is pursuing her for a debt that is unenforceable as it hasnt provided copies of 
her original credit agreements, statements and related documents so she thinks  Cabot 
should write off or reduce her debts. 
The original decision to give her the credit in each instance was unfair as each  time it 
was unaffordable and it was apparent she was likely  to fall further into debt.
Cabot has added  charges to the debt,  and has aggressively and unfairly pressured her 
into making payments.
Ms G is being represented in this complaint by a solicitor.
One of our investigators  looked into Ms Gs concerns. He found Cabot hadnt done anything  
wrong. He said that even  though Cabot  arent  able to provide Ms G with the documentation 
shes asking for, because the credit providers have this, this didnt  mean that Ms G doesnt 
have to repay the debt. However,  Cabot  agreed  the debt was unenforceable  until it had 
supplied some of the documentation sought.
The investigator couldnt see that Cabot  had added any charges to the debt, and there was 
nothing to show that Cabot had been aggressive  in their communication  with Ms G. He also 
said that only a court could decide whether a debt was legally  enforceable and agreed  with 
Cabot that, because they werent responsible for the original lending, Ms G would need to 
complain to the original  credit providers about  any irresponsible lending.
Cabot agreed with the investigator but Ms Gs solicitors didnt. They say Ms G disputes that 
a debt is owed  and feel Cabots inability to provide  documents and information about  the 
alleged debt is stopping  Ms G from resolving her debts,  and is having  an effect on her credit 
rating. Theyve said Cabot  will probably never be able to demonstrate a sum is outstanding  
and so a fair outcome would be for Cabot to write  off the alleged debt outstanding. They also 
believe Cabot is purchasing debts without doing  sufficient due diligence  to ensure they are 
properly due.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint is now with me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN76379142my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for the same reasons. 
It isnt the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service to decide on what  policies financial 
businesses have in place when they purchase  debt. This is a decision Cabot can make  in 
line with its regulator   The Financial Conduct Authority. Because  of this I wont comment on 
any due diligence. 
Ms G has accepted that she had three  credit  accounts, with two providers, and she initially  
agreed that theres a balance outstanding on them, though her solicitors have now said this 
isnt true. 
Ive seen evidence  that Cabot has bought this debt from the credit  providers, and Ive not 
seen anything to suggest that they cant ask Ms G to make  payments towards this.
But Cabot has said that the debt is currently unenforceable. However, they also say it 
doesnt mean they cant ask Ms G to make repayments. Ultimately,  whether a debt is 
enforceable is not something I can comment on. As our investigator explained, its for a court  
to decide if a debt is legally  enforceable.
Ms G has said Cabots  actions are affecting her credit rating, but I havent  seen  a copy  of her 
credit file. Because of this, and as there  are a number of factors that make up a credit  rating,  
I cant say what impact, if any, this may have had.
Ms G has also said Cabot  has aggressively and unfairly pressured her into making  
payments, and added  charges to her account,  but Ive seen no evidence to support this. 
I understand Ms Gs frustration that Cabot cant  provide her with the documentation  shes 
asked for. This is because  the original credit  providers have this, and they havent  given it to 
Cabot. I cant expect  Cabot to give Ms G something they dont have and cant  get. If Ms G 
wants this, she might want to ask the original credit providers for it. The credit providers 
could also answer  Ms Gs concerns over the fairness of giving her the credit as this was their 
responsibility. Because of this, I wont be asking Cabot to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Ms Gs complaint about Cabot Credit  
Management Group Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Jennifer Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7637914