K820x#14complaint
Mrs N complains that Volkswagen Financial  Services (UK) Limited trading as 
Seat Financial Services (Seat)  unfairly terminated a hire purchase agreement  for a car. 
background 
In February 2017  Mrs N entered into a four year hire purchase  agreement with Seat for a 
new car. Payments were to be made monthly via direct debit. 
In February 2018  Mrs N direct debit  was returned unpaid and so Seat wrote  to her 
requesting payment. After a second  letter was sent about the arrears  Mrs N got in touch with 
Seat and said that the arrears were  due to a change in her salarys payment date and asked 
for the direct debit  payment  date to be altered. Seat said this would be reviewed and it 
altered the payment dates  from April 2018. 
Mrs N manually paid the February 2018 instalment but she didnt clear  the March  payment. 
The direct debit payment  for April was then returned  meaning the account then had two 
months arrears. Seat was able to re-debit  the April payment which was cleared leaving 
outstanding arrears for the March 2018 payment. 
Letters were  sent to Mrs N by Seat in April, May and June 2018 asking for the arrears to be 
cleared. In June  2018 Mrs N queried  why the letters were being  sent and she told Seat the 
bank should have cleared  the payment. Seat says it told Mrs N to raise  this with her bank as 
Marchs payment remained  outstanding. 
Further letters were sent to Mrs N by Seat in July and September  2018.  Mrs N then paid the 
outstanding March payment at the end of September 2018  and her account was brought  up 
to date. 
In December 2018 the direct debit was returned unpaid  and Seat wrote to her about the 
arrears. In January  2019 the direct  debit was again  returned unpaid meaning  there  were  two 
months of arrears on Mrs Ns account. However  Seat was able to re-debit the direct  debit for 
January 2019  a few days later reducing the arrears  to one month. 
Seat wrote to Mrs N in both January and February 2019 about the outstanding amount on 
her account.  But in March 2019 the direct  debit was returned as unpaid.  At the end of March 
2019 Seat wrote to Mrs N and said that there were two months of arrears now outstanding 
and that the agreement was at risk of being terminated. Seat asked Mrs N to clear the 
arrears or contact it to discuss  the situation.  
In April 2019 Seat issued  a default notice to Mrs N advising her she needed to clear the 
arrears by the end of the month to avoid termination  of the agreement.  And in May 2019 the 
direct debit was returned unpaid.  The following day Seat attempted  to contact Mrs N by 
leaving a message on her mobile phone and it also sent her an email  asking that she make 
contact.
Ref: DRN76663332Seat says there was no contact from Mrs N and so in mid- May it terminated the agreement. 
Two letters were sent to Mrs N the following day advising her that the agreement had been  
terminated and that that a third party company would now be in touch to make  arrangements  
to either  collect the car or for Mrs N to clear  the full outstanding  balance  outstanding.
Two days later Mrs N contacted Seat as she had received contact from the third party  
company. Seat confirmed  the contract had been terminated  following  non-payment  of the 
arrears.
Mrs N complained to Seat that she hadnt been aware the agreement was going  to be 
terminated and that she was able to clear the arrears. Seat didnt uphold her complaint. It 
said it had acted fairly and in accordance  with the agreements terms and conditions.
Mrs N handed the car back and it was sold at auction. The sales  price  for the car didnt cover 
the full outstanding balance under  the agreement and Mrs N was left with a liability of around 
£3,000 to pay.
 Mrs N was unhappy at Seats decision and complained  to this service. Mrs N said her 
financial circumstances had changed  in July 2018  though she was able to keep up payments 
until a post Christmas drop in income.  Mrs N also said she had told Seat about her 
circumstances and said she would  make up the deficit. Mrs N said she didnt receive  any 
letters warning her that the agreement would be terminated.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Mrs Ns complaint should be upheld. She said that 
payments had been missed on Mrs Ns account prior to the change  in her circumstances. 
And that although  Mrs N said she had contacted Seat there wasnt any record of that. Seat 
had written regularly  to Mrs N about  the account  and had sent emails and left voice  mail 
messages for her to call it back. 
A default notice was issued in April 2019  and the agreement was terminated 36 days  later in 
May as Mrs N had made no contact  with Seat in that time.  Our adjudicator  said she thought 
Seats actions had been reasonable  and fair in the circumstances.
Mrs N disagreed with our adjudicators view. She said she had never  received the letters 
stating that the agreement  was going  to be terminated. She said she hadnt  understood  why 
Volkswagen Financial Services had tried to make contact with her as her agreement  was 
with Seat. Mrs N said Seat had acted unfairly  in not accepting her offer to pay the arrears 
and also by selling the car at auction as this had left her with an outstanding  balance of 
around £3,000  to pay.
As the parties were unable to agree  the complaint has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complain.
Looking at the hire purchase agreement signed by Mrs N, it says on the first page at the top 
under the heading Parties to this agreement, that it is between  Volkswagen  Financial 
Services (UK) Limited trading as Seat Finance  and Mrs N. So, I think it would be reasonable 
to have expected Mrs N to have read the agreement and seen how Volkswagen Financial  
Services was involved. However, Im also satisfied that the correspondence and the email  
sent to Mrs N werent misleading.  Thats because all the arrears letters  sent to Mrs N were 
Ref: DRN76663333under the Seat logo and all showed  the cars registration, the agreement number and her 
account reference.
Seat has provided copies  of its contact notes for Mrs Ns account. Ive seen that following  
the missed payment in March 2018 Seat wrote  to Mrs N regularly, until the payment was 
made by her in September 2018  asking her to make contact and pay the arrears.  However,  
there is no note that Mrs N made contact with Seat to explain there had been any change in 
her circumstances. The notes say that Mrs N said it was an error made by her bank that 
caused the arrears  to accrue.
Further payments  were then missed  in December 2018 and January 2019 and, although 
Januarys direct debit  was paid when Seat re-presented the direct  debit, there  continued to 
be problems with payments in March and April 2019. Mrs N says she made contact with 
Seat but I dont have  any evidence that she did and Seat says it didnt hear from her.
I think, as making  the payments were Mrs Ns responsibility, that it would  be reasonable to 
expect her to monitor the direct debits particular as letters were sent to her from Seat in 
January, February  and March 2019  about  missed payments. Seats letter,  sent in 
March 2019, said that the agreement was at risk of being terminated and was followed by 
the default notice in April 2019.
I appreciate Mrs N says she didnt get some of these letters but I have  seen they were all 
correctly addressed and I think  its more  likely  than not that they were sent. I dont know  why 
Mrs N didnt receive them but I cant reasonably say this was Seats  fault. And it was due to 
the lack of contact  from Mrs N that Seat sent her an email asking her to make contact at the 
beginning of May 2019. Mrs N accepts she received this email  but said she thought it might 
be a fake as it came from Volkswagen Financial Services  and not Seat, and it didnt say it 
was urgent. She also says the email  appeared to have come  with an attachment but there  
was nothing accompanying it. Mrs N didnt respond  to this email.
Seat says there was no attachment and looking at the email I cant see that there was 
anything added to it. Seat also says that as this wasnt a secure medium  it wouldnt send any 
confidential information with the email other than a request for Mrs N to call. Although the 
email came  from Volkswagen Financial  Services it was headed Seat  Finance so Im 
unclear why Mrs N didnt respond. Had she checked  her hire purchase  agreement she would  
have seen that Volkswagen Financial Services was involved in her agreement.  Ive also 
seen that this email  was part of an attempt to make  contact  with Mrs N and that a voicemail  
message was also left asking Mrs N to call, though Mrs N says she didnt receive  this.
Due to the lack of contact  Seat made the decision in mid May to terminate  the agreement  
with Mrs N. This is in accordance with the terms and conditions  of the hire purchase 
agreement which set out the consequences of missed payments. And Ive seen that Seat 
followed the correct  process.
Seat wrote and told Mrs N that it had terminated the agreement and that a third party 
company would be in touch  about either collecting  the car or, alternatively, that she would 
have to pay the whole outstanding balance rather than just clear the arrears. It was only after 
the third party  company  contacted Mrs N that she then made contact with Seat. I think Seat 
acted fairly  in not accepting the offer to clear the arrears at that point as the agreement no 
longer existed.           
Ref: DRN76663334Mrs N was unable to clear the full balance and so handed the car back.  The car was sold at 
auction, which is the usual practice in these circumstances, so I cant  say Seats action in 
using this method  to sell the car was unreasonable or unfair. Unfortunately,  the sales  price  
for the car didnt clear  Mrs Ns liability under the agreement and there  remains  an 
outstanding balance.
So, for the reasons given above,  and although  I appreciate this will have been a stressful  
time for Mrs N, Im not upholding her as I think Seat has acted fairly in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Mrs Ns complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7666333