K820x#14complaint
Mr K and Ms A complained about  the two mortgage recommendations which  London and
Country Mortgages Ltd gave them. They said that neither was suitable  for them.
background
Mr K and Ms A had a mortgage with a lender which Ill call A. They  wanted  to move to a
different property, but didnt intend to sell their current property immediately. Their current
lender, A, said it wouldnt lend on a new purchase  unless Mr K and Ms A changed their
existing mortgage  to a buy to let basis.
So Mr K and Ms A went to London and Country  for a mortgage recommendation. Among
other things,  they explained that they wanted a mortgage without an early repayment charge
(ERC). Then they could  pay a lump sum off their new mortgage, when they sold the first
property.
London and Country recommended lender A. But Mr K and Ms A already  knew  that lender A
wouldnt lend in their circumstances.  So they didnt  apply  for that mortgage.
They complained to London  and Country that they werent eligible for a mortgage with
lender A, and they were  also unhappy  that the adviser had only provided one
recommendation rather than several from which they could choose.
London and Country then provided another recommendation, for a lender  Ill call B. And it
asked Mr K to provide  the last two years tax self assessments. Mr K was a contractor who
used a limited company  as the way he ran his business. This meant that he didnt draw all
his income out of the company in one financial year. So the documents  lender B wanted
would only show income of around £50,000 to £60,000. Mr K knew  that this wouldnt be
enough for lender B to agree to the mortgage they wanted for £766,000. So they wouldnt
qualify for a mortgage with lender B either.
Mr K and Ms A said theyd lost trust in London and Country and went elsewhere for their
mortgage.
In its final response to Mr K and Ms As complaint, London and Country agreed that its
recommendation for a mortgage with lender  A hadnt been suitable for Mr K and Ms A. It
apologised, and said it hadnt carried out enough checking before making the
recommendation. But it didnt agree that it should  have provided  multiple  products for
customers to choose  from. It explained that it provided an advised  service which meant  it
had to provide  a recommendation  for the product which it considered most suitable. London
and Country offered Mr K and Ms A £50 compensation.
Mr K and Ms A werent satisfied and complained  to this service. They  said London and
Country had glossed  over how serious  its error was, and it should have checked before
suggesting a product.  If theyd gone  with the recommendation,  theyd have been refused  and
would have lost the property they wanted. They said London and Country  was unfit to
operate a mortgage advice service.
Mr K and Ms A also said that the new mortgage theyd chosen had an ERC. They  said this
meant that when the sale of their existing  property went through,  and they paid a lump sum
off their new mortgage, theyd have  to pay around  £8,000 in early  repayment charges. They
Ref: DRN73772022wanted London and Country  to pay them £8,000, plus compensation and a public apology.
After Mr K and Ms A brought their complaint to this service, London and Country  offered
revised compensation of £100.  Mr K and Ms A refused it.
The adjudicator didnt agree that Mr K and Ms A should have the amount  of compensation
they were seeking.  He did agree  that London and Country should  have known  that its
recommendation of lender A was unsuitable because they werent eligible for that product.
He considered £100 compensation, the amount to which London and Country  had increased
its offer, was fair and reasonable. But the adjudicator said he couldnt comment on the
recommendation of lender B, because the application  had never been submitted. He noted
that Mr K and Ms A had said it wasnt feasible  because Mr K was a contractor  using a limited
company. But he said he couldnt comment on what might have happened.
The adjudicator also said that London  and Country  only provided an advised service,
which was explained  at the start of the process. It didnt  offer multiple options. And he
pointed out that the losses which Mr K and Ms A said they would  make  through paying  an
£8,000 ERC  were the result  of them having  chosen  that mortgage.  London  and Country
hadnt had any input into that decision and werent  responsible.
Mr K and Ms A werent satisfied. They said London and Countrys recommendation of lender
B hadnt been feasible from the start.  They explained that, like most other contractors with a
limited company, they didnt draw all the company income at once, so the self-assessment
documents wouldnt show enough income  to get a £766,000 mortgage approved. So London
and Country shouldnt have recommended lender B without checking. They  also sent links to
two websites which referred to lender Bs policy towards contractors who use a limited
company.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. Before doing  so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Recommendation of lender A
I agreed with Mr K and Ms A that London and Country should  not have recommended
lender A. Lender A wouldnt  lend on any new mortgage while the customers  had an existing
mortgage, unless  they changed  the existing mortgage to a buy to let basis.  That didnt  fit with
what Mr K and Ms A wanted to do. London  and Country should have checked this before
recommending it. It shouldnt have been down to Mr K and Ms A to point out that it wasnt
suitable and why. I agreed  with Mr K and Ms A that there would have been embarrassment,
inconvenience, and time delay if they hadnt  pointed  out that this wouldnt do. So I found that
London and Country made an error.
Recommendation of lender B
Its been widely publicised that lender B doesnt  favour contractors who operate  as limited  
companies. I could see that Mr K, as someone  in that position, might well have  been  aware  
of this. I thought  London and Country  should have been aware too. I was satisfied that Mr K 
told London and Country how he handled  being self-employed.  So I found that London and
Country didnt take enough care with its second recommendation either.
Ref: DRN73772023I recognised that Mr K and Ms A didnt actually submit an application  to lender B, so it wasnt  
possible to say with certainty that theyd have been  refused. But that was also true of the
recommendation of lender A, where  Mr K and Ms A didnt submit an application because
they knew there would  be a problem. I found that it was clear that both recommendations
werent suitable. I considered that London and Country should compensate Mr and Mrs A for
the mistake it made with the recommendation of lender B.
Recommending only one mortgage, rather than a choice
The basis  of an advised service is that a broker should consider which product is most
suitable for customers. They  dont have to provide a number of options, as Mr K and Ms A
believe they should.
I accepted that London  and Country  explained  this at the outset. This was then backed  up by
the first substantive  paragraph of London and Countrys 12 April letter. That says The
enclosed about  our services leaflet  explains  that we are providing you with advice and
recommendation about the mortgage product  that is most suitable for your specific
circumstances.
So I found that the service which London and Country were  providing didnt require it to set 
out a number of options  for Mr K and Ms A to consider. What it was providing was a single
recommendation. As Ive set out above, its single recommendations for lender A, and later
for lender B, were both flawed  but it was correct to provide only one recommended product
each time.
Claim for compensation  for the £8,000 ERC
Mr K and Ms A chose to take out a mortgage which included an ERC.  London  and Country
didnt recommend that mortgage. So it was clear  that London and Country  couldnt  be liable 
for Mr K and Ms As choice.  So I didnt  uphold this part of Mr K and Ms As complaint.
Having considered all four parts  of Mr K and Ms As complaint, I found that London and
Country should compensate them for two elements: the recommendation of lender A, and 
the recommendation of lender B. Neither recommendation was suitable.  London  and
Country made a revised offer of £100  for the unsuitable recommendation of lender A, which  I 
thought was a fair and reasonable figure for that. I said I intended  to add a further award  for 
the unsuitable recommendation of lender B.
But I also found that making a second  unsuitable recommendation would have caused extra
frustration and upset.  One mistake  might be a slip, but it was entirely understandable that
after the second mistake, Mr K and Ms A decided  that they really couldnt trust London and
Country to provide a suitable recommendation, and would  have  to go elsewhere.  This wasnt
the same  thing as saying  London and Country  was responsible for the recommendation of a
product with an ERC, which  Mr K and Ms As replacement choice of broker recommended.
But there would have been  extra frustration,  time pressure and hassle, in having to source  a
replacement broker. So I considered that a fair and reasonable total figure for compensation 
for distress and inconvenience  would be £250.
responses to my provisional  decision
Ref: DRN73772024London and Country said it accepted the provisional  decision and the increase to £250 
compensation.
Mr K and Ms A said they were pleased  that Id recognised  the gravity of London and 
Countrys errors. They said theyd have liked to have  seen  a stronger penalty for breaking 
the trust relationship between client and adviser. Mr K and Ms A believed that London and 
Countrys  existence was pointless if they had to find out for themselves what they would or 
wouldnt qualify for. They  said that although  I hadnt awarded the full compensation they 
sought, they were  willing  to accept the increased compensation to draw  a line under the 
issue.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments, including  the responses to the 
provisional decision, to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my original conclusions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
I order London and Country Mortgages Ltd to pay Mr K and Ms A £250  compensation for 
distress and inconvenience, for the reasons set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K and Ms A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  9 February  2019.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7377202