K820x#14complaint
Ms G complains that Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) gave her unclear information about  her 
pet insurance policy leading her to take a policy elsewhere.
background
Ms G took a pet insurance policy with Allianz  for her cat in January 2015. In December 2018  
Ms G received her annual  renewal document and it mistakenly said her pet didnt have 
continuous cover from 2015  as it should have.
Around a month later Ms G raised this with Allianz  and spoke  to some of its advisors about 
the mistake. In April 2019 it wrote to Ms G. It said the previous letter  had contained the 
wrong date due to an administrative  problem. It said it was looking into the issue to avoid it 
happening again and apologised for the mistake, recognising it had been  unclear.
Allianz confirmed it would consider Ms Gs pet as having continuous cover from 2015. And it 
offered to renew  and continue with Ms Gs policy, reducing the annual  cost by the equivalent 
of one months premium.  And it said if Ms G didnt  want this, it would offer her £30 instead. 
Ms G brought her complaint to our service.  She said shed had issues  with Allianz  in the past 
and felt its complaint  handling had been  poor. And Ms G said she had since  taken out 
insurance with a different company as a result.
One of our investigators  looked into her complaint and didnt uphold it. He agreed  the 
renewal document  included an incorrect  policy start date. And he listened to a number  of 
calls between Ms G and Allianz from when she first raised this issue. He said Allianz  
explained the letter date was wrong and said it would send a revised  letter to reflect this. The 
advisor also reassured Ms G that their system notes would show no gap in cover.  
Ms G then received an email copy of the schedule that included  the incorrect  start date. So 
she called  Allianz  back to clarify. The investigator said he felt this agent was confused about 
what had happened. But when Ms G called a third time the agent clearly understood the 
mistake, and again told her that they would look into how to fix the problem,  but assured her 
she wouldnt  have a gap in cover. Overall the investigator felt Allianz had clarified its mistake 
and clearly explained Ms Gs cat would have continuous cover from 2015 as she wanted.
So the investigator said he didnt think Allianz  was responsible for Ms Gs decision to insure 
her pet elsewhere.  And he felt Allianzs  offer to put things right was fair. He also said he was 
only able to consider  complaints about regulated  activities.  Because complaint handling isnt 
a regulated activity  he wasnt  unable to look into Ms Gs concerns about this.
Ms G disagreed and said it was reasonable to take a policy  elsewhere in light of the 
uncertainty Allianz had created. So the complaint has been passed  to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN70137402Ms G says Allianz did not provide  her with clear details about her policy. So Ive thought 
about whats happened, taking into account the relevant rules and whats  fair and 
reasonable. ICOBS  requires Allianz to communicate  with its customers  in a clear,  fair, and 
not misleading way.
In this case its not in dispute that Ms G received an unclear letter  from Allianz indicating  her 
policy start date was later than it shouldve been. So Ive considered  the impact of this 
mistake, listening to the calls Ms G had with Allianz  following the letter. Within these calls 
advisors were quick to reassure Ms G the cover  would  still be in place from 2015  without a 
gap. And while  the second advisor Ms G spoke with seemed less clear  about what 
happened, this was resolved shortly  after when Ms G spoke to another  agent. 
I imagine Ms G wouldve  been concerned when she first read the letter and called Allianz.  
But following  her conversations with its advisors  I think it quickly became clear the date 
printed was a mistake.  And Im satisfied within these  calls Ms G was promptly  told the nature 
of the error and that it might  not be resolved immediately in writing.
Ms G complains that it took some time for this to be clarified in writing. And I agree Allianz 
didnt provide this immediately.  But I think it was clear from the calls that this was purely an 
administrative mistake and wouldnt impact  on the policy  start date of Ms Gs insurance. So I 
think Ms Gs decision to take a policy elsewhere  at this point was her own. And I dont think  it 
would be fair to hold Allianz responsible for this decision.
Allianz offered  to reinstate  Ms Gs cover (reducing the cost by the value  of one months  
premium), or it said it would  offer her £30 instead. I think this offer was fair, but Ms G didnt 
accept the reinstatement.  And based on what shes  told us, it seems she is continuing her 
cover with another insurer instead. So Allianz has said it would give her £30. Taking into 
account the impact  of its mistakes, I conclude that such an offer is fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances.
As our investigator has outlined, Im unable to consider Ms Gs concerns about complaint  
handling as this is not a regulated  activity.
my final decision
My decision  is that Allianz Insurance Plc should pay Ms G £30 if it hasnt done  so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 July 2019.
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7013740