K821x#15Complaint
Mr M complains that he met with an adviser  from Standard Life Client Management Limited  
(Standard Life) who failed  to inform him of his entitlement  for an enhanced annuity, meaning  
he got a smaller annuity than he was entitled to.
Background
Mr M met with an adviser from Standard  Life in January and February  2009  where  a fact-find  
was completed and areas of financial advice considered. The adviser  didnt recommend the 
purchase of an annuity at that time. Mr M explainsc that he later became concerned  about  
falling annuity  rates and financial market uncertainty,  so decided that he wanted  to crystallise 
his pension benefits.
So Mr M contacted his adviser  from Standard  Life in early  March 2009 requesting annuity 
quotes for two pensions  that he held. One was an Executive Pension Plan with Standard Life 
and the second was a personal pension holding  protected rights benefits  held with another  
company.
Standard Life provided Mr M with quotes  from Canada Life who was part of their panel  of 
annuity providers.  Mr M transferred his pension plans to the third-party annuity provider and 
his annuities were  set up in April 2009. 
In 2018 Mr M was contacted by Standard Life about a pension  review on an annuity that 
theyd sold him in 2012. This was purchased using a separate pension  with Standard Life 
and unrelated to the sale in 2009.  This was a non-advised  annuity sale that was reviewed  as 
part of the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA)  thematic review of such  sales. The result  of 
the review was that Mr M may have  been eligible for an enhanced annuity. So, Standard  Life 
applied redress according to the FCA model  enhancing Mr Ms annuity. 
The result of this review caused Mr M to question whether he wouldve also been eligible for 
an enhanced annuity in 2009. So Mr M complained to Standard  Life that he should have 
been provided with the option of an enhanced  annuity quote for the annuity  he took in 2009.
Standard Life investigated Mr Ms case and didnt  uphold his complaint.  They  explained that 
they hadnt advised Mr M to take an annuity  and had just facilitated his request. They also 
contacted the third party that provided Mr Ms annuity to see whether Mr M wouldve 
qualified for an enhanced  annuity at the time.  Standard  Life sent them  the same health  and 
lifestyle questionnaire that theyd used  in their 2018 review of his 2012 annuity  sale.  That 
recorded that Mr M had high blood  pressure, and was on medication for that. The annuity 
provider said that Mr M wasnt entitled  to an enhanced annuity  based on that information.
Mr M contacted the annuity provider in question because he couldnt understand how he 
was entitled to an enhanced annuity on health  grounds on the Standard Life annuity  he 
bought in 2012 but not the one in 2009. He explained that the condition of his health was the 
same in both instances. The third-party annuity  provider explained that they wouldve only 
enhanced the annuity for high blood  pressure if a consumer was on more than one type of 
medication, which Mr M says he was.
Mr M brought his complaint to our service and our investigator looked into the 
circumstances. He obtained more detailed information about the circumstances of Mr Ms 
health. When he shared  the relevant information  with the third-party  annuity  provider  they 
confirmed that Mr M wouldve been  entitled  to an enhanced annuity on one of his plans in 
Ref: DRN762397222009. They  wouldnt have  offered  enhanced annuity rates on his other  plan which were 
protected rights benefits. The calculations they provided indicated that his enhanced  annuity 
on the eligible  plan could have been  £9574.40 per year. £21.44 per year more than he 
received.
Our investigator upheld  Mr Ms complaint explaining  that Standard Life had a duty to treat 
customers fairly and should have explored the option of an enhanced annuity when looking 
to provide Mr M with the best annuity he could get from their panel  of providers. He said they 
should have recorded enough information  to present to their annuity providers even though  
their initial advice had not been  to take an annuity.
Standard Life didnt agree  that theyd  treated  Mr M unfairly. So this case  has been referred 
for an ombudsmans  decision.  I issued a provisional decision, explaining my thoughts  on this 
case and giving both parties the opportunity to comment.
My provisional findings
In my provisional findings I said:
Standard Life have provided  the notes from the meetings early in 2009  between Mr M and 
their adviser, when a fact-find was done  with Mr M. In the introductory details, Standard  Life 
have checked  the box to indicate that Mr M was in good health. But below that did note 
on medication for high blood pressure. Not a significant problem and unlikely to have an 
impact on life expectancy.  Medication means that this is under control.  So Standard Life 
were aware of a medical condition that Mr M had prior to his request for annuity quotes.  I 
think the way the comment was recorded  though implied that it wasnt considered to be 
significant by the adviser.
The fact-find document itself doesnt  provide detail of what  subsequent advice Mr M was 
given or why. Standard Life have pointed out though  that their adviser didnt recommend 
buying an annuity at that time. This is accepted by Mr M. He hasnt complained that he 
shouldnt have been sold an annuity. His complaint has always been about  whether he was 
provided with the best annuity  option  for him. So although Standard Life may be correct  in 
what theyve said about the advice offered I dont think its relevant to this complaint.
Mr M has provided a detailed timeline  about the purchase of his annuity in 2009.  He has 
kept a record  of when he contacted Standard Lifes adviser because he explains he was 
eager to get his pensions transferred before the quote for his annuity expired. It details 
issues he experienced with a delay  in transferring one of his pensions. This complaint isnt 
about those delays, but I think  the information  he kept is more likely than not to be accurate 
for those  reasons.
Mr Ms record shows that he asked for annuity quotes from Standard Life on 2 March  2009. 
He says that he was contacted by Standard Lifes adviser and told which  annuity provider  
from Standard  Lifes  panel  would  give the best annuity. Mr M has said that he trusted  the 
adviser and went ahead with an application. 
The annuity  provider has shown us a copy of the application form that was signed  by Mr M 
on 6 March. Only four days  after the request for quotes. The form has a page for 
intermediary details. Its filled out with the name  and details  of Standard Lifes  adviser. Mr M 
says the form was completed  by the adviser  and brought to him to sign,  and the form would 
seem to support  that. Correspondence shows that Standard Life sent the application  to the 
annuity provider  on 11 March 2009. 
Ref: DRN76239723Mr M says that he was never provided  with a range of annuity options. Standard Life havent 
been able to show us that quotes  were  obtained  for Mr M. They havent been able to show  
us any correspondence  relating to the choice of annuity they suggested  to Mr M. The time 
taken from requesting quotes  to completing  an application was short. It is more likely than 
not, that Mr M didnt  see a range  of options  because he was given the most competitive  
quote for a standard annuity from the panel  of providers that Standard  Life had.
Standard Life have shown us a copy of the Retirement Guide they used at the time which  
they say explained about the availability of enhanced  annuities.  In this case  though, Mr M 
shouldnt have had to rely entirely  on the information in a Retirement Guide. He had the 
benefit of an adviser  to explain  his options. When Mr M decided he wanted to purchase  an 
annuity, he was entitled to place  his trust in Standard Life to advise him of the annuity  
options available to him. This is irrespective of the fact that Standard  Life didnt advise  on 
taking an annuity  in the first place.
Standard Life had already  established that Mr M suffered from high blood pressure. Had 
Standard Life explored that, they could  have found out that Mr M had been taking two 
different types  of medication to control  his blood pressure for several years at that point. 
Standard Life should then have  forwarded  details of Mr Ms medical conditions to their panel 
of providers to see whether  he qualified for a better  annuity rate because  of that. 
I dont know what information Standard  Life presented to their panel of providers when 
getting annuity quotes for Mr M. In Standard  Lifes final response  to Mr Ms complaint  they 
said, its reasonable  to conclude that the above led  to assume  that there was little to be 
gained by pursuing an enhanced annuity.  This observation, coupled with the comment 
recorded on the fact find by their adviser, mean its likely that Standard Life didnt  think Mr M 
would qualify and therefore didnt request enhanced annuity quotes  for him.
The Financial Services Authority (FSA)  published  industry rules in the Conduct of Business 
Sourcebook (COBS) that applied in 2009.  Section 2.1.1R  said that a firm must act  in 
accordance with the best interests of its client. Standard  Life were aware that Mr M had a 
condition that may have  qualified him for an enhanced annuity, and it should have 
investigated that option to provide him the best annuity available.  If its panel of annuity 
providers were unable  to provide an enhanced  annuity then Mr M shouldve  been told that 
he may be able to obtain an enhanced  annuity  if he exercised the open market  option. For 
the reasons Ive given, I cant see that Standard Life did this.
As part of our investigation Canada Life were given further detail of Mr Ms medical history 
and they said that Mr M wouldve qualified for an enhanced annuity with them. It was 
Standard Lifes  responsibility to make  Canada Life aware of Mr Ms circumstances  and 
request the quote. If Standard Life had done  that, its more likely  than not that Mr M would 
have a better annuity than the one he ended up with.
The response  to my provisional  findings
Im grateful  that both parties have taken the time to provide considered responses to my 
provisional findings. 
In Mr Ms response he agreed with the decision Id provisionally reached.
Standard Life disagreed  with my view. They didnt provide any additional evidence  that had 
not already been provided in the course of our investigation. They  re-iterated their 
arguments that:
Ref: DRN76239724Annuity quotes  must have been  provided for Canada Life to have been  chosen
Mr M must have received the accompanying literature, so must have been aware he 
could seek an annuity elsewhere
Their adviser wasnt responsible for recommending Mr M arrange  an enhanced 
annuity elsewhere
If Canada Life offered an enhanced annuity option, they made no reference to it in 
their paperwork
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Standard Life have said that Mr M must  have been provided with quotes and must have 
seen their Retirement Guide that would have explained about  enhanced annuities. Mr M 
says he didnt receive them though. And Standard Life cant  produce evidence  that he was 
sent the guide. And cant now show us annuity  quotes that were prepared or sent to Mr M. I 
have to base my decision on the evidence available, so I cant assume he must have had it. 
In this case though,  Mr M shouldnt have had to rely entirely on the information in a 
Retirement Guide. He had the benefit of an adviser  to explain his options.  Regardless of the 
fact that Standard Life didnt advise on taking an annuity in the first place. Standard Life 
knew about his medical condition  and they were requesting annuity quotes for him. So their 
adviser should have forwarded information  about  Mr Ms medical conditions to annuity 
providers. Standard Life were facilitating  the annuity  purchases and were involved in the 
process throughout. They referred him to the annuity provider so he would have assumed it 
was the best quote for him. He would have relied  on what the adviser was telling him and not 
on any accompanying literature (even if he received it).
Having considered all of the evidence  and the responses to my provisional decision I still 
think that Standard Life didnt provide Mr M with the service it should  have.  For the reasons 
Ive explained  Im upholding Mr Ms complaint.
Putting things  right
Having decided that Standard Life didnt treat Mr M fairly, my role is to try to put Mr M in the 
position he would otherwise have  been in. To do this Standard Life will first need to 
determine what kind of enhanced annuity would have been available to him from the panel 
of advisers they had in 2009.  He can then be compensated for the loss of income since his 
annuity started,  and compensated for the future losses.
There is already an established means  to determine if customers  would have been entitled 
to an enhanced annuity and what that would have  been. This was set out by FCA following  
its thematic review of non-advised annuity  sales. This case wouldnt have qualified for a 
review. But the mechanism of determining the potential loss is relevant to this case.
Standard Life should use the FCA enhanced  annuity redress  calculator to work out if Mr M 
wouldve been entitled to an enhanced annuity on his annuity purchase (on the combined  
pension transfers), and if so the amount. It should  then be compared to the enhanced 
Ref: DRN76239725annuity that Canada Life has already said Mr M would have been  entitled to (£21.44  per 
year). And the higher of the two should  be used as the annuity increase Mr M shouldve had.
To compensate Mr M for his past loss Standard Life should:
pay Mr M the backdated annuity  increase  that he should have had as income since  
2009 to date, net of his marginal rate of tax (presumed to be 20%), as a lump  sum.
apply 8% simple interest  to the net back payments from the date those payments 
were due to the date of my final decison  to compensate  Mr M for being deprived  of 
the use of that income.
To compensate Mr M for future losses Standard Life should either:
top up Mr Ms existing annuity with Canada Life to reflect  the enhancement he should 
have had
or, if thats  not possible:
work out the cost of buying  an annuity  to provide the enhancement Mr M should  have 
had, with the same features as his existing annuity. This should  be done  by using 
published annuity rate tables and getting  a quote  from a competitive provider.
pay Mr M a lump  sum equivalent to the cost of buying the annuity  above, after 
making a notional reduction  to allow for the income tax that would otherwise be paid 
at his likely rate (presumed to be 20%).
My final decision
For the above reasons, I uphold Mr Ms complaint.
I direct  Standard Life to compensate Mr M in the manner I have set out above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 January 2021.
Gary Lane
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7623972