K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K have  complained that HSBC UK Bank  Plc (HSBC) have mis-sold them  a fee-
paying Advance (previously known as a Plus account) packaged  bank account.
background
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and they didnt think the account had been 
mis-sold. Mr and Mrs Ks representative  disagreed and asked for the complaint to be 
reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive used this to help me 
decide this case.
Mr and Mrs K have  said that they were misled into thinking that fee-free accounts  were not 
yet available  and that having  a fee-paying account was their only option. However, Mr and 
Mrs Ks representative also says that they dont remember agreeing to the upgrade. 
HSBC has provided  evidence to show that Mr K held a fee-free account with HSBC since  
2006. So based on this evidence, alongside Mr and Mrs Ks conflicting  testimony  about  the 
sale of the packaged account,  I think they were  more  likely to have been aware fee-free 
accounts were available - as Mr K already had one and Mrs K opened  one around the same  
time as the Advance account was sold to them.  And I think  that were aware they didnt have 
to have a packaged account  if they didnt want one.
HSBC says it sold the account  on a non-advised basis. Mr and Mrs Ks representative says 
that the Advance account was recommended to them. But based on what  Mr and Mrs K 
have said, alongside  what I know about  HSBCs sales process I dont think the account was 
sold on an advised or recommended basis. This means HSBC didnt have to check if it was 
right for them. But it did have to give them enough information about  the account,  so that 
they could decide if it was right for them.
Mr and Mrs K say that they were aware of the monthly fees on the account, but the account 
benefits werent explained to them. Whereas  HSBC says that it wouldve been part of its 
sales process to explain  what the benefits of the account were.  
Given that the account fee was clearly  discussed with Mr and Mrs K, then I think  its likely 
that they wouldve also been  told what benefits  theyd get in return  for the monthly fee. As 
such, I think that Mr and Mrs K were  more likely than not given some information about  the 
account and the associated benefits  that it came  with during the sale.
Due to the lack of information available from the sale, I appreciate that Mr and Mrs K may 
not have been given  all of the important information about the account. But Ive not seen 
anything about  their circumstances that makes me think they wouldve been  put off from 
agreeing to the account, had they been given  more information about  it.
I appreciate that, with the benefit  of hindsight, Mr and Mrs K may now think  that the account  
has been poor value for money.  But that does not mean that HSBC was wrong to have sold 
Ref: DRN76427552it to them  when it did. And taking everything into account, Ive not seen enough to say that 
the Advance account was mis-sold to Mr and Mrs K.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 April 2020.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7642755