K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1997. Mr and Mrs S say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold  them  the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a loan with Nationwide. The loan was joint names. At the same time 
they were sold a PPI policy.
There is very little information  available from the time of the sale, but Nationwide  has told us 
that as Mrs S was the first named on the loan agreement the policy wouldve covered her 
against being unable to work due to an accident,  sickness or unemployment. 
Nationwide cant tell us if the loan was secured  or unsecured. 
If it was secured the PPI couldve paid Mrs S a monthly benefit  equivalent  to the loan 
repayment for up to 12 months if she lost her job and for 24 months if she couldnt work due 
to an accident  or sickness. 
If the loan was unsecured the monthly benefit  from any PPI claim would be payable for up to 
12 months if Mrs S lost her job or couldnt  work  due to an accident or sickness.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators findings  so the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Nationwide hasnt been able to send  all the paperwork  from the time and has limited 
information about the sale and whether  it was a secured or unsecured  loan which               
Mr and Mrs S took out. This isnt unusual and its understandable in view of the time that has 
gone by since  the sale took place. But where  there is limited information,  I will make  my 
decision based on whats more likely  to have happened, taking into account  the evidence 
available, what  both  parties have told me and what we know about  these types  of sale.
Mr and Mrs S have  told us they didnt  know the policy was optional and theyve said 
Nationwide scared  them into taking the PPI.
Nationwide hasnt been able to show us a copy of the loan agreement,  but I think  its likely  
some discussion  took place about  the PPI. The records  do show  that Mr and Mrs S paid the 
premiums for the PPI separately to the loan repayment. So the PPI premiums would be paid 
from their current  account and be shown on their bank statements. And Mr and Mrs S paid 
the premiums for some time until July 2000. If the PPI was something  they didnt want  or 
only took because  they felt pressured at the time of the sale,  Id expect them to have 
questioned the premiums  at an early stage. But Ive not seen any evidence  they did so.
Ref: DRN71181152Taking everything into account  I think Nationwide most likely made it clear that Mr and Mrs S 
didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose  to take it out  although I can understand why 
they cant remember this after so many years.
From what  I know of how Nationwide sold PPI at the time, I dont think  it recommended the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs S so it didnt have  to check if it was suited to them.  But it did have to 
make sure Mr and Mrs S got the information  they needed to decide if it was right for them.  
Its possible the information Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs S about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks  like they wanted  this type 
of cover.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of the sale it doesnt  look like 
she was affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover - so it would have  
been useful for her if something went wrong.
Mrs S has told us she cant recall if she would have received sick pay from her employer or 
how long any sick pay would last. The policy sold to Mr and Mrs S couldve paid a monthly 
benefit for up to 12 months (24 months  if the loan was secured)  if Mrs S was too unwell to 
work. And itd also pay a benefit if she lost her job. And the cover would mean Mr and Mrs S 
would not need to use their savings if Mrs S couldnt work. So I think Mr and Mrs S wouldve 
valued the extra security, especially if the loan was secured on their home. 
Mr and Mrs S have  said that money was tight at the time, but Ive not seen any evidence that 
the PPI premiums were  unaffordable. And if money  was tight its likely Mr and Mrs S 
wouldve wanted to ensure they could afford the loan repayments if Mrs S couldnt work or 
lost her job.
Mr and Mrs S continued to pay the premiums for some  time. As the policy  was paid for on a 
monthly basis, they couldve been  cancelled  at any time without Mr and Mrs S losing out
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put Mr and Mrs S off taking out 
the cover. 
In summary,  I think its likely Nationwide made  Mr and Mrs S aware  of the PPI policy, and 
that it was optional. And I think  Mr and Mrs S chose to take it out. And, while I cant  be sure 
about the information Nationwide  gave Mr and Mrs S at the time, I dont think  theyd  have 
chosen not to buy the policy, even if they were given all the information they should have 
been. 
I can see that while investigating the complaint Nationwide  noticed  an administration  error on 
the policy which resulted in Mr and Mrs S making  a small overpayment.  Nationwide has 
refunded this with interest and I think that is fair. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against  
Nationwide Building  Society.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2019.
Ref: DRN71181153Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7118115