K820x#14complaint
Miss H says Bank  of Scotland  Plc (BOS) mis-sold her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Miss H bought the policy in 1999  around  the same  time as taking out a mortgage. She 
applied for the PPI policy over the phone. 
The policy provided  cover  for Miss H for accident, sickness, and unemployment  subject to 
its exclusions and limitations.  It offered to repay  £300 a month towards Miss Hs mortgage 
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £15.18  a month.  
At the time,  Miss H was employed as a sales  executive. She has told us she was entitled to 
six months full sick pay. She also says she was entitled to death in service pay. Miss H has 
said she was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
BOS has sent us screenshots to show that the mortgage account closed in 2003. 
Miss Hs representative has made  lengthy and substantial representations  on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Miss Hs representative says:
BOS failed to meet  the sales standards which applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Miss H wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Miss Hs 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BOS should  have told 
Miss H about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BOS should  have explained  
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Miss H and the impact  
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Miss H received was misleading. These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN78952992Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Miss H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Miss Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Miss Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2003. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BOS  at the time. So Im satisfied I should  take the ABI Code and these 
Ref: DRN78952993other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Miss Hs case.  
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BOS  
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Miss Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BOS gave advice, whether it advised  Miss H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BOS gave Miss H sufficient,  appropriate and timely  information  to enable  
her to make an informed choice about  whether to take out the policy,  including  
drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading  way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Miss H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Miss H suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Miss H and 
BOS, Ive decided  not to uphold Miss Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning  below. 
did Miss H know  she had a choice?
Ref: DRN78952994BOS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. BOS  says the PPI was sold over 
the phone. It hasnt  been able to provide a copy of the call recording, or sales script used by 
the advisor. This isnt surprising considering the length of time since the sale.  BOS has 
provided us with a welcome letter addressed  to Miss H which says thank you for 
choosingMortgage Repayments Insurance. So taking  everything into account,  I think its 
more likely that Miss H knew the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out without 
undue pressure. 
did BOS provide  advice?
BOS says that advice  was provided during this sale. Miss H says no advice was provided. 
Based on what I know about how BOS  sold policies like Miss Hs around this time I think its 
more likely that it did provide advice to her during this sale.  
This means  BOS had to advise Miss H with reasonable care and skill, in particular whether 
the policy was appropriate or suitable given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what was discussed in the phone call, but there is a printed document  titled  
mortgage repayments  insurance application which I think was likely completed as a result 
of the phone call conversation.  It indicates  that BOS took some  steps  to establish whether 
the policy was a suitable recommendation  for Miss H. The adviser had information  about 
some of Miss Hs financial circumstances as part of the mortgage  application. And although 
some questions appear to have  been  asked to establish whether Miss H had a need for the 
policy  by asking  questions about her wider circumstances such  as any health issues  I 
dont think it did enough to ensure the PPI was suitable. There is nothing  on the application 
to suggest she was asked about  her employee benefits or other  means of making her 
repayments. 
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded BOS  did all it should have done to 
determine whether  the policy was suitable  for Miss H given her circumstances. So Im not 
persuaded BOS  advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded BOS did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Miss H, I do think  its more  likely  than not that the policy  was ultimately suitable  
for her. In reaching  that conclusion Ive taken  into consideration:
-Miss H met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Miss H had a need for the policy   it seems likely that Miss Hs ability to continue to 
meet her mortgage repayments would have  been  put under strain  if Miss H was not 
working for an extended period  of time  even allowing for sick pay benefits she says 
she would have  been entitled to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Miss H.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Miss H. There  
was nothing about Miss Hs employment or occupation which would have  made it 
difficult for her claim. And she hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect her ability to claim. 
Ref: DRN78952995-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim 
for disability or unemployment, it still provided  useful cover  given  Miss Hs 
circumstances including  her employers sickness provisions and the limits  to those 
provisions, which mean the policy could play an important role after those provisions 
were exhausted; and the fact the policy protected the mortgage repayments relating 
to her home and the potential consequences  should Miss H be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 months for each claim, 
it still provided valuable  cover  given: Miss Hs circumstances,  the fact the policy 
protected the mortgage repayments  relating  to her home and the potential 
consequences should Miss H be unable to make the repayments on loans  secured  
against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  BOS gave Miss H sufficient information 
about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  BOS was 
recommending to her and make an informed decision about whether to follow  that advice 
and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Miss H was given a broad description of what the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Miss H was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Miss H would  have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be. 
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  BOS gave sufficient 
information in her phone call conversation about  the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost 
or about the exclusions  or limitations before Miss H agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Miss H Im not persuaded BOS did 
enough to present information about the policy it was recommending in a way that was fair 
and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded BOS  gave Miss H all of the information she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Miss Hs representative has raised a 
number of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Miss Hs. 
Ive considered these  carefully and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Miss Hs representative considers  to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
Ref: DRN78952996-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Miss H about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone  further  and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Miss Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith 
in insurance law imposed  a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose material facts and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Miss H has suggested. And taking into account the law, industry codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BOS ought to have done  either. 
what effect did BOSs shortcomings have  on Miss H? To what extent  did Miss H suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BOS  didnt do all it should  have done  when  it sold this policy to Miss H. So I 
have gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Miss H 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Miss H 
would have still taken  out the policy, had BOS done things properly. 
While Im not persuaded BOS took the steps it should  have done  to establish whether the 
policy it recommended  was suitable for Miss H, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her. 
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Miss H has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if BOS had explained things properly, 
Miss H would have acted differently, or whether  she would have taken out the policy in any 
event.
Miss H says she wouldnt have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. Ive considered the representations of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Miss H had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when BOS  advised her that there was a suitable 
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Miss Hs circumstances at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
Although I consider it more likely than not that Miss H knew  she would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear BOS told her the exact premium at the point Miss 
Ref: DRN78952997H applied for the policy. Having  said that, it seems likely  Miss H would have been told the 
cost before the policy started and she paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with their expectations at the point  of sale, its possible she 
might have raised that with BOS at the time, or reconsidered her decision.
Overall, Im not persuaded Miss H would have found  the cost unacceptable if she had been 
given the exact figure during the phone call in which she agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  BOS  made  clear  exactly what Miss H would  get back in return 
in the event she made a successful claim. But I think its unlikely Miss Hs expectations 
about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount  sufficient  to meet  her 
mortgage payment)  was significantly different to what the policy actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Miss H thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
which Miss H knew about or should  have known about or for which she received 
advice, treatment of counselling from any doctor during the 12 months before the 
start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Miss H 
wasnt a permanent employee;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Miss H be unable  
to do her own job, a similar job or any paid work which her experience,  education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Miss H pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt  as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Miss H from taking  out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Miss Hs circumstances  at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Miss H was eligible for its benefits  and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Miss H wouldve been  caught by any of the significant exclusions  Miss H didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think she had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Miss H 
might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Miss H from taking out the policy, Miss H, in her circumstances, still had 
some good  reasons to take it out.
Ref: DRN78952998If Miss H had known she could only claim for disability  if she was unable  to do both her job 
or a similar job which  in the insurers view she might reasonably become qualified for, it 
might have played into her thinking  about what she would have done. And I accept  it may 
have given her pause  for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if Miss H was unable (through disability) to carry on her own 
occupation the chances that she would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in 
all probability, be limited.
BOS may not have  told Miss H that any claim she made would be limited  to a 12-month  
period. This may have  differed from what she expected and might have hoped  for  but 12 
months was a longer period than Miss H would  have received full sick pay for and her 
statutory redundancy entitlement was also significantly less than 12 months income.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Miss H would still have thought a policy  that paid 
up to 12 monthly mortgage  payments would have  been of benefit to her and would help her 
manage the consequences  should  Miss H be unable to work in the circumstances covered 
by the policy.  The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce her 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure her home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Miss H would  still have  taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Miss H was made  redundant, or unable  to work 
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Miss H 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Miss Hs representatives say the rules about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Miss H would not have bought  the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Miss Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Miss H 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Miss H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
Ref: DRN78952999proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Miss H in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BOS should  pay Miss H compensation,  as that would put her in 
a better  position than she would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Miss H thinks BOS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of BOSs 
statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BOS failed to act 
fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BOS gave Miss H, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Miss Hs representative says a court might take if it 
were to find BOS negligently  misrepresented the contract to Miss H and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that BOS had been in breach of its duty of utmost  good  
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Miss H in a better position  than if everything  had happened  as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 May 2021.
Gemma Farrell  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7895299