K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F have  complained about  their treatment by HSBC  UK Bank plc over the 
withdrawal of an overdraft  facility. This resulted  in considerable overdraft and interest 
charges and the retention by HSBC of money that was paid into the account in March 2018.
background
Mr and Mrs F live overseas. They mostly  live in an apartment in the city but have another  
property in the country. This is an older property which needs considerable upkeep.
Mr F was a partner in a consultancy. Mr and Mrs F hold a number of accounts with HSBC.  
In June 2016 HSBC approved a permanent £2,000 overdraft limit on their account  ending 
8655. Mr and Mrs F anticipated a number  of additional costs  but also believed theyd be able 
to secure a home  equity loan to pay for some of these.  In December 2016 Mr and Mrs F 
secured a further facility from HSBC. Their agreement was to borrow  a total of £225,000.  
£144,000 was to funded by an overdraft facility.  This agreement was for a year and during 
that period Mr and Mrs F were to pay off the overdraft by £30,000 a quarter from Mr Fs 
partnership income.
Mr and Mrs F were  unable to secure other funding. No payments  were made towards  the 
overdraft. In March 2017  HSBC  was asking for repayment of the overdraft as no initial  
quarterly payments were  forthcoming from Mr and Mrs F. By August 2018 HSBC were  
sending Mr and Mrs F final demands for repayment  of the debt. On 19 September  2018 
HSBC closed this account. Mr and Mrs F are being  asked to repay  more  than £145,000 by 
the debt recovery  company.
Mr and Mrs F complained to HSBC about  how theyd been treated. They explained the 
reasons why theyd  not been  able to repay  the debt and felt HSBC  should give them more 
time to sort out alternative financing. They were also concerned that the withdrawal  of the 
overdraft facility had increased their debt by adding overdraft interest and ancillary bank  
charges to their debt.  Mr F had also taken out part of his pension  to pay some of the debt. 
Some of this money had been retained  by HSBC and offset the debt in April 2018. Hed lost 
the tax free portion of this and believed HSBC  should recompense  him.
HSBC didnt agree theyd  mistreated Mr and Mrs F. Theyd had an overdraft arrangement 
which Mr and Mrs F were  then unable to settle. There  was no reason why HSBC shouldnt  
expect them to repay what was owed.
Still dissatisfied, Mr and Mrs F brought their complaint to the ombudsman  service.
Our investigator completed  his detailed review having received evidence  from HSBC and 
Mr and Mrs F. He didnt  think  HSBC had done anything  wrong.  He appreciated HSBC asking 
Mr and Mrs F to repay the debt had had a major impact on them.  But he saw nothing to 
indicate that HSBC had breached any agreement with Mr and Mrs F or overall had treated 
them unfairly. It wasnt until 2018  HSBC started  to take formal recovery action  despite  
Mr and Mrs F never making any repayments to their overdraft.
Mr and Mrs F remained unhappy with this outcome. Theyve asked an ombudsman to make  
a decision on their complaint.
Ref: DRN77484542my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I explain below why Ive reached  the conclusion  I have.
Im aware that Ive summarised  this complaint  above in far less detail than either  of the two 
parties and Ive done so using my own words.  Im not going to respond  to every single point 
made by all the parties involved. No discourtesy is intended by this. Instead, Ive focussed 
on what I think are the key issues here. 
This simply  reflects  the informal nature of our service as a free alternative  to the courts. If 
theres something Ive not mentioned, it isnt because Ive ignored it. I havent. Im satisfied I 
dont need to comment on every individual argument  to be able to reach  what I think is the 
right outcome.
Im also aware of the detail contained in our investigators views of 16 September  2019 and 
4 December 2020. This covers what happened. It also provides a response to the issues  
Mr and Mrs F have  raised in their detailed submissions, which  Ive considered  fully. I also 
asked HSBC for additional evidence more recently.
The central issue is around the original agreement by HSBC  to grant an overdraft facility  of 
£144,000 and whether  they were  then able to withdraw it, leaving Mr and Mrs F with a 
substantial debt to repay.  The other complaint points Mr F has raised  flow from this issue.  
Mr F has argued  that HSBC was well aware  that the overdraft may not be repaid within the 
original timespan and that hed detected no concern with that approach.   
However I disagree. It seems  clear to me from the email confirming the overdraft that this 
was to be repaid  by Mr Fs quarterly partnership payments at the rate of £30,000  per quarter. 
Ive also seen considerable correspondence between HSBC  and Mr F over a prolonged 
period. Ive also seen  statements for account  ending 8655. Theres  no evidence any 
payments were ever made to repay any of this overdraft.   
In February 2017  to reflect  the expectation theyd  be receiving £30,000 from Mr and Mrs F, 
the overdraft was reduced to £114,000.
HSBC extended  the full overdraft until 16 November 2017. Then a further extension  was 
granted until March  2018 when the overdraft was eventually withdrawn. But throughout this 
very extended period, theres no indication  that Mr and Mrs F ever make any repayment.
I should say I appreciate  the difficult position  Mr and  Mrs F were in. Theyd hoped to secure 
lending elsewhere  but this never proved possible. But that other lending wasnt what Mr and 
Mrs F were to use to repay their overdraft with HSBC. Theyd  undertaken to repay  the 
overdraft using Mr Fs partnership payments. When this didnt  materialise  nor was there 
any likelihood that it would  I dont believe HSBC  did anything wrong in asking for 
repayments and cancelling  the overdraft  facility. The terms of the overdraft always  allowed 
for immediate repayment on demand.
In fact HSBC allowed  the overdraft to continue for more than 15 months without any attempt  
at repayment. As far as I can see Mr and Mrs F were already in breach of the agreement  to 
repay this on a quarterly  basis.
Ref: DRN77484543Im therefore  not surprised the facility was withdrawn. Mr and Mrs F then accrued charges 
but I believe this was in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
Im aware that HSBC  accepted  a credit into the account in March 2018 of £16,000. Mr F then 
negotiated to withdraw £10,000. The remaining money went  to pay down their debt. I cant  
see that this action by HSBC was unreasonable. This reduced  their overall debt that still 
remains outstanding.  
I appreciate this must be a very difficult time for Mr and Mrs F. But having looked at what  
happened, as well as the different  agreements Mr and Mrs F had with HSBC, I wont be 
asking HSBC to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr and Mrs Fs complaint 
against HSBC  UK Bank plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 August 2021.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7748454