K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold them Gold and 
Platinum accounts.  Their account history  is a follows;
Account opened  in 1994 as a fee free current account
Upgraded to a Gold account  some time prior to September  2001
Changed to a Platinum account  in August 2003
Changed back to a Gold account in August 2003
Changed to a fee free account in December 2007
Upgraded to a Platinum account  April 2009
Downgraded to a fee free account  in June 2010
background
Our adjudicators looked at this complaint and didnt  think Lloyds had mis-sold the packaged 
accounts. Mr and Mrs C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
Having carefully thought  about everything  Ive been  provided with, I dont think  that Lloyds 
mis-sold the packaged  accounts to Mr and Mrs C. Id like to explain the reasons for my 
decision.
Ive started by thinking about whether Mr and Mrs C were  given  a clear choice in taking their 
packaged accounts. At this point, it may help for me to explain that I have to make  my 
decision based on what I think is most likely to have happened having weighed up what Mr 
and Mrs C and Lloyds  have been  able to provide  me with.  
why I think that Mr and Mrs C were given a clear  choice  to take their packaged accounts
Lloyds cant say for sure what type of account Mr and Mrs Cs account  was opened as 
because its records only go back to September 2001  and these suggest that Mr and Mrs C 
had a Gold account at that point. But the Gold account wasnt generally available to Lloyds 
customers until the late 1990s. And the information Ive seen suggests  Mr Bs account was 
opened before this in 1994. So I think its likely their account was originally opened as a free 
one. Mr and Mrs C also returned to a free account  before  they were sold the Platinum 
account for the second time. And this switch back to and from a free account suggests that 
Mr and Mrs C knew they had a choice. I accept that Lloyds may have strongly encouraged 
Mr and Mrs C to take out these accounts but I think that they wouldve been aware that they 
did not have to take out these accounts if they did not wish to.
Overall and having thought about  everything, I think its most  likely  Mr and Mrs C were given 
a clear choice in taking  out the packaged accounts.  And I think that they chose to take them, 
on each occasion,  as they were  most  likely interested in the benefits and that they would 
have been aware  that free accounts  were  available to them  if that is what they really wanted.  
Ref: DRN72131332why I dont think Lloyds  did anything wrong  in relation to the sale of the Platinum account  in 
2003 and the downgrade to the Gold account  8 days later
In this instance no fee was paid for the Platinum account so I do not think that Mr and Mrs C 
suffered a loss as a result  of this and they essentially went back to the account  that they held 
prior to this sale. So, regardless of whether anything may have gone wrong, Mr and Mrs C 
havent lost out in any event.
why I dont think the Platinum account  sold in April 2009 was mis-sold
Again I think that this account was recommended to Mr and Mrs C, so Lloyds had to ensure 
that the account was right for them given their circumstances  at the time.
At the time that the Platinum account  was taken out the major  differences  between the Gold 
account that Mr and Mrs C already held and the Platinum  account was that the Platinum 
account came with family travel insurance.  I can see that there is a note from the time of the 
sale saying that Mr and Mrs C wanted  this account in order  to benefit  from the Family travel  
insurance. In addition to this Mr and Mrs C could use the other benefits that came with the 
account such as the mobile phone insurance and breakdown cover so I dont think  that the 
recommendation was inappropriate. 
As with the Gold account I accept that Mr and Mrs C may not have been told of everything 
about all of the benefits that the Platinum account  may have  come  with at the time but I 
cannot see anything  specific  that they were not told that I think  wouldve altered their 
decision to agree to the account.
Mr and Mrs C may now, with the benefit of hindsight, believe they havent benefitted from the 
accounts as much as theyd hoped and expected to. And given what they may have  read or 
heard about  packaged  bank accounts  in general, I can to some extent understand why they 
might now think  their accounts were mis-sold. But I think that Mr and Mrs C chose to accept  
what, on the face of things, appears to have been  reasonable  recommendations made  by 
Lloyds. So having thought  about  the information  provided and listened to everything  Mr and 
Mrs C have said, I dont think that their accounts  were mis-sold to them.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 April 2019..
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7213133