K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Coventry Building Society  mis-sold  him a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr D bought the policy in 1995 sometime after taking out a mortgage. He applied for the PPI 
policy through the post. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr D for accident, sickness,  and unemployment  subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £200 a month towards Mr Ds mortgage  
balance in the event of a successful claim. At the time, it cost £13.84  a month.  
At the time,  Mr D was employed  as a plastics moulder. He has told us he was not entitled to 
any sick pay other than statutory and didnt have  any other  means of repaying  his mortgage 
should he be unable  to work.  Mr D has said he was in good health  at the time of the sale. 
Coventry Building Society has sent us screenshots  to show  that the mortgage account  1997.
Mr Ds representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on his behalf.
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr Ds representative says:
 
Coventry Building Society  failed to meet the sales standards which applied at the 
time. In those circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for 
businesses on handling PPI complaints under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed  
Mr D wouldnt  have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld. Mr Ds 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Coventry Building 
Society should have  told Mr D about  the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Coventry Building Society 
should have explained  the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover  to 
Mr D and the impact they would have had on his chances of making  a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr D received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN75856042Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ds. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr Ds complaint.
This sale took place  in 1995 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 1997. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN75856043I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Coventry Building  Society at the time. So Im satisfied I should take the 
ABI Code and these other publications  into account  when deciding,  what is in my opinion,  
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ds case. 
 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Building  Societies 
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Building  Societies  Ombudsmans terms of reference  the Ombudsman  
was required to decide complaints by reference to what  was, in his opinion, fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances.
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Coventry Building Society was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as 
if they were guidance  when  considering Mr Ds complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Coventry Building Society  gave advice, whether  it advised  Mr D with reasonable 
care and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for him, 
given his needs and circumstances. 
-Whether Coventry Building  Society  gave  Mr D sufficient, appropriate and timely  
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the 
policy, including drawing to his attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr D, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mr D suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr D and 
Coventry Building Society,  Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ds complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
Ref: DRN75856044did Mr D know  he had a choice?
Coventry Building Society had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
The sale took place  a long time ago, so neither party has been able to provide much 
information. Because of this, I need  to decide  what I think  is most  likely  to have happened 
when the PPI was sold.  
Coventry Building Societys  records show that Mr D applied for the PPI by postal application. 
Using what I know generally of Coventry Building Societys sales practices and considering 
an example of the postal application  they say was in use around the time of sale, I think its 
more likely than not that Mr D would have been  given an option to take PPI and that he 
chose to complete  the form and return it. This is supported by the dates involved, as Mr D 
applied for the PPI long after his mortgage had already started, so I think  he would have 
known he didnt have  to have it.
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely that Mr D knew the policy was optional  
and he agreed  to take it out without undue pressure. 
did Coventry Building Society provide advice?
Coventry Building Society says it didnt provide advice during this sale and Mr D hasnt said 
anything to make me think it did. So Ive considered  the case on the basis  that no advice 
was given.
This means  Coventry Building Society  didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable for Mr D. 
Instead, it had to give him sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable him to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy, including drawing to his 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mr D was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect his payments if Mr D was unable  
to work through accident, sickness or unemployment)  and of the approximate costs. Ive 
reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Mr D would have taken out the policy  
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Coventry  Building  Society  
gave sufficient information about  the actual monthly  benefit, the actual cost or about the 
exclusions or limitations before Mr D agreed to take out the policy. 
So I dont  think Coventry Building Society  gave Mr D sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable him to make an informed choice about whether  to take out the policy, 
including drawing his attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the 
main provisions of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
Ref: DRN75856045In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr Ds representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr Ds. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr Ds representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr D about  the limitations and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to him. 
Im not persuaded by Mr Ds representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mr D has suggested. And taking into account  the law, industry  codes and standards of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Coventry  Building Society ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Coventry Building Societys shortcomings  have  on Mr D? To what 
extent did Mr D suffer loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that Coventry Building  Society didnt do all it should have done when it sold this 
policy to Mr D. So Ive gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to 
conclude he suffered loss and damage  as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether  or 
not Mr D would have  still taken out the policy, had Coventry Building Society done things 
properly. 
Mr D says he would not have taken it out and believes I should presume this to be the case 
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As this was a non-advised sale, Mr D had to weigh up in his own mind  the cost of the policy  
against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if he didnt insure against the 
risk of being  unable  to work. 
As Ive found above, Mr D chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude he had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But he made 
this decision based  on incomplete information.  So what Mr D thought he was getting is not 
exactly what he got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mr D has suffered any loss or detriment.  
Ref: DRN75856046Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr D knew  he would have to pay something 
for the policy, it doesnt appear Coventry  Building Society told him the exact premium at the 
point he applied for the policy.  Having  said that, it seems likely Mr D would  have been  told 
the cost before the policy started and he paid for the policy for a number of years,  so if the 
costs were significantly at odds with his expectations  at the point of sale, its possible he 
might have raised that with Coventry  Building Society at the time, or reconsidered his 
decision.
Overall, I am not persuaded Mr D would  have found the cost unacceptable if he had been 
given the exact figure during the meeting in which he agreed  to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  Coventry Building Society made clear exactly  what Mr D 
would get back  in return in the event Mr D made  a successful  claim. But I think its unlikely 
Mr Ds expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim (an amount 
sufficient to meet his mortgage payment) were  significantly different to what the policy 
actually did.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr D thought he had bought and 
what he actually bought were likely the following:
The policy likely excluded claims relating to medical conditions and symptoms that 
Mr D knew about  or ought to have known about before the start date of the policy;
The policy may have  contained limitations  on claims relating to back  and mental 
health conditions  placing more  onerous  evidential requirements to support a claim on 
those grounds;
The policy likely limited, and in some  situations,  likely excluded unemployment cover 
if Mr D wasnt  a permanent employee.
The policy may have  had a requirement  that in order to be eligible for a disability 
claim  Mr D be unable to do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which  his 
experience, education  or training reasonable qualified him to do.
The policy protected payments for up to 12 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept that there is a possibility the likely limitations and exclusions above might well 
have caused Mr D pause for thought   and may well have caused  him to conclude  that the 
policy wasnt as good as he thought and he might have decided not to proceed.  The 
limitations on the cover, when coupled with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have 
dissuaded some  consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr D from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr Ds circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy  
wasnt fundamentally wrong for him. Mr D was likely eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its possible  limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to him 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Mr D wouldve been caught by any of the usual significant exclusions  Mr D didnt have any 
pre-existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment.  So, I still think he had 
some good  reasons to take the policy out.
Ref: DRN75856047I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions may have been more onerous than 
Mr D might reasonably have expected. But its unlikely  he would have expected  to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr D from taking out the policy,  Mr D, in his circumstances, still had some 
good reasons  to take it out.
If Mr D had known he may only have been able to claim for disability if he was unable to do 
both his job and any similar gainful  occupation which in the insurers view he might 
reasonably become qualified for, it might  have played into his thinking about what he would 
have done. And I accept  it may have given  him pause for thought if it was a relevant term for 
his policy   although its possible he may not have been overly concerned given that if Mr D 
was unable (through disability) to carry on his own occupation the chances that he would  be 
able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability,  be limited.
Coventry Building Society may not have told Mr D that any claim he made would be limited  
to a 12-month period. This may have differed from what he expected and might have hoped  
for  but he didnt  have any other  means  to fall back on.
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr D would still have thought  a policy  that paid up 
to 12 monthly mortgage payments would have  been of benefit  to him and would help him 
manage the consequences  should  Mr D be unable to work  in the circumstances covered by 
the policy. The policy allowed for multiple  claims to be made, it could help reduce his 
outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time and ensure his home  was not placed  at risk.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr D would still have taken out the policy. The policy was sufficiently close  to what  
its likely  he thought he was getting  and provided  benefits that would  help him manage the 
consequences if Mr D was made redundant, or unable  to work through accident or disability. 
In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not that Mr D would  have taken out the 
policy in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mr Ds representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr D would  not have bought the PPI he bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Ref: DRN75856048Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted  
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mr Ds 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr D 
found himself in as a result of the sale was the same  position he would have been in had the 
breach or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr D believes  the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including his own comments that he would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I dont consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr D in the position he would have been in if he had not 
bought the policy. 
That is because,  while I accept its possible he wouldnt have taken out the policy, Im 
satisfied that of the two possibilities, its more likely than not that he would  still have taken 
out the PPI had he been given clear,  fair and not misleading information about the policy he 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable in those  circumstances, to 
conclude Coventry  Building  Society should  pay Mr D compensation, as that would  put him in 
a better  position than he would have been in if everything had happened  as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mr D thinks Coventry  Building Society misrepresented the terms of the 
policy in how it described the PPI.  While  I accept  there is a possibility a court might 
conclude some of Coventry Building Societys statements misrepresented  the contract, in my 
opinion the reason why Coventry  Building  Society  failed to act fairly and reasonably was not 
because of what it did or didnt say in the information it provided  but because the overall 
information Coventry Building Society gave Mr D, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet 
the standards I consider  it fair and reasonable to expect  it to have met in 1995  when 
providing information about an insurance  policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr Ds representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Coventry Building Society negligently  misrepresented the contract  to Mr D and about 
the remedy a court  might award if it were to find that Coventry Building Society had been in 
breach of its duty of utmost good  faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions 
about what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint  including  what  I 
think is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set 
out I dont think  it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr D in a better position than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done.
Ref: DRN75856049my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 June  2021.
Hanna Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7585604