K821x#15complaint
Mr V complains that AWP P&C SA declined his travel insurance policy claim. My references 
to AWP include its agents.
background
At the end of July 2018 Mr V went to his GP with mild back pain which  he thought  was due 
to him having recently returned from a bicycle touring holiday. The GP diagnosed him as 
having muscular pain and Mr V says the GP suggested over the counter  painkillers.
At the end of August  2018 Mr V booked  on-line a flight  abroad  for him and his wife in 
December 2018.  As part of the flight booking process insurance for cancellation was offered 
which Mr V bought. AWP was the insurer.
In mid September 2018 Mr V returned  to his GP as his back hadnt  improved. The GP 
arranged tests. Following  the tests  Mr V was told he had cancer. He cancelled the flight  and 
the airline refunded two thirds of the costs.  He claimed on the policy  for the un-refunded third 
of the cost.
AWP declined the claim.  It said the policy didnt cover claims related to any condition  for 
which Mr V had a GP consultation within twelve months before he bought the policy. The 
medical certificate completed  by Mr Vs GP said the back pain in July was a symptom  of the 
cancer.
Mr V complained to us. He said the policy only told him on page 12 that he wouldnt be 
covered if hed had any visits  to the GP in the previous 12 months and it wasnt clear  in the 
policy summary when he bought the policy. He thought the policy  term APW relied on was 
discriminatory as older people and probably  more  women than men were more likely  to 
regularly see their GP. He emphasised that when he took out the policy he didnt know  he 
had cancer.
Mr V wants  AWP to pay the claim and compensation for his distress  and inconvenience. He 
also wants AWP to stop offering a policy with the relevant exclusion and instead for it to ask 
questions about  health as part of the policy application and then exclude more  serious  
medical conditions  from cover.
Our investigator said AWP had fairly declined the claim.
Mr V disagreed and wanted an ombudsmans decision.
Before I made a decision I asked AWP to send me the policy sales process, which  I detailed  
in my provisional findings.
my provisional findings
I made  a provisional decision  that I was intending to uphold this complaint. I said:
I have to decide whether AWP fairly  and reasonably  declined  the claim,  and I dont think  it 
did. Ill explain why.
The policy says under the Health  declaration  and health exclusions heading:
Ref: DRN73600532It is very important that you read the following.
Exclusions relating to your health
1 You will not be covered  for any directly  or indirectly related claims (see note at the 
end of this section)  arising from the following if at the time of taking out this insurance  
or booking  your journey (whichever is later), you:
a are being prescribed regular medication;
b have received  treatment  for or had a consultation  with a doctor or hospital  
specialist for any medical condition in the past 12 months;
c are being  referred  to, treated  by or under the care of a doctor or a hospital  
specialist;
d are awaiting treatment or the results of any tests or investigations
The exclusion wouldnt  apply if Mr V had seen his GP in the previous 12 months for a 
medical condition  that was unrelated  to his claim.  I dont think its a discriminatory  term on 
the basis of age or sex of a policyholder, as Mr V suggested.
The evidence is that Mr V didnt know he had cancer when he took out the policy. At that 
time hed been  diagnosed with muscular back pain. His GP says the outcome (of cancer)  
could not have been predicted in July 2018. But the medical certificate from Mr V's GP says 
the back pain he saw the GP about before  he took out the policy was related to the cancer. 
So I think Mr Vs claim did fall within  the terms of the exclusion.
However, we generally say that exclusions about  pre-existing  medical conditions  are 
significant and should be highlighted to a consumer at the point of policy  sale.
I dont think the exclusion  was highlighted. The policy says that the on-line  travel  provider 
through which Mr V bought the policy was an appointed representative of the business which  
administers the insurance on behalf  of the insurer.  So I think AWP was ultimately  
responsible for the sale of the policy.
AWP sent us a screen shot of the policy sale screen. Mr V was asked Would you like to 
protect your trip?  and policy limits  were given for the main heads of cover.  A link was 
provided to the policy booklet. Mr V was then asked if he wanted to select  the option  yes 
I want to protect my trip.
Its not clear from the evidence AWPs provided  whether Mr V had to click on and confirm 
hed read the policy terms to complete  the purchase  of the policy.  Even if he did, the policy 
AWP sent us shows that the exclusion was on page  11 of a 24 page policy document.  I dont 
think the exclusion was sufficiently highlighted in the policy  document.
Mr V says when he bought the policy he saw a coloured front page with a summary of the 
cover. I understand that was the Insurance Product  Information Document (IPID). On the 
IPID under the heading Are there  any restrictions on cover? it says Claims relating  to 
existing medical conditions are excluded. I dont  think that wording is enough to highlight 
that symptoms of undiagnosed medical conditions could mean a claim was excluded. From 
Ref: DRN73600533the IPID wording Mr V could reasonably understand that his existing medical condition would 
be excluded, which at that stage would have  been  back pain.
I think AWPs failure to highlight the full extent of the exclusion disadvantaged Mr V. If the 
exclusion had been highlighted, given Mr Vs comments, I think  its more  likely than not that 
at the time he bought the policy  he would have bought alternative insurance which would 
have covered him for the claim he made.  When  he bought the policy  hed been diagnosed  
with musculoskeletal back pain, he hadnt been  prescribed  medication  and hadnt been 
referred for any tests.  I think its very probable Mr V could have bought  a policy  declaring 
and covering back pain. When the new condition of cancer was diagnosed its likely he 
would have been covered  under such a policy.
Overall I dont think AWP fairly relied  on the exclusion to decline the claim. It must pay the 
claim, subject to the remaining  policy  terms and limits and any excess, plus interest at 8% as 
Ive detailed below.
Mr Vs had to complain about a claim, which  Ive found to be unfairly  declined,  when he was 
already having  a difficult time due to his cancer treatment. AWP should pay Mr V 
compensation of £150 for his distress and inconvenience. Mr V says complaining  also cost 
him time but I dont generally award compensation on that basis and theres  no basis for me 
to do so in this case.
Its not my role to tell AWP that it must ask a consumer medical questions,  that is do a 
medical screening, before deciding who and what to insure.  Its for an insurer to decide how 
to draft its policy and assess the risk its prepared to take. My role in this type of complaint is 
to decide whether an insurer can fairly and reasonably rely on the policy terms given all the 
circumstances. As Ive said, as AWP didnt  highlight the relevant significant  exclusion to 
Mr V which prejudiced his position  I dont think it can fairly  and reasonably  rely on the 
exclusion.
responses to my provisional  decision
Neither Mr V or AWP responded  to my provisional decision by the date we gave to respond.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither party has responded to my provisional decision and Ive no reason to change  my 
mind. For the reasons  Ive given in my provisional findings I uphold  this complaint. AWP 
must pay the claim,  subject to the remaining policy terms and limits and any excess, plus 
interest at 8% as Ive detailed below. AWP must also pay Mr V compensation of £150 for his 
distress and inconvenience.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN73600534I require AWP P&C SA to:
pay Mr Vs claim subject to the remaining policy terms, policy  limits and any excess.  
Interest* is payable  at 8% simple a year from the date of claim to the date of 
settlement, and
pay Mr V £150 for his distress and inconvenience it caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 May 2020.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
*If AWP P&C SA considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income 
tax from that interest it should tell Mr V how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr V a 
certificate showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7360053