K822xcomplaint
Mr S complained that Zenith Insurance plc has unfairly accused him of making  a fraudulent  
claim on his commercial vehicle insurance  policy and is trying to recover  its investigation 
costs from him. 
background 
Mr S has a policy that covers his van for third party, fire and theft damage. He reported a 
claim for the theft after noticing that mouldings  had been removed  from the rear and side of 
his van. There  was also some damage to the edge  of the sliding  door. 
Zeniths engineers  didnt  think  the claim was consistent with the theft, so Zenith asked Mr S 
for more details. It said the paintwork  where  the trim should have been had been painted  
black. Zenith said Mr S confirmed the trim and rubber  had been  removed in the theft.  And 
said the damage to the door was where  the thieves had used a crow bar to remove  the trim. 
It added that hed said the paintwork under the trim had been painted black  by the previous 
owner and new trim fitted over the top. 
Zenith arranged for a forensic engineer to review  the images of the damage.  That engineer 
said the damage was consistent with the van being hit by another  vehicle and not a theft. 
Zenith asked Mr S for the details of where  his van was parked and to confirm the areas of 
damage he was claiming for. These were:
Dent to passengers side quarter panel where the sliding door closes
Missing trim on sliding door, quarter panel  and rear passengers  side
Sliding door misaligned
The forensic engineer  provided a further report that explained why he didnt think  the 
damage had been  caused by a theft. 
Zenith ultimately turned down Mr S claim as it thought the damage was caused  by an 
accident and the policy didnt provide cover  for that. Zenith told Mr S he needed to pay the 
£700 it had paid in investigation costs as it thought his claim was fraudulent.
Mr S was unhappy with this and brought his complaint to us. He said there was no debris  on 
the floor or paint  marks to suggest a collision. He said he hadnt  had a van since the incident 
and it hed had to keep paying tax and insurance  while Zenith looked into the claim.  He didnt 
think Zenith had been able to prove  what happened. 
While we were  looking  into things Zenith said it would waive its £100 internal investigation 
costs as a gesture of goodwill.
Our investigator thought Zenith had been reasonable in saying the damage was caused  by 
an accident rather than theft. So, she thought it was fair for it to recover  the £600 it wouldnt 
have otherwise paid out to look into the claim.  
Mr S didnt agree as he said the damage had been  caused by a theft. He asked for an 
ombudsmans decision. 
Ref: DRN77613982my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of Mr S policy say that if any false claim is made,  or if any 
incorrect information is given, Zenith  wont pay the claim and the policy  will be cancelled and 
the premium retained. 
Zenith thinks Mr S provided false  information in order to benefit  from the payment of a claim 
for theft,  which he wouldnt have been entitled  to, if the damage  was caused by an accident. 
My role is to decide whether Zenith came to that decision fairly, reasonably and in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy. 
Ive considered the information from the forensic  engineer Zenith appointed. The engineer 
said the damage to the nearside sliding  door and quarter panel was the result  of an impact 
with a robust vehicle  or structure . He said the quarter  panel moulding had been removed 
recently, and that could  have been  done  by hand.  However, he said the absence of the 
sliding door moulding  was historic as the area that it had covered had been painted  black.
The engineer said the rear of the sliding door showed horizontal contact markings  at a 
height comparable  to that of the distortion of the quarter panel. He said that damage profile 
is consistent with the door having been  forced inwards.  The engineer said the force needed  
to have caused the damage in the way Mr S reported would have required a levering action 
against the sliding door,  which would have caused an outwards displacement of the sliding 
door; however, only inwards deformation was present.
Ive also taken account of Mr S point that the vans passenger side was parked against the 
kerb and that there was no debris around  the van or other indicators to suggest the coming 
together of vehicles.  But Im more persuaded by the findings of the forensic engineer.  This is 
because hes provided a detailed explanation for his conclusions about how the damage 
happened. 
I appreciate Zenith hasnt  proved what  happened. But for me to conclude its acted fairly, 
Zenith needs to show whats  more  likely  to have  happened. Given the conclusions of the 
forensic engineer  Im not going to interfere with Zeniths  decision  to turn down the claim and 
cancel the policy,  in line with the terms and conditions. 
I think its fair that Zeniths  waived the £100 fees for its own investigation costs,  as this isnt 
an additional  cost its incurred. As Zeniths  engineer had concerns about the claim, I think it 
was reasonable  for Zenith to appoint a forensic engineer to look into it. And I think Zenith 
had to pay out an additional £600 for this that it wouldnt  have had to pay for if Mr S hadnt 
made the claim. So, Im not going to interfere  with Zeniths decision to recover this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that Zenith  Insurance plc cant recover the £100  it paid for its internal 
investigation costs.  Im not going to interfere  with its other decisions to turn down the claim, 
cancel the policy and recover £600 costs  for the forensic engineer.  
Ref: DRN77613983Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Sarann Taylor
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7761398