K821x#15complaint
Mr S has complained about the loans he took out through MYJAR Limited (MYJAR). He 
says MYJAR  lent to him irresponsibly because he couldnt afford these  loans. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  
August 2019.  An extract  from this is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I will 
not repeat  that information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to partly uphold the complaint. I invited 
both parties to let me have any further  comments and evidence. MYJAR  has told us that to 
bring this matter to a close,  it will accept the findings  of the provisional  decision. And we 
dont appear to have  had a response from Mr S. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
MYJAR says they agree  with the provisional  decision. And Mr S hasnt responded. 
Therefore, based  on everything Ive seen, I still think, for the reasons Ive outlined  in the 
provisional decision that MYJAR shouldnt have provided Mr S with his fourth and final loan.  
putting things right
It isnt clear from the information  provided to us by MYJAR whether the final loans  
outstanding balance has been  sold to a third party. If the loan hasnt been sold then the 
redress below can be carried out as described.  
However, if MYJAR has sold the outstanding  balance to a third party then it should buy the 
final loan back and then carry  out the redress below. If MYJAR isnt able to buy the loan 
back then it needs  to make sure what it carries  out has the same  effect  as below. 
for loan 4, MYJAR  should remove all unpaid interest, fees and charges from the 
current outstanding  balance, meaning  Mr S only has to repay the principal sum. 
MYJAR must then apply  any repayments already made towards  this loan as if they 
were made towards that principal sum. If after doing  this, Mr S has already paid 
enough for this loan to be fully repaid then any overpayment needs  to be refunded, 
from the date the over payment became  due to the date of settlement. 8% simple  
interest per year should  also be added
remove any negative information  about loan 4 from Mr Js credit file;
Ref: DRN74851572 HM Revenue & Customs requires MYJAR to take off tax from this interest. MYJAR must 
give Mr S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above, Mr S still has an outstanding principal balance due for loan 4, then 
Mr S and MYJAR should  try and come  to a mutually  agreeable  repayment plan. But Id 
remind MYJAR of its obligation to treat Mr S fairly.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, and in my provisional  decision, I partly uphold Mr Ss 
complaint. 
MYJAR Limited should put things right for Mr S as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74851573EXTRACT FROM PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr S has complained about the loans he took out through MYJAR Limited (MYJAR).  He says MYJAR 
lent to him irresponsibly because he couldnt afford these loans. 
background
Mr S took 4 loans from MYJAR between October 2016 and June 2017.  Based on the information Ive 
been provided, it seems  Mr S had some problems  repaying his final loan, and an outstanding balance 
remains.  
A summary  of Mr Ss borrowing, based on the information provided to us from MYJAR, can be found 
below:
loan 
numberloan 
amountreceived dateactual 
repayment  
datecontractual 
number  of 
instalmentshighest 
repayment
1 £100.00 31/10/2016 08/11/2016 1 £122.40
2 £175.00 09/11/2016 07/12/2016 6 £51.24
3 £725.00 07/12/2016 07/04/2017 6 £210.65
4 £725.00 21/06/2017 outstanding 6 £225.43
Our adjudicator didnt think that MYJAR had made an error when it provided Mr S with his loans, 
taking into account the information MYJAR gathered from Mr S before it granted  each loan.   And she 
concluded that MYJARs checks went far enough and showed that Mr S could afford  the repayments 
he was committed  to making. 
MYJAR appears to have accepted  the adjudicators  assessment of the case. 
However, Mr S didnt accept the findings. Mr S says that had MYJAR taken a look at his bank 
statements it wouldve realised that he wasnt in a position to take on these  loans as he couldnt  afford  
them. The adjudicator considered Mr Ss points,  but she believed,  that even if further checks  had 
been carried out, MYJAR  wouldve still thought that these loans were affordable. 
No agreement could be reached,  so the case  has been passed to me for a decision. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Having thought about the above, as well as the evidence available to me, Ive decided to partly  uphold 
Mr Ss complaint. 
The Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA)  was the regulator when MYJAR lent to Mr S. 
The FCAs  Consumer  Credit sourcebook (CONC) is the specialist sourcebook  for credit-related 
regulated activities.  It sets out the rules and guidance specific to consumer credit providers, such  as 
MYJAR. 
Ref: DRN74851574I am not quoting all the specific regulations  here, because  I would expect  MYJAR to be familiar with 
these through  previous ombudsman  decisions, particularly recent decisions, which set these  rules out 
in more detail.
It is important to note that the FCA didnt, and doesnt, specify exactly  how an assessment of 
affordability is to be carried out but the extent and scope and the types  and sources of information 
to use needed to be enough to be able to reasonably assess the sustainability of the arrangement  for 
the consumer.
In other words the assessment needs to be consumer-focussed. It is not an assessment of the risk to 
the lender of not recovering the credit but of the risk to the consumer  of incurring  financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant  adverse consequence as a result of the decision to lend.
As set out in CONC, the risk to the consumer directly  relates  to the particulars  of the lending and the 
circumstances of the consumer. Therefore, a lenders  assessment of creditworthiness  would likely 
need to be flexible. That is to say, what  is sufficient  for one consumer might not be for another, or 
indeed what might  be sufficient for a consumer in one circumstance might not be so for the same 
consumer in other  circumstances.
Bearing the above in mind, I would expect an assessment of creditworthiness to vary with 
circumstance. In general, Id expect a lender to require more assurance the greater the potential  risk 
to the consumer of not being able to repay the credit in a sustainable way.  Certain factors  might point 
to the fact that MYJAR should fairly  and reasonably  have done  more  to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These factors include, but are not limited to:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
So MYJAR  was required to establish whether Mr S could  sustainably repay  his loans  not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. The loan 
payments being affordable on this basis might be an indication Mr S could  sustainably make his 
repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow that this is the case. 
This is because CONC defines  sustainable  as being  without undue difficulties,  and in particular 
the customer  should  be able to make  repayments on time, while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; and without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  
So, it follows that a lender should realise,  or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a borrower  
wont be able to make  their repayments sustainably if theyre unlikely to be able to make them  without 
borrowing further. 
MYJAR has told this service it carried out detailed and extensive checks  before agreeing to lend to Mr 
S. It says it asked Mr S about his employment  status, income and monthly expenses. As well as using 
its own internal  systems  to decide whether the loans  were affordable.  
Ref: DRN74851575For the first three loans, I agree with the adjudicators reasoning as to why MYJAR  didnt make an 
error by providing these  loans. Ive explained my reasons for doing so below. 
I accept that Mr Ss actual circumstances werent reflected either  in the information  he provided, or 
the other information MYJAR obtained. And Mr Ss actual financial position might  well have been 
apparent if further information  such as bank  statements had been obtained. 
But MYJAR could only make its decision based on the information it had available at the time.  And as 
it was in the early stages  of a lending relationship with Mr S, I dont think  it had reached the stage 
where there was a greater risk of the loan being unsustainable for Mr S. In these circumstances, I 
dont think MYJAR needed to take further steps to verify the information provided. 
There also wasnt  anything in the information  MYJAR gathered up to this point to give it cause for 
concern that either  the loan wasnt affordable or unsustainable for Mr S in any other way. MYJAR 
relied on the information it was provided  with and given the amount of the repayments involved,  
together with Mr Ss declared income and outgoings  I think that this wasnt unreasonable. As this is 
the case, Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint about loans  1 - 3. 
However, I dont think proportionate  checks were  carried  out before loan 4 was approved.
Mr S had problems repaying his third loan, and I can see that a number of the repayments for this 
loan were late and Mr S also seems to have  been  charged additional daily interest.  Although,  Mr S 
then appears  to have repaid  his third loan early, I dont think that detracts  from the fact that he did 
have problems  repaying  this loan. 
But when Mr S returned  to MYJAR to borrow  the same amount again, this shouldve put MYJAR on 
notice that Mr S may have  difficulties  repaying this loan sustainably given  the previous repayment 
problems. So that shouldve prompted MYJAR to seek more information about Mr Ss financial  
situation.     
Had MYJAR carried out proportionate  checks it wouldve  likely seen the following  when considering 
whether to provide  loan 4; 
that Mr Ss actual income was around half of what he had declared to MYJAR. Looking  at Mr 
Ss actual  income,  Im satisfied that his loan repayment represented a significant proportion of 
his monthly income. In these circumstances, there was a significant  risk that Mr S wouldnt 
have been able to repay loan 3 without undue difficulty. 
Proportionate checks wouldve also shown that Mr S was having  wider money  management 
problems. Mr S was in arrears with another credit provider and he also had a number of other 
longer term credit  providers that he was committed to repaying. The repayment to these, 
along with the rent he needed to pay, took up a significant portion of his income each month.  
So I dont think that MYJAR couldve reasonably believed that Mr S would be able to make 
the payment over the same  term,  bearing in mind hed failed to repay  the same amount for 
loan three  under similar arrangements. 
So Im upholding the complaint about loan 4 and MYJAR should put things right as set out below.
Ref: DRN7485157