K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
mortgage in 1998. Mr and Mrs D say Lloyds Bank PLC mis-sold them the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Lloyds had to make Mr and Mrs D aware  that the PPI was optional and gain their consent 
before adding the policy to their mortgage.  Mr and Mrs D have said they were told they had 
to take the policy  and werent given a choice. I cant be certain what  was said at the time the 
policy was sold, and unfortunately  due to the time thats passed theres limited paperwork  
available. But this isnt surprising considering businesses  arent  required to keep this type of 
information indefinitely.  With the information  that is available Im unable to say that the policy 
wasnt presented as optional, or that Mr and Mrs D didnt choose to have it.
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs D so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs D have told us they were entitled to generous sick pay when they took the 
policy and had savings.  But the PPI would  have paid out in addition to their sick pay and 
allowed them to keep  their savings in place to be used towards any essential  expenses they 
may have  had.
Based on what Ive seen  of Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances at the time they werent  affected  
by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for 
the cover. So I think it was right for them.
Its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Which means Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Lloyds has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has paid back the amount of commission  and profit  share that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs D have said - including  what they have  said about 
not being told they could  take a policy elsewhere. But Lloyds  didnt have to make Mr and 
Ref: DRN77638052Mrs D aware of other products that were available. So these  points dont change  my 
decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 October  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7763805