K822xcomplaint
Mrs K complains that Tesco Personal Finance  PLC (Tesco) rejected  a chargeback  and a 
claim she made under section 75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.
background 
I issued my provisional decisions in January and February of this year.  I explained why I was 
planning to uphold Mrs Ks complaint in part. An extract from my latest provisional decision is 
set out below:
In January 2018 Mrs K paid a deposit of £1,400 towards a new kitchen using  her Tesco  
credit card. But she decided to cancel the kitchen  on 24 February 2018 as she said the price  
kept increasing. Mrs K was disappointed to only be offered a 50% refund of her deposit by 
the supplier.
So she asked Tesco to action  a chargeback but they said this wasnt  possible as there 
hadnt been a breach of contract.  They  explained  that the contract allowed the supplier  to 
withhold 50% of the deposit if the cancellation  was within four weeks  of the installation date. 
They noted  that the merchant had planned to fit the kitchen on 26 February 2018 only a few 
days after the cancellation date. So they thought the supplier was entitled  to make the 
deduction it had.
Mrs K wasnt  satisfied  with Tescos response so she referred her complaint to this service. 
She explained that the plans were  never  finalised and that shed  requested to put back the 
installation date but that request was never  actioned. Our investigator didnt think there was 
evidence the contract  had been breached as the contract had been  cancelled a couple  of 
days before  installation and the terms of the contract  only allowed a 50% refund in those  
circumstances.
But she did think there was a case for misrepresentation. She noted that on 6 February  
Mrs K had asked for the installation to be pushed  back and had explained that plans were 
still being finalised. She also noted that the business had supplied further designs for Mrs K 
to consider on 17 February and she thought this supported the view that designs hadnt 
been finalised. She therefore didnt think it would be fair to hold Mrs K to the 26 February 
installation when the plans hadnt been  finalised.
So the investigator thought the fairest solution  would be for Tesco to refund 60% of the 
deposit and add 8% simple interest  per annum  from the date the deposit was paid to the 
date the complaint was settled.
Neither Mrs K nor Tesco  agreed  with the investigators view. Mrs K said shed settle  for an 
80% refund and Tesco didnt think they needed to uphold the complaint at all. They referred 
us to an email sent by Mrs K on 24 February when she cancelled the order  and in which  she 
stated we have looked elsewhere and found  somewhere cheaper and where  we can also 
get the kitchen  on an interest free loan.  So they thought this made  it clear  that the reason 
Mrs K had cancelled was because of the price and not for any other  reason. And in those 
circumstances they thought the terms of her contract allowed for 50% of the deposit  to be 
returned.
Ref: DRN74061472my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigators view of this complaint but I dont currently  agree with the 
redress shes suggested. I know that will disappoint  Tesco so please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mrs K made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim or a claim under a chargeback scheme. This section of the Consumer Credit Act 
(1974) says that in certain circumstances, the borrower under  a credit agreement  has a like 
right to claim  against the credit provider as against  the supplier if there's either a breach of 
contract or misrepresentation by the supplier.
what does the contract  say?
The contract says:
If you would like to cancel your order we reserve the right to charge you 25% of your 
deposit and 50% if within  four weeks of your primary delivery date.
what was the primary delivery  date?
I think, in the absence  of a contractual definition, its fair to suggest  the primary delivery 
date would be the first delivery date thats agreed. I also think  its fair to suggest that in the 
absence of confirmation of a primary delivery  date an installation date would suffice. I say 
that because by that time the kitchen would either need to have been delivered  or would be 
delivered by the fitters on the day.
Theres no mention of a primary delivery  date or an installation  date on the order  documents.  
The only installation date Ive seen reference to is 26 February  2018.  This was referred to in 
a text message  sent by the supplier on 6 February. But on that same day Mrs K had asked 
for the date to be pushed back. As the supplier didnt come  back  with an alternative date I 
dont think it would be fair to suggest  the 26 February was agreed.  Im supported in this view 
by the subsequent emails that Mrs K and the supplier exchanged on 17 February when  it 
was clear the supplier  was providing alternative designs for Mrs K to look at. So it seems  the 
design wasnt settled  on at that point.
Ref: DRN74061473was there  a breach of contract?
In the absence of an agreed  primary delivery  date I therefore dont agree that the contract 
was terminated  within a month of it. In those circumstances the contract says that the 
supplier is entitled  to withhold 25% of the deposit.  The supplier didnt provide this and has 
therefore breached  the contract  it had with Mrs K. So I think it would now be fair for Tesco  to 
refund the remainder  of the deposit.
Tesco say that Mrs Ks reason for cancelling wasnt because the design hadnt been  
approved. They have referred  us to the email Mrs K sent which cancelled the agreement and 
suggested her reason  for cancelling was the price.  But even if that was the case as a 
primary delivery date hadnt been agreed  she was entitled to get 25% of her deposit back.
I see that Mrs K has asked for a refund of 80% of her deposit. The contract  never allowed for 
a refund of more  than 75% so I cant agree thats  fair here.
was there  any misrepresentation?
I dont think theres been a misrepresentation here.  That would occur if the supplier had 
suggested something that didnt happen  but that persuaded Mrs K to enter into an 
agreement she would  not otherwise have entered into. 
I cant see that was the case.
my provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Im expecting to tell Tesco Personal Finance PLC to refund 
75% of the deposit Mrs K paid less anything they or the supplier has already refunded.  They 
should add 8% simple  interest to this refund from the date the deposit was paid until the date 
of settlement.
my new findings
Tesco didnt  provide any further information but Mrs K did. She explained that she had been 
paying interest on the deposit and she thought this, along with any charges on this sum, 
should also be returned to her.
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs K would not have  had to pay any interest  on the deposit if 75% of it had been returned 
to her when  it should have been returned.  She cancelled the contract on 24 February 2018 
and I think its reasonable to suggest the refund  would therefore have been made by the 
start of March 2018. 
So I think its reasonable to tell Tesco to repay  or remove any interest  and charges that have 
been paid by Mrs K on the amount of the deposit that should have been returned to her. This 
calculation should  be made from 1 March  2018 when the deposit should have been 
returned.
Ref: DRN74061474Ive not seen any further evidence that changes my mind about how much of that deposit 
should be returned, so my opinion on that remains unchanged. I think  Tesco should 
therefore refund 75% of the £1,400  deposit.
my new provisional decision
Im currently  expecting to tell Tesco Personal  Finance  PLC to:
refund  75% of the deposit Mrs K paid less anything  they or the supplier has already 
refunded. They  should add 8% simple interest  to this refund from the date the deposit 
was paid until the date of settlement;
refund  or remove any interest or charges  that have been applied  to the account, 
since March 2018, as a result  of 75% of the deposit not having  been refunded. 
my findings
Mrs K accepted my most recent provisional  decision but Tesco didnt.
They said:
the 26 February was the agreed  delivery date as Mrs K would not have needed  to 
request the date was pushed back if it wasnt previously agreed;
it was unreasonable to assume a delivery date hadnt been discussed  verbally  or 
through texts;
a selling point  for the company was the fact that the design could be amended  at any 
time.
So Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im not persuaded by Tescos  arguments.  I dont think Mrs K ever agreed to the 26 February 
as a delivery date as she responded to the merchant on the same  day to ask for an 
alternative, but that was never arranged.
Ive not seen any evidence of conversations or texts that may have taken place and I dont 
think it would  therefore be fair for me to assume a delivery date had been arranged in the 
absence of any evidence.
I understand the bespoke nature of the merchants  offering but that doesnt mean a delivery 
date could not have been arranged and its only once a primary delivery  date is set that a 
further deduction in the deposit can be contractually justified.
Ref: DRN74061475my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  Ive not been  persuaded  to change my provisional  decision 
and I am telling Tesco Personal Finance PLC to:
refund  75% of the deposit Mrs K paid less anything  they or the supplier has already 
refunded. They  should add 8% simple interest  to this refund from the date the deposit 
was paid until the date of settlement;
refund  or remove any interest or charges  that have been applied  to the account, 
since March 2018, as a result  of 75% of the deposit not having  been refunded. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7406147