K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in
2003. Mr and Mrs D say The Chorley and District  Building Society (CDBS)  mis-sold them 
the PPI.
background
The background to this complaint,  and my provisional findings, can be found in my 
provisional decision which Ive attached  below  and which forms part of this final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CDBS replied to confirm they had no further comments to make.  Mr and Mrs D responded to 
say they were disappointed with the outcome reached but also commented  that, in the 
background of the complaint, the provisional decision referred to them taking out cover  for 
unemployment only  which  they say is incorrect as they had to take out three  insurance  
policies with CDBS  in order to get their mortgage. 
The reference to taking out unemployment  cover only relates to the PPI policy,  which was 
the subject of this complaint  not any other  insurance. This is because  some PPI policies 
also included cover for accident  and sickness but Mr and Mrs D didnt take out this type of 
protection until some years later  which was also detailed in the decision.  So it is important 
to distinguish between  the two types of cover. And I would  refer them  to my provisional 
findings where I have  said;
Ive seen a copy  of the mortgage offer which  shows that unemployment PPI cover must be 
taken out, along with other types  of insurance  [emphasis added],  unless you were ineligible 
for the unemployment cover.
I hope that this explanation helps to allay any concerns Mr and Mrs D may have had about 
the consideration of their complaint.
As I havent  received any new information which alters my outcome,  I see no reason to 
change my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN78420242my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint for the reasons mentioned above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 March  2019.
Jenny Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78420243copy of provisional decision
complaint
This complaint is about  a mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy taken out in
2003. Mr and Mrs D say The Chorley and District Building Society (CDBS) mis-sold  them the PPI.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2003. They took out cover for 
unemployment only.
In 2004, Mrs D was removed from the cover as she was no longer employed and the benefit  level 
was also amended. At several intervals  over the next few years, until the policy  was cancelled  in 
2011, the benefit amount  was amended to take into account  interest rate changes  and additional 
borrowing that was made.
Mr and Mrs D paid a monthly  amount  for the PPI. If Mr D had made a successful claim for 
unemployment, the policy would have paid out the repayment benefit for up to 12 months.
When the unemployment  policy was cancelled  in 2011, Mr and Mrs D took out a new PPI policy 
for accident and sickness  cover only.  Once again this covered  Mr D only and the policy was 
cancelled when the mortgage was redeemed  in 2013.
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint for the unemployment only policy. The adjudicator said that, 
due to Mr Ds employment, he would  be unable to make  a claim. In relation to the accident and 
sickness policy taken out in 2011, our adjudicator  didnt think that the policy hadnt been mis-sold.
CDBS disagreed with the adjudicators opinion regarding  the policy sold in 2003, so the complaint has 
been passed  to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account  in deciding Mr and Mrs Ds case.
I currently dont intend  to uphold the complaint for either the unemployment policy taken out in 2003 
or the accident and sickness policy taken  in 2011. I appreciate that this will come  as a 
disappointment to Mr and Mrs D and Ill explain my reasons for reaching  this outcome.
Turning first to the sale in 2003, Mr and Mrs D have said they were told they had to take out the PPI. 
CDBS says having the unemployment  cover  was a condition of getting the particular mortgage that 
Mr and Mrs D took. CDBS wasnt prevented from making PPI a condition of applying for the mortgage 
 as long as it made this clear to Mr and Mrs D. It would  then be up to Mr and Mrs D to decide 
whether to accept that offer,  including taking out the PPI, or explore  getting a different mortgage  
with CDBS or someone else  without the PPI, if they wanted. 
Ive seen a copy of the mortgage offer which shows that unemployment PPI cover must be taken out, 
along with other types of insurance, unless you were ineligible for the unemployment  cover. From 
looking at the policy terms, you were eligible for the cover if you were taking out a mortgage, within the 
required age bracket, living in the UK and working in permanent employment for more than 16 hours per 
week  so at the time of taking the policy Mr and Mrs D were both eligible. I think its likely Mr and Mrs D 
would have read the forms carefully  when they received their offer as they were taking on a new 
financial commitment, secured against their home. And so I think  its more  likely that they applied for 
Ref: DRN78420244the mortgage knowing that the PPI was compulsory  and a condition of taking out this particular 
mortgage. From  what  Ive been told this particular mortgage offered discounted  interest rates and so I 
think its more  likely  that they chose to go ahead with this particular mortgage because of the 
preferential terms it offered.
CDBS said it did tell Mr and Mrs D about other mortgage products they had available but
Mr and Mrs D said they werent told they could have a different product without the PPI. Ive noted 
from correspondence Mr and Mrs D sent to CDBS that they sought  advice from an independent 
financial advisor prior to applying  for a mortgage to see which of the mortgage  products or deals on 
the market would suit them the best. And so, even if I accept that CDBS  didnt tell them  about  other 
products they could offer which didnt  include  PPI, I think Mr and Mrs D would have already been 
aware that there were  other mortgage  products  available to them. So I still think Mr and Mrs D were 
aware that they could  have gone elsewhere to obtain their mortgage,  if they didnt want  to take out 
the PPI.
So on balance, based  on everything  Ive seen and been told, I think CDBS made  it clear  that the 
policy was compulsory on this mortgage and Mr and Mrs D agreed to this as a term of the mortgage.
Mr and Mrs D think that the policy was recommended to them but they havent given much detail  as 
to why they think this. From  my review I havent  seen  anything to suggest  CDBS took steps to 
assess Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances with the intention of recommending  the policy to them. Taking  
this into consideration, I think its more likely that it didnt recommend the policy to Mr and Mrs D. So 
this means it didnt have to check  if it was right for them. But, despite the policy being  a condition  of 
the lending, CDBS still had to make sure Mr and Mrs D got the information  they needed to make an 
informed decision as to whether or not to take out the policy and by extension, the mortgage.
Mr D has told us that he couldnt be made redundant and therefore, an unemployment policy was of 
no use to him.
I accept  that Mr Ds type of employment meant he was unlikely to find himself needing  to claim 
under this policy. And while its possible  the information  CDBS gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been. I do think they were  provided with enough  information  at the 
time to know  that this policy provided unemployment cover only.
As this was a non-advised  sale it was for Mr and Mrs D to decide  whether, despite the policy  being 
limited to unemployment  cover  only,  they still wanted to go ahead  with the insurance in order to 
secure the offered  mortgage rate. And as Ive already found above that they were  aware,  or ought to 
have been aware, that they couldve taken out a mortgage elsewhere, I dont think  more  information 
about the policy would  have stopped Mr and Mrs D from taking  out this policy  and mortgage.
Ive also looked at the sale of the policy  in 2011. In this year, Mr and Mrs D have told us they 
cancelled their unemployment  cover and took out a new policy for Mr D which covered  accident and 
sickness cover  only.
From what I have seen  from the information Mr and Mrs D have provided, they chose  to take out this 
policy. CDBS have  said that the policy was taken out in a telephone call and when reviewing the 
sales script for these types of sales,  the advisor was prompted to explain that the policy was optional.  
So based on what Ive seen in relation  to this sale, I think Mr and Mrs D were aware that the policy 
was optional and they agreed  to take it out.
As with the previous sale, I dont  think CDBS recommended the policy to Mr and Mrs D. So it didnt 
need to check that the cover  was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ds needs. But it did have to make sure 
they got enough  information  to make a decision  on whether it was the right cover for them, knowing 
the benefits they already  had available to them for accident or sickness.
Ref: DRN78420245It may be that the information CDBS gave to Mr and Mrs D was limited   and could have been 
clearer. But from what Mr and Mrs D have told us they knew they were  purchasing  cover for 
accident and sickness. And they agreed to take it out  so it appears they wanted this type of cover.  
And whilst  I appreciate  Mr D may have received  sick pay from his employers, this policy would pay 
out in addition  to any other benefits he would  receive. So I dont think better  information about this 
policy would have made them think differently about taking it out.
Ive also thought  about  the commission Mr and Mrs D paid on both policies  and whether
CDBS treated them unfairly.
CDBS has told us that the commission for the policies  was less than half of what they paid for 
each premium. Weve  looked  at how CDBS  has been working this out and based on what weve  
seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ds commission was less than half the cost of the policies. 
As thats the case, I dont think  it needed  to tell them about the commission   so I dont think 
CDBS treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs D back any of the 
commission they paid for the PPI.
my provisional  decision
I currently dont intend  to uphold this complaint  for the reasons mentioned above.
Ref: DRN7842024