K821x#15complaint
Mr F complains that The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc (RBS) carried out a credit  search  
against him but wont say why. 
background
On 24 November 2017 RBS completed  a soft credit search against Mr F and gave  the 
reason as Beneficiary Trace Enquiry.  Mr F contacted RBS to find out why itd carried out a 
credit search but it wasnt able to say. 
Mr F complained but RBS wasnt able to give any further reason for completing the credit 
search. RBS said the soft  search would only be visible  to Mr F and wouldnt affect his credit  
rating. Mr F wasnt  happy with RBS  response as it didnt say why a credit  search  was 
completed and referred his complaint  to this service. 
An investigator looked at Mr Fs complaint and thought  RBS shouldve been  able to explain 
why itd completed a credit search.  They thought the information  provided by RBS was 
confusing and asked  it to pay £100  for the distress and inconvenience  caused. RBS didnt 
agree so the complaints been  passed  to me to make a decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive been reasonably brief in setting out the background  to this case as all parties broadly 
agree about  what  happened.  RBS carried  out a soft credit  search  against  Mr F but hasnt 
said why. 
Like the investigator, I think RBS should be able to show it had a legitimate reason  to search 
a consumers credit file. Ive looked  at RBS terms and conditions  and can see there  is 
provision to look at a customers credit file but there should be a reason to do so. And given 
Mr F has provided  the date and type of credit  search that was completed I think RBS 
shouldve been  able to say why it carried it out. 
I agree  that the search hasnt impacted Mr Fs credit score and is only visible  to him. So the 
soft credit  search isnt going  to lead to a financial loss. But there  has been an impact on 
Mr F here. Ive seen his communications with RBS and hes reasonably asked for an 
explanation of what happened  but not received that. I dont think RBS initial responses were 
good enough and didnt  provide answers  to Mr Fs questions. And, as the investigators said, 
I think the information Mr F received was confusing and couldve been explained better. 
Overall, Im satisfied that there has been an impact on Mr F so I think its fair that RBS pays 
him £100 to reflect the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and direct  The Royal Bank  of Scotland  Plc to pay 
Mr F £100. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Ref: DRN79867312Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7986731