K821x#15complaint
Mrs S says Provident Personal  Credit Limited (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly lent to her.
background
This complaint is about seven instalment loans Satsuma provided  to Mrs S between August 
2018 and November 2018.  Mrs S borrowed amounts ranging between  £100 and £1,000 to 
be repaid in 3 or 12 monthly or 12 or 13 weekly instalments. The amounts she had to repay 
each month  varied  between around £88 and £492. The loans  didnt overlap except for one 
instance. Mrs S repaid  all her loans early. She repaid six on the same day they were  taken 
or a few days later in the withdrawal  period.  So for two loans, Mrs S didnt pay any fees or 
charges and for four loans these were small amounts.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ss complaint in part and thought the loans from loan four 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. Satsuma didnt reply and so the complaint was passed 
to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mrs S 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Satsuma should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time during 
which a customer has been given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  may 
signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Satsuma was required to establish 
whether Mrs S could  sustainably repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Ref: DRN71920032Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the Consumer  Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable 
as being without undue difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to 
make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without 
having to borrow  to meet the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise,  or it 
ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a borrower wont  be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make  their repayments without 
borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mrs Ss complaint.
Satsuma asked Mrs S for information about  her income and expenditure and it carried  out 
credit checks. For loans one to three,  Mrs S said her income  was between around £886  and 
£1,300 a month and her outgoings  were £300  a month. I cant see that there was anything  
untoward in its credit  checks that should  have alerted  Satsuma to ask further questions.
For loans one to three,  given the loan amounts, what was apparent about Mrs Ss 
circumstances at the time and her history  with Satsuma, I dont think  it wouldve been  
proportionate to ask her for the amount of information needed to show the lending  was 
unsustainable. There wasnt  anything in the information Mrs S provided or the information 
Satsuma shouldve been aware  of, which meant  it wouldve been proportionate to start 
verifying what Mrs S was saying. So I cant say it was wrong for Satsuma to have provided 
loans one to three. 
As our adjudicator explained, by loan four the pattern of Mrs Ss borrowing showed that she 
was struggling to repay some of her previous  loans:  
Shed  borrowed  four times within two weeks. 
She was borrowing again within days of repaying previous loans showing that she was 
unable to repay previous loans without taking  out a new one.
Loan four was for £1,000 which was four times as much as the previous  loan.
I think this showed  that there was a significant  risk that Mrs S would be unable  to sustainably  
meet her repayments  for loan four and any subsequent loans. So I think  Satsuma was wrong  
to approve loans four and five. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Satsumas lending history with Mrs S, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Satsuma should  reasonably  have seen that further  
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. And so Satsuma should have realised that 
it shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mrs Ss case, I think  that this point  was reached by 
loan six. I say this because she was showing signs that she was persistently reliant on short-
term loans:
Ref: DRN71920033From  loan six onwards Mrs S was provided with a new loan within days  of settling the 
previous one. So Satsuma ought  to have realised it was more  likely than not Mrs S was 
having to borrow  further to cover  the hole repaying  her previous loan was leaving in her 
finances and that Mrs Ss indebtedness was increasing unsustainably.
Mrs S wasnt making any real inroads to the amount she owed Satsuma.  Loan  seven 
was taken out about three weeks after Mrs Ss first. And was for a larger amount. 
I think that Mrs S lost out because Satsuma continued to provide borrowing from loan six 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mrs Ss indebtedness by allowing her to 
take expensive  credit intended  for short-term use.
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications on 
Mrs Ss ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these high-
cost loans.
So Im also upholding  the complaint about loans six and seven and I think Satsuma should 
put things right.
putting things right  what Satsuma needs  to do
refund  all interest and charges Mrs S paid on loans four to seven;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove any negative information  about loans four and five from Mrs Ss credit  file;
the number  of loans taken from six onwards means any information recorded  about them  
is adverse. So all entries about  loans six and seven should be removed from Mrs Ss 
credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Satsuma to take off tax from this interest. Satsuma must 
give Mrs S a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I partially uphold Mrs Ss complaint. I 
require Provident  Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma)  to pay Mrs S compensation 
as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 November  2019.
Ref: DRN71920034Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7192003