K820x#14Complaint
Ms M complains that when she deposited  £500  in cash  in branch, TSB Bank plc only 
credited her account  with £80.
Background
Ms M says she went to her local branch  on 21 April 2018 with £540 in cash. She wanted £40 
credited to her main account,  which Ill call account A, and £500 credited to an account that 
she says she uses for savings, which Ill call account B. TSB was about  to migrate to a new 
computer system so, on that day, staff were placing cash and cheque deposits with paying-
in slips into envelopes. The deposits  were keyed in using the new computer system on 
23 April  two days later.
Several weeks later, Ms M noticed that account B had only been  credited with £80.
TSB investigated. It checked the deposit envelopes and credit slips;  and it checked  other  
deposits made around the same time. It checked  the recollections  of staff and made sure 
proper procedures had been followed,  particularly around the security of the deposits made 
on 21 April and over the weekend until they were  able to be processed.  It couldnt  find any 
evidence to show that it had made a mistake. It said Ms M was mistaken  on a separate  
occasion in May, she deposited £540  in branch and its possible shes confused the two 
occasions.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld.  He concluded that TSB 
didnt do enough  to make  sure the transactions were  correctly recorded, and thought Ms M 
shouldve been  given a receipt  as proof of her deposit to avoid a dispute.  He recommended  
TSB credit Ms Ms account  with £420 and pay her £200 for the trouble and upset caused.
TSB didnt  agree so the complaint was passed to me.
My provisional decision
I didnt think there was enough  evidence to conclude that Ms M gave the branch £540  on 
21 April. I said:
Two paying in slips were  completed. These show Ms M deposited  £40 in account A 
and £80 in account B. These  slips were completed by the member of staff, because  
Ms M didnt have her reading glasses with her. But this was done in her presence. The 
money and the paying in slips were placed  in two envelopes. Ms M told us she wasnt  
offered a receipt.  But when she complained to the bank, she said shed declined the 
offer of a receipt at the time because  she trusted the bank.  She says the envelopes 
werent posted in the deposit  box - she recalls the member of staff was still holding 
them when she left the branch.
The envelopes must have been  posted in the box before the end of the day because 
they were there when  it was opened on 23 April.  The branch manager completed two 
credit slips which reflected the content of the envelopes. These show  that Ms M 
deposited one £20 note and two £10 notes, totalling  £40, into account A; and four £20 
notes, totalling  £80 into account B. 
Ref: DRN72422062TSB says no cash error was recorded  for that day, no unaccounted  for cash was found 
and other  transactions around  the same time were checked to make  sure £500 hadnt  
been paid into another account  by mistake.  
Im satisfied that TSB didnt make a mistake in crediting the money.  And Im also 
satisfied there was enough security around  the deposit box to prevent anyone  
tampering with the deposit  envelopes  once theyd  been placed  in there  the box could 
only be opened by two key holders and it was placed in the branch safe over the 
weekend.
So that leaves  the possibilities that the member of staff who helped Ms M on 21 April 
knowingly only placed £80 in the deposit envelope when hed been given £500. Or that 
Ms M only gave him £80. Ive considered the likelihood of both scenarios.
Ms M feels sure she handed over £500.  She says the member of staff dropped the 
money halfway through counting it and had to start again and that he then placed it in 
piles of £100.  And that this wouldnt have happened if shed only handed  over £80. But 
she also says she then remembers  he separated out the £40 for account A and that he 
placed four £10 notes in the envelope.  But its clear from the banks records that this 
envelope contained one £20 note and two £10 notes. So Ms M hasnt remembered the 
details as clearly as she thinks she has.
Unfortunately, the CCTV from the branch is only kept for a limited time and by the time 
Ms M reported this to TSB,  it wasnt available.  So I cant say for sure what happened.  
But TSB says all staff were in the banking hall that day assisting customers, so the 
deposit didnt  take place  over the counter. I think it would be very difficult  for a member 
of staff in the banking  hall to separate £420, then not to place it in the envelope  or to 
take it out of the envelope before placing it in the deposit box  and not be noticed by 
anyone else. And I think, had the member of staff acted dishonestly, it wouldve been  
much easier, and less risky, for him to take the whole £500. So I think this scenario is 
less likely.
I find it more likely that Ms M thinks she deposited £500, but that shes  mistaken and 
actually deposited  £80. This is supported  by the paperwork. Also,  she says she 
wanted to credit her account with £1,000 to replenish it following a payment. But the 
payment was made from account A on 4 May 2018. The alleged  £500 deposit was 
made to account  B and was made before the payment  took place.
Bearing in mind the procedures which had to be followed on that day because  of the 
I.T. upgrade, I think it would have been appropriate to issue receipts for all deposits. If 
TSB had given Ms M a receipt   even though she said she didnt want  one - and 
assuming shed kept hold of that receipt  for several  weeks until she checked her 
account, a dispute was less likely  to have arisen. But in any event, based on the 
evidence Ive seen,  I think the receipt  would have shown shed deposited £120 - £80 in 
account A and £40 in account B. So the fact that TSB didnt  insist  on giving Ms M a 
receipt doesnt change my conclusion.
Ref: DRN72422063Ms M didnt agree with my provisional decision.  She replied in detail to set out, again, her 
recollection of what happened  on 21 April. In summary, she said:
The staff member  never mentioned or offered any type of receipt. 
She wasnt mistaken about the sums she deposited  she paid in £500 three weeks 
later at a different  branch  and shes not getting these two occasions in a muddle. Shes 
dealt with cash for most  of her working life.
The staff member  didnt post the envelopes in the deposit box in her presence.  How 
long did he hold onto them before he put them in the box? The envelope  showing  a 
deposit of £80 must  have  been  completed  after shed  left the branch.
She didnt  give details about the denominations  of notes she handed over.
She would like a face to face meeting with the member of staff who took her deposits  
and for them both to undertake a polygraph test.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, it isnt clear  exactly what happened here. I reach  my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  in other words, what I consider is most likely to 
have happened  in light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ms M has set out again her clear  and detailed recollection of what happened when she 
visited the branch  on 21 April 2018. I have  considered this carefully,  alongside all of the 
other evidence both parties  have provided. Im sorry, but I havent  found any reason to 
depart from my earlier  conclusions.
Ive already set out why I dont think TSB made a mistake in crediting the cash to Ms Ms 
account  the paper  records completed at the time show that a total of £120 was placed in 
the deposit box on 21 April and this was the amount credited to Ms Ms accounts.
And I explained why  of the two remaining  scenarios  I thought it was less likely that the 
member of staff had received £540  but only posted £120 in the deposit box. Ms M would like 
to know how long the member of staff had the envelopes before  he posted them in the box 
but we dont know. There is no CCTV available and the member of staff doesnt recall the 
transaction.
Ms M says she hasnt said about the note denominations. But during  a call with our 
investigator, she said that the member of staff separated out four £10 notes to place in one 
envelope.
Ref: DRN72422064In response to my provisional decision,  Ms M said shed never been offered a receipt  and 
cant understand why I thought shed declined one. When Ms M visited the branch to 
complain, she spoke to a member of staff about  what had happened. Ive listened to the call 
recording of that member of staff when she phoned  the TSB complaints team to report the 
complaint. It is in this conversation that the member  of staff recounts what Ms M has said 
and she says, she was offered a receipt  but didnt  want  one.  I accept its possible the 
member of staff got this wrong. And, having reconsidered this, I think  its most  likely that 
Ms M wasnt offered  a receipt.  But this doesnt  change my overall  conclusion.  
I understand Ms Ms strength of feeling  on this matter.  Following  her response to my 
provisional decision, I asked TSB for more information about  the member  of staff who served 
her that day. He no longer  works for TSB,  but has only recently left and there is nothing on 
his record which would  call into question his honesty and integrity. Taking  this into 
consideration when thinking about  whats most likely  to have happened, I think  its unlikely  
that the member  of staff acted dishonestly. I think its more  likely that Ms M is mistaken and 
that she deposited £80 in account A and £40 in account B.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020. 
Elizabeth Dawes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7242206