K822xcomplaint
Mr A has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds service following a claim he made on 
his motor Insurance policy.
Reference to Aviva  includes its agents.
background 
Mr A was in an accident that wasn't his fault. Aviva  arranged  for repairs  to his car and for a 
hire car. Mr A wasnt happy with a number  of aspects of Aviva's service including that there  
was a delay in arranging a hire car and with the quality of repairs. Aviva agreed  that some  of 
the repair work needed to be corrected and arranged that. It also offered Mr A £512  to pay 
for some additional repair work for him to arrange himself.
Mr A brought his complaint to us. One of our investigators looked into it. He agreed that 
Aviva hadn't dealt  with the claim reasonably; so he said that Aviva  should reimburse Mr A 
£21.07 for taxi fares associated with the hire car; provide a new locking wheel nut; and pay 
Mr A £150  compensation to address his distress  and inconvenience. 
Aviva agreed to our investigators recommendations but Mr A didn't think those  went  far 
enough so his complaint's been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to partly 
uphold it. But Im not going to make any further  awards beyond  those that our investigator 
has already recommended.
In bringing this complaint Mr As made many detailed points. I've considered  everything  hes 
said carefully but in this decision I will focus  on the points that remain  at issue following or 
investigator's assessments  of Mr As complaint.
repair
Mr A wasn't happy with the quality of the repairs to his car. Aviva  instructed an independent 
engineer to assess those.  The engineer agreed  that the garage needed to do some 
additional work to the rear of the car but felt that a number of other issues Mr A complained 
about weren't  related  to the accident  or the repair. And it seems that Mr A agreed with the 
engineer.
The engineer found that some of the paintwork on the bumper required blending. But he also 
said that there was damage to the rear quarter panel next to the bumper that wasn't  related 
to the accident.  Aviva  said that it wouldn't ask its approved  repairer to paint over the 
damaged quarter panel - which it would need  to do in order to blend  the paint with the 
bumper. And as Mr A didn't want to pay the repairer  to fix the quarter panel Aviva said it 
would make a cash in lieu payment to Mr A of £512, as that was the amount it would cost to 
put things right. And in the circumstances I think thats reasonable.
Mr As said that because his car was off the road for so long he thinks Aviva should pay to 
have his car serviced. And he said the manufacturers garage had told him his brakes had 
Ref: DRN79981362rusted and this might have been  because of lack of use. But a cars service is something that 
Mr A would have had to pay for himself in the usual course of events. So I don't think  the fact 
that Mr As car had to have some  additional repair work is reason enough to make Aviva  pay 
for a service.  Similarly, I don't think that Mr A has provided any evidence,  beyond his 
comments that any issues with his brakes  were because of anything Aviva  did or didn't do. 
So Im not going to instruct  Aviva  to take any further action in connection with the repairs to 
his car.
provision of a hire car
Mr A is unhappy that Aviva couldnt give him a hire car immediately.  I've seen that Aviva 
gave Mr A the details  of its hire car suppliers on the day that he told it about his accident. But 
it seems that a hire car wasn't  immediately available. This meant that Mr A was without a car 
for a couple  of days. I can understand that this was inconvenient for Mr A but I don't think  
that's because Aviva  did anything wrong.  The day Mr A told Aviva about the accident was 
24 December 2018. That means that the next two days were both bank holidays  Christmas 
Day and Boxing  Day. And Mr As policy  says:
If your car is immobile or unroadworthy we aim to provide a courtesy car within one 
working day (however  if an accident occurs  during  a weekend or on a bank/public 
holiday, it may not be possible to provide a courtesy  car until the following normal 
working day).
Mr A was provided with a hire car on 27 December 2018, which  was the next working day 
following Mr A telling Aviva about  the accident.  So I think  Aviva  provided Mr A with a car in 
line with the terms  of his policy. So I think it acted reasonably.
Also I note that Mr A incurred some taxi fares while trying to sort out a hire car. Aviva has 
agreed to reimburse  him for those. And I think that's reasonable  in the circumstances.
I understand that Mr A was put to some unnecessary distress and inconvenience because  of 
Avivas actions. But Aviva had agreed to pay Mr A £150 compensation to address  that. And I 
think thats a reasonable sum in the circumstances as its in line with awards I make in cases  
of similar  seriousness.  So I'm not going to instruct Aviva to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  And unless it has already  done 
so I require Aviva Insurance Limited to:
Reimburse Mr A £21.07 for taxi fares.
Pay Mr A a cash in lieu sum of £512.
Provide a replacement wheel locking nut.
Pay Mr A £150 compensation to address his distress and inconvenience.
If Aviva hasn't  already taken the action above it should  pay the compensation within  28 days 
of us telling  it that Mr A has accepted  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also 
pay interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 
a rate of 8% a year simple.1
1 If Aviva considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr A how much its taken off. It should also give Mr A a certificate showing this if 
Ref: DRN79981363Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 June  2020.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7998136