K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them  a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs W took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1992. They paid a monthly amount 
for the policy. The policy only covered Mr W. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Due to the time thats passed since this sale took place, Halifax cant  confirm how the policy  
was sold. Mr and Mrs W think that the sale may have taken place during a meeting.  Ive also 
considered that this policy was probably sold during a meeting. As Mr W was the person  
covered by the policy Ive mainly considered his circumstances, but also kept Mrs Ws 
circumstances in mind when coming to my decision.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint because:
Although Mr and Mrs W have  said that the adviser just read from a scripted sheet, 
they were pressured to take PPI and they werent told it was optional, unfortunately 
there arent any notes  available of the meeting, and understandably  Mr and Mrs W 
possibly might not recall  it clearly  after so long. There are also no documents 
available to me from the time of the sale, which is not at all surprising considering the 
sale took place  so long ago. So its difficult to know how the policy was positioned 
with Mr and Mrs W. 
Ive also noted  what Mr and Mrs W have said about being pressured  to take PPI. But 
pressure can be subjective and what feels like pressure to one person may not to 
another. As this was a sale where Halifax were making a recommendation to take 
PPI, its possible that the adviser said Mr and Mrs W should take PPI. But this is very 
different to Halifax saying  that they had to take PPI. 
In order for me to uphold this Id have  to think that Mr and Mrs Ws account was more 
likely than that of Halifax. But as these events happened so long ago and as theres 
no documentary evidence  to support  either partys position, I have to conclude  that 
Mr and Mrs Ws account is only as likely not more  likely. So on balance  I cannot 
safely conclude that the policy wasnt presented as optional or that they werent given 
a choice to take PPI.
Ref: DRN73888912Both parties agree that Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, and it seems  
to have been right for them based. Ive reached  this conclusion after having carefully 
considered all of Mr and Mrs Ws circumstances at the time of sale.
It seems  that Mr W was eligible  for the policy and it wouldnt have been very difficult 
for him to be able to make a claim on the policy given his circumstances. 
Although Mr and Mrs W have referred to existing  means for repaying their mortgage 
if Mr W was unwell and unable to work  or if he was made unemployed. But although  
Mr and Mrs Ws family may have wanted  to help, circumstances  can change and 
they may not have been in a positon to help when needed. The policy would have 
paid out for up to 12 months per claim,  which is for longer than Mr Ws sick pay 
entitlement or Mr and Mrs Ws savings likely would have lasted. 
As I havent seen  copies of the paperwork from the sale, in fairness to Mr and Mrs W 
Ive assumed that Halifax couldve explained  the cost of the policy  better than it did. 
But even  if it had, I think Mr and Mrs W would still have  bought it.
Its also possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  But 
Mr and Mrs W dont  appear to have been  affected  by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ws comments,  including what theyve said about not 
being made aware of the 30 day waiting  period  before a claim could be made.  Whilst this 
term may not have  been sufficiently brought to their attention, its not a particularly unusual 
term and quite common across most  PPI policies. 
Mr W had sufficient existing means  (sick pay and savings) to cover the first 30 days of any 
sickness or unemployment. So I dont think that Mr and Mrs W have lost out and, on 
balance, I dont think that better information  about  this particular term would have changed 
their decision  about taking PPI. 
In Mr and Mrs Ws initial  complaint to the business they stated I was older than the 
maximum age of coverage in the policy The policy would end when Mr W reached the 
age of 65. But Mr W was 33 when he took out the PPI, so I think  its more  likely than not hed 
have thought hed still get some value out of having the PPI, as it would have covered him 
for a reasonable period of time before he turned  65.  
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ws complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 June 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7388891