K821x#15complaint
S, a limited  company, complains that Bank of Scotland plc closed its bank account and 
unfairly issued a default on its loan.
background
S was an existing customer of Bank of Scotland. It took a business  loan in December 2017. 
But in January 2018 Bank of Scotland wrote  to it saying it would be closing its current  
account and gave it 60 days notice. The account was not closed after that period as loan 
repayments were being  made from the current account. As no alternative payment account 
was given Bank of Scotland made a formal  demand  on the loan. It transferred the current 
account, which then had a credit  balance of over £4,700, and the loan to its recoveries 
department in July 2018.
The investigator recommended  that Bank  of Scotland  pay S £200.  She said that:
-Bank of Scotland did not have  to give a reason to close  the account.
-She thought  it was plausible that S did not take any action  to find another way to 
make loan payments  as it was waiting for an outcome of an appeal about the closure 
to Bank  of Scotland.
-She thought  though that by May 2018  Bank of Scotland had made its intentions to 
close the account clear.
-The formal demand was issued in line with a clause in the agreement that said S 
must have a servicing account  to make  payments to the loan. Although the notice 
said that S had missed  a payment, which was not correct,  she still thought  it was 
valid. The letter  said S needed to make arrangements for repayment or the accounts 
would be transferred to its recoveries department
-S did not do so and the current account  was closed and transferred.
-She recommended the compensation as Bank of Scotland  did not make clear  when 
the account would close and why the loan was defaulted.
-This service could not look specifically at a complaint  by the director that he had 
been discriminated against. We were looking at whether  Bank of Scotland had acted 
fairly and reasonably.
S did not agree. The director said that he wanted  £2,000 to cover the stress, reputational 
damage and inconvenience  caused  by not being able to make  important payments in July 
2018. It was unfair to say S had defaulted when it hadnt missed any payments at the time 
the demand was sent. Bank  of Scotland had retained the money in the current  account and 
so this could not be used  for payments by S.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision for this complaint on 30 January 2019  as follows:
reason to close the current account
I agreed with what the investigator had said about  Bank of Scotland  being  able to decide not 
to provide a current  account to S any longer. Given that it had only recently provided the 
loan of over £19,000  for a five year term to S I could see why S found this particularly difficult 
to understand.  But Bank of Scotland gave the required period of notice of at least 60 days  in 
January 2018.  It did not have to give a reason  why and I didnt have any basis to require this 
account to be reinstated.
Ref: DRN77190022the loan agreement and event of default
Bank of Scotland has not been able to provide a copy of the loan agreement. Id seen an 
earlier draft agreement for a lower amount of borrowing. I accepted  as most likely that the 
actual loan agreement  included the following standard event of default as follows:
6.1 (j) you do not have  a servicing account
And a servicing account is defined as follows:
an account  through which the Bank channels your and the Banks payments under 
this agreement. You may use your current account  with the Bank  as your servicing 
account.
I understood that Bank of Scotland wanted  S to make other arrangements for the payment of 
the loan. S did not do this and, as set out above,  Bank of Scotland allowed the account to 
remain open and normal payments, including  those to the loan continued  to be made.
I was struggling to see how there was more than a potential event of default  in these 
circumstances. Had Bank  of Scotland closed the account, returned the money to S and then 
seen that a monthly payment was not made then it would be clear that S did not have a 
servicing account. I didnt  think  it could unilaterally  tell S that it could not use its current  
account in the meantime.  Because  thats  what the loan agreement said S could do and what 
actually happened.
So I did not consider that Bank  of Scotland had reasonable grounds to make formal demand  
when it did on 9 May 2018.  That demand  in any event said that S had failed  to pay when 
due indebtedness  to the Bank. That was not correct and nor was that it did not have an 
operational servicing account at that time.
I could understand  why the director of S was unclear about  why this was happening. And did 
not see why there was a basis then to transfer  the accounts to the recoveries department.  
As I understood it that happened on 20 July 2018. From the information  Bank  of Scotland  
has provided regular  monthly loan payments  due have since  been taken from the credit  
amount that remained in the current account.
my provisional assessment
For the reasons  Id given I didnt accept that it was fair to treat the loan as in default.  Thats  
especially as payments have been  maintained  in line with the agreement. I considered that if 
S now gives Bank of Scotland  the new account details it says it has to make  loan payments 
then the agreement for payments over the remaining  term should  continue.  If S does not 
then Bank  of Scotland will then have legitimate grounds to make demand and then if 
appropriate default the loan and take recovery action. Any adverse information  reported 
about this loan to the point of settlement of this complaint should be removed.  And the 
remaining funds in the current account should be returned to S with simple interest at eight 
percent. 
Id considered compensation. S was reasonably on notice  that the current  account  was 
going to be closed. That was not a mistake and it had an extended  period  to make 
arrangements for this. I appreciated that there was some confusion  about exactly  when the 
account would close. But I agreed  with the investigator that Bank of Scotland made its 
Ref: DRN77190023intentions again  clear in May 2018. So any reputational damage or inconvenience  caused by 
S not being able to use the account after the closure date is not fairly the responsibility  of 
Bank of Scotland. As I indicated by my suggested award above in my view S was deprived 
of the money  in its account after the closure  and Id reflected that in the proposed  interest 
payment.
I did consider that S was caused inconvenience  by the loan wrongly being transferred  to the 
recoveries department. In my view it could  be argued that Bank of Scotland,  not S, acted  
outside the terms of the loan agreement. It has not been made clear to me that, in itself, this 
action has caused  any reputational damage. However, the director  has had to spend  a 
considerable amount of time trying to deal with this and has referred this matter  to this 
service. Of course had S set up a new bank  account as reasonably asked then all of this 
could have been avoided. Taking all these  factors into account  I considered that reasonable 
compensation for S is £300.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
S said it agreed with my decision.  Bank of Scotland did not provide any response.  As a 
result I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part and I require Bank of Scotland  plc to:
1)Return the remaining credit balance  on the current account to S with simple  interest  
at eight per cent from the time the account was closed to the time of the refund.
2)Remove any adverse  information reported to third parties  about the payment record 
of S and any default on the loan up to the date of this settlement.
3)Return the loan to regular treatment and remove the current  default and accept 
payments in line with the original agreement from an account S now nominates.  
4)Pay, not credit, S £300.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 April 2019. 
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7719002