K820x#14complaint
Mrs D complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) has unfairly declined a claim under her 
pet insurance policy.
background
Mrs D took out a pet insurance policy in September 2016 to cover  her pet dog who Ill call W. 
In October  2018, Ws vet discovered an ulcer in his left eye which required corneal repair  
surgery. An eye specialist diagnosed W with macroblepharon associated with trichiasis 
(rubbing hairs) and exposure  keratitis  due to poor blinking. Following this advice, Mrs D 
went ahead  with the recommended surgery, and made a claim for costs  under her policy.
UKI considered the claim. It said the issue being  claimed for was first noticed in August  2016 
when W was treated for eye problems. At that time W was diagnosed with bilateral 
lagophthalmos, medial entropion and pigmentary  keratitis.
This diagnosis was before Mrs D took out a policy with UKI. Under  the policy terms and 
conditions, any claims in connection with, or arising  from,  any pre-existing condition, arent 
covered. UKI said the condition Mrs D was claiming  for was connected to the previous 2016 
diagnosis, so it declined  the claim.
Mrs D disagreed and made  a complaint  to UKI. She provided evidence from her vet and the 
eye specialist who carried out the surgery on W. They explained that even though  the 
disease process in both eyes was similar, the two ulcers  werent  related to each other.  
Instead they said Ws breed  of dog is at a higher  risk of corneal  ulcers. They  argued  this is a 
risk factor rather than an underlying condition. 
UKI looked again, but maintained its position  to decline  the claim.  It said it wasnt  declining  it 
because of Ws breed, but because he had a history  of eye problems  before  the policy 
started. So Mrs D brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint and initially upheld  it. She was persuaded by the 
evidence from the veterinary professionals that said the ulcers werent linked. UKI 
responded by providing a more detailed report  from its own medical  team explaining its 
position further. And after reviewing this, our investigator decided not to uphold the 
complaint. 
The investigator spoke  with Mrs D about the change to her original outcome and explained  
her reasons  for this. She said W had been diagnosed with lagophthalmos  in both of his eyes 
 prior to Mrs Ds policy starting  with UKI. And she said ulceration to the eye is a common 
symptom of this condition. So based  on the information shed seen, she thought it was more  
likely than not, the second ulcer  occurred as a result of this pre-existing condition.
Mrs D disagreed and requested that the case be reviewed by an ombudsman. So the 
complaint has been passed to me to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN79396022Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ds complaint. I know this isnt the outcome 
Mrs D was hoping for, so it will likely  come  as a disappointment to her. And Im aware this is 
at a time which is already difficult,  due to her personal circumstances at present, which I was 
very sorry to learn of. But Ill explain my reasons why Ive reached this decision.
My role in this case, is to consider whether UKI has fairly declined Mrs Ds claim, in line with 
the terms and conditions of the policy and to reach an outcome thats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this case. So Ive considered both parties  arguments carefully.
Mrs Ds policy (like most  pet insurance  policies  Ive seen) excludes  cover for any claims in 
connection with or arising from any pre-existing conditions. And the policy defines a 
pre-existing condition as Any condition or symptoms, or signs  of injury  or illness,  that 
happen or exist in any form before  the pet was covered by this insurance. This means if W 
had any condition or symptom, or signs of injury or illness  prior to the policy  being  taken  out, 
UKI will not cover it.
In this case the dispute is whether Ws condition was pre-existing. W received a diagnosis  
each time he was taken  to his vet with an ulcer  in his eye. And these set out the suspected 
cause of each  ulcer. So when considering whether Ws 2018  ulcer  was most likely  the result  
of  or connected  to a pre-existing condition, Ive taken these diagnoses into account.  Ive 
started by setting out the meanings  of the medical  terms  that were  used  in each diagnosis 
(taken from various pet information websites).
2016 diagnosis
Lagophthalmos - the inability to close the eyelids completely.
Entropion - a portion  of the eyelid  is inverted  or folded inward. This can cause  an 
eyelash or hair to irritate and scratch the surface  of the eye, leading  to corneal 
ulceration or perforation.
Pigmentary keratitis - a brownish-black discoloration of the surface  of the eye, 
caused by the deposition of pigmented melanin granules.
2018 diagnosis
Macroblepharon - an abnormally large opening of the eyelids resulting in reduced  
eye protection.
Trichiasis  - ingrowth or introversion  of the eyelashes.
Exposure keratitis (also known as exposure  keratopathy) - damage to the cornea that 
occurs primarily  from prolonged  exposure  of the ocular surface to the outside 
environment.
In 2016 W was diagnosed  with lagophthalmos  in both of his eyes, so Im satisfied this is a 
pre-existing condition. Ws veterinary notes reference this diagnosis,  so I think its more likely 
than not, they wouldve made Mrs D aware  of it at that time. 
Lagophthalmos stops the dog from being able to close its eyelids fully  so it effectively 
impacts its ability  to blink. This can lead to dryness  of the eye and can trigger unusual 
colouring and sores that dont heal easily. In 2018, the veterinary diagnosis said the 
macroblepharon, trichiasis and exposure  keratitis (the issues  causing the 2018 ulcer) were  
due to poor blinking. And W received bilateral lid surgery to prevent further ulcer formation 
in the future.
Ref: DRN79396023UKI acknowledges that in 2018, W seems to have  been diagnosed with some  differently 
named issues to those  found in 2016.  But it says these  issues  still happened as a result of 
Ws poor blinking, which is caused by the lagophthalmos.  However, Ws eye specialist 
disagrees. Theyve said the corneal  ulcer  W suffered in 2018 wasnt  caused  by the 
lagophthalmos. Instead  they think the cause  was most likely minor trauma.
Having considered each of the arguments very carefully, on balance,  Im more  persuaded by 
UKIs reasoning that the cause of Ws ulcer is a result of, or connected  to, the pre-existing 
condition of lagophthalmos. 
I say this because  this condition is known to cause ulcers and the eye specialists  notes say 
W suffered from this condition in both eyes before  Mrs D took out this policy. From the 
information Ive seen, Im satisfied lagophthalmos  was part of the underlying cause of the 
first ulcer. And the veterinary notes from 2018  suggest the problems  that led to Ws second 
ulcer were  due to poor blinking. While  the term lagophthalmos isnt used in this diagnosis, 
the definition of it still seems to match  the issue of poor blinking  which has been 
referenced.
Mrs Ds veterinary professionals say that nearly all dogs of Ws breed are predisposed to 
eye problems such as lagophthalmos. And so Ws previous diagnosis  of the condition should 
be treated as a risk factor for the breed, rather than an underlying  condition.  But from the 
eye specialists own admission, not all dogs of Ws breed will suffer  from this condition. The 
fact, in this case,  is that W was diagnosed with it prior to this policy  starting. So in line with 
the terms and conditions, I think its reasonable that UKI has considered this when looking at 
Mrs Ds claim.
Mrs Ds veterinary professionals also think its more probable that W suffered  a minor trauma 
which caused the ulcer. But I havent  seen evidence that reasonably  supports this theory.  
And as Ive set out above, I have  seen persuasive evidence to support UKIs reasoning  that 
Ws ulcer is a result  of an underlying condition which isnt covered  under the policy. So 
based on the information Ive seen, I accept UKIs findings on this matter.  It follows that I 
dont uphold Mrs Ds complaint, and I wont be asking it to pay the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.  
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7939602