K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains about the service  he received from UK Insurance Limited (UKI)  when he 
made a claim for storm damage under his buildings insurance policy. 
background
In January 2018 Mr M contacted UKI after bad weather  had caused  a leak in a flat roof 
above a bay window.
UKI agreed  the weather  conditions showed a storm had happened,  so it agreed someone 
would come out and look at the damage. When UKI attended,  it took photographs  of the 
roof. Mr M says he showed the contractor the three repair quotes he got for the roof and was 
told he was ok to go ahead and pay around  £900 to repair the damage. 
A couple of days later,  UKI contacted Mr M and asked him to take some  more  photos of the 
roof to validate  the claim.  It also told him it wouldnt agree  to pay the £900 to fix the roof as it 
would only cost them about £750 to do so. 
Mr M decided to withdraw his claim but he complained about the service hed received from 
UKI. He said it had been very confusing and unprofessional. He said he didnt have access 
to a camera or a smart phone so he would have struggled to provide  more photos to UKI. He 
wanted to be compensated for the poor service hed received.
Our investigator agreed UKI had caused confusion. She also thought  it was unreasonable 
for UKI to ask Mr M to take more photos to validate his claim when UKI had attended his 
property and had already  taken photos and made a note of the damage.  She said had UKI 
taken proper photos when it attended  the property this could have  stopped a lot of 
confusion. She also noted UKI accepted Mr M was told the £900 claim would be covered, 
only to be later told it might not be. She thought  UKI should pay £200  to compensate Mr M 
for the inconvenience  caused. 
UKI didnt  agree. It said Mr M had signed a mandate which said UKIs contractors couldnt 
give advice or comment on the policy. So it no longer accepted that its contractor had told 
Mr M his claim would be covered. It also said Mr M hadnt said he couldnt get more photos  
when it asked him to. So it didnt think any compensation should be paid.  
As UKI didnt agree, the matter has come to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr M decided not to pursue his claim in the end, so I havent considered the merits of the 
claim and whether it should have been  covered by UKI. But I have looked  at the service UKI 
provided. And having done so I think UKI should compensate  Mr M £200.
UKI says the person  who attended  Mr Ms property was a photographer, who it hires to take 
photos of the roof so it can assess the claim. It says the photographer  shouldnt give advice.  
Initially when Mr M complained UKI accepted  the photographer had done this. It has since  
Ref: DRN73128472said Mr M has signed a mandate agreeing that advice or comment  on the policy  cant be 
given by this person.  So based on this form it doesnt agree it did anything  wrong.  
As far as I can tell, Mr M isnt experienced in insurance matters; he had a leak in his roof, 
and obtained some quotes  from builders.  UKI said it was sending  someone out to look at the 
damage so I dont think Mr M would know that this person wouldnt be able to comment  on 
his policy. I think Mr M is persuasive when he says he showed  the photographer  the quotes  
and the photographer offered an opinion on which he should  choose. So I dont  think the 
signed mandate is enough to make  me think this didnt happen.
I think UKI caused Mr M unnecessary inconvenience when it asked him to take more  photos 
of the damage. It had already sent someone  to take photos, and Mr M had given this person 
access to the upstairs of his house  to take photos  out of the window. Yet this is what  UKI 
asked Mr M to do. It said without this it wouldnt be able to validate his claim. I think this is 
unreasonable given it is UKIs fault the photos  werent of good  enough  quality. 
Ive listened to the phone call Mr M had with UKI about this. And I accept Mr M didnt say he 
didnt have a camera phone. But he did say that he wouldnt  be able to email  the photo  to 
UKI as he wouldnt know  how to do this. In response UKI tells Mr M to ask a friend or relative 
to help. I think this would have caused Mr M inconvenience. And I can see why he thought  
UKI were putting up barriers to stop him making  a claim.
Whilst I accept  Mr M decided not to make  a claim in the end, I think the actions of UKI have 
caused him unnecessary distress and inconvenience. So I think  it should pay him £200 to 
compensate for this.
my final decision
My final decision is that I direct U K Insurance Limited to pay Mr M £200 for distress  and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Michelle Henderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7312847