K821x#15complaint
Mr N has complained about his let property  insurance provider Aviva Insurance  Limited  as 
he feels it didnt complete repairs properly when it handled his claim made following a water 
leak. He thinks it caused further damage, allowed leaks  to continue and caused him extra  
costs because it failed  to provide various certificates  for the work.
background
Mr N contacted Aviva in March 2018  as his tenant  had recently left the property and water 
damage had been  discovered.  Mr N said a pipe in the kitchen, behind skirting  boards had 
been fixed. When Avivas  representative met with Mr N on 27 March 2018 water  was found 
to be flowing in and out of the downstairs bathroom (next to the kitchen). Aviva considered 
the situation but agreed there was cover on the policy. It appointed a repair  contractor to dry 
and reinstate the property.
Aviva thought the reinstatement work should complete by the end of September   it had paid 
Mr N for six-months  lost rent for the period end of March to the end of September.  In 
October Mr N uploaded photos  of outstanding  repairs, drawing attention  to problems with the 
works. The contractor told Aviva everything  had been done. A visit to the property was 
arranged for 30 January  2019 in which Aviva  identified seven repair issues  it accepted 
needed addressing. The contractor later told Aviva (and later this service)  that all work  was 
subsequently completed.  
Aviva also felt though  that it needed  to further  inspect some  damp  patches  to determine if 
these were related  to the original leak and/or its work and/or the claim. This assessment took 
place at the end of February 2019. It was determined they were not related  and one main 
cause of current damp was likely the boiler  situated  above the kitchen. It was suggested that 
Mr N would need to have the boiler  fixed and raise  a separate  claim for the damage, but that 
Aviva, as a gesture  of goodwill, would  waive any excess for the second claim.  
Mr N was unhappy and he complained  to this service. He set out a detailed list of issues 
which he had with Aviva  which, broadly speaking, covered its service and conduct, as well 
quality of work and outstanding repairs. Mr N said he wanted Aviva to pay further lost rent as 
he said it had never  returned the property to a habitable state  not least  because  some 
keys had been missing  and gas and electrical safety  certificates  hadnt  been provided. 
Our investigator felt that repairs were still needed to the bathroom,  that keys and certificates 
should be provided and that £400 compensation should be paid. But he felt Avivas option  
regarding the second claim was reasonable and wasnt minded to say it should pay more 
lost rent.
Mr N didnt think wed answered all his concerns, or that it was possible for us to decide 
there must have been more than one leak. He said the area around the boiler was dry and 
hed obtained  a certificate for the boiler.  He said hed had to pay to replace damaged 
windows and external doors as Avivas contractor  had damaged them   but he still needed 
his keys returned as they included a key for the inside front door.  Mr N said his total losses 
following the claim, including one years  rent at £15,000, were  around £24,000.
The complaint was passed  to me and I asked both parties for further information. Mr N 
provided many invoices to show costs  hed incurred, including for electrical safety testing  of 
all the kitchen appliances. Avivas contractor said it had reimbursed Mr N for the £16 hed 
Ref: DRN73432032spent to obtain new keys when his locks had been changed (before Mr N replaced  the 
doors) and denied damaging the windows and doors. Aviva confirmed it had paid £75.50  to 
Mr N for electricity  used to repair the property. 
I issued a provisional decision. I felt there  were  a number of things that Aviva  did need  to do 
or pay  but I didnt  think it should  have to do or pay everything Mr N thought  was 
outstanding. In summary I felt it should:
If Mr N changes the lock on the inside front door and provides  evidence  of his cost for 
having done that, reimburse his outlay.
Provide resolution  to Mr N for the four outstanding repair  issues:
oRust not removed from bathroom  and utility radiators, needs  repainting.
oPart of the boxing in (behind  the toilet) hasnt been painted.
oThe bathroom/utility floor hasnt  been  repaired.
oKitchen drawers still do not close.
Pay Mr N £16, plus interest* from the date he bought copy  keys until settlement is made.
Pay Mr N £250  (rather  than £400) compensation for distress  and inconvenience.
I also indicated in the body of my findings  that if I wasnt  satisfied  that the £75.50 for utility 
costs had been paid by Aviva, Id make an award  for this sum in my final decision.
Aviva did not object to anything I said. It confirmed it was checking the £75.50 had been paid 
 and said it would pay this if it found it was outstanding. It said the outstanding work Id said 
it should resolve would cost £678.86 to complete (it did not specify  VAT) and this could be 
put to Mr N as a settlement offer. 
Mr N replied in some  detail. He said Aviva had failed to adhere  to the policy  when it unfairly 
walked away from completing  the work at his property. In summary Mr N thinks Aviva is 
liable for a lot more  outstanding work, more lost rent and more compensation. Ive recorded  
his main points against each  relevant section  of my findings below, and can confirm  that Ive 
read, understood and noted his full reply.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
poor treatment by Aviva and its representatives
I said provisionally:  Mr N said that many  of Avivas representatives have been rude,  
aggressive and dismissive towards him. Aviva  has defended its position  denying that 
inappropriate conduct occurred. I appreciate that Mr N feels  this way. Unfortunately for Mr N 
the interactions hes described  having concerns about all took place either face-to-face or 
during unrecorded telephone calls. Which means  I have no way to know whether his 
recollection, or the denials set out by Aviva, are the most  likely  accurate record  of events.  
For me to find against an insurer,  I have  to be satisfied that, on balance,  it most likely did 
something wrong. In this case I cant be satisfied that most likely happened.
In reply to my findings,  Mr N asked  that I listen to a call which  took place between him and a 
particular individual  on 28 February 2019.  He also said I should listen  to calls he made  to 
Avivas customer  service  team  as it was in those  calls that he set out what  had happened.  
Ref: DRN73432033I can assure Mr N that I did ask for a copy of the specified call before making my provisional 
decision  Aviva says it was not recorded.  I cant reasonably listen to all calls Mr N made to 
the customer service team  and to do so would not assist me here. Hearing  Mr N tell Aviva  
what happened is no different to my hearing directly  from Mr N what  happened. Importantly 
neither helps me to know what most likely  actually occurred. 
items were damaged  by Avivas contractors
I said provisionally:  Mr N said the contractors  damaged windows and external doors. The 
contractor denies  that is the case.  I havent  seen any expert report  from Mr N which  shows  
these were likely damaged by Avivas  contractor. I note Mr N says the locking mechanism of 
one of the doors has been ruined and that the front door wont close  anymore. These type of 
issues might  well have resulted from wear and tear, they arent things I would necessarily 
equate with deliberate or neglectful damage  being  caused by contractors. 
In reply, Mr N said that photos showed the state  of the doors  and windows. He explained  
again how he felt the door had been  damaged as a result of Avivas  work. 
I understand Mr Ns concerns but seeing  the damage and hearing what Mr N says about  
how he thinks damage occured isnt sufficient for me to be satisfied that Aviva is most likely  
liable for this. 
I also said provisionally:  Mr N said the toilet and bath were damaged by the contractors 
leaving the radiators  in the bath and chemicals  from the radiators in the toilet. Ive seen a 
photo of the bath with items  like the sink inside it. But this doesnt show me that the bath was 
damaged, and Ive seen  no evidence regarding the toilet. I cant reasonably say Avivas 
contractor most likely caused damage  to these items.  
In reply, Mr N said the radiator should  never  have been left in the bath in the first place. Mr N 
provided a photo  showing  marks on the bath. He said the mark is rust but also that it is 
where the enamel has been  worn  away by the radiator chemicals. 
I thank Mr N for providing this photo.  I understand his concerns  Aviva  should have taken 
care of his property. However,  the marks on the bath could  as easily  have been caused  due 
to normal wear and tear. And in saying that I bear in mind that whilst  the radiator was clearly 
in the bath, I have  no way to know, based on the evidence  available, that harmful fluids were 
left in it when  it was placed  there. 
items missing
I said provisionally:  Mr N says keys havent  been returned to him. The contractors say the 
keys were posted to Mr N when it finished work  at his property. Mr N says they havent been 
received, whilst he has replaced external doors  the missing keys include a key for the 
internal front door.  In my view the contractor should  have taken more  care in ensuring  safe 
return of the keys to Mr N. I accept that Mr N would have been quite worried  about his 
property until he replaced the external doors. If Mr N has the internal door lock changed  and 
evidences this to Aviva, it will have to reimburse  the cost to him.
In reply, Mr N said Aviva  shouldnt have changed  the locks without informing him. Mr N feels 
Avivas contractors have done  nothing but lie about this situation.  In addition to the cost of 
replacing the lock Mr N wants Aviva to be responsible for his time in sourcing  a reliable 
Ref: DRN73432034contractor, meeting the potential contractors at the property, and for the conduct and work of 
the chosen contractor. 
Im not persuaded that is reasonable, not least as Aviva would have no control over the 
process. And Im not persuaded that finding a reliable contractor to complete this relatively 
minor and straightforward piece of work would be that difficult  for Mr N  he is a landlord  and 
completing repairs to a let property falls within the normal remit of work a landlord would 
often need to do. My award in this respect remains as provisionally stated. 
I also said provisionally:  Mr N says the gas and electrical safety certificates were never 
provided to him. He says he emailed the contractor. The contractor has said it did provide  
copies to Mr N at the time the work was completed. I think the latter sounds like what would 
usually happen  when this type of work is done.  I havent been provided with copy  emails 
regarding this and I note that even  though  Mr N dealt with various  Aviva  representatives in 
the months that followed the repairs, he didnt mention to them that certificates  were  
outstanding. Im not persuaded  Aviva failed Mr N in this respect. I also note that some of the 
certificates Mr N has provided, and asked Aviva  to pay for, seem  to go beyond  what  would 
have been necessary for the work  Aviva  was liable for  such as electrical safety testing of 
all the appliances  and checking the electrical  installation following work to install a new fuse-
board. Im not minded  to say Aviva must pay Mr N for either the cost of the work he had 
done or the price he paid to obtain  the certificates.
In reply, Mr N said he has never received any certificates. If they were issued there  should  
be copies that can be supplied. He thinks its likely that Avivas  contractors were not properly 
licensed or qualified.  What might usually  happen, Mr N said, is not what  happened  here.  Its 
unfair for me to speculate  and assume.  He said he cant  rent the property again without 
these certificates and he had always drawn this issue to Avivas  attention.  He said he had to 
test the appliances as Avivas contractor did not  even though it reinstalled them.  He said 
work was needed  to the fuse-board due to incompatibility issues  that arose  with wiring work 
Aviva had undertaken.
It is up to me, where situations are not entirely clear,  to decide,  based on the available 
evidence, what it is that most likely happened. Here Ive seen copy certificates  from 2018  
and these have  been shared with Mr N. Im satisfied  its most likely they were provided at the 
time the work was done, even though  Mr N does not recall being given them. Aviva did strip 
the kitchen so it removed all of the appliances before later reinstating  them   but they 
werent reportedly water damaged, so I cant see it would ever needed  to have completed 
electrical safety checks on them. Nor am I persuaded  that, if I accept for a moment  that 
Aviva should  have provided  further  paperwork in respect of the electrical  installation  as a 
whole at Mr Ns property,  any failure to do so would logically be answered  by all the 
appliances being safety checked. Mr Ns electrical  installation checks do show various 
issues with the property  but Im not convinced, based on what Ive seen, anything  can 
most likely and obviously be tracked  back to work Aviva did. Mr Ns comments against the 
electrical safety inspection certificates  he obtained are not sufficient. For this type of highly 
technical and professional  area Id usually want  to see clear persuasive  evidence from an 
expert linking  the issues found with work done. Whilst Mr N says he constantly  asked Aviva 
about the certificates  Ive seen no evidence  of that. 
I further said provisionally:  Mr N says the bath panel is missing. And/or that when the 
contractor lost it, they replaced it with a cheap plastic cover.  Avivas  contractor  has denied 
this. Without wishing to disappoint Mr N, I have  no way to know  that Avivas contractors most  
likely did this. 
Ref: DRN73432035In reply, Mr N sent a photo  of the reinstated  bathroom. I can see the bath has a panel. I cant 
tell if this is of the same  or inferior quality to the panel I can see from other photos was in 
place at the time of the loss. Im not persuaded Aviva failed Mr N in this respect.
Lastly in this section  of my provisional  findings, I said:   Mr N says the gas pipe stopper for 
the cooker and oven  was not reinstalled.  I havent seen evidence of this. Im mindful  that the 
contractor has provided a gas safe certificate from the time of the work  although  this refers 
to the hob, not the cooker and oven. And Mr Ns gas safe certificate doesnt identify any 
issue of this nature either. 
In reply Mr N said the gas safety certificate  is irrelevant  an electrical earth wire is missing. 
But he also said the gas stopper is missing. I understand this is a concern  for Mr N  but Im 
not persuaded by what he says that Aviva has done  anything wrong.  Im not persuaded that 
it did or had need  to disconnect or remove or work on this area of piping. And the photos  
Mr N has provided dont  persuade me this is likely now missing. 
quality of work 
I said provisionally: 
Mr N set out a number  of concerns he had with work Aviva  had completed  at his property. 
Mr N says the kitchen is not the same quality as the one he had before, that the kitchen 
worktops are thinner and have been poorly jointed, only one coat of paint was applied rather 
than two, wallpaper has started  to come away, cracks are appearing in the skirting-boards,  
bathroom tiles have been fixed  at different levels,  the fungicidal wash wasnt  done  and lots of 
materials were  wasted.
Avivas contractor said Mr N was consulted on the materials used. I havent seen any 
evidence, beyond Mr Ns testimony, that materials were used that were  not like those  he had 
before  or if they were  that was because  Avivas contractor failed him. 
I understand it would  be frustrating if work  wasnt done according to the agreed schedule, 
such as using only one coat of paint.  But variations  to the work can reasonably  take place. 
For example, whilst two coats  are often allowed for, a contractor may view that the finish  
achieved from the first coat is satisfactory. I havent seen evidence that the decorative work 
completed to Mr Ns property by Avivas contractor  was below standard. And Im mindful 
that, in the main, Aviva didnt find this to be the case when it attended in February 2019 (see 
below). No issues with worktops,  wallpaper, skirting boards  or the level of bathroom tiles 
were identified. 
Nor have  I seen evidence that the fungicidal wash wasnt completed.  Its unfortunate if there  
were waste  materials from the works  but I have no way to know the contractors were  
excessively wasteful.
outstanding work
I said provisionally:
When Aviva  visited the property in February 2019 it accepted that certain work was 
required:
Ref: DRN73432036Flooring in bathroom
Bathroom window needs  painting
Radiator in both bathroom and utility needs repainting
Black  mark  on sink
There is a gap on the boxing  in at the back of the toilet
Ceiling in bathroom needs painting
Kitchen drawer 
Other than stating all this work was done,  Aviva has provided no evidence.  Amongst other  
outstanding work issues Mr N identified, he said that the following needed resolving:
Rust not removed from bathroom  and utility radiators, needs  repainting.
Part of the boxing in (behind  the toilet) hasnt been painted.
The bathroom/utility floor hasnt  been  repaired.
Kitchen drawers still do not close.
It seems  to me that these issues broadly correlate with some  of the work Aviva had accepted 
needed doing at Mr Ns property. Im not persuaded Aviva satisfactorily  completed  the work  
it had agreed was outstanding. It will need  to now resolve these four outstanding issues. 
Mr N said Aviva hadnt acted on his concerns quickly enough and there  was no evidence  the 
contractor had told Aviva work  had been done. When, following his chases, Aviva  attended  it 
didnt bring his list of works with it. He believes the attending representatives had gone with 
one mind set  to deny  everything.  Everything, he said, was still outstanding. 
I understand Mr N doesnt trust Aviva, or at least some of its operatives  that attended his 
property. But Ive seen  no evidence which makes me think  any of them set out to do Mr N a 
disservice. Ive also carefully  considered the available evidence  about outstanding repairs.  
Im satisfied that some re-work  was likely  done  but that the above four issues werent 
completed satisfactorily. 
I note Aviva has set out figures for what it thinks the four pieces of outstanding work  will cost 
 £678.86. Ill leave this to Mr N to decide as, rather than accepting this sum, he may want  
Aviva to consider  any evidence he has about the costs for these outstanding repairs.  Im 
also mindful that there is currently work  going  on at Mr Ns property in respect of a further 
claim  so its possible the parties will feel its appropriate to do this outstanding work as part 
of that reinstatement  programme. Therefore, my award that Aviva will need to resolve 
these four issues will remain.     
I went on in my provisional decision to look at some specific issues  Mr N had raised  that did 
not get listed as part of the February  2019 assessment. I said:
Mr N says the bedroom wasnt  repainted. But if this was the case Id expect it to have been 
picked up by Aviva in its assessment in February  2019.
Mr N said the bathroom tiles werent re-grouted. Aviva did look at an issue with tiles in 
February 2019. Regarding these it noted  they had come away. It was noted  that a damp  
patch had appeared and that it felt this was likely related to the outside of the property. It 
didnt note that grout was missing from bathroom tiles. I note Mr N has said there cant  be 
water coming in from the outside because he had damp proofing work completed  previously. 
Whilst I understand this (although I havent seen evidence of it), that wouldnt protect the 
home from all possibility  of moisture getting into it from the outside. 
Ref: DRN73432037Mr N has also said the wall between the kitchen and the dining room still has visible  moisture  
on it, on both sides of the wall. I think this is the area that Aviva has said is likely being 
affected by a leak from the boiler. The boiler is situated above.  Aviva says the leak is on the 
pipe that feeds water into the boiler. Mr N thinks his gas safety certificate  shows  there  is no 
issue with the boiler.  Im not persuaded that is the case; the certificate shows  the boiler  is in 
safe working order  Im not sure that a leak on an in-let pipe would make the boiler itself 
unsafe. Mr N has provided  photos of the area around the boiler  to show it is dry. Whilst 
I appreciate that, it is not known where  the leak on the in-let pipe is. It may not be near the 
boiler such as to affect the area immediately around  it. And Avivas representatives did note 
damp on the ceiling  as well as the wall. Avivas diagnosis of the cause  of the persistent  
moisture, particularly given Ive seen no expert  view to the contrary, doesnt seem to me, to 
have been unreasonable.  If Mr N wants  Aviva  to repair this area, he will have to agree to 
letting it set up a new claim.   
In reply, Mr N said Aviva  never said the leak on the boiler was on the in-let  pipe  it always  
just said the boiler  was leaking. Mr N explained  that, in any event, he has made a second 
claim and a leak has been found, although  not on the in-let pipe. He says Aviva is now in the 
process of drying  the property again.  Mr N thinks the leak should have been found  before 
when the damp wall was first noticed and concerns arose about the boiler.
I can see that Aviva did investigate the damp  wall in 2018. Im not persuaded it should 
reasonably have done more than it did at that time.  The note from a visit which  took place on 
7 March 2019 does refer to the boiler leaking.  But in short order clarification was provided 
that the leak was thought to be on the feed  (or in-let) pipe. But Aviva  consistently told Mr N 
that a second  leak would  require a second  claim. It couldnt reasonably  move  ahead until 
Mr N accepted that. I see that once he did the situation moved on and a leak was found.  Im 
not persuaded that any delay or disruption  due to another drying and reinstatement  scheme 
being needed was caused by any failure  of Aviva.
outstanding payments
I said provisionally: 
Mr N said costs  for electricity used  to dry his home,  and to cut a spare set of keys, are 
outstanding. 
Aviva has told us it paid Mr N £75.50  on 29 August 2018 in settlement for electricity costs.  Id 
ask that, in response to my provisional decision,  Mr N checks his bank account to see if this 
sum has been received and overlooked. Id also ask Aviva to provide  proof  to our 
investigator to show it was paid (and if that was by cheque that this was cashed). Assuming 
that Aviva  has paid this sum, and Mr N has received it, I wont be asking it to pay this 
amount again.
Regarding the spare keys; Avivas contractor  said it refunded this sum to him. It seems odd 
to me that a contractor would organise  this type payment. And the contractor hasnt said 
when or by what method it did this. If in response  to this provisional decision,  Aviva can 
show me Mr N was reimbursed £16 by its contractor  then I wont  make an award in this 
respect. Otherwise Ill be requiring Aviva to pay Mr N £16, plus interest* from the date he 
obtained the copy set of keys.
Ref: DRN73432038Mr N said the outstanding electricity costs  were £66 and for that used during the repairs  
following the drying, not the cost of drying  itself. Mr N confirmed he had not been  paid £16 
by Avivas contractor.
Having reviewed what both parties told me about the utility costs I note that Mr N did say it 
was for costs incurred  due to repair. Aviva told us it paid £75.50  in respect  of additional  
electricity costs. So Mr N has asked for £66, and Aviva has said it has paid £75.50.  Ive not 
seen any evidence to make me think Mr N is due £66 in addition to the £75.50. That said, 
Aviva has not shown me that the £75.50  was paid  so Ill include an award for it to pay this 
now if it hasnt been. My award of £16 for the spare key cost remains  unchanged.
loss of rent
I said provisionally:
Aviva made  a payment to Mr N for lost rent through to the end of September  2018. But it 
said it wouldnt pay beyond that as it felt that the reinstatement work would be completed by 
that time.  
Mr N told Aviva in November  2018 that work  was outstanding.  But Aviva never accepted that 
meant the property wasnt habitable.  And, taking  note of the agreed snagging list completed 
in February 2019,  I think its view in this respect  was reasonable. 
But Mr N has raised concerns about  issues  not on that list. Ive given  my view on these 
above. In the main  I havent found Aviva to be liable for the issues raised.  So even if any or 
all of these things might be considered to have made the property uninhabitable, I cant hold 
Aviva liable for the subsequent loss of rent. Ive then looked at the issues I have found Aviva 
is liable  for and decided how that affects  this issue.
Ive said Aviva needs to sort the rusty radiators in the bathroom and utility area. Mr N says 
rust is poisonous so prevented him renting the property. Im not persuaded that rust is 
generally considered  to be a health  and safety issue,  not when its left in an undisturbed 
state. I dont think this made the property uninhabitable.    
Ive said Avivas contractor should  have taken  more care to ensure Mr Ns safe receipt  of the 
returned keys.  I think  missing keys  whether  still in the hands  of the contractor or lost in the 
post  would give a property owner  reasonable cause for concern. But, that being the case, 
whether tenants  are in place or not, the reasonable response would be to change the locks. 
Id find it unreasonable to suggest that here Aviva should pay Mr N for lost rent, perhaps 
totalling as much as £15,000, merely  because  its contractor  didnt  take good enough care 
when returning  the keys to him.  
Mr N said the property  is still not lettable as its neither safe nor secure. Its not safe he says 
due to outstanding repairs, and its insecure because the keys for the internal door werent 
returned. Mr N feels it doesnt  matter what I or Aviva think is uninhabitable it is the legal 
term which is important and doesnt  change. And lost rent should be paid due to Avivas 
delays and poor claim handling.  He has tried to rent it but over 40 viewers walked away.
Im of the view that the work which Aviva should have completed as part of this claim but did 
not  as accepted by it in February 2019 and bulleted above  was relatively minor. Im not 
persuaded that work alone would have prevented the property being let. I accept the missing  
key would have  been a cause for concern but Im not persuaded it made the property wholly  
Ref: DRN73432039unsafe or insecure  not given the door in question was an internal one and the external 
door, which Mr N had replaced, was secure. Im sorry to disappoint Mr N but Im not going to 
require Aviva to pay more lost rent.
compensation
I said provisionally:
It is clear  to me that, in some respects, Aviva  didnt handle this claim well. Mr N reported 
that work  had not been completed and Aviva eventually,  to an extent,  accepted that was the 
case, but that took a while and involved  further  visits.  And Im not satisfied, as I said above  
that it was ever all done. Mr N reasonably experienced some worry too in respect of the keys 
to his property  not being  returned to him. I also bear in mind that Mr N suffers  with his health 
and dealing  with the incomplete/poor  work  does  seem to have put an extra strain on him.
That said,  the work Ive found to be outstanding does  appear to be relatively  minimal.  And 
Im not persuaded that anything Aviva did wrong reasonably prevented  Mr N from letting the 
property. So any upset  or worry hes had due to a lack of rental  income, isnt something I can 
reasonably make Aviva compensate him for. I also didnt  find that Aviva had most likely 
treated Mr N in an unprofessional  and discourteous manner.  
Overall Im satisfied that Aviva should  pay Mr N compensation.  I think £250 is fair and 
reasonable.
In reply Mr N explained  how Aviva hadnt responded quickly to his concerns  about repairs, 
that he had to chase everything  and that he hadnt been called back when promised.  
I understand Mr N feels let down by Aviva and agree with Mr N that Aviva did fail him in 
some respects. In my view it could  have handled his claim better and if it had then much of 
Mr Ns frustration and disruption  would have been  avoided. But Im also still satisfied that the 
work Aviva failed to complete when it reasonably  should have done was relatively minor. 
Having reviewed everything, Im still satisfied that £250 compensation is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  Aviva Insurance Limited to:
If Mr N changes the lock on the inside front door and provides  evidence  of his cost for 
having done that, reimburse his outlay.
Provide resolution  to Mr N, bearing  in mind my comments  above  about how this might be 
achieved, for the four outstanding repair issues:
oRust not removed from bathroom  and utility radiators, needs  repainting.
oPart of the boxing in (behind  the toilet) hasnt been painted.
oThe bathroom/utility floor hasnt  been  repaired.
oKitchen drawers still do not close.
If it hasnt been paid already, pay Mr N £75.50  in reimbursement of utility charges.
Pay Mr N £16, plus interest* from the date he bought copy  keys until settlement is made.
Pay Mr N £250  compensation for distress and inconvenience.
Ref: DRN734320310Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
*Interest is at a rate of 8% simple per year and paid on the amounts  specified and from/to the dates stated. If Aviva  Insurance  
Limited considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from any interest due to Mr N, it should 
tell them how much its taken off. It should also give Mr N a certificate showing this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the 
tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7343203