K822xComplaint
Mr A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited (VFS) didnt make him 
aware of the potential  excess  mileage charge for his hire car.
Background 
In May 2016  Mr A took out a contract hire agreement for a car. This was due to come  to an 
end in April/May 2019. In late March 2019  Mr A contacted VFS to discuss  terminating the 
agreement. I gather  VFS told him he had one remaining payment of £627.38. Mr A enquired 
about buying the car and VFS says it told him he would have to pay £345.05, but not the 
final monthly instalment.  The mileage  at the time was predicted  to be around  87,000  and he 
was quoted a price  of £12,050.
VFS said they explained that when terminating an agreement early the mileage allowance 
would be prorated  and if Mr A exceeded his prorated mileage he would face an excess  
mileage charge. Mr A decided to take the early termination option and paid VFS £345.05.
Disposal of car at the end of an agreement  was handled by a third party, which I will call B, 
on behalf of VFS. Mr A spoke to B to try and get the best price for the car. He says that he 
was told by B that if the mileage was around  90,000 he could buy the car for £11,655. He 
chose to take that route and claim the cars mileage was 90,000. Shortly  after this he 
received an invoice from VFS for excess mileage  of £453.72.
Mr A disputed this and complained to VFS. It rejected his complaint and said it had done  
nothing wrong. Mr A brought his complaint  to this service where it was considered by one of 
our adjudicators. VFS offered as gesture of goodwill to allow Mr A pay the correct price  for 
the car and waive the excess mileage charge. Our adjudicator thought that was a 
reasonable proposal. 
She considered VFS had been correct to impose the excess mileage charge. She noted the 
terms and conditions of the agreement Mr A had signed which  gave VFS the right to make 
the charge. She said B was acting as a separate legal  entity  and had no obligation  to 
address any potential excess mileage charges. Mr A didnt agree and asked that the matter  
be considered  by an ombudsman.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont consider there is any basis that would allow me to uphold  this complaint. I will explain 
why.
Mr A believes he was misled by VFS, by it not making him aware  that if he used  an inflated 
mileage to get a better deal he would face excess mileage charges.  I dont think he was. He 
was told what the expected price  would be based on an accurate estimate of the mileage at 
the planned point of sale. He chose to inflate that figure to get a better  deal.
I appreciate he says he did so with the support of B. But B is not part of VFS and although it 
is acting on VFSs behalf I have  seen nothing to say that it was privy to the details of the 
agreement Mr A had with VFS. I suspect the only person who had access to the full facts  
Ref: DRN72114332was Mr A. He knew the terms of the agreement and that he was proposing  to use and 
inflated mileage  figure  in order  to get a better  deal. 
It was open to him to speak to VFS and to let it know that he was going to use a higher 
mileage and ask what  the implications were. It would then have been in possession of the 
full information  and could have advised  him accordingly. However, it was unaware of what 
Mr A had agreed with B. It ended up receiving  £395  less than it was entitled to because an 
incorrect mileage figure  was used.
However, the use of the incorrect figure  caused  Mr A to exceed his agreed  mileage  and thus 
a charge was triggered. I dont consider it fair or reasonable for Mr A to expect to use one 
mileage figure for the value of the car and another for the excess  mileage charge. He chose 
to use the inflated figure and it is only reasonable that VFS charge him based on that figure.
I dont consider VFS has done anything wrong, but it has decided  to offer Mr A two options: 
1)Keep  the price  of the car at £11,655.00 and pay the outstanding  excess mileage 
charge of £453.72 or
2)Reduce the mileage to 87,000  as per the quote  provided in March  2019 and pay the 
difference in the purchase price  totalling  £395.00.
I consider that to be a very generous  offer. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold the complaint, in the sense that 
Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited  need take no further action, and leave  it to Mr A 
to decide which option he wishes to take.  Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept  or reject  my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7211433