K821x#15complaint
Mrs R complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
FICL didnt  directly sell the policy; it was the insurer. But its taken responsibility for this sale 
so Ill refer to it as the seller in this decision.
background
Mrs R took out a store card with FICL  in 1997.  At the same  time she bought a PPI policy  
which wouldve helped cover the repayments  on her card if she couldnt work. It also offered 
purchase and price protection.
Mrs R says that she doesnt think she would have been covered by the policy  because  she 
had an existing medical condition when she took the policy.
The adjudicator acknowledged Mrs Rs condition, and thought it was serious enough to 
prevent her wanting  to take the policy.
FICL disagrees, so the case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im going to uphold Mrs Rs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mrs R took out the store  card and PPI by filling in an application form. FICL has supplied  a 
copy of this and I can see that theres  a separate section for the PPI. Mrs R has ticked  this to 
say that she wanted the cover. 
FICL had an obligation to make sure Mrs R had all the information she needed  so she could 
make her decision. I dont  think FICL did this well enough. And I dont think Mrs R wouldve 
bought the policy if shed  had all the information she required.  
Theres a very brief explanation of the cover on the application form. Its a few lines long and 
doesnt include anything  about the exclusions  on the policy. I think this was important 
information for Mrs R to have.
The policy excluded existing medical conditions from cover.  It said You  must not be aware  
of any sickness, disease, condition or injury in the 12 months before the start date that may 
cause you to claim for disability benefits; or any sickness,  disease,  condition or injury that 
may cause  you to claim for accidental bodily injury, hospitalisation, life or accidental  death 
benefits.
I think it wouldve been important for Mrs R to understand this before she took the PPI. Mrs 
R had a medical condition when she took out the policy. It didnt  cause her any significant 
day-to-day problems  and she took medication  to control it. But it could have had 
Ref: DRN77773832consequences for her health in the long term and couldve caused or contributed to a 
number of different  serious conditions. Any conditions which arose as a result  of her existing 
condition wouldve been excluded from cover. 
I think Mrs R wouldve  viewed her condition, or another  disease  or condition related to it, as 
the most  likely reason  for her to need  to make a claim  on the policy. So if FICL had made  
her aware that it would be excluded from cover I dont think shed have thought the policy 
offered her a useful  benefit and I dont  think shed have bought it.
FICL says Mrs R didnt have any serious problems as a result of having this condition,  so the 
policy wasnt mis-sold.  However, thats  an argument  made with the benefit  of hindsight, so I 
dont agree that it should affect  my decision.
So I think Mrs R lost out as a result of what FICL  did wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs R in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs R would  have  owed  when she closed her account if 
the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs R owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs R made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her. 
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs R would have 
owed when he closed his account  from when  he closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs R would have owed each month  without PPI  Mrs R 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs R paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs R 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her card.  The interest rate should be 8%. 
D.FICL should tell Mrs R what its done to work  out A, B and C.
E.If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Mrs R that relates to this PPI 
sale, that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress  shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give   
Mrs R a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN77773833my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold Mrs Rs complaint. I direct Financial Insurance  Company Limited 
to pay compensation  as described above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 February  2019.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7777383