K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  (LV) havent handled 
his legal expenses  insurance claim fairly.
LV use intermediaries  (Arc Legal) to administer their legal expenses  insurance, so any 
reference to LV within this decision should  also be read as including the acts or omissions of 
such intermediaries.  
background
Mr H holds a commercial  property owners insurance policy with LV, which  includes cover for 
legal expenses. He made  a claim under the legal  expenses element of the policy in 
September 2017 in order to pursue legal action against his tenants  who were  preventing  him 
from accessing the property he owned.  
LV contract out the administration and management of their legal expenses  insurance to two 
different agents.  The first is a firm of solicitors (Firm L) that manage LVs legal expenses 
helpline and take initial notification of a claim.  The second is Arc Legal, who are LVs 
appointed representatives that manage the claim on their behalf.  
After taking notification  of Mr Hs claim,  Firm L passed on the relevant details to Arc Legal  on 
29 September 2017, at which point further  enquiries were made about whether cover  was 
available under the policy. However,  it wasnt until June 2018  that these issues  were 
resolved. But by the time cover  had been  confirmed, Firm L were of the opinion that the cost 
of pursuing the claim would have been  disproportionate to its likely value. So the claim was 
subsequently declined. 
Mr H complained about the way that LV, Arc Legal and Firm L handled his legal expenses 
claim. This includes,  but is not strictly limited to:
He is unhappy  with the time it took to confirm that cover was available under the 
policy, as well as the lack of communication from the parties involved;
LV did not allow him the option  of appointing his own solicitor, and the fact that they 
appointed Firm L  who already provide services for LV through managing  their legal 
helpline  constitutes a conflict of interest as it cannot be said that such  a firm is free 
of influence from the insurer;
He disputes  Firm Ls opinion that his claim is disproportionate to pursue, and 
believes that this is a matter for LV to determine in any event. He says LV failed to 
properly consider the facts and should not have declined the claim based on the 
solicitors incorrect advice.
If LV were  to decide that the claim was disproportionate to pursue, they have a 
responsibility to convey that decision  to the insured  by giving formal notice of the 
grounds in which  that decision was made. They should have then given  him the 
opportunity to dispute this decision and provide his own evidence. However, they 
have not given him any information  about this as they say that responsibility  lies with 
Firm L.
LV conceded that the service they had provided Mr H had been poor due to the time it took 
to confirm whether  cover  was available under the policy.  They apologised for this and 
offered £100 compensation  in recognition  of the inconvenience caused. However, in terms of 
their reasons  for declining Mr Hs claim on the basis that it would be disproportionate to 
Ref: DRN73716332pursue, they said they were entitled  to rely on the legal advice and opinion  provided by the 
solicitors. And if Mr H was dissatisfied  with the quality of advice provided, LV said he ought  
to take this up directly  with Firm L and the Legal  Ombudsman. However,  they said Mr H 
could challenge  the legal  assessment at his own cost if he disagreed  with it.
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint. She thought it was reasonable for LV to rely 
on the opinion  of the solicitors and considered that the claim had been declined  fairly based 
on the evidence  available. And in terms of the service  provided, she considered that the 
£100 compensation offered in recognition  of the inconvenience caused was fair. Mr H 
disagreed, so the matter has been passed to me to determine.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. 
There are various parties involved  in Mr Hs complaint.  This includes Firm L, and I am aware 
that Mr H has taken  his concerns about  the solicitors to the Legal Ombudsman. And given 
that the solicitors  are regulated  by a different body, I am unable to comment  on any of the 
service theyve provided or the overall quality of the legal advice. But I can consider whether 
LV and their agents have acted fairly and reasonably  in their handling of Mr Hs claim, and 
whether it was reasonable for them to decline the claim  in the circumstances of this case. 
Choice of solicitor
Mr H says that LV denied  him the option of appointing his own solicitor  and instead 
appointed Firm L, whom  he submits  are conflicted  given  that the insurer  already has 
commercial arrangements in place  with them.
The policy terms and conditions state:
The Insurers Representative will choose an Appointed  Representative to act on 
behalf of the Insured in any claim under certain Sub-sections as specified in the 
schedule.
In all other Sub-sections where  recourse  is necessary to a lawyer and there are 
enquiries [sic] or legal  proceedings  the insured is free to choose an Appointed 
Representative to act in the name and on behalf on the Insured  in any enquiry or 
legal proceedingsin all other claims the Insurers Representative will choose 
the Appointed Representativeunless there  is a conflict of interest between 
the insured and the insurers representative (my emphasis).
So the policy  states that Arc Legal   as LVs representative  can choose  which  solicitors will 
act on Mr Hs behalf unless there  is an inquiry  or legal proceedings, or if there is a conflict of 
interest. Im satisfied this policy term is consistent  with Regulation 6 of the Insurance  
Companies (Legal  Expenses Insurance) Regulations 1990, which provides a policyholder 
with the freedom to choose their own solicitor only in certain  circumstances: 
(1) Where  under a legal expenses insurance contract recourse is had to a lawyer  (or 
other person having such qualifications  as may be necessary) to defend,  represent  or 
Ref: DRN73716333serve the interests  of the insured in any inquiry  or proceedings,  the insured  shall be 
free to choose  that lawyer  (or other  person)
(2) The insured  shall also be free to choose  a lawyer (or other person having such  
qualifications as may be necessary)  to serve his interests whenever a conflict  of 
interest arises.
In the circumstances of Mr Hs case at the time in question, I dont consider there  was a 
legal inquiry and neither does it appear  that proceedings had been  issued.  Indeed, cover 
under the policy  for his dispute had yet to be confirmed as a legal assessment was first 
required to determine  whether the claim had sufficient prospects of success.  So he would 
not have been entitled to choose his own solicitor on this basis.
Mr H does submit, however, that there was a conflict of interest in his being represented by 
Firm L as he does not think they were free of influence from LV given that they were already  
contracted to provide services  to the insurer through their legal advice  helpline.  But I dont 
consider that such circumstances do amount  to a conflict of interest. First, LV have adopted 
one of the three arrangements  set out in Regulation  5 of the 1990 Regulations that are 
specifically designed  to avoid possible conflicts of interest for legal expenses insurers,  
namely:
(3) The [insurance]  company shall entrust the management of claims under legal 
expenses insurance  contracts to an undertaking having separate legal personality.
In this instance, LV appointed Arc Legal to manage  the claim. So it was Arc Legal   an 
undertaking with a sperate legal  personality to LV  who appointed and liaised with Firm L to 
act on Mr Hs behalf, not the insurer  directly.  So Im satisfied they had implemented suitable  
safeguards as required by the 1990  Regulations to avoid conflicts of interest in this regard, 
such that they had no direct  involvement with Mr Hs claim or with his legal representatives. I 
appreciate that Firm L may have  certain commercial arrangements in place with LV to 
provide other services. But once the solicitors  had been appointed to act on behalf of Mr H, 
their duty is ultimately  to him as their client in this matter. Solicitors are governed by their 
own regulations  and codes of conduct  in this regard,  and Mr H has not provided any 
evidence to demonstrate that Firm L were conflicted  in their duty towards him such that LV 
ought to have considered appointing  a different firm. So I do not consider he ought to have 
been able to choose his own solicitor on these grounds either.
So Arc Legal  were  entitled under the policy  to appoint  Firm L as one of their preferred law 
firms to act for Mr H. And Ive seen nothing to suggest that this was an inappropriate choice, 
or that they lacked the necessary expertise to be able to take his claim forwards and carry 
out a legal assessment.
Was the claim declined  fairly?
Mr H disputes the basis  upon which his claim was eventually declined, as he disagreed with 
Firm Ls assessment that it would have been  disproportionate to pursue. He does not think  it 
was reasonable  for LV to rely on this assessment and says they ought to have determined  
this question for themselves based  on the relevant facts. 
The policy terms and conditions state:
The insurer will only indemnify the Insuredif the Insured can satisfy  the Insurers 
Representativethat
Ref: DRN73716334a)the Legal Expenses and Professional Expenses  are Proportional
If during the course of a Claim the Insured ceases to satisfy  the Insurers Representative in 
respect of a)indemnity will be withdrawn
The policy gives further details regarding the requirement that costs  are Proportional:
An estimate of the Legal Expenses and Professional Expenses  to deal with the 
Insureds claim must not be more than the amount of money at stake. If the estimate 
exceeds the amount in dispute  then the Insurers representative may decline or 
discontinue support  for the Insureds case.
Mr H submits that Firm L were retained in this matter to act for him, and that the decision 
regarding proportionality  was one for LV to make independently. I appreciate  that Firm L 
may have  been  acting  on Mr Hs behalf.  But the insurer (and Arc Legal as their 
representative) are not the legal experts, and will often  not be best placed to make this 
decision. Indeed  the policy explicitly states that the decision on whether to indemnify will 
(amongst other things) be based on the legal  opinion  of the insureds solicitors:
The decision to grant consent  or to withhold it will be taken on receipt of
A)a fully completed claim form
B)the information and documentation the Insurers Representative reasonably 
requests
C)a legal opinion  from the Appointed Representative  as to a) and b) above
D)any advice the Insurers  Representative may deem it necessary to take.
So I do not accept  that LV were obliged  to make the decision on proportionality  (or prospects  
of success) themselves,  or that they were not entitled to base their decision on the legal 
opinion provided  by Firm L.
As it stands, Arc Legal sent an email to Mr H on 5 July 2018, where they explained that 
Firm L had advised that the other side were seeking  a payment of £500 to resolve  the 
matter, and that they would have advised a private paying client  to pay this sum rather  than 
pursuing a legal claim. However, Mr H was not willing to do this. As a result, Arc Legal 
considered that there was no cover available as the claim would be disproportionate to 
pursue in court (taking into account  all the costs  this would incur), and that a judge  would 
likely be critical  if the option to resolve  the matter at an earlier  juncture had not been taken. 
So Im satisfied that they sufficiently explained  the grounds for declining  Mr Hs claim. 
Mr H says that Arc Legal should  have  then given him the opportunity  to dispute the decision 
and provide his own evidence.  But I can see in their email of 5 July 2018 that they said Mr H 
was able to challenge their decision with his own legal assessment from a suitably qualified  
solicitor. Arc Legal further reiterated this to Mr H in their letter  of 17 September 2018. So Im 
also satisfied that they gave  him a reasonable opportunity to dispute  the decision with a 
contrary legal assessment. 
As Ive set out above, our role is to assess the insurers handling of the claim in light of the 
policy terms to determine whether  they fulfilled their obligations reasonably and dealt with 
the claim fairly. Were  unable to consider the quality of the legal advice  provided  by a law 
firm and generally consider it reasonable for an insurer to rely on legal advice unless it can 
Ref: DRN73716335be established  with comparable expert opinion  that the legal assessment provided  is 
patently wrong. 
In this instance, Arc Legal were informed by Firm L that the matter could be settled with the 
other side for £500. I appreciate  that Arc Legal may not have been in possession of all the 
details and facts  relating  to Mr Hs legal dispute.  But given that Firm L seemingly were   and 
given that the potential  costs involved in pursuing a claim in court would most likely exceed  
£500  I dont think it was unreasonable for them to rely on what  they had been told by the 
solicitors to conclude  that the claim was disproportionate to pursue, and to decline the claim 
on this basis. From a fairness  standpoint I wouldnt expect an insurer  to pay more in costs 
than the amount at stake in any legal action. Indeed, the Civil Procedure Rules  themselves 
embody the fundamental  principle of proportionalityi.e. cost versus benefitas  a matter of 
public policy because court resources are funded  by the taxpayer and are expensive.
And I dont  consider that Mr H has sufficiently demonstrated  with comparable expert 
opinion  that the advice  provided by the solicitors was patently wrong. I appreciate he has 
put forward his own arguments as to why he considers Firm Ls assessment to be incorrect. 
But Mr Hs opinion cant reasonably outweigh the solicitors; for example, even where a 
policyholder is himself legally qualified, he cant act as an independent  expert in his own 
cause. So theres  currently  no basis on which to conclude  that Arc Legal  (on behalf of LV) 
were wrong to rely on the advice  of the solicitors  and deny the claim on that basis that it was 
disproportionate to pursue. 
However, Mr H is free to seek his own legal opinion at his own cost.  If that opinion  supports 
that his claim is proportionate to pursue and enjoys reasonable prospects  of success  (as set 
down by the policy)  this would be new evidence that LV may still be prepared to consider 
(despite this complaint).  But we dont  generally  revisit complaints about the same subject 
matter unless theres material new evidence that wasnt available at the time of the original 
case. Mr H had the opportunity of adducing  a comparable  expert  legal opinion   but didnt do 
so. 
Compensation
Mr H has said that he is unhappy  with the time it took to confirm that cover  was available  
under the policy,  as well as the lack of communication from the parties involved. LV offered 
£100 compensation in recognition of the failings  and poor service he had experienced. 
However, Mr H has rejected this offer, as he doesnt feel it is commensurate  to the 
experience he has had with his claim. 
Ive considered the service Mr H received  after submitting  his claim, and its clear that hes 
been left frustrated and inconvenienced by the actions of LV and Arc Legal as their agent. I 
can see, for example, that there  was an avoidable  delay  in confirming whether cover was 
available under the policy. And I can see that Mr H has had to chase  responses  from the 
parties involved on several occasions. But I have  to consider whether, in the circumstances, 
the compensation awarded so far is proportionate  to the inconvenience suffered.
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award  must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order  to 
award further compensation to Mr H, I would have  to be satisfied that the wrongful actions of 
Ref: DRN73716336LV and/or their agents have had a greater  impact than just moderate inconvenience or 
upset, which  I cant say it has in these circumstances.
I appreciate the experience wouldve been  entirely frustrating for Mr H, but I dont consider 
the actions of LV or Arc Legal to warrant any further compensation at a higher level. And for 
the times  when their service did fall below standard,  I consider £100 to be fair compensation 
in the circumstances.
my final decision
Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company  Limited have made an offer to pay £100. I conclude 
that such an offer is fair compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is that LV 
should pay Mr H within 28 days of receiving  his acceptance of this decision. 
Mr H should note that if he accepts my decision, it will be legally binding  on all parties and he 
probably then wouldnt  be able to take legal action over this matter.  If, however,  he rejects 
the decision, although his legal rights will remain intact, itll be purely a matter between  Mr H 
and LV as to whether  the £100  offer still remains open for acceptance. Strictly speaking, an 
offer is not binding  on the offeror  after rejection  of it has been communicated.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020. 
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7371633