K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that National  Westminster  Bank Plc have charged them incorrectly 
for the interest towards their arrears for their mortgage. They  have also complained  about  
the lack of support when they were in financial difficulties.
background
Mr and Mrs H took out a mortgage with NatWest in June 2010.  This mortgage was taken on 
a repayment basis over a term of 15 years.  Mr and Mrs H then fell into arrears  and they were 
issued with a suspended  possession order (SPO) in 2013. 
It was agreed Mr and Mrs H would pay an additional  £230  each month  on top of their 
contractual monthly payment  (CMP)  to help clear their arrears. They said that leading up to 
this point they felt that NatWest didnt provide them with enough support. Mr and Mrs H also 
said that they are unhappy that false information  was declared by NatWest on court forms 
for the suspended possession order.
Mr and Mrs H said they paid an additional  £40 per month in addition to the £230  to cover the 
interest on the arrears.  But they believe that when  they took out a new fixed rate in August 
2015, the balance and arrears were rolled  into one so they dont think they should  have  
been paying these additional amounts  from then on.
NatWest said they issued a final response  letter in December 2013  responding to 
Mr and Mrs Hs concerns  about the management of their account and their feeling of lack of 
support. They  said they would  only be addressing the concerns that Mr and Mrs H raised 
about the arrears,  because theyd already dealt with how the account was managed.
NatWest said they didnt agree that the payments were incorrect. They said the changes 
detailed in the product switch are just for the rate itself and the period and all other aspects 
of the mortgage  would have remained the same, including the arrears. 
They also made reference to a call that Mr and Mrs H had with their litigation team in March  
2017 which they said explained how the payments were  calculated.
Mr and Mrs H brought  the complaint to our service and it was looked at by one of our 
investigators. The investigator said that we were  only able to look at the points  raised with 
regard to the arrears  payments and not how NatWest dealt with Mr and Mrs H when they 
were in arrears  and the lack of support they felt they had. This was because  that part of 
the complaint  was brought  to us out of time. Mr and Mrs H were happy with this. However, 
our investigator didnt think that the arrears interest  was being paid twice, so she didnt think 
that NatWest had done anything wrong.
Mr and Mrs H disagreed.  They said when  they moved to the new fixed  rate the total amount 
showing as outstanding on their mortgage  was the amount including  all the arrears  to date 
and those that were  subject to the SPO.  They said they were directed to pay £230  per month 
for the SPO and an additional £40 for the interest payments which was difficult  to find. They  
said in their opinion,  this was not necessary as the arrears were rolled into the new balance  
when they took out the new fixed rate. They said that NatWest  did eventually  reduce the 
payment down to the CMP without the need to pay the additional  £270  per month. Because 
of this, they think it was calculated  incorrectly in the first place.
Ref: DRN78363622As Mr and Mrs H werent happy  with what the investigator said,  they asked for the complaint 
to be reviewed by an ombudsman. So the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive thought carefully about everything 
that Mr and Mrs H have  said.  But while Im sorry to disappoint them, Ive decided  to not 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain  why.
For clarity Id like to confirm that I will also only address the concerns that Mr and Mrs H 
have around the interest paid on their mortgage  account and the arrears.  The reason for this 
is that the other parts of the complaint (how  they were treated before the court case) was 
addressed by NatWest  in December 2013 where  they issued a final response on the matter. 
So this part of the complaint is out of time as it needed to be brought  to us within six months  
of the final response  letter. As there  are no exceptional circumstances to explain the delay, 
this means it falls outside the scope of this complaint.
Ive firstly  looked at the SPO from 2013 and this ordered Mr and Mrs H to pay £230 each 
month in addition to their CMP. I can see that they were paying this for some time.
Ive then gone on to look at the mortgage  offer for the fixed rate that Mr and Mrs H took out 
in August 2015. Mr and Mrs H believe that the amount  outstanding  on this offer includes the 
mortgage balance  and all arrears which were subject to the SPO. I can see why 
Mr and Mrs H may have  believed that the monthly amount of £2144.16 which was showing 
on the offer included  everything outstanding, including the arrears.
Having reviewed the offer, I dont think that NatWest made  it clear  to Mr and Mrs H that the 
arrears were  not included  within that offer. The mortgage offer shows  both sub accounts and 
the balance outstanding  but it doesnt  show the arrears. In fact, the arrears werent 
included  and the account  history shows that they werent added to the balance  at this time.
However, having said that, even if NatWest had made it clearer to Mr and Mrs H and 
highlighted the fact that the arrears were  not included within the offer,  I dont think that 
Mr and Mrs H would  have done anything different. I say this because  the product they 
switched onto in 2015 was lower  than the rate they were on before  so this would have 
saved them some money each month. And if NatWest did make it clear that the new offer 
didnt include the arrears, the arrears would still have been outstanding and would have 
needed to be paid. So I cant fairly  say that this would have made a difference to 
Mr and Mrs H.
Ive reviewed the mortgage offer and can see that the rate applied for at this time was 
3.12%. When a new rate is applied, a lender will work out what new CMP is  based on the 
term left of the mortgage and the capital  balance, without  the arrears.  This is what  NatWest  
have done and as Ive already mentioned, it doesnt  look like it included  any arrears  that 
were outstanding. Arrears  can only be added to a mortgage balance by a process called 
capitalisation, which the regulators rules say requires a borrower to specifically agree to it.  
I appreciate why Mr and Mrs H believe that by a new rate being taken out, over the term 
remaining on their mortgage, that this would include the balance and the arrears. But I 
havent seen anything which makes me think that this was the case. It doesnt look like the 
Ref: DRN78363623arrears were  capitalised which means  they were not added  onto the mortgage balance  and 
recalculated again when  the new fixed rate was taken.
Ive also seen some call notes where Mr and Mrs H contacted NatWest in September  2015 
to query  whether they had to continue paying the SPO since  they had moved onto a new 
fixed rate. The notes suggest that it was clarified  on this call that Mr and Mrs H had to 
continue with the SPO until the arrears were cleared.
I acknowledge that the additional payments  of £230 and £40 were difficult for Mr and Mrs H 
to manage with financially but NatWest  were entitled  to ask for these payments  to make sure 
that the mortgage was completely paid off by the end of the agreed term  this was in line 
with the SPO. The reason Mr and Mrs H are no longer required to pay this is because  the 
arrears are cleared  not because  NatWest  made  a mistake in asking them to do so.
As for the interest  on the arrears, I cant see that it has been included in the normal monthly 
figures shown. I can see that this is something that NatWest also explained  on the call that 
Mr and Mrs H had with the litigation team in March 2017.
Having listened  to this call, it was explained  how the payments were calculated  which  
included the CMP,  the SPO  and the interest  on the arrears.
Overall, based on everything  I have  reviewed,  Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs H havent been 
charged more interest on their arrears than they were due to pay.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Maria Drury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7836362