K820x#14complaint
Mr B took out two packaged bank accounts  (PBAs) with Barclays  Bank  UK Plc (Barclays), 
one in November  2002 and one in January 2017. He was charged a monthly fee for both. He 
says they were mis-sold.
background
Mr B took out the following accounts  with Barclays:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current with overdraft August 2000 No
Additions November 2002 Yes
Current with Travel Pack January 2017 Yes
Mr B says that he had no knowledge of and did not give his consent to the Additions  account 
and he has not used the benefits from it. The Additions account  initial  fee was £6 per month. 
The Additions account was later changed  in 2017 to a Current Account with Travel Pack 
which also had a monthly fee. Mr B says he wasnt notified about this.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PBAs were mis-sold but Mr B disagrees so the case has 
come to me to decide.
background 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Bs complaint.
In looking at Mr Bs complaint about the Additions account sale I need firstly to consider two 
things; whether he knew he had a choice  between taking out a fee free account  or the 
Additions account he bought; and whether Barclays advised him to buy the Additions 
account or not. 
Mr B has been clear in his testimony  that he believes  that he was not told anything about the 
fee paying Additions account in November 2002 and did not know  he had a fee paying 
account until very recently.  Barclays says it did give Mr B a choice and he chose to take it 
out.
I dont doubt Mr Bs honest recollections  on this but I think its more likely than not that his 
memory is mistaken and he did know he had a choice. I say this because Mr B had 
previously had a fee free account  and an overdraft facility with Barclays for many  years so I 
think he would have  queried any new charges that appeared on his account in relation to just 
having an account. I have no systemic  evidence from Barclays  practices  at the time that it 
wasnt offering a choice.  And Barclays says that it sent him a welcome pack  at the time of 
the sale plus numerous updates over the years about product improvements. Mr B could 
have closed the account at any time but he didnt for many years. So I know this will be 
disappointing for Mr B but Im not able to say that I think he was completely unaware  he had 
taken out the account as I would have to in order to uphold his complaint on this point.
Ref: DRN72513372So I think Mr B did know  he had a choice about whether to take out the Additions  account 
and he chose to do so.
Did Barclays advise him to take out the Additions  account? 
Barclays says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt  recommend  the 
Additions account to Mr B personally or advise him to take it out. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Mr Bs needs  and circumstances  or suitability checks  to show me clearly 
that Barclays did make a personal  recommendation to him. I accept its possible that in 
providing information to Mr B and explaining the benefits of the Additions  account, Barclays  
may have  said or implied that it was good idea to take it out. But this isnt the same as giving 
personal recommendations. And based on this services knowledge of Barclays  sales  
practices throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that Barclays sold the Additions 
account to Mr B on an information  only basis.  This means Barclays did not have to ensure that 
the Additions account was suitable for Mr B at the time of the sale.
So overall, I think Mr B was aware  he had a choice about whether to take out the Additions 
account, and the only requirement  on Barclays was to provide him with enough information 
for him to make an informed choice.
Did Barclays provide  Mr B with enough  information about the Additions account?
The Additions account benefits  included  car breakdown cover,  purchase protection, cardholder 
protection, extended warranty,  and a £250  interest free overdraft buffer.
I dont know what information Barclays gave to Mr B.  But  in my view Barclays  wouldve clearly  
been trying  to sell him the account,  so I think its more  likely than not that it explained the 
account is some detail. And I think it would have been of interest to him. 
I say this because  Barclays  has provided  evidence that Mr B had been going  overdrawn 
regularly before the date of sale, and he continued  to go overdrawn regularly  for a substantial 
period after the sale.  Mr B says he owned and drove  a car at the time. And Mr B couldve 
closed the account at any time after the sale but didnt.
So in my view even  if Barclays  didnt  provide  Mr B with all the information  about the Additions 
account in the sale discussion, I think its more likely than not Mr B understood the benefits  of 
interest to him and would  not have  been put off the account by anything  Barclays  didnt tell 
him.
Did Barclays notify Mr B about the change to his account in 2017?
In 2017 Barclays  stopped  offering the Additions account. So it says that it wrote to Mr B saying 
that it would  change his account  to the nearest equivalent which  was a Current Account with 
Tech Pack unless he responded.  Barclays says that it also wrote  to him after changing the 
account to say it had done so. Mr Bs complaint is that he wasnt  told about the change.
Barclays has provided copies of the letters it sent to Mr B. They  are correctly addressed and 
explain the situation clearly. So I dont think I can say its more  likely than not that he didnt  
receive either letter and didnt  know what was happening as I would have to if I were to uphold 
Mr Bs complaint on this point.
Ref: DRN72513373So overall, I think Mr B chose to take out and retain  his Additions account  and the Current 
Account with Tech Pack and he hasnt lost out as result of anything Barclays  may have done 
wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 July 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7251337