K821x#15complaint
D, a limited company,  complains that Circle Insurance Services Ltd failed to arrange  
appropriate insurance cover.
D is represented in this complaint by its directors, who Ill call Mr and Mrs S. 
background
Circle arranged a commercial insurance  policy for D. The policy  protected the assets and 
business of a sports club. Ds tenants  company was the named insured (Ill call Ds tenant 
Mr E).
In 2017, D made a claim to the insurer after machinery was stolen from the sports  club. The 
insurer turned down the claim. It said D wasnt an insured party under the policy, and the 
insured (Ds tenant) had stopped trading in December 2016. That meant  the policy had 
effectively lapsed  in December 2016,  and so the claim  wasnt payable.
The insurer  established that Ds only financial interest in the sports club was in the 
machinery. It said that if it had known this, it wouldnt have accepted the risk as the policy is 
only aimed at owners and/or operators  of that type of sports  club.  
D brought a complaint to this service about Circle. It thought Circle had failed to arrange 
appropriate insurance cover for it, which had led to D suffering a significant  financial loss as 
a result of not having cover in place  for the theft of the machinery. 
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. She thought thered been confusion  
and misunderstanding  between the parties, but ultimately thought Circle ought to have done 
more to ensure  the correct cover was in place for D. She therefore recommended Circle 
arrange for a loss adjuster  to decide what would have been paid if D had been  insured at the 
time of loss, and to pay compensation  equivalent  to that amount. 
I issued a provisional decision on 1 June 2020.  My findings were:
I need  to decide  whether  Circle was correct to set up the policy in the name of Mr Es 
company in the first place. If I find it was, I also need  to decide whether it was aware  (or 
ought to have been aware)  that Mr Es company had stopped  trading  in December 2016, 
and therefore  failed to arrange  appropriate  cover for the machinery from this date. 
The structure behind  the sports club and its ownership over the past few years is 
complicated and involves a number of different parties. I therefore  dont intend to set this out 
here. However, as I understand  it, D was the named policyholder when  the policy renewed 
on 30 April 2016. Then around July or August 2016, D entered  into a license  with Mr E so 
that he could operate  the sports club. The named policyholder was then changed from D to 
Mr Es company on 14 September 2016.
Ive therefore  considered  what happened leading up to 14 September  2016.
On 13 July 2016, Mrs S wrote to Circle to explain the changes  she wanted to make to the 
policy. She said D was leasing out the sports club in two parts, and that D needed  buildings  
cover, and separately needed cover for the sports club. She said we will be insuring this 
fully but invoicing the tenant as we need to ensure we are fully covered.
Ref: DRN75184022I understand a telephone conversation then took place  between a staff member at Circle 
(Ms P) and Mrs S. Theres no recording or notes of that call. However, Ms Ps recollections 
are that Mrs S advised  her during the call that Mr E would be operating the sports  club.  
On 13 September  2016, Ms P emailed Mrs S. She asked Mrs S to confirm that D would be 
insured as property  owners, and that cover for machinery and plant (amongst other  things) 
would be under a policy  in the name of Mr Es company.  She said theyd need to endorse 
the policy to note the interest of D in respect  of the assets. 
Mrs S responded to Ms Ps email and said they didnt  need to insure the clubhouse  and 
another part of the property, as these  were owned by someone else.  
The relevant  changes were therefore  made  to the policy. 
Ms P says it was her view that Mr E ought to be the policyholder, because  Mr E would suffer 
a loss in the event of a business  interruption claim,  and that D didnt require this cover 
because it wasnt operating the business.  Ms P says Mrs S didnt make it clear that D ought 
to be an insured party under the policy, apart from in respect of the buildings.  
I think it was reasonable  for Circle to put the policy in Mr Es name.  The policy  covered 
various aspects and it seems Mr E had insurable  interest in all of the cover, but D didnt. 
Instead Ds financial interest was limited  to the machinery.
Nevertheless, given  that Ms P said in her email of 13 September 2016 that the policy would 
be endorsed to note Ds interests in respect of the assets, I think  its apparent that Ms P 
understood D had a financial  interest in the assets, and wasnt only a property owner. 
Mrs S says she assumed  from Ms Ps email of 13 September 2016  that D was covered for 
its interests in the assets (machinery), even though the policy itself was in Mr Es name.  I 
think it was reasonable  for her to reach  this conclusion.
Im therefore  satisfied it was appropriate for Circle to have arranged for the policy  to be in 
Mr Es name, but I think Circle  should have made it clear to Mrs S that D had no right to 
make a claim under the policy if there was loss/damage of the assets in which  it had a 
financial interest (i.e. the machinery). I think if this had been made clear, Mrs S would have 
either wanted D to be a joint insured  party, or if this wasnt possible,  D would have  likely  
obtained cover for the machinery elsewhere. 
Ive also considered whether Circle was aware  (or ought to have been aware)  that Mr Es 
company had stopped trading in December 2016.
On 29 December 2016, Mrs S emailed  Ms P and advised the sports  club would be closing 
on 31 December 2016 for good. She said they would no longer need insurance  for certain  
elements relating to the sports club, but would for others. Mrs S said Perhaps it would be 
easier if I reviewed the current schedule  and let you know  what  needs adjusting.  Let me 
know.
Ms P responded the same day to say shed  made  sure the cover was amended  from that 
date, and that paperwork would be sent out. 
Ref: DRN75184023On 27 February 2017, Mrs S emailed Ms P to say she still hadnt received the adjusted 
schedule (and also queried the payments). Ms P responded  the next day to say she was on 
holiday for a few days but would take care of it on her return to the office. 
Then on 13 March 2017, Ms P emailed  Mrs S and said It would be good to carry out a full 
review of your requirements  in advance of renewal at the end of April. The business 
activities have changed so much from last renewal.
On 18 April 2017 (before  the policy renewed),  Mrs S responded  to Ms P and apologised for 
not getting back sooner, but explained shed been  away. She said A review would be great  
so that we can assess what is needed. In the same email, Mrs S advised theyd discovered  
that day the sports club had been broken  into and some machinery had been stolen. She 
asked about making  a claim.
Ms P has explained that she didnt alter the policy after Mrs S advised  her of the changes in 
December 2016.  She said she later realised that she would need further information  from 
Mrs S about  the changes. However, it seems Mrs S wasnt advised of this at the time. Mrs S 
had  reasonably  in my opinion  understood from Ms Ps correspondence that the changes 
would be made  to the cover. Mrs S even queried  in February 2017 why she hadnt received 
the amended  schedule,  yet Ms P didnt advise her at this time that the changes hadnt been  
made. 
I appreciate Circle wasnt aware that Mr Es company  has stopped trading in December 
2016 and so there was no cover in place  in respect of Ds assets. However, it knew  the 
sports club was closing,  and it acknowledges it needed more information  about this before 
making changes  to the cover  yet it didnt  find out that information.
Overall, I dont  think Circle  did enough here. It had received instruction from its client  that 
changes had been made to the business,  but it didnt ask further  questions  about this, and 
didnt make any changes  to the cover.  
If Circle had made the necessary further enquiries  in December 2016 as it should  have  
done, I think its more  likely than not that Mrs S would have told Circle that Mr E had stopped 
trading. She had no reason to withhold this information. Mrs S had even offered to go 
through the existing schedule and tell Circle  what  changes  needed  to be made, but Circle 
didnt take her up on this offer. 
In Ms Ps email of 13 March 2017 she acknowledged that the business activities had 
changed a lot, yet she was aware  that those changes werent reflected in the cover  held at 
the time.  I think it was remiss of Circle to want to wait until the policy renewal  before making 
sure the policy  reflected  the changes to the business.
In summary,  Ive found that Circle acted reasonably by putting the policy  in Mr Es name. 
However, it wasnt made clear to Mrs S that D didnt have any right under the policy  to claim 
if there were  any loss or damage  to its assets.  Also, Im satisfied that Mrs S made Circle 
aware the sports club would be closing and changes would be needed  to the cover. Whilst 
Mrs S didnt say Mr E had stopped trading, Circle made no further  enquiries  about the 
changes, and didnt make any alterations  to the policy, despite its knowledge that the 
business activities had changed. In my view, Circle was at fault here, and had it made the 
necessary further  enquiries, I think it likely would have come  to light that Mr E had stopped 
trading and D could  have  arranged to have appropriate cover  in place for the machinery.
Ref: DRN75184024I now need to think about how Circle should  put the matter  right.   
The aim of this service  is to place a complainant back  in the position they would have  been  
in (as far as possible) as if the business error  hadnt  occurred.
Circle explains that if it had understood that Ds only interest in the sports  club was the 
machinery, it wouldnt have been able to arrange  stand-alone cover for this and would have 
referred D to another broker to arrange  the necessary  cover. 
As long as D can show it couldve taken out cover elsewhere for the machinery only, then I 
intend to require Circle to pay compensation equivalent to the amount D could have claimed 
under that insurance policy (plus interest  at 8% simple from the date of loss to the date of 
settlement). Circle  would be entitled  to deduct the cost of the cover  from the settlement, as 
well as any excess. 
Therefore, in response to this provisional  decision, D ought to provide a quote showing it 
could have obtained cover solely for the machinery,  showing the cost of that cover  and any 
excess that would apply.
I invited both parties to provide me with further comments. 
Mrs S responded and provided me with a quote she had obtained for the machinery. She 
also made the point  that D had paid Circle an annual premium  for the previous policy,  but 
didnt get any of this back. 
Circle responded and said it would be prepared  to accept my decision,  however it wants  the 
right to appoint a loss adjuster to assess the claim in accordance  with the terms of the quote 
obtained by D, and to verify the loss itself.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S provided me with a quote she obtained  from another insurer  for the vehicles 
(machinery) alone, which covers theft.  The quote was in Ds name as the policyholder,  and 
the cover  cost £2,342.05. It included an excess of £100 for each vehicle.  
I had some initial concerns about this quote.  It said the main driver of the vehicles  was Mr S, 
and under the section for other drivers it said n/a. However, other drivers would have been 
using the vehicles. Mrs S has since provided  me with confirmation from the insurer  that no 
other drivers  needed  to be named, due to any driver being  able to drive the vehicles. 
The quote  also said the vehicles were covered for use for the policyholders  business. My 
understanding was that the sports club wasnt being used as Ds business  and its only 
financial interest in the club was the machinery. However, Mrs S has since provided me with 
a copy of the lease in place at the time,  and this confirms that the clubs  premises  were 
leased to D as a tenant. D had apparently sublet the premises to Mr E in 2016.
Im therefore  satisfied that once Mr E had stopped trading on 31 December 2016, D was 
responsible for the clubs premises (even  though D wasnt running  a sports club from those 
Ref: DRN75184025premises), and so it was appropriate for the quote to say that the vehicles were for use for 
Ds business. 
As Mrs S has addressed my initial concerns about the quote, Im satisfied  shes  shown that 
D could have obtained cover for the vehicles  after Mr E stopped trading in December 2016. 
That means D was unfairly  disadvantaged by Circles  actions, and so I remain  of the view 
that Circle should pay compensation equivalent  to the amount D could have claimed had a 
new policy been arranged, plus interest. Though Circle  would be entitled to deduct  the cost 
of the new policy from the settlement, as well as any excess that would  have been  payable. 
Mrs S has made the point  that D paid Circle  an annual premium  for their policy,  and didnt 
receive any of this back. 
As the policy effectively  lapsed on 31 December 2016, I find that Circle should provide a 
proportionate refund of the policy premium  to recognise this, plus interest.  
Circle says it accept  my provisional  decision,  but wants to reserve the right to appoint  a loss 
adjuster. There are two reasons for that. The first being that it wants  a loss adjuster to 
assess the claim in accordance with the quote  provided by D. However, I dont think Circle 
needs a loss adjuster to do this. Mrs S can provide a copy  of the quote to D, and it should be 
straightforward to see from this the value of each vehicle, and the excesses that would 
apply.   
The second  reason is that Circle wants a loss adjuster to assess  the loss itself. It says the 
insurer didnt do this when  the claim was made. Whilst the insurer  didnt make a decision on 
the loss, Ive looked at the insurers file and there  doesnt seem to have been any concerns 
over the loss itself.  I therefore dont find that Circle needs a loss adjuster to assess the loss. 
Circle makes  the point that it understands one of the vehicles has been recovered.  I would  of 
course expect D to provide Circle with confirmation  of its loss after it accepts this decision 
and, if any of the vehicles have been  recovered, then this should be taken into account. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Circle Insurance Services Ltd to do 
the following:
Pay compensation equivalent  to the amount D could have claimed, had a new policy  
been taken out on 1 January 2017. 
It can deduct the premium of £2,342.05  from the settlement, as well as the relevant 
excesses. Though  it should then add to the settlement a proportionate refund of the 
policy premium D paid,  to recognise  that it couldnt have  provided cover  under the 
previous policy  after 31 December  2016.
Interest should  then be added at the rate of 8% simple per annum from the date of 
loss to the date of settlement. 
Ref: DRN75184026Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 August 2020.
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
If Circle considers  that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income tax from that 
interest, it should tell D how much its taken  off. It should also give D a certificate showing this if it asks 
for one, so it can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN7518402