K820x#14complaint
Mrs C complains about the manner in which Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide)  told 
her the arranged overdraft  facility  on her current account would be removed.
background
Mrs C brought her complaint to us as she was unhappy with the response  shed  received  
from Nationwide which said they didnt think theyd acted incorrectly when removing her 
overdraft facility. Nationwide  said they written with their intentions regarding  the overdraft  on 
9 March 2019 but regrettably the third party postal service took until 24 April 2019 to deliver 
this to Mrs C. They  apologised for the length of time this took but said Nationwide  couldnt  be 
held responsible for the postal service  delivering the mail. Nationwide  told Mrs C the process 
of reviewing overdrafts is an automated one and due to the volume of their members  using 
overdraft facilities, they were unable to make contact by phone personally. They said had the 
letter arrived  as they would have expected, they would have gladly discussed the situation 
with Mrs C if shed contacted them and potentially been able to make some  arrangements  
with her.
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He was unable to conclude from the evidence 
he had that Nationwide had done  anything substantially  wrong.  He thought  it had taken a 
decision it was entitled to regarding Mrs Cs overdraft. He also said he was unable  to 
comment on Nationwide being  aware  of Mrs Cs circumstances as there  was no reference  to 
this in the contact  notes.
Mrs C didnt agree, she thought Nationwide - having been  aware  of the vulnerabilities she 
was facing - should  have  been more proactive in trying to speak to her about this before the 
letter arrived. She said having divulged sensitive information about her circumstances she 
now felt ignored and Nationwide didnt tailor  their approach to handling her situation.
Mrs C sent us a message  shed received from Nationwide  on 3 October 2018 in response to 
her request  for a reduction in the arranged  overdraft. Mrs C said shed called in the same 
day asking for the arranged overdraft to be reduced  to £1000 but was informed  it all had to 
be paid back.  Or that she needed to speak  to the payments  team to be put onto a debt 
payment plan, something she didnt want to do at the time due to her job and the affect such  
a plan would  have on her credit  history.  Mrs C thought Nationwide had adopted a computer 
says no approach  to her earlier requests and expressed regret that Nationwide hadnt  been 
as eager to discuss her financial  issues (and the repercussions of their actions)  with her as 
shed been with them. She asked  for an ombudsman to review the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to hear of the difficulties Mrs C 
has found herself in. Its to her credit that shes been  open  is raising  them  that cant have 
been easy for her. And that shes been  proactive  in her earlier contact with Nationwide  
asking them to drop down the balance of the overdraft  in chunks. 
The adjudicator has given a full summary  of the background to this complaint in the letter  
giving his opinion  so I wont repeat that here. And theres  not a great  deal I can add to what 
hes already told Mrs C. I think hes covered most points quite clearly.
Ref: DRN71380252Its a commercial decision for Nationwide as to what terms and conditions  operate on an 
account and whether to make any changes - we wont  usually  interfere in such decisions. 
Mrs C has never disputed  the terms on this account allow Nationwide  to change  the 
arranged overdraft limit at any time and to ask for repayment of the whole or any part of an 
overdraft at any time - usually with 30 days notice but they can do so without notice in cases  
where it would  be reasonable for them to do so. Nor has she challenged that its her 
responsibility to manage this account  within those terms.
What she complains of is timing and method of the notice she was given by Nationwide of 
the overdraft removal.  The evidence Ive seen refers  both to her receiving Nationwides  letter  
dated 9 March 2019 either on 24 April 2019  or 14 April 2019  - one day before the removal  on 
15 April 2019. Whichever date it was I can see how it would have caused Mrs C concern and 
distress. But I dont think its reasonable for me to hold Nationwide responsible  for that. Ill 
explain why.
Nationwide have sent me a copy of the letter  dated 9 March  2019. The records  theyve sent 
satisfy me the letter was printed on 12 March  2019 and posted the following day. So Im 
satisfied it was sent and ordinarily  wouldve arrived in good time and given Mrs C a number 
of weeks notice of the change. I dont know why it took so long for the letter to be delivered 
but I cant fairly hold Nationwide responsible for delays in the postal  service.  And I dont think 
the reasons Nationwide  have given for not notifying customers of such changes by phone  
are unreasonable. 
I appreciate the letter  arriving  earlier wouldve given Mrs C more time in which to organise  
the borrowing  she eventually relied  upon  to repay  the overdraft.  But, in this particular case,  
given what Mrs C has told us about  her reluctance to agree a debt payment plan, Im not 
persuaded that informing Mrs C by phone would have made any difference  to the overall  
outcome here. Shes told us she wasnt willing in October 2018 to discuss  a debt payment 
plan with Nationwide and I cant see that had changed at the time the overdraft was 
removed.
Looked at overall, I agree with our investigator  that Nationwide  hasnt acted  incorrectly and it 
has treated Mrs C fairly and reasonably So, based  on everything, Ive seen Im not 
persuaded this is a complaint which I can fairly and reasonably uphold.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7138025