K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about Close Brothers Limiteds service in connection  with the sale of a 
guaranteed asset protection (GAP) policy.
background
In January 2015 Mr C bought a car on credit provided by Close  Brothers. It later contacted 
him and offered him a GAP policy. The GAP policy was underwritten  by an insurer  (the 
insurer) which is a separate  business. Close Brothers said that it would cover  the cost of the 
policy upfront but that it would ask Mr C to pay its £289 premium once his credit agreement 
ended, which was in 48 months. It said it would give Mr C 30 days  notice before collecting 
the premium. 
After Close  Brothers collected the premium, in February 2019, Mr C complained about  some 
aspects of the GAP  sale and administration. He brought his complaint about  that to us. One 
of our adjudicators didn't think Close Brothers had dealt with Mr C fairly. So he said it should 
apologise and pay Mr C £50 compensation for his distress  and inconvenience.
Close Brothers didn't  agree with our adjudicators recommendation  so the case has been 
passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm going  to partly uphold  
it. 
Ive listened to the call in which Close Brothers sold Mr C the GAP policy. And Im satisfied 
that it gave Mr C information that was clear, fair and not misleading. It explained the policys  
benefits, confirmed  that Mr C was eligible for it and explained the procedure for paying for its 
premium. Having done so Mr C said that he was happy for Close Brothers  to set the policy  
up. So Im satisfied that it sold the policy to Mr C fairly.
Mr Cs said that he thinks that he cancelled the policy within  its cooling off period. But I've 
seen no evidence beyond  Mr C's comments thats  the case. So I don't think he did cancel 
the policy. It follows that I think it was fair that Close Brothers  collected  its premium. But I 
don't think  it went about that fairly.
In the sales call Close Brothers explained that it would pay the insurer  for the premium 
straightaway but that, unless he claimed on the policy or paid the premium  sooner, it would 
collect the GAP premium after his credit  agreement expired in 48 months.  It said that it 
would give Mr C 30 days warning before taking the premium from him. But there's no 
evidence that Close Brothers gave Mr C that 30 day warning. And it appears  that Mr C might 
have forgotten  in the meantime that Close Brothers  would take that sum from him. So I can 
understand that it might have slipped Mr Cs mind, in the four years since it sold him the 
policy, that Close Brothers would require him to pay it £289  49 months later.  And I can 
understand that it might have come  as something of a shock  to Mr C when Close  Brothers, 
without recent warning,  took that sum out of his account. Some  of that shock could have 
been avoided  if Close Brothers had done what it promised to do when it sold Mr C the policy,  
and reminded him, 30 days before it deducted the funds  from his account, that it would take 
the payment.  
Ref: DRN74726772But because it didn't give that warning  Mr C unexpectedly had £289 deducted from his 
account. As I've said above I think Close Brothers  could have reduced  the shock  of that. So, 
to address Mr Cs distress and inconvenience  arising from Close Brothers action,  I think it 
should apologise and pay Mr C £50 compensation.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I partly uphold this complaint.  I require Close Brothers  Limited 
to apologise and pay Mr C £50 compensation to address  his distress and inconvenience. It 
should pay the compensation within 28 days of us telling it that Mr C has accepted  my final 
decision. If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on that amount  from the date of 
my final decision to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
1 If Close Brothers pays interest and considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take 
off income tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr C how much its taken off. It should  also give him a 
certificate showing  this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Ref: DRN7472677