K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M took out a Total Mortgage  Protection plan with a mortgage  in 2002. The plan 
included accident,  sickness and unemployment cover (PPI) for Mr M, as well as life and 
critical illness cover for both Mr and Mrs M.
Mr and Mrs M say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them the PPI. As Mr 
and Mrs M have only complained about  the sale of the PPI, thats all I have looked into. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ms case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs M say they thought they had to have the PPI to get their mortgage. They havent 
really given much detail about  what Halifax  did to give them that impression. But I accept 
that (over 10 years  on) that might be how they remember the sale.
Halifax hasnt been able to provide all the paperwork from when the PPI was set up. I 
appreciate Mr and Mrs Ms representative  thinks this means I should uphold  their complaint 
but I dont agree. Instead, I have to decide  whats most likely to have happened, based on 
the evidence I do have.
I have seen a copy of the mortgage offer from 2002 and this makes no mention of the PPI. 
Had it been compulsory  or part of the mortgage, then I would expect  the PPI to be included  
in the mortgage offer. So this doesnt support what Mr and Mrs M say happened.  And there 
isnt anything else that suggests  they had to have  the PPI to get the mortgage.
Having carefully thought  about this point, I dont have  enough  to say Halifax misled Mr and 
Mrs M into believing they had to have the PPI when  they didnt. I think  its more  likely than 
not that Halifax made it clear they didnt  have to take out the PPI and they chose to take it  
although I can understand why they cant remember this now.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs M so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. 
The PPI only provided cover for Mr M. From the records  available  from 2002, it isnt clear 
why it was set up this way, rather than to cover both Mr and Mrs M. But Mr and Mrs M have 
told us Mrs M had separate  insurance cover, so it seems she may not have  needed any 
additional cover. Mr M was also earning more than Mrs M and from what theyve told us, 
hed been in his job for considerably less time.  So its possible they might have thought it 
was more important  to have cover  for Mr M. Taking  all of this into account, it doesnt seem  to 
have been an unsuitable recommendation for the PPI to be taken  out by Mr M only.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has questioned  whether  they needed the PPI at all. It says 
the key question is whether both incomes were vital to support the mortgage repayments.  
Ref: DRN73056102But Mr and Mrs M would have had other  outgoings  as well as the mortgage.  If Mr M wasnt  
able to work and stopped receiving an income, I think they would have struggled to continue 
to meet  all these outgoings.  So a PPI policy that would at least cover the mortgage 
repayments would be useful.
Mr and Mrs M say they didnt need the PPI because  they had savings and Mr M would  have 
received benefits  from his employer if he was off sick or made redundant. Mr M told us he 
would have received full sick pay for 12 months followed by half pay for a further 12 months. 
Ive asked Mr M if he has any evidence of this, because looking at his job at time and how 
long hed worked there, its unlikely his employer would have provided such  generous 
benefits. But all hes said is he had adequate  sickness and unemployment cover at work.
I accept Mr M might  have received some occupational sick pay, on top of his statutory 
entitlement but I think its unlikely his employer would continue to pay him his full salary for 
12 months. I also accept Mr M might have  been  entitled to an enhanced redundancy 
payment, over and above his statutory entitlement. But hes told us hed only been in his job 
for around  two years when the PPI was taken out. So its unlikely any redundancy payout 
would have been enough to replace  his income  for too long. 
The PPI would have  paid out on top of any sick pay or redundancy payment Mr M received 
and for up to 24 months per claim. As Ive already  said, I think  Mr and Mrs M are likely to 
have found things difficult financially if Mr M wasnt working  particularly if he had an extend  
period of sickness or unemployment. And the PPI would  have meant  they wouldnt have had 
to worry about  their mortgage repayments  at whats likely to have been a difficult time. It 
would also leave any savings they had free to pay for other expenses.  So I think Mr and 
Mrs M had a need for the cover provided  by the PPI.
Mr M also wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  for 
example he was in good health and permanently  employed. So theres nothing about him 
thats likely  to have  stopped him being able to make a successful claim  in fact I note that 
Halifaxs records show Mr M did make a successful claim on the policy in 2009.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs M about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But as Ive already explained, its likely they chose to take it out - so it looks 
like they wanted  this type of cover. And it seems  like it would have been useful for them if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs M paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr and Mrs M back some of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs M now Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN73056103my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Claire Allison
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7305610