K820x#14Complaint
Mrs V is unhappy that Lloyds Bank  PLC didnt do more to help her when she was the victim 
of a scam.
Background
In April 2017, Mrs V wanted to buy a car. She found a car that she wanted online.  The seller 
was in a different part of the country  which meant  Mrs V hadnt been able to inspect the car. 
She was assured by the seller that the third-party payment processor would keep her 
payment in a holding  account until shed been able to view the car. It would only be 
transferred onwards if she was happy.  
She made a bank  transfer of £7,700 and assumed the money was being paid into the 
holding account  that had been described to her. She then called the third party to check if 
the payment had been received. It was that point that she was told that she mustve  been 
speaking to a fraudster.
She notified Lloyds  very quickly  Lloyds records suggest that this took place within less 
than an hour and that Lloyds was notified  at 4pm. This payment had been  made  on the 
Saturday of a Bank Holiday weekend. Lloyds didnt attempt to contact the receiving bank  
until the following  morning. Its records suggest that, when  it tried to do so, the receiving 
banks fraud  line was closed. It tried again on the Monday  but as it was a Bank Holiday, 
the line was apparently closed on the Monday too. It was only able to speak to the fraud 
case-handlers at the receiving bank  on the Tuesday morning. Regrettably, Mrs Vs payment 
had left the receiving  account on the Sunday evening.
Understandably, Mrs V feels that if Lloyds had contacted the receiving bank immediately 
after her call, it wouldve  been able to successfully  recover her money.  She complained to 
Lloyds, but it rejected  her complaint. It said it had attempted to recover  Mrs Vs money  on a 
best endeavours basis and that it couldnt be held responsible for the fact that the receiving 
banks fraud  line was closed for the weekend.
Mrs V was unhappy with this response, so she referred a complaint to this service. It was 
looked at by an investigator  who didnt  uphold it. The investigator didnt think Lloyds had any 
basis for intervening  to stop the payment being  processed  that is, he didnt think  that the 
payment was unusual  or out of character when considered alongside  Mrs Vs spending 
history.
He also thought that Lloyds had done  what it needed to do in terms of recovery of the 
payment. Back  in early-2017, Lloyds had a self-imposed standard in respect of recovery of 
funds which  meant it needed to contact the receiving bank within  24 hours  of notification.  As 
it had done this, the investigator didnt think he could say that Lloyds had done anything  
wrong here.
Mrs V disagreed with the investigators opinion.  She said that this transfer was unusual and 
out of character and Lloyds  shouldve  questioned  it with her before allowing it to be 
processed. She supplied copies of bank  statements  from around the time of the payment to 
support her argument.  She also said that the receiving banks fraud  line has always been 
open 24 hours a day.
Ref: DRN78102712As Mrs V disagreed with the investigators opinion, the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider and come to a final decision.
Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, Ive come to the 
same overall conclusion as the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
It is common ground that Mrs V authorised  this payment, albeit she was duped into doing so 
by the scammer.  She did not intend  the money to go to a scammer, but under  the relevant 
regulations she is presumed  liable for the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
Lloyds should  fairly  and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
The question I need to consider initially then is whether Lloyds met these requirements when 
it allowed  Mrs Vs payment to be processed without questioning it more closely.  I know that 
this will be hugely disappointing  to Mrs V, but I think it did. I dont think  it would  have had any 
reasonable basis for treating this payment as unusual or out of character. 
Mrs V has submitted copies of her bank statements from around the time of the transaction.  
And I agree with her that these transactions shown on these statements are of a much 
smaller size than the scam payment. However, Lloyds has submitted statement data that 
covers a longer  period.  This shows payments that were of a similar scale  to the scam 
payment. For example,  in December 2016  there  were payments of £1500  and £3000  
respectively. In January 2017, there were payments of £3700, £7800 and £6500.
In the light of that, I dont think Lloyds couldve reasonably concluded  that, when Mrs B 
asked it to make this transfer,  that there was any enhanced risk that she was at risk of being 
a victim of a scam.
Did Lloyds do enough to recover the payment?
Mrs V was able to very quickly notify Lloyds of the scam. She reported what  had happened  
that afternoon  and Lloyds attempted to contact the receiving bank the following morning. Its 
records show that the line for the receiving bank  was closed the following morning because it 
Ref: DRN78102713was Sunday. Lloyds  also attempted  the following day  but as that was a bank holiday 
Monday, it apparently couldnt contact anyone  then either. It was finally able to contact a 
fraud case-handler at the receiving bank on the Tuesday. Regrettably, the records kept by 
the receiving bank show that the funds were  moved  out of that account on the Sunday 
evening.
Mrs Vs argument is that, if Lloyds  had acted immediately, it wouldve been  able to 
successfully recover the funds. I can understand why she would think  there  was a missed  
opportunity here on the part of Lloyds. I cant hold it responsible for the fact that, when it did 
make contact on the Sunday and the Monday, there  was nobody available  to take their call. 
Mrs V has said that the receiving banks fraud  line was open 24 hours a day. I dont know  for 
certain how its set-up was configured in 2017,  but the fact that Lloyds wasnt able to get 
through does  suggest it wasnt operating a 24-hour  line at the time. 
The question I need to consider here is whether it shouldve attempted  to call the receiving  
bank on the Saturday. The rules around  the recovery of fraudulent funds are much more  
prescriptive now and banks are expected to adhere to a common set of standards. That 
wasnt the case at the time Mrs V made this payment. Lloyds set its own internal standard  of 
attempting recovery within 24 hours of being  notified  of the scam. I can see that it acted  
consistently with that standard. 
Even if it had been able to contact the receiving bank sooner  (for example, that same  
evening) I cant say for sure that it wouldve made a difference. If the receiving  banks fraud 
case handlers werent available on the Sunday or the Bank  Holiday Monday, I cant  say for 
sure that theyd have  been available on the Saturday evening either. So even if I were to 
hold Lloyds to the higher standards that are expected today, I cant  say for sure it wouldve 
allowed for the recovery of Mrs Vs money.
Overall, whilst Im sorry to have disappoint  Mrs V, Im not persuaded that Lloyds has done 
anything wrong  here.
Final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2021.
James Kimmitt
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7810271