K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
mortgage. Mr and Mrs D say Yorkshire  Building  Society (YBS)  mis-sold them  the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Mr and Mrs D have provided  a lot of detail in support of this complaint.  So I dont doubt the 
strength of feeling.  Ive read and considered  everything  theyve said. However, it may be 
helpful to explain  that the purpose of my decision isnt to address every  point thats  been  
made  its only to provide my conclusions and reasons for them. So while  Id like to 
reassure them that Ive thought carefully about everything theyve said throughout this 
complaint, my final findings  will be expressed in considerably less detail.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs D say the PPI was sold in 1993 and have provided evidence  to support this. 
Initially YBS said that the policy was sold in 1995, however after reviewing the evidence  it 
now agrees the policy was sold in 1993.  So as both parties now agree, Ive also considered 
this PPI to have been sold in 1993.
Mr and Mrs D say that they knew they were taking out PPI but they were told they had to 
have the policy in order to have the mortgage.  Theyve also said that they were  pressured 
into taking this PPI, as well as being  pressured  into taking an endowment mortgage at the 
time. Ive considered  what Mr and Mrs D have  told us, and I believe that these are their 
honest recollections of the sale. But the PPI was sold around 26 years  ago  which  is 
something I have to keep  in mind. And although  Mr and Mrs D feel strongly about the fact 
that they were  not told the policy was optional, I have to consider all the evidence  available 
to decide what  I think is more likely to have happened.
YBS say that the PPI was displayed as optional and that they wouldve had Mr and Mrs Ds 
consent to take out the PPI. As Ive said above,  Mr and Mrs D havent disagreed that they 
gave their consent for the policy to be added, and Ive seen evidence that they signed  a PPI 
application form  so Im satisfied that they agreed to take out this cover. So Ive considered  
whether I think the policy wouldve been presented  as optional.  Ive seen a copy  of the 
mortgage application form Mr and Mrs D saw and signed. And Ive seen that this form 
included a section  for PPI where it asked If you wish to take advantage of the cover please 
tick and the relevant box has been ticked.  But I think its clear that this box couldve been left 
blank if they didnt want PPI. And even though I dont know  what exactly was said at the 
time, I think Mr and Mrs D wouldve checked over the mortgage application form before 
signing it  and I think its likely that once theyd seen how the PPI was presented on the 
application, they wouldve questioned  this with the YBS sales  person if they were not initially  
aware the policy was optional.
Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage offer which followed. This explains how Mr and Mrs D 
elected to take out the PPI cover. Again I think the language used here makes it clear that it 
Ref: DRN74674742was their choice. And I think that had Mr and Mrs D been unaware the PPI was optional  
when their mortgage application  was completed, they wouldve questioned this with YBS 
after reviewing the mortgage offer. 
So while I know Mr and Mrs D will be disappointed by what  Ive said here, without any 
stronger evidence to the contrary, I think its more likely than not that YBS made it clear that 
Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out the PPI and that they chose to take it out.
Mr and Mrs D say they were advised to take out the PPI. YBS originally said it didnt provide 
any advice to Mr and Mrs D, but our adjudicator assessed this case  as an advised sale and 
neither party  responded  to dispute this. So Ive also assessed this as an advised sale. 
As an advised sale YBS had to check that the PPI was right for them  and based  on what 
Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example, they werent  
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  and they seem  to have had a 
need for the cover.  
Mr and Mrs D say they were both entitled  to sick pay from their employers at the time  so 
they dont think  the policy  was suitable for them.  But upon  a successful claim, the PPI 
wouldve paid out for up to 12 months if either Mr or Mrs D were unable  to work. The policy  
wouldve paid out 50% of the benefit amount  if one of them was out of work, and wouldve 
paid 100% of the benefit if both Mr and Mrs D were  out of work at the same time.  And this 
wouldve been in addition to their sick pay entitlement  so they couldve used these funds 
for other expenses. And as the mortgage  is likely to have been their biggest financial 
commitment at the time,  secured against their home, I think  the policy wouldve provided 
them with some additional financial security. So I still think  the policy was suitable  for them.   
Its possible the information YBS gave Mr and Mrs D about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. 
And it seems like it would  have been useful for them if something went wrong.  So I dont 
think better information about  the PPI would  have put them off taking out the cover.  
In 1995 Mr and Mrs D completed a PPI application  form to increase the benefit amount. YBS 
have said that this was completed via an application form. And Ive not seen  any evidence to 
suggest that Mr and Mrs D were advised  to increase their benefit at this time or that they 
were told they had to do so. So I think  this was an amendment to the policy   and not a 
separate sale. But even if I look at Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances  from 1995,  I still think the 
PPI was suitable for them and that they had a need  for the cover going forward.  
This means  YBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. But 
YBS will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because : 
YBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs D about that. Because YBS didnt tell Mr 
and Mrs D, that was unfair.  
To put that right, YBS has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Ref: DRN74674743YBS has to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit  share it got that was more 
than 50% of the PPI premium. YBS should also pay back  to Mr and Mrs D any extra  interest 
they paid because of that.
YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs D the extra they paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. YBS should  also 
pay Mr and Mrs D 8%* simple interest on each payment (15% on payments before April 
1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs D can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs D any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 March 2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7467474