K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs Y complain  about the sale of two mortgage payment insurance (MPI) policies 
and two life and critical illness insurance  policies  by Legal and General Assurance Society 
Limited (L&G).
background
In 2004, Mr and Mrs Y met with an L&G adviser  as they were  taking out a mortgage. The 
mortgage was for £120,000, and taken  out over 14 years. 
The adviser recommended they each take out an MPI policy,  the aim of which was to cover 
their mortgage repayment if they were unable to work because of illness. Benefit was 
payable after a waiting  period of 52 weeks. The adviser also recommended  they each take 
out a life and critical illness policy, the aim of which was to repay their outstanding mortgage 
if either of them died or was diagnosed with a serious illness. 
The policies all reached the end of their terms in 2018. Mr and Mrs Y complained to L&G 
about the sale of the policies. They said that because interest  rates had been so low, they 
couldnt have  claimed the monthly  benefit  under the MPI cover. They  also had concerns 
about the cost of the life and critical illness cover.  
L&G partly upheld their complaint. Whilst it didnt agree with all of the concerns 
Mr and Mrs Y had raised about the policies, it did notice that it would have been £1.20 a 
month cheaper for Mr and Mrs Y to take out a joint life and critical illness policy.  It therefore  
offered to refund the difference.  It also offered to refund the premiums  paid in the final 
12 months of the MPI policies. Unhappy with L&Gs offer, Mr and Mrs Y brought a complaint 
to this service. 
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld.  She didnt think  the policies had 
been mis-sold, and thought L&Gs offer was reasonable
Mr and Mrs Y have  asked for an ombudsman  to review their complaint, so the matters  been 
passed to me to consider.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
MPI policies
Although these policies were  set up with a monthly benefit of £1,000,  the actual monthly 
benefit would depend on mortgage  interest  rates at the time of a claim. 
Ref: DRN72958642Mr and Mrs Y say their policies were based  on an initial interest rate of 6.3%.  And according 
to the information they were given at the time of sale, the policy would pay £1,000 a month 
after the 52 week waiting  period so long as interest  rates remained at 5% or higher. They 
say that because interest rates have  been 0% - 0.5% for the last five or six years,  this is 
nowhere near their mortgage payment
Ive looked at the document they refer to, and this gives  examples  of what the monthly 
benefit might  be, depending on the interest  rate. The example interest  rates range from 5% 
to 15%.  
I think Mr and Mrs Y have  confused  the interest rate that L&G uses  with the Bank of England 
interest rate. L&G has provided us with their historic interest rates  which would have applied 
to Mr and Mrs Ys policies. 
When Mr and Mrs Y took out their policies in 2004, the interest rate was indeed 6.3%. This 
gave them a monthly benefit of around  £1,000. Between 2007  and 2009, the interest  rate 
increased to 7.39%, therefore if theyd made a claim in that period, they would have received 
over £1,000. However, in 2009  the interest  rate decreased to 5.49% and remained there 
until their policies ended.  
Im not sure why Mr and Mrs Y understood from the document theyd been given that the 
policy would pay £1,000 benefit if interest  rates remained at 5% or higher. The document 
shows that if interest rates dropped to 5%, then their monthly benefit would be £793.62.  This 
was less than the £1,000 they needed.  Im satisfied  they were made aware of this at the time 
of sale and therefore would have understood that if interest rates dropped,  they may not 
have covered their mortgage repayment in the event of a claim. 
Mr and Mrs Y also make  the point that since their MPI cover  was set up with a waiting period 
of 52 weeks, they wouldnt have been  able to make a claim in the final year of cover,  yet 
L&G continued to collect premiums from them. 
I think Mr and Mrs Y make a valid point here. However, insurance  policies  are priced taking  
into account the whole term, which is why their premiums were payable  until the policies 
ended. Im satisfied  it was fair for L&G to charge for the policies during the final 12 months  of 
the term. Since Mr and Mrs Y werent  claiming under the policies, they could have  cancelled  
them 12 months  before they were due to end, however I appreciate they may not have 
realised this at the time. 
In any event, L&G has offered to refund  Mr and Mrs Ys premiums that they paid in the final 
12 months of cover,  plus interest. If Mr and Mrs Y wish to accept L&Gs offer,  they should 
contact it directly about this. 
life and critical illness policies
Mr and Mrs Y have  questioned why they were paying such high premiums  for this cover, 
when the benefit amount was only £13,866  in the final year of cover. 
These policies were set up on a decreasing  basis. That meant the sum assured decreased 
each year, but the premiums stayed  the same. These policies are usually taken out to 
protect repayment mortgages  this is when some  of the mortgage  capital  is paid each 
month by the mortgagor, and so the outstanding mortgage reduces until its repaid at the end 
of the term. 
Ref: DRN72958643A decreasing policy usually has an initial  sum assured and term to match the outstanding 
repayment mortgage at the time.  That would mean  both the insurance policy  and the 
mortgage would reduce  at roughly the same rate, until the end of their terms. So if a claim 
were made, the sum assured under the policy would be enough to cover the outstanding 
mortgage balance.  
The other option would be to take out a level term insurance policy,  where the benefit 
remains the same for the entire term of the policy. These are more expensive  than 
decreasing policies, and therefore  arent  a cost efficient way of protecting a repayment 
mortgage as the sum assured would remain level whilst the mortgage  reduces.  
In Mr and Mrs Ys case, their mortgage was for £120,000. Like the adjudicator, I would  
assume this was taken  out on a repayment basis  and Mr and Mrs Y havent  said 
otherwise. However,  their life and critical illness policies were taken out with an initial  sum 
assured of £110,000. I would have expected the sum assured to match the mortgage 
amount, so Im not sure why it was slightly less. This may have been due to affordability as 
cover for £120,000  would  have been  slightly more expensive. 
In any event, the policy and mortgage have now ended. Mr and Mrs Y havent needed to 
claim and therefore theres been no shortfall  that I need to address. Consequently, I dont 
think theyve been disadvantaged as a result of the initial sum assured being  £110,000, 
rather than £120,000.
L&G has noticed that if Mr and Mrs Y had taken out a joint life and critical illness policy,  this 
would have been £1.20 less a month. I dont know if the adviser discussed this option with 
Mr and Mrs Y. If a discussion  did take place, they may have decided to take out two 
separate policies  given  the small difference in cost,  as there  would be the potential  for each 
to make a claim if they had two policies, rather than only being able to claim once under a 
joint policy. 
However, L&G has offered to refund  Mr and Mrs Y the difference  in premium between  what  
they paid and the cost of a joint policy, plus interest.  Again, if they wish to accept this, they 
should contact  L&G about it. 
other issues
Mr and Mrs Y say they thought the adviser  was independent, and didnt realise he was only 
able to advise  them on L&Gs products. 
L&G says the adviser  should have provided Mr and Mrs Y with a terms of business letter at 
their first meeting, which would have explained  that he was only able to give advice about 
L&Gs products. I dont know whether or not the adviser did give Mr and Mrs Y a terms of 
business letter, but I havent seen  any evidence to suggest he led them to believe he was 
able to provide  advice  on products across  the whole of the market.  
Mr and Mrs Y have  also questioned the high amount of commission  paid to their adviser for 
setting up these policies.  However, I understand the commission was contained in the 
illustrations, which  they were given at the time of sale, and I cant reasonably say it was 
unfairly high.  
Ref: DRN72958644my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Y to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 June  2019.
 
Chantelle Hurn-Ryan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7295864