K820x#14complaint
Miss H has complained that Tesco Personal  Finance Plc has recorded  a default on her 
credit file.
background
In November 2016, a third party  company claimed  two payments  totalling  £607.20   from 
Miss Hs Tesco credit card account.  She says she didnt authorise the payments, they were 
taken without her consent.  And she notified Tesco of this in January  2017.
Miss H continued to make the required level of repayments to her credit card account for 
some time after the disputed payments.  But it appears that she cancelled  the direct  debit set 
up to service her credit card account  in August 2017. She didnt make the minimum 
repayment Tesco required by 30 August  2017. At the time, there was an outstanding 
balance on her account of £665.01.  And she failed to make the minimum repayments going  
forward. So her account fell into arrears, and she incurred fees. Her account defaulted with 
an outstanding  balance of £768.48 in January 2018, and this information is recorded  on her 
credit file.
The third party company refunded £607.20 to Miss Hs credit card account in March  2018. 
Tesco later refunded the remaining balance   made  up of fees and interest  to bring  the 
account to zero. Miss Hs credit file has been  updated to show  that the defaulted  account  
has been satisfied.
But Miss H isnt happy that the default  remains  recorded  on her credit  file. She says this is 
having a negative effect on her credit file and finances. Tesco previously told Miss H that it 
would remove the default, but it now says that it wont. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Hs complaint. Miss H was unhappy with this outcome, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss H says she didnt have an auto-renew agreement with the third party company, and 
there was no direct  debit  set up in favour  of it. But considering everything,  it looks  as though  
there was a continuous payment authority (CPA) in place. With a CPA, a customer gives  a 
merchant their card details, and the merchant gets a standing authority  to claim payments as 
and when they need to. A CPA can be cancelled by contacting the merchant and/or the card 
provider. The terms and conditions  of Miss Hs credit card account ask her to contact Tesco  
to cancel this type of payment. But I havent  seen anything to suggest that she did. And 
Miss H hasnt said that she contacted the third party company or Tesco to cancel the CPA. 
Shes said the card issued on her account  that was used to make a payment to the third 
party company in 2015 had been  cancelled, so Tesco shouldnt have allowed it to claim 
further payments  using  the card details  in 2016.  But its not enough  for a payment card to be 
cancelled  payments  can still be collected under  a CPA as they are linked to the account  
itself, not the payment card. So it appears to me that the disputed  payments were 
authorised.
Ref: DRN78829462In any event, it is Miss Hs responsibility to keep up with the minimum repayments on her 
account, in line with the terms  and conditions  despite any ongoing dispute.  The account  
defaulted because  Miss H failed to do this; not because of the disputed  payments. 
Tesco says it attempted  to contact Miss H for several months about the arrears on her 
account, by telephone and letter. I can see that numerous debt recovery  letters  were  sent 
out to Miss Hs correct  address from September 2017  including  a default  notice. Miss H 
says she didnt receive the default  notice. Im not sure why she wouldnt have received it, but 
I can see that it was sent out to the right address, so I cant  say Tesco has done  anything 
wrong here.  And I must assume that Miss H received some of the correctly addressed debt 
recovery letters, and was aware that her account  required  payment.
From what  Ive seen, Im satisfied that the account defaulted correctly, and the information 
currently recorded on Miss Hs credit file is an accurate  reflection  of what  happened  on the 
account. So I wont be telling Tesco  to remove the default. I note that the defaulted account  
has now been recorded as satisfied, and that is correct information too.
It wasnt ideal that Tesco told Miss H it would remove the default initially.  But I can see that it 
has paid Miss H some compensation for the service issues shes experienced. And its 
refunded over £150 of correctly applied fees and interest to her account.  So its already paid 
out more than I might have asked it to for this error. And overall, I think  its done enough to 
resolve this complaint. I wont  be asking it to do anything further.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 October  2019.
Kyley Hanson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7882946