K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained that Aviva Insurance Limiteds approved repairers  didnt repair his car 
properly under his motor  insurance policy following an accident. 
References to Aviva  includes all its agents.  
background
Mr H was involved in an accident in September 2018 which caused damage to his car. The 
other driver was responsible for causing  this accident. 
Mr H duly made a claim to Aviva under his own policy  to repair  the damage to his car. Mr H 
was concerned that Avivas approved repairers  hadnt fixed his car properly and missed  
some damage which needed to be rectified.  Mr H said he asked for a list of all the work done 
to his car a number  of times, but he wasnt given one. He said he has been given three or 
four different  estimated  work sheets, but no confirmed final list of the work that was carried  
out. Mr H was told his car had been repaired and was ready to collect.  But Mr H didnt think  it 
had been repaired  fully. 
He was concerned  about the following:
The damaged  wing had been re-sprayed, but its colour no longer matched the colour  
of the remainder of the car. 
One of the alloy wheels  had been  damaged during the accident and was repaired.  
But Mr H wanted  detailed information as to what work had been  carried out to repair 
it. He didnt think the invoice from the wheel engineer that suggested the wheel had 
been cut and refurbished was sufficient. He was concerned about the safety of the 
wheel given it had been cut. But Aviva  said they couldnt provide any further 
information. He was also unhappy  that the repaired wheel no longer matched the 
other wheels.
One of the headlights  had scratches and was getting condensation inside it.
After he collected  his car in early November 2018, he had his own wheel alignment 
test done at a cost of £35.
Aviva said the wheel had been  repaired satisfactorily. Due to confidentiality issues it couldnt 
release a copy of the estimate of the repair work done, but instead it gave him information 
about the work done, and the paint work was done satisfactorily.  The approved repairers  
also showed Mr H the geometry test, so he was aware a wheel alignment was done. Aviva  
agreed to fix the headlight problem too. Aviva agreed there had been some delays and so it 
paid Mr H £150 compensation to acknowledge this. 
However, Mr H wasnt satisfied  with this and brought his complaint to us. The investigator 
ultimately upheld  his complaint. He thought Aviva should do the following:
Aviva  should have the remainder of the car painted to ensure there is an acceptable 
colour match with the wing.
The wheel was damaged during the accident  and repair should be replaced.
The headlight that suffers from condensation should be replaced.
The above work should  be carried out by a different repairer to the one that originally 
worked on the car.
Ref: DRN79602762As an alternative to Aviva carrying out the above work, Aviva could make  Mr H a 
reasonable cash in lieu offer.
Aviva  should pay Mr H an additional £100  compensation  to reflect  the distress and 
inconvenience he experienced.
Aviva didnt agree so Mr Hs complaint was passed to me to decide. 
I issued a provisional decision on 22 December 2020 and I said the following:
Aviva has said it would only be prepared  pay Mr H a cash in lieu settlement of 
anything that I might  award. This is because first, the car is now registered in the 
name of Mr Hs brother and secondly and more importantly in my view the accident 
happened in 2018 and therefore a considerable amount of time has passed since the 
initial damage and with such passage of time, Aviva would not be sure of what  may 
have happened  to the car in the meantime.  Further given the level of the dispute  
between Mr H and Aviva, I dont consider it fair or reasonable for Aviva to instruct  
further approved  repairers now to do any further  work. Consequently, I consider a 
cash in lieu settlement to be more reasonable.
Aviva has agreed it would pay for the replacement of the headlight.  Mr  H has 
provided two different  estimates for the headlight replacement both amounting to 
£926 inclusive  of VAT. Therefore, I consider  Aviva  should now pay this sum to Mr H. 
I dont consider Aviva needs to pay anything to Mr H concerning  his alloy wheel. This 
is because I dont consider theres anything wrong with it, given  it was repaired by a 
specialist alloy wheel  repairer. I understand Mr Hs concerns that it was cut but this 
doesnt mean the metal was cut and then spliced together again, its simply a 
technical term for re-surfacing the metal. So, Ive seen  no satisfactory independent 
specialist wheel repairers evidence that there  is anything now wrong with Mr Hs 
wheel. 
Its clear to me that the paintwork on the repaired wing doesnt  match  the rest of the 
car. Both Avivas estimate and that of Mr H to fix this satisfactorily, amounts to 
£1,374.74. I consider this additional  repair cost to be reasonable consequently and I 
think Aviva  should pay this to Mr H.
As Mr Hs wheel was repaired which meant  it was taken  off, I dont consider it 
unreasonable that he had a further  wheel alignment test done. Further  he said he 
was unaware at the time Aviva  had also undertaken one albeit before his wheel was 
repaired. This cost him £35 which I consider Aviva should refund this with interest.
Whilst I dont agree  all of Mr Hs concerns were valid, I can see the entire  experience 
has greatly upset and distressed him. Therefore,  I think the extra  compensation of 
£100 is reasonable and is in line with what I would have awarded in similar 
circumstances.
Mr H responded saying he doesnt  think he can repair  his car for the amount Ive discussed  
in the provisional  decision. As regards  the wheel hes never been told what  work was done  
on it so hes not sure its safe. And he would prefer the car to be written off. He also said its 
not his fault theres been so any delays and that consequently his costs will exceed the 
compensation Ive discussed.
Ref: DRN79602763Aviva didnt respond to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Avivas duty under the policy is to repair the damage  caused  in the accident. If the costs of 
those repairs as against the market  of the value, make it uneconomical then its for Aviva  to 
decide to write a car off. Thats not a decision the policyholder makes under the terms and 
conditions of the policy he has agreed  to. Thats the situation in Mr Hs case.
Aviva also has a duty to ensure those repairs are up to standard.  Its clear to me as I 
explained in my provisional decision  that some of those  repairs werent up standard. Quotes 
were obtained  to make good those repairs which werent up to standard so there is no 
question consequently that this leaves Mr H out of pocket for the repairs  Ive decided require 
further work.
Aviva agreed to the costs as detailed in the quotes of the replacement  headlight.  Ive 
indicated that the paintwork also needs to be repaired and both quotes  for this from Mr H 
and Aviva were the same. Therefore, theres  no question  Mr H is out of pocket in that 
instance either.
As regards  the wheel,  it was repaired by an alloy wheel specialist. Theres no evidence  to 
show me that wasnt repaired correctly, so I dont find any merit in Mr Hs concerns about 
this.
Aviva agreed it delayed, its agreeing to pay compensation for that. I consider thats 
reasonable. I also consider it should pay additional compensation for the delays which  I 
maintain is of the level that I consider reasonable. 
Therefore, I remain of the view this complaint  should  be partially upheld on the lines of my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
So, for these reasons  its my final decision that I partially  uphold  this complaint.
I now require Aviva Insurance Limited to do the following:
Pay Mr H a cash in lieu settlement of £926  inclusive  of VAT for the replacement of 
his headlight.
Pay Mr H a cash in lieu settlement of £1,374.74 for the repair of the paintwork to his 
wing.
Refund Mr H the sum of £35 which he paid for a wheel alignment  adding interest of 
8% simple per year from the date Mr H paid this to the date of its refund. If income 
tax is to be deducted from the interest,  appropriate documentation  should be 
provided to Mr H for HMRC  purposes.
Pay Mr H a further £100 compensation. 
Ref: DRN79602764Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2021.
Rona Doyle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7960276