K820x#14complaint
Ms L says Bank of Scotland plc trading as Halifax (Halifax) mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Ms L has been represented  throughout her complaint.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a further advance  in 
2006.
Ms L applied  for the PPI at a meeting in branch. The policy  was sold as part of a packaged 
protection policy called a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). A TMPP could be made 
up of the following elements  a PPI policy (which  covered consumers for accident, sickness  
and unemployment  cover), life cover and critical illness cover. 
Ms L took out PPI and life cover  but did not take out the critical illness  cover. 
This complaint only focuses on the sale of the PPI policy  and not the sale of the life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms L disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Halifax hasnt got copies of all the paperwork relating  to the sale. But given  that the sale took 
place around 13 years ago, its not surprising that there is limited documentation  available. 
From my understanding of Halifaxs sales processes at the time, I think its likely  there  would 
have been a discussion about PPI, and Ms L would have been given a choice  whether  or not 
to take it. 
And I think that it is likely  that this happened  in this sale because Halifax has provided a 
copy of the Demands and Needs statement and the TMPP  Plan Schedule for Ms L. 
These show that there was a discussion around  the different  elements  of TMPP. PPI and life 
cover were  chosen but critical  illness cover wasnt. I also note the monthly benefit of the PPI 
was chosen with an additional  benefit  amount of 33% incorporated to cover any mortgage 
related bills, such as home  and contents insurance. Overall  I think this shows there was a 
discussion about the most suitable  option based on Ms Ls circumstances.
In the absence of any evidence to make me think otherwise, I cant fairly say Ms L wasnt 
given a choice.  
Ref: DRN70887782Halifax recommended  the PPI to Ms L, and from the information  Ms L has given us about 
her circumstances, it seems to have been right for her at the time. I say this because a 
mortgage is a large,  long term financial  commitment. If repayments arent met borrowers 
stand to lose their home.
In the PPI questionnaire  that Ms L filled out for this service, Ms L says she received statutory 
sick pay from her employer if she was unable to work because of an accident or sickness.  
The PPI would have  covered the mortgage repayments for up to 12 months  for each claim if 
Ms L was unable to work because of sickness or if she lost her job. So, all things considered, 
I think it provided a useful benefit. And I cant say that the advisers recommendation for PPI 
was unsuitable.   
I appreciate Ms L has said she had savings she could  have used to meet  her repayments. 
But the PPI meant she wouldnt have had to use her savings if she was unable to work  for a 
lengthy period  and they could have remained intact  for other  things. So I dont think this 
made the policy unsuitable or made Halifaxs recommendation unreasonable.  
I cant be sure how clearly  the cost of the PPI policy  was explained  by the adviser.  But the 
cost was detailed  on the TMPP  Plan Schedule. And this clearly set out the monthly cost 
of the PPI separate to the life cover. So, overall I think  Ms L would have been aware how 
much the PPI element of the cover cost per month.
I havent seen  anything to suggest that the PPI was unaffordable or unsuitable in Ms Ls 
circumstances. And even if everything  had been explained clearly, I think its likely  that she 
still would  have bought it. I say this because it looks like the policy  could have been  useful  to 
her as I explained above.
Its possible Halifax didnt point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But Ms L doesnt  
appear to have been affected by any of those things, so I dont think  more information about  
this would have  changed her mind  and stopped her from taking the policy.
Ive also thought about whether Halifax needs  to give Ms L some of the commission she paid 
back. The Supreme Court  ruling  and new rules  and guidance dont apply to certain types  of 
mortgage agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Ms Ls mortgage became a 
regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008  they dont apply. So Halifax doesnt  need to refund 
any of the commission  Ms L paid for the PPI she had with that mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.  
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7088778