K822xcomplaint
Miss H complains that The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc delayed  in processing a re-mortgage 
application, which caused her considerable distress  and financial problems.
background 
Miss H works for RBS. She and her former partner had a joint mortgage  on RBSs staff 
scheme. That scheme was withdrawn  some years ago, and staff members who want  to 
make changes to their mortgage  have to move to a mainstream mortgage that RBS offers to 
the public.
Miss H and her partner separated. Miss H took responsibility for the mortgage. Miss H had 
some difficulty in affording the mortgage  and her other bills and outgoings,  so she decided  
she needed to reduce  the interest rate on her mortgage.
Because the old mortgage was on the defunct staff scheme, no one Miss H spoke to was 
able to find the account or make changes  to it. It took several  months before she was able to 
find someone in the bank  who could  help her.
RBS accepted that it had delayed in transferring the mortgage over and applying a new 
lower interest rate. It offered to refund to Miss H the extra interest  shed paid in the 
meantime. 
Miss H didnt think that was enough to compensate her for the inconvenience,  trouble and 
financial difficulty shed faced. Our investigator  asked  RBS to pay her £200 compensation, 
so Miss H asked for an ombudsman to review the complaint.
I didnt think that was enough  to put matters  right.  I set out my provisional thinking  to the 
parties. I said:
Im very sorry to hear about  the difficult time Miss H has had in recent years. Im 
pleased to hear that things are improving for her now and I hope  they continue  to do 
so.
RBS accepts it provided poor service here. Its offered to refund the extra interest 
Miss H paid as a result, and I think thats fair. If the mortgage had gone through  
sooner, she would have paid less, and its only fair RBS puts her back  in that 
position. However, RBS didnt offer to pay interest  on the refund, and I think  it should 
have done that. If it hasnt  yet made  payment, it should now do so, with interest. And 
if it has, it should pay Miss H interest for the period up to when it did so.
That leaves what additional compensation  it would be fair to ask RBS to pay. I dont 
think the £200 suggested by our investigator, and agreed by RBS, is enough.
Firstly, I think RBS put Miss H to considerable inconvenience. She tried to sort out 
her mortgage repeatedly,  only to find that various staff members  didnt know  how to 
access it. She had to call RBS, and explain her situation, far more often than ought to 
have been necessary. 
Miss H has explained  to us  and to RBS  the difficulties she experienced in her 
former relationship. Shes explained  that when they separated, her former partner 
Ref: DRN77376582didnt contribute  and left her to pay the bills and pay for food and so on for herself 
and the children. Miss H has explained her financial struggles to do so  she 
prioritised the mortgage, but that meant falling behind on other bills, and even using  
food banks and going without food herself.
RBS isnt responsible  for her former partners conduct, or Miss Hs financial 
difficulties since their separation. But it has contributed to her difficulties and her 
distress. 
Miss H has given me a copy  of an income and expenditure document prepared  for 
her by a money  advice  charity in September 2018. This shows  that she had a deficit 
of £250 per month. And given that her old monthly  payment was £750 and her new 
monthly payment  was £440, this made all the difference between her expenditure 
being sustainable and being unmanageable. If RBS had been  able to process the 
new rate when Miss H first applied, all the problems she experienced with her 
finances over the 9 month delay wouldnt,  in all likelihood,  have  happened  at all.
As I say, RBS isnt responsible for the situation Miss H found herself in. But its delays 
meant that her situation was far worse than it needed to be for longer than it needed  
to be  and it is responsible for that. And its responsible for her having  to make 
repeated attempts to resolve the situation.  
Miss H has also provided a letter from her support worker, which  sets out in more 
detail her circumstances at the time and the impact the struggle with her finances 
had on her. Ive taken  that letter fully into account.
RBS isnt, as I say, responsible for Miss Hs wider circumstances. But its failures 
significantly contributed  to her financial distress  over several months.  And it is 
responsible for the impact  its failings had on her, in her particular situation.  Having  
carefully considered  everything she has told us and all the evidence,  I think  fair 
compensation in this case is £750.
RBS accepted my provisional decision.  Miss H also accepted my proposed compensation. 
But she wanted it made clear what impact  this had had on her. In particular, she pointed  out 
that it was only because she worked  for the bank, and know  who to ask, that her mortgage 
had been tracked  down  at all. She wants changes to the banks procedures  to ensure it cant  
happen to anyone else. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought carefully about everything thats been said.  Ive taken into account  what  Miss H 
has said about the months  where  she was paying  too much  on her mortgage,  and the 
knock- on effects that had on her. Ive no doubt  that this was a very difficult  and distressing 
time for her, especially following on the breakdown of her previous relationship.  Again, Im 
sorry to hear about everything she went through. Im satisfied £750 is a fair award  of 
compensation, in addition  to the interest  refund RBS has already paid.
Its not for me to make wider recommendations or changes to the banks systems; my role is 
to deal with individual complaints. As Miss Hs mortgage is an unusual one, its less likely her 
Ref: DRN77376583experience will be repeated. But Im sure RBS will take note of what  happened here and 
take into account her experiences, as Id expect.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I uphold  this complaint and direct The 
Royal Bank of Scotland Plc to pay Miss H £750 compensation in addition to the refunded 
mortgage interest. It should also calculate simple annual interest  of 8%* on the refund 
previously offered to Miss H, and pay that too. Interest should run from the date of each 
monthly overpayment to the date of refund.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 August 2020.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
* If RBS considers it should deduct income  tax from the interest element  of my award it may do so. 
But it should give Miss H the necessary documentation, if she asks for it, so she can reclaim the tax 
from HMRC  if shes  entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN7737658