K820x#14Complaint
Mrs B has complained that Creation  Financial Services Limited allowed a third party  to open 
an account in her name.
Background
Mrs B was the victim of identity theft.
She found out that someone  had opened  an account in her name  with Creation. She 
reported the fraud to Creation. It carried out an investigation and agreed she might  have 
been the victim of impersonation fraud. It closed the account.
Mrs B wasnt  happy with this outcome so she brought her complaint to this service. She said 
Creation had no authority to carry out credit checks against her name. And she said the 
forename name on the application was a misspelling  of her forename,  so she questions  how 
it carried out credit checks.  
She was also unhappy  with the way Creation handled her complaint.
The investigator looked into her complaint and decided not to uphold  it. He explained that 
this service couldnt say whether the checks, which Creation carried out, were correct. That 
is the role for the regulator,  the Financial Conduct Authority. He also advised Mrs B that 
complaint handling isnt a regulated  activity and so we cant  consider this aspect of her 
complaint.
Mrs B disagreed with the investigators view.  Shes  asked for an ombudsmans final 
decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im afraid I agree with 
the investigators view.  I wont be upholding this complaint.
My primary role is to decide if Creation  acted  fairly  and reasonably,  when Mrs B reported the 
fraud. I think  it did.
It carried out an investigation and closed the account, after deciding she might have been 
the victim of a fraud. It isnt pursuing  her for the debt on the account and she hasnt  suffered  
any financial  loss. Her original complaint has been resolved.
I understand her need to know how the fraud  happened in the first place  and on what  basis  
Creation carried out the credit checks. However, there was other information, which  it 
wouldve used for the credit searches,  not just the forename, and which wouldve shown a 
match, for example  an address. And as it believed shed made  the application, there was no 
good reason to ask for her permission. The problem here is not the checks but the fact that a 
third party had her personal  details  in the first place.
Besides, as Mrs B isnt a customer,  then Creation it isnt obliged to do anything  more. Its 
enough that it closed the account.
Ref: DRN71531512As for the way Creation handled  the complaint, the investigator has explained  that this 
service cant consider it because it isnt a regulated activity.
For these reasons, I wont be upholding this complaint.  Moreover, she hasnt  suffered  any 
financial or other loss so there is no suitable award that I can make. I appreciate  shell say 
shes been put to the trouble of bringing  a complaint  to this service  but it was her decision to 
do this, even though her original complaint had been resolved.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mrs B. It is distressing to be the victim of identity 
theft but Creation is not pursuing her for the debt.  I hope Mrs B understands the reasons for 
my decision.
My final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7153151