K820x#14complaint
Ms L says she was mis-sold a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  by Barclays  Bank 
UK PLC when she took out a credit  card in 2008 over the internet. 
background
I issued a provisional decision (summary attached) in February 2019, setting out why I 
thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld.  And I asked both parties to provide any further 
submissions or information  to me within one month. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Neither party  has sent in any new 
information or arguments. So theres no reason for me to change  the findings  I set out in my 
provisional decision. 
So Barclays  doesnt  have  to pay back all the cost of the PPI. Its already offered to pay back 
some of the cost of the PPI to Ms L because  when the policy  was sold it expected to get a 
high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI premium). To put that 
right, Barclays said it will pay back the amount of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium.  I think that offer is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold. So Barclays Bank  UK PLC does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Ms L. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has already  offered to pay Ms L the commission  and profit  share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service I am required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN74434332summary  provisional  decision
complaint
Ms L says she was mis-sold  a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  by Barclays Bank UK PLC 
when she took out a credit  card in 2008 over the internet. 
background
Ms L has already been  offered some money for the commission Barclays received  from selling her 
the PPI. However,  our adjudicator who looked at this case  said the complaint about the PPI being 
mis-sold in the first place  should also be upheld. 
Barclays disagreed  and the complaint has been passed to me for an ombudsmans decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach to complaints about  the sale of 
PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding this case.  
Having done this, I dont  currently intend to uphold the complaint about the mis-sale. 
Ms Ls main point of complaint is that she wasnt told anything about  a PPI policy  with her card.  I dont 
doubt thats now her recollection, but Im afraid I think she wouldve been able to see at the time that 
she had both asked for the PPI and that it had been  set up for her. 
I say this because weve seen quite a few similar Barclays  internet-based sales to this one and as a 
consequence, we have a good understanding of the procedures that were normally used. We know, 
for example,  that consumers like Ms L would  have  had to either agree to, or decline, the PPI when 
they were making their way through the on-line  form before being allowed  to finish their application. 
We no longer have access to Ms Ls actual form, but thats not unusual given  the type of application 
and when it took place.  Barclays sent us an example of the type of application form Ms L would have 
used when she was applying for her card. And because we now know PPI was added  to her account,  
I think  its highly likely she selected the yes option.
As well as this, I can see Ms Ls monthly credit card statements showed  that she was being charged 
for the PPI and it was described  on these as Plan B - Payment Protection. So I think  shed have 
noticed these charges at some point. And if shed never asked for PPI, shed have  wanted to know 
what they were  for. 
I therefore  think the evidence  shows Barclays got her agreement  and consent for the PPI.
Being an internet sale, I think its reasonable  to say that Ms L would  have worked through  the 
application in her own time,  without any advice from Barclays. So it wasnt an advised sale and it 
was for Ms L to decide for herself whether or not she wanted PPI. Barclays  duty was to provide clear 
enough information for her to make an informed choice.
Ms L said she had a pre-existing medical  condition  from around 2004. The adjudicator thought  this 
might not be claimable under the policy rules and that this wouldnt have been  clear to Ms L. But Ive 
looked at the policy rules and Im not satisfied this is the case. I can also see weve asked several 
times for some more information about  Ms Ls health and the medical condition  that shed mentioned. 
And I think thats an entirely reasonable request, but to date, we havent  been given any more 
information about the condition she says she had. 
Ref: DRN74434333I would also like to make  it clear that I certainly dont want to suggest the condition she mentioned 
wouldnt have been important to Ms L, but there is very little evidence to show when it existed until 
and whether its relevant  to the point of sale, in 2008, when Ms L took out her PPI policy.
In considering all other aspects of the case, I think Ms L was eligible  for the cover  which, at 79p per 
£100 of the outstanding credit card balance, appears to have been an affordable charge. Also,  Ms L 
didnt appear to have much sick pay with her job.
The PPI, on the other hand, would have covered  unemployment, as well as other forms of disability or 
sickness and it could have  reduced her credit  card balance by 10% a month for up to a year in the 
event of a successful claim. I therefore currently think the policy was of use to Ms L. I think  thats 
probably why she chose it.
So even if I accept Barclays could have been clearer in certain aspects, I dont think  Ms L would have 
done anything differently. I think she would have still bought the cover.  I think  the evidence quite 
strongly shows she wanted some protection and I dont think the medical issue mentioned  would have 
changed her overall desire to have it. However, if Ms L is able to provide any medical evidence  
showing when the condition existed and any medical responses that were necessary, Ill be happy to 
consider that evidence.
 
In the meantime, I dont currently think Barclays has to pay back all the cost of the PPI. Its already 
offered to pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Ms L because when the policy was sold it expected 
to get a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium). To put that 
right, Barclays  will pay back the amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the 
PPI premium.  I think that offer is fair in this case.
my provisional  decision
I dont currently think the PPI policy  was mis-sold. So Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Ms L. 
Barclays Bank UK PLC has offered to pay Ms L the commission and profit share  it got that was more  
than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I now invite  both parties to send in any further information they have by 26 March 2019.
Ref: DRN7443433