K821x#15Complaint
Mr E complains that the car he acquired from Blue Motor Finance Ltd through  a hire 
purchase agreement  (HPA)  wasnt of satisfactory quality. He had to pay for repairs and 
wants these to be refunded.
Background
Mr E entered into a HPA with Blue Motor Finance in August  2018  to acquire a car. Mr E says 
that in October  2018, a warning light came  on. He returned  the car to the dealer and the 
exhaust fluid was topped  up. However the same light came on again in early  2019. At this 
time an engine fault light also came  on. Mr E says he booked the car in for diagnostics and a 
fault code was found relating to the NOx sensor. It was also found that the exhaust fluid 
system was emptying  too quickly and not clearing the exhaust gases efficiently.
Mr E initially  asked to reject the car but then had the repairs carried out. He says the repairs  
appear to have resolved the issue although  he is concerned that further repairs may be 
needed.
Blue Motor  Finance didnt uphold Mr Es complaint. In its final response letter it said that the 
issue was raised more than six months  after Mr E acquired the car and so it was up to him to 
show there were faults present from the point of supply. It said it didnt have evidence  to 
prove this. 
Following our investigation, Blue Motor Finance noted that the exhaust fluid top up first 
happened after Mr E had been able to drive 3,430  miles  suggesting  he had reasonable use 
of the car from the point of supply.  It said it didnt have evidence  of the issue  occurring again  
in January 2019. In March 2019  the light came on again and the garage diagnosed an issue  
with the NOx sensor. It said the report didnt confirm any other faults and that there was no 
evidence that the sensor  was faulty  at the point  of supply. It also said the sensor  issue  was 
unconnected to the exhaust fluid top up. 
Our adjudicator upheld  this complaint. He said that the first top up of exhaust  fluid took place 
on 6 November 2018. Diagnostics were carried out on the car from March 2019  and the 
sensor was replaced  in May 2019. He thought the need to replace  the sensor was linked to 
the issue Mr E raised in November. He said the actions  taken  to top up the exhaust fluid 
hadnt resolved  the issue Mr E initially raised  and he felt the fault causing this issue was 
more likely than not present  at the point  of supply. Because of this he thought Mr E should 
be refunded the repair  costs. He said Mr E was without his car between  20 April 2019  and 
13 May 2019 and recommended  that Mr E get a proportion  of his monthly payment back for 
this period along with £100  compensation for the trouble  and upset he had been caused.
Blue Motor  Finance didnt accept our adjudicators view. It said that the sensor can fail 
without warning and is considered a serviceable item. It also said that the need to top up 
with exhaust fluid was routine maintenance. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN70465242Mr E acquired a used  car through a HPA with Blue Motor Finance. Under the regulations,  
specifically the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA 2015), Blue Motor  Finance can be held 
liable if the car wasnt of satisfactory quality at the point of supply. Satisfactory  quality takes 
into account factors such ash the age and mileage  of the car and what a reasonable person 
would expect taking  into account all the circumstances.
At the time of acquisition the car was three  years  old and had been  driven  33,242 miles. I 
have looked at the MOT  history for the car and can see that it passed an MOT  in July 2018 
with no advisories noted. 
However, even having  passed an MOT  before supply, a car may not be of satisfactory  
quality if it is found  that there were faults  that were  developing at the time of supply that may 
not be captured in a MOT or if the car wasnt sufficiently  durable. 
In this case Mr E has reported a warning light coming on in October 2018 and the exhaust 
fluid needing  to be topped  up. This took place on 6 November 2018. The mileage at this time 
was recorded  as 36,672.  This shows that Mr E was able to drive over 3,000 miles before the 
fluid was topped up. The exhaust fluid can need  topping up as part of the maintenance of a 
car. Given the warning  light didnt  come on until after Mr E had driven around 3,000 miles I 
do not find that this alone  suggests there was a fault with the car that was present at the 
point of supply  and had topping up the exhaust fluid resolved  the issue  I wouldnt have said 
further action  was needed.
However, Mr E says that the light came  on again in early 2019. He hasnt been able to 
provide a job card for the visit to the dealer from this time but an invoice has been provided 
to show that diagnostics were carried out in March 2019. The issue investigated  was the 
NOx sensor. 
Blue Motor  Finance said that the NOx sensor is a separate  warning light and a separate 
issue to the need for the exhaust fluid top up in October 2018. It also said that the NOx 
sensor could fail at any time. While I note these comments  I understand that a faulty NOx 
sensor could result  in a problem showing with the exhaust fluid.  Therefore the issues 
showing in October 2018,  could  have  been  due to an underlying issue with the NOx sensor 
that wasnt identified  at that time.
In the diagnostics invoice there are no further  details about the outcome of the test. However 
Mr E has provided a copy of the invoice for works  carried  out in May 2019. This shows the 
NOx sensor was replaced as well as the exhaust and other related fluid being  topped  up. 
Given this I accept that the NOx sensor failed and needed replacing  in March and that this 
repair then took place in May. I do not have  the mileage of the car at this time and as a 
repair has now been carried  out I cannot  investigate  this issue further.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconsistent or contradictory, I have  made my decision 
based on the balance of probabilities - that is what I consider is most likely to have 
happened in light of the available  evidence and the wider circumstances.
In this case, Mr E experienced  an issue within three months of acquiring the car. At the time 
this was identified  as the exhaust fluid needing topping up. However this didnt resolve the 
issue as a warning  light came on again. Following further investigation the NOx sensor 
needed to be replaced and it was also commented that there  was an issues  with exhaust 
fluid emptying too quickly. On balance, I find it more likely than not that the issue that 
Ref: DRN70465243occurred in October 2018, was linked to the issues identified  in March 2019  and repaired in 
May 2019 and I accept  that a first repair attempt had not been successful.
Blue Motor  Finance say the NOx sensor can fail at any time. I have considered  this and 
appreciate that the car was not new at acquisition. However, based  on the mileage covered 
by Mr E before the initial problem was identified  and the time Mr E had been in possession  
of the car at that point  I find, on balance, it is more likely  than not that the issue with the NOx 
sensor was developing at the point of supply and that the car wasnt  sufficiently durable.
Because of the above, I find the fair resolution  to this complaint is for Mr E to have  the cost 
of his repairs refunded  along with the cost of the diagnostics he had carried out. I also note 
that Mr Es car was in for repair  for a period  of time and that he wasnt  provided with a 
courtesy car for this period. Given this he should be refunded the payments made relating to 
the period which  he has said was from 20 April 2019 to 13 May 2019.
This issue did cause Mr E inconvenience and distress and I think the £100 compensation 
recommended by our investigator for this is reasonable.
My final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Blue Motor Finance Ltd should refund Mr E:
1.the costs for the repair recorded in the 3 May 2019 invoice and the costs  of the 
diagnosis (totalling £525.14);
2.Mr Es monthly payments for the period Mr E was without his car (20 April 2019 to 13 
May 2019); and
3.pay him £100 for the inconvenience and distress he has been  caused.
Items 1 and 2 are subject to 8% simple interest  from the date of payment to the date of 
settlement.
If Blue Motor Finance  Ltd considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mr E how much its taken off. It should also give 
Mr E a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM 
Revenue & Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2020.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7046524