K820x#14complaint
Mr Ns complaint against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) is about a claim under 
his HomePlan insurance policy.
background
Mr N took out a CORGI HomePlan policy in December 2016  to cover his central  heating  
system. The policy was underwritten by RSA and, as the responsible  business  for this 
complaint, Ill refer to them throughout this decision. 
Mr Ns central  heating  broke down in November 2018 and so he called to make a claim on 
his policy. An engineer came out to investigate the following day, and spent some  time trying 
to locate the problem. He found a small item of debris in the water  and recommended that 
the system needed  a power flush.  That wasnt covered by the HomePlan policy, so Mr N 
was advised to arrange it independently.
Mr N contacted the company who had installed the boiler some years  earlier.  They said the 
problem was probably caused by a faulty  diverter  valve. They sent an engineer who 
confirmed that diagnosis. The valve was replaced  under Mr Ns warranty  during a separate  
visit a few days later, and the heating started  working properly. The engineer  also said the 
water quality was turbid and recommended a power flush of the system. Mr N wasnt  
charged for either of these visits or the replacement  part.
Mr N complains that the HomePlan engineer didnt find the cause of the problem with his 
heating. Instead, he tried to pressure Mr N into paying for a power flush,  which wouldnt have 
resolved the problem with the faulty  valve.
Mr N would like to be reimbursed for the full cost of his HomePlan policy,  and compensated 
for the inconvenience  hes been caused.  
Our investigator looked into what happened. She said that, although the engineer  didnt 
identify the faulty  valve,  he did recommend a power flush. She said that Mr N hadnt  lost out 
because he was able to get the valve replaced at no extra  cost.  So she didnt think RSA 
needed to do anything further. 
Mr N disagrees  and has asked for an ombudsman to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive thought about whether RSA did anything wrong  in how they handled Mr Ns claim.  They  
sent an engineer  out promptly and Mr N has said he spent two hours examining the boiler.  
His conclusion was that debris  in the system was causing a blockage. He recommended that 
Mr N arrange a power flush of the system   something that wasnt  covered by Mr Ns policy.   
The independent engineer who visited a couple  of days later agreed the water in the system 
was dirty and recommended a power flush. But he also identified  a faulty valve.  And when 
that was replaced  Mr Ns heating started working properly again.
Ref: DRN70695712I can understand why Mr N feels the HomePlan  engineer  could have done more.  He failed to 
identify the faulty  valve,  which needed to be replaced. But it seems he was correct in 
identifying the need for a power  flush,  as this was confirmed by an independent engineer. 
In cases like this, if I were  to decide  that an engineer had made a mistake, I would usually  
tell the insurer  to arrange for the repair or replacement of the faulty part. Or if theyd given 
wrong advice and the customer had incurred costs, Id tell them  to reimburse  the costs. In 
other words, Id tell the insurer to put the customer in the position  theyd have been in had it 
not been for the mistake.
In this case, Mr N was able to get the problem fixed at no extra cost, so he hasnt lost out as 
a result of the engineer not identifying the faulty valve.
I understand that Mr N feels strongly  about whats happened. But, taking account  of 
everything Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable to ask RSA to do anything  
more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ns complaint 
against Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Matthew Young
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7069571