K820x#14complaint
Ms J says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Ms J took out with a store  card in 1997. Its been  agreed 
that FICL,  as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity,  Ill refer 
to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Ms J disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Js case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Js complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Ms J that she had a choice about it. But 
Ms J says she wasnt aware PPI was going to be added to her account and it was added  
without her knowledge or consent.
FICL has sent us a copy of Ms Js application  form for the store  card. This included a section 
on PPI, with a box to be ticked if she wanted  to take it out. And there  is a tick in the box.
Based on this, I think FICL did make it clear to Ms J that he had a choice about  the PPI. And 
that Ms J chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Ms J any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to her. This means FICL  didnt  have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Ms J. But it did have to make sure she got the information she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information FICL gave Ms J about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But the policy couldve paid out for longer than Ms J says she wouldve been entitled 
to full sick pay. And it wouldve  meant  he didnt need  to rely on any savings or other means 
she had to make her repayments  if she wasnt earning. So it looks like the PPI couldve been  
useful to her if something went  wrong.
Ms J has mentioned a medical condition. But she hasnt been  able to give us more details on 
it. So I dont think theres enough  evidence to say the policy wouldnt have been useful for 
her on this basis. And she doesnt appear  to have  been affected by any of the other 
exclusions to or limits  on the cover. So I still think the PPI couldve been  useful to her.
And so I dont think better information about  the PPI wouldve put Ms J off taking it out.
Ref: DRN73770702my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Ms Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7377070