K821x#15complaint
Ms A complains  about how British Gas Insurance Limited (BG)  dealt with her Homecare 
insurance claim and about  its service.  My references to BG include its agents.
background
Ms A had kitchen appliance insurance cover  with BG and claimed  for a fault with her 
dishwasher. BGs engineer attended and ordered a part. Once he left there was a leak under  
the sink which Ms A believes the engineer caused.  BG sent another engineer  the same day 
to fix the leak.
Ms A complains  her kitchen floor was flooded  by the leak and had to be replaced.  She wants 
BG to pay the £500 she spent on new flooring. Also BG ordered the wrong repair  part and 
then a part was out of stock. She told us she took three days off work for wasted 
appointments by BG and she was without  a dishwasher for several weeks.
BG didnt  accept it was responsible for the leak or that the leak irreparably  damaged Ms As 
floor. It said the engineer who attended  the leak found a small amount of water on the 
kitchen floor. He reported that the leak was from underneath the sink, the compression joint 
was dripping at a very slow rate. BG said that was the same connection it had told Ms A 
needed to be checked and repaired about 12 months earlier. It said its engineer isolated the 
leak and cleared the water from the floor and kitchen cabinets  underneath the sink. He tried 
to take photos  as evidence of the condition of the kitchen  and the plumbing  installation,  
which BG said was standard practice where  it thought a property damage  claim may be 
made against it, but Ms A insisted the engineer deleted his photos. 
BG accepted it had attended twice to attempt a dishwasher repair  with the wrong part. It tried 
to attend again but the person at Ms As property  said they didnt know about  the 
appointment. When it attended again  another part was needed which  was out of stock. BG 
offered £160 for Ms As distress and inconvenience at the multiple visits without a repair. It 
also offered £206.41  as 50% of the dishwashers value, more than the 30% the policy 
provided, as a gesture of goodwill.
Ms A complained to us. She said the offer wasnt enough. She sent us a video and photos 
which she said showed the damage. Shes also unhappy with how a BG representative 
spoke to her on the phone.
Our investigator asked  BG for the recordings of all its phone calls with Ms A but BG couldnt 
provide all the calls.
Our investigator said BGs  offer for the value of the dishwasher was fair and it didnt need to 
pay for damage to the floor. But BG should  pay £100 more  compensation than it offered as 
without all the call recordings he thought it likely  BG had spoken  to Ms A as she described.
Neither party agreed the investigators recommendation and both want an ombudsmans 
decision. Ms A said BG should pay for the new flooring. She didnt think the £100 additional 
compensation was enough. She also said BG had based its offer on the wrong value of her 
dishwasher, which was no longer available. BG said its existing offer was fair.
Ref: DRN77353692my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I partly  uphold  this complaint. I dont think BGs original  offer was fair and reasonable. It 
should pay additional £100 compensation. Ill explain why.
claim
As the part needed to repair the dishwasher isnt available the policy  says BG will make a 
contribution towards  a replacement of 30% of the current  retail price as the appliance  was 
over three years old. BGs offer of 50% is more than its required to offer. 
Ms As point is that its undervalued the price of her dishwasher at £412.83. She says it was 
worth £599.  Neither  party has provided  evidence of how they got their valuations. BG spoke 
to the manufacturer and the model has been  discontinued. 
But even if I take Ms As valuation as being correct, 30% of £599 is £179.70, and thats  what 
BG has to pay under  the policy. BGs offer is £206.41. So even on Ms As valuation  its offer 
is still more than its required  to pay under  the policy and is fair and reasonable.
water damage 
BGs records show in 2017 it told Ms A about  a problem with the sink connection so that may 
well have been a problem waiting to happen  which BGs work  in 2018 triggered. But even if 
BG was responsible  for causing the leak, the issue I have to decide  is whether theres  
evidence that the leak caused  irreparable damage to Ms As kitchen floor.
Ive seen the video and photos Ms A sent us which show a small amount of water in the 
kitchen cupboard and concrete flooring with patches of discolouration. I havent  seen any 
photos of the scene  from BG as it says Ms A made  its engineer  delete  the photos  hed taken.
Ms As video and photos dont show any more evidence of water damage  than BGs engineer  
who attended the leak notes describe; a slow drip from under the sink and a small amount of 
water. His report says he secured the pipe,  isolated the leak and cleared up the water.
Ive seen no evidence  to support Ms As suggestion  that the leak caused  irreparable damage 
to her kitchen floor.  From the leak Ive seen evidence of, I think  its very unlikely to have 
caused irreparable damage  to the floor particularly when the leak was repaired the same  day 
Ms A says the leak started.
BG doesnt need  to make  any payment to Ms A for her kitchen flooring.
compensation
BG took too many visits and too long to get to the stage  where  it knew it should pay a 
contribution to settle Ms As claim.  Ms A says she had to take time off work for its visits but 
I dont generally award compensation on a lost income basis in these circumstances,  and 
there's no reason to do so in this case.
Ref: DRN77353693Ive listened to the call recordings BG sent us and its representatives speak appropriately to 
Ms A. However the BG representatives  were  female  in those calls and Ms A complained  
about how a man, one of the service managers,  spoke to her. So the relevant call hasnt  
been sent by BG and it's now told us not all its calls are recorded
BGs notes  show Ms A told it the service  manager  was quite rude and unhelpful to her. Shes 
told us BG brushed aside  her concerns about the value of her dishwasher. As Ive not been able 
to hear the relevant call/s  I dont know how the conversation/s went but theres  no evidence to 
show what Ms A described  was incorrect. She says she was already stressed dealing with BG 
and I understand  why conversations as she's described would add to her upset.
So I think an additional payment of £100 is a fair outcome to acknowledge BGs overall 
service issues.  I understand that BG sent cheques for the original offer payments but Ms A 
hasnt cashed  those cheques. For the avoidance of doubt the £100 is in addition  to the £160 
compensation BG offered.
my final decision
I partly  uphold  this complaint.
I require British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Ms A:
£206.41 for her dishwasher claim as it had already offered, and 
£100 compensation  in addition to the £160 it had already offered for her distress  and 
inconvenience.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2019.
Nicola Sisk
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7735369