K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance  Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should accept  responsibility for the complaint. To keep things simple, Ill refer to 
FICL as the seller  in my decision.
Miss G says FICL mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy taken out with a store  card in March 2001.
The policy cost £1.00 per £100 Miss G owed on her store card. The policy would have  paid 
15% of the outstanding balance on the card each month if Miss G couldnt work  because she 
had an accident,  was unwell or lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Miss G disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Gs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold Miss Gs complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make it clear to Miss G that the policy was optional and get her consent before 
PPI could  be applied  to the agreement. Miss G complains  she was unaware  PPI had been 
attached to the account and that it was added to the account without her knowledge. But 
FICL has said it made the optional nature of the policy  clear.  Ive been given a copy of the 
credit agreement completed at the time and I can see this includes a section about PPI. In 
this section there is a box to sign if you want to take out the PPI and Miss G has signed in 
this section. And I can see that Miss G signed  the overall agreement which suggests it 
reflected what she wanted at the time.
Miss G has asked  that we consider the conditions under which  she signed up for the store 
card. Shes said holding  up a queue in a retail shop is a high pressured scenario for both the 
customer wanting the store card and the assistant signing up the customer  for the card.  
Shes added not only this but that normally when shopping you are often a little pushed for 
time and want to get in and out of town quickly - adding to the high-pressure  situation. 
Miss G says there was no time to explain the plan in detail and instead she was asked to 
sign here. Ive thought  about what Miss G has told us and whilst I appreciate her comments, 
as she was making an application  for additional  credit it was Miss Gs responsibility to read 
through the agreement to make sure she was happy and agreed to the information contained 
in it before she signed it. If Miss G felt uncomfortable with the conditions  under which  she 
was taking out the store card or didnt  want to take out the PPI, I think  she would have raised 
this with the sales person at the time.  
Ref: DRN72747062So, based on what Ive seen, I think FICL made it clear the policy  was optional and Miss G 
chose to take it out, knowing she could refuse it if she didnt want it.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss G so it didnt  have to check if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Miss G got the information she needed to decide if it was right for 
her. 
Its possible the information FICL gave Miss G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But she chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like she wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of her circumstances at the time it doesnt look like she was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been useful 
for her if something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable.  So I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put her off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Miss G has said, including what  shes  said about  being entitled 
to three  months or more  but less than six months sick pay from her employer at the time so 
she didnt need  the PPI. But the PPI couldve paid out on top of her sick pay, and for longer 
than she received sick pay if shed needed  to make a claim. It would also have provided 
cover if she was to have lost her job. Miss G says she had savings worth less than three  
months of her pay that she could have used, but having the PPI policy  would have meant 
Miss Gs savings  remained protected  for other essential expenditure. So I still think the 
policy would have been useful for Miss G. 
Overall, when taking everything  into consideration, I dont think Miss G has lost out as a 
result of anything that FICL may have done  wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 September 2019.
Staci Rowland
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7274706