K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 2002 
alongside a mortgage. Ms M says Lloyds Bank plc, Cheltenham & Gloucester at the time,  
mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Ms M says she wasnt aware  the policy was added to her account  and she was never given 
any information about it. Lloyds says the optional nature of the policy  wouldve been made 
clear to Ms M before  the sale was concluded. And it has sent me a copy of a separate PPI 
application form which Ms Ms saw and signed.  This shows  Ms M agreed to take out the 
cover and completed a separate  direct  debit mandate, allowing Lloyds to deduct the PPI 
premiums from her chosen bank account. But there  is nothing  here to suggest the policy  was 
compulsory.  
So based  on the evidence Ive seen  I think that Lloyds made it clear that Ms M didnt have to 
take out the PPI and that she chose to take it out  although I can understand why she cant  
remember this.
Ms M says she wasnt given any advice or recommendation to take out the policy. Lloyds  
says it wouldve recommended the PPI to her. However, it is not necessary  for me make a 
conclusive determination on this point. This is because I have not found that the policy  was 
unsuitable for Ms M for the reasons set out below. So, even if I assume advice was given, it 
does not affect  the outcome of this complaint. So Ive considered  this case  on the same 
basis as Lloyds.
As an advised sale it was Lloyds  responsibility to check that the PPI was right for Ms M  
and based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For 
example she wasnt  affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover  and she 
seems to have had a need for the policy.
Ms M says she couldve relied  on some  of her family and friends to support her in the event 
she was suddenly unable  to work.  But help from others cant  always  be guaranteed as their 
circumstances can also change over time.  And Ms M was solely  responsible for her 
repayments so I think  having the policy in place provided her with some additional security,  
and I still think the policy was suitable  for Ms M.
Ms M says she wasnt given any information  about the policy  and wasnt told what  the
PPI would cost. But looking at the PPI application  form I can see that the approximate cost 
of the policy  was clearly  set out as well as the monthly benefit. So I think Ms M wouldve 
known roughly what the policy wouldve costed  her per month before agreeing to the cover.
Ref: DRN79808732It is possible some of the other information  Lloyds gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But it seems like it would have been useful for her if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put her off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above, I dont think the policy was mis-sold. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 October  2019.
Sienna Mahboobani
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7980873