K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs G payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1997.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr and Mrs G disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place over 20 years ago and none of the original documents  from 
the time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I 
wouldnt expect someone to recall in detail everything that happened so long ago. Ive borne 
in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case. As with all cases,  Ive 
still had to decide whats most likely  to have happened, based on what  evidence  there is. 
Ive taken all this into account and Ive considered Mr and Mrs Gs comments.  However, Ive 
decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs G have said the PPI was added without their knowledge.  However it wouldnt be 
fair for me to conclude  this happened unless there was some type of supporting evidence. It 
would be more usual  for the PPI to have  been  mentioned in the documents at the time, and I 
think its more likely  this is what happened, and that the PPI was offered as a choice. 
Without stronger  evidence, I cant fairly say the PPI was added without Mr and Mrs Gs 
consent. 
Bank of Scotland says it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs G. But it doesnt look as if the 
recommendation was unsuitable, based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.  
Its likely  Mr and Mrs G were eligible for the policy. And finding yourself unable to pay a 
mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties.  The PPI would have paid benefits at the same 
time as Mr G (the person  covered) received  any employer sick pay, and potentially for 
longer. It would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it 
would have put off the time when  they would need  to fall back on any other means  they may 
have had for paying the mortgage. This all would have put Mr and Mrs G in a more secure 
position, if theyd  eventually lost income  due to long term sickness or unemployment. And 
Ive not been told anything to suggest they couldnt afford the PPI when they took it out. So I 
think the PPI would have been  potentially useful, and so a recommendation was suitable. 
 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think full and clear information  about the costs would have affected 
Ref: DRN72519522whether Mr and Mrs G took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr and Mrs G would have been  affected by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 August 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7251952