K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that the accommodation she paid for using  her Santander UK Plc credit 
card wasnt  of satisfactory quality. She wants to be refunded  for the payments she made for 
the rooms.
background
Mrs B booked two rooms using her Santander credit card. She booked a double  room for 
one night for her and her husband  and a twin room for two nights for other family members. 
She said the double room  was small with the double bed, which was uncomfortable, being 
pushed against  the wall and no room for a bedside table. She said it wasnt possible to get in 
and out of bed without  disturbing the other  person. 
Mrs B says that on going to bed at 11pm she realised the room was above the disco and on 
contacting the reception she was told it would be finishing  in 30 to 40 minutes. This didnt 
happen and on ringing the reception again  she was told it would finish  at 1am. Mrs B says 
the disco finished at 2am. Mrs B also complains  that the breakfast was of a poor standard.
Mrs B says that because  of the issues with the rooms her family members decided  to leave 
early and not make use of the twin room  on the second night.
Mrs B raised her complaint under Section 75 (s.75) of the Consumer Credit Act (CCA). She 
noted that the hotel had accepted the issues and offered  to provide a discounted upgraded 
room. However she wanted to be refunded  the amount she had paid.  
Santander says that the issues Mrs B raised  were either subjective or servicing issues and 
not a misrepresentation of breach of contract. Therefore it didnt find that there was a valid 
s.75 complaint.  
Our investigator upheld  this complaint.  She said that although she had noted  all of the 
complaint points Mrs B had made  she was upholding due to the noise disturbance. She 
initially recommended  that Mrs B receive  a refund of £70 for the night not spent in the hotel 
by her family  members  and a 20% refund  for both rooms the night of disturbed sleep. She 
also recommended  that Mrs B be paid £25 compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused by the poor service received. 
Following further investigation  our investigator issued a second view noting that the booking  
of each room  formed  a separate contract  and so Mrs B had entered  into two separate 
contracts: one for the double room; and one for the twin room. As one of the booking  for the 
double room was for an amount of less than £100 this fell outside of the s.75 rules. She still 
recommended that Mrs B be refunded £70 for the night that wasnt  used and a 20% refund 
on the second room for the night  of disturbed  sleep.
Santander said that as a gesture of goodwill  it would accept the settlement put forward in the 
second view.  
Mrs B said that she made one booking for two rooms and that the bookings were  both in her 
name and paid for by her. She reiterated  that her bedroom was cramped and that a hot 
breakfast wasnt provided. She said the noise  came from the hotels own bar and disco and 
that she wasnt told about this when she booked. She said they didnt receive quiet 
enjoyment of the bedrooms which meant  her family  couldnt face staying the extra night.  She 
Ref: DRN74816612had accepted the recommendations of the first view but didnt accept the recommendation of 
the second view.
As this issue  hasnt been able to be resolved, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman  to 
issue a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As our investigator explained, s.75 states that under  certain circumstances, the borrower 
under a credit agreement  has an equal  right to claim against the credit provider if theres 
either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the supplier of goods or services. Mrs Bs 
complaint is that theres been a breach of contract  as the implied terms of her contract  
requires the service provided to be carried out with reasonable care and skill. And she 
doesnt feel this has happened.
There are certain restrictions about  when  s.75 can be applied. One of these relates to the 
cost of the goods acquired. These need to be between £100 and £30,000. I understand the 
comments Mrs B has made about making  one booking for two rooms.  However  having  
looked at the information  provided I agree that there  were two bookings and so two 
contracts. As the booking  for the double room was for an amount less than £100  it falls 
outside of the s.75 rules.
Considering the additional  room Mrs B booked, I find that it does fall within the scope of a 
s.75 complaint.  Therefore I have considered whether  or not there was a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation. I note that Santander  has said the issues raised were subjective and 
servicing issues. However, having considered  Mrs Bs testimony  I accept that there was an 
unreasonable level of noise which meant that the objective of the room,  that is a nights 
sleep, wasnt achieved  and so I think, on balance  a breach of contract  occurred.
I note the comments about  the information  on the website.  However,  given how Mrs B made 
the booking, it is not clear  that she was told of the possible  issue  with noise. I also note that 
the noise came from the hotels own bars rather than the surrounding  area.
The issues  with the room meant  that the second night wasnt used and so I find it reasonable 
the cost of this room  for one night  is refunded  along with a partial  refund  for the disturbed  
night that was used. Santander has said that as a gesture of goodwill it agrees to the 
proposed settlement. I find this reasonable.
I understand that Mrs B doesnt think  the settlement is sufficient but given the comments 
above I find that the suggested settlement is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN74816613my final decision
My final decision is that Santander UK Plc should,  as it has agreed: 
refund  £70 for the night  not spent in the room;
20% (£14) refund for the night spent in the room with disturbed sleep.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 October  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7481661