K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that CashEuroNet UK LLC (trading as Quick Quid) gave her loans she 
couldnt afford to repay. She asks for compensation  and for the loans to be removed from 
her credit file.
background
Ms H took out 15 loans  with Quick Quid between December 2014  and July 2016.
Ms H says the loans  made her poor financial situation worse. 
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. She said it wasnt wrong 
for Quick Quid to offer loans 1 to 4. But by loan 5 Ms Hs pattern of borrowing suggested she 
was reliant on short  term loans. There were no significant breaks  in her borrowing and the 
amounts she borrowed  didnt reduce.
Quick Quid didnt agree, saying  it had provided information indicating  the loans were  lent 
responsibly. It said there were breaks  of up to 55 days between some of the loans,  which 
showed Ms H wasnt reliant  on them.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website.
Quick Quid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
Ms Hs income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
loans 1 to 4 (December 2014 to May 2015)
Ms H took out four loans  between December 2014  and May 2015.  The amounts varied 
between £50 and £250. When Ms H took out loan 1 she told Quick Quid  her monthly  income 
was £1,060 and her monthly outgoings  were £375.  
I think, given the amount of the loans and Ms Hs stated income, the checks made by Quick 
Quid were proportionate. I dont think it had any reason to think  these loans werent  
affordable.
loans 5 to 15 (July  2015 to July 2016)
Ms H repaid  loan 4 in early July 2015  and took out loan 5, of £100,  less than two weeks  
later. I think when Ms H asked for loan 5 Quick Quid should have realised further lending 
was unsustainable.  
By this time, Ms H had been  borrowing from Quick Quid for more than seven months without 
a significant break. I dont  agree that breaks  of up to 55 days are enough to demonstrate that 
Ref: DRN73688632Ms H wasnt  reliant on these loans. I think Quick  Quid  ought to have realised she was having 
to borrow to cover the gap in her finances left by repaying her previous  loan.
The loans offered by Quick Quid  were  intended for short term use. But Ms H didnt make any 
real inroads  into the amount she owed  Quick Quid.  She took out loan 15 in July 2016  by 
this time shed been borrowing for 18 months without a significant  break.  And the amounts 
she borrowed didnt reduce. In effect,  Ms H paid large amounts of interest to service a debt 
to Quick Quid over an extended period. I dont think this borrowing was sustainable.
So Im upholding  Ms Hs complaint about  loan 5 and the later loans. Quick Quid  should:
refund  all interest and charges Ms H paid on loan 5 and the later loans, including the 
top ups;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
remove all entries about  loan 5 and the later loans from Ms Hs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Quick Quid to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold part of Ms Hs complaint. I order CashEuroNet  UK LLC to take 
the steps and pay the compensation set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7368863