K820x#14complaint
In 2013, Mrs B held a packaged bank account  called a Select account with TSB Bank Plc 
(TSB). She paid a monthly fee for the account  and received several potential benefits  in 
return. She also had an overdraft on the account.  
Mrs B has complained that during  a meeting at one of TSBs branches about a loan, it didnt 
tell her that she could  change  to a fee-free account and still keep the same overdraft at the 
same cost, without paying the monthly  account  fees.  Shes told us that if TSB had explained  
this to her, she would have switched to a fee-free account. So she thinks that TSB should 
refund her all the fees she paid for the Select account, plus interest, from the time of the 
meeting onwards. 
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into Mrs Bs complaint and didnt think that TSB 
had done anything significantly wrong.  The adjudicator  didnt recommend that TSB should  
give Mrs B any money back.  
Mrs B didnt agree with the adjudicators findings, which  she said were  disappointing, and 
asked for an ombudsman to review  her case. So it has come to me to make a final decision.  
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive looked into everything that Mrs B and TSB have told us or sent us about the complaint 
and Ive decided  not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
Many of the basic facts  of this case are not in dispute. In outline:
both parties agree  that in 2013, Mrs B held one of TSBs Select accounts and paid a 
monthly fee for it 
both parties agree  that Mrs B overdrew this account from time-to-time 
both parties agree  that Mrs B would have been  entitled  to a very similar overdraft, 
with no additional  cost, if she switched to a fee-free account; and that if she had done  
so, she would have  saved the monthly fees for the Select account.  
both parties agree  that Mrs B applied for a loan during a meeting with TSB in 2013. 
The crux of the dispute is that Mrs B believes that TSB should have told her during the 
meeting that she could  have changed to a fee-free account without affecting her overdraft 
and that it failed to tell her this; whereas TSB accepts that it didnt discuss the overdrafts 
available with different types of account, but doesnt think  it had any reason to do so.
Firstly, I want to make it clear that if I thought that TSB had misled  Mrs B (for example, if it 
had wrongly and deliberately told her that if she wanted an overdraft she had to keep  the 
Select account)  then I may well have decided to uphold her complaint. However, I dont think 
that TSB did this. 
Ref: DRN74316752It seems  to me that the main purpose of the meeting was to discuss  a potential loan, not 
different types  of bank account.  And I understand from a related complaint that by 2013 
Mrs B had held her Select  account for quite a lengthy period, and that she had previously 
held a fee-free  account that gave her an overdraft.  The Select account provided potential  
benefits  which Mrs B  wouldnt have received with a fee-free account and I havent  seen a 
convincing reason why TSB should  have  changed the topic  of discussion at the meeting 
from loans to bank  accounts, their potential benefits,  and overdrafts. I dont think that TSB 
misled Mrs B. I think  it treated her fairly in the meeting  by concentrating on the loan. 
In correspondence  with us, Mrs B has also told us that in 2018 she visited  one of TSBs 
branches and the staff there told her that the fees she had paid for the Select account had 
been unnecessary  and that she could claim them back. She believes that its wrong  for TSB 
to go back on what its branch staff told her. 
I dont know many details about Mrs Bs discussion with TSB in 2018, although I understand 
that at that time she switched from the Select  account to a fee-free account, and that the 
staff in the branch helped her to start her complaint about TSB;  and I appreciate  that Mrs B 
may be disappointed by TSBs apparent change of heart. However,  she doesnt seem to 
have lost out financially over this, so I am not going  to tell TSB to pay her any compensation 
for it. 
Similarly, Mrs B has also mentioned that one of the phone  numbers  TSB gave  her was 
wrong, which she found frustrating. I sympathise with her about this, but I gather that TSB 
gave her the correct  number in a recorded message  and again she didnt lose out. 
Mrs B has also pointed  out that in a letter to her about her complaint, TSB promised  that she 
wouldnt be left out of pocket. She thinks she has been out of pocket since 2013 and that 
TSB has failed to meet this promise. However, I have read a copy of the letter  and it seems 
to me that TSBs promise concerned difficulties caused to some of its customer  by problems 
with its computer systems, which occurred at around  the time Mrs B made her complaint. I 
dont think the promise was relevant to the meeting  in 2013. I gather that TSB has paid 
Mrs B some compensation for the problems caused by its computer  systems,  but this is not 
part of this complaint,  so I wont comment  further.  
Finally, I understand  that during our investigation into Mrs Bs complaint, she has had some 
health problems  and has been under some  stress.  I would therefore  like to thank her for her 
patience while we looked into things, and give her my best wishes  for a full recovery.  
Ref: DRN74316753my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mrs Bs complaint about TSB Bank 
Plc. I am not going to tell it to give her any money  back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7431675