K822xcomplaint
Mr W is unhappy about how RTA Claim Solutions managed his non fault claim after he was 
involved in a road traffic accident.
background 
In December 2018, Mr W was involved in a road traffic accident. As the accident wasnt his 
fault, he didnt  make a claim on his motor insurance  policy instead he used  the services  of 
RTA an accident management company (AMC).  
Mr W had acquired  his car through a lease agreement. Following an inspection, the car was 
considered to be a total loss (beyond economical  repair). A valuation was placed on the car 
and Mr W was sent a cheque for part of this valuation. And sometime  later the damaged car 
was returned to him, as salvage, to cover the remaining balance  of the cars pre accident  
value (PAV).
Mr W said on the advice he was given  by RTA he cashed the cheque and purchased  a new 
car. And he said he has been trying to get the damaged car collected as it was causing 
distress to his neighbours. Despite numerous emails and calls he hadnt been  able to get 
anyone to collect the car.
Mr W said hed continued to pay his monthly  lease payments  and had been in touch to get 
the matter sorted with both RTA and his finance  provider. But neither were getting  back  to 
him. He said he'd told RTA the car didnt belong to him and that it was a lease vehicle. And 
said hed just done what they had said to do.
RTA said the third-party insurers (TPI) hadnt  carried out a check to see if there was any 
finance on the car. And had made the cheque out to Mr W. They said as the TPI had settled 
the claim they didnt  want to cause any delay. RTA said they had a responsibility to mitigate  
any costs, and as the claim was now settled the TPI wouldnt cover  any additional costs. So, 
they sent the cheque to Mr W. And said Mr W knew the car wasnt his and should have 
arranged for the payment to be made his finance  provider.
Mr W wasnt happy with RTAs response  and referred his complaint to us.
Our investigator said Mr W should  have arranged  for the payment to be sent to his finance 
provider. But said RTA could have  been clearer in explaining to Mr W what  he needed to do. 
For the trouble  and upset this had caused she asked  RTA to pay Mr W £200 in 
compensation.
Mr W didnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman  to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im partially upholding 
this complaint. Ill explain why
This has been a very distressing time for Mr W especially when you consider he wasnt the 
cause of the road traffic  accident. So, I can understand his frustration at being left with a 
Ref: DRN75113312damaged car and in a financial situation  where  he needs to settle  his lease agreement.  But 
some of the issues of this complaint are between Mr W and his finance provider, so I wont  
comment on these. What  I need  to determine is what  RTA said they would do for Mr W, what 
they did and whether their actions have been  fair and reasonable.
RTA, as an AMC,  aim to provide their customers with a hire vehicle, if needed, and repair 
the damage caused to the vehicle  by the accident  or by determining  the PAV of the car if its 
deemed non repairable. They would claim these costs back  from the TPI. 
So, Id expect RTA to provide  Mr W with a hire car, which they did. And to liaise  with the TPI 
for settlement of the claim. 
After an independent engineer inspected Mr Ws car, it was  assessed  as a category S, a 
total loss, meaning  it was structurally damaged  but repairable (damage to structural frame  or 
chassis, which can be repaired but the insurer has decided not to). So, as the car was a total 
loss it was given  a PAV. And in January 2019, the TPI having accepted liability, sent a 
cheque, made out to Mr W for this amount  less the salvage cost of the car. This meant the 
damaged car would be returned.
 
Having looked  at the report, the independent  engineer says that they havent carried out any 
HPI checks.  This type of check  would show the vehicles history and whether there is any 
finance outstanding on the car. If this had been  done, Id have expected  it to show  Mr Ws 
finance providers  details. But the TPI didnt  get this information so made the PAV payment to 
Mr W. And Id expect  it would show the damaged car was to be returned  to Mr W as well.
The PAV cheque was first sent to RTA who passed  it on to Mr W. As Mr W had told RTA 
that he leased the car they could have returned the cheque to the TPI for it to be made out to 
Mr Ws finance provider. But RTA does have  an obligation to mitigate costs. And the hire car 
theyd provided  for Mr W would have needed to be returned within seven days  of the PAV 
payment being  received, as any hire charges incurred  after this date would have become
Mr Ws responsibility. And as Mr W knew the car didnt belong  to him and that he was 
leasing it from his finance provider I dont think it was unfair or unreasonable for RTA to have 
sent the cheque straight  on to Mr W. 
But I do think the generic letter sent to Mr W was confusing as it said:
As we received this payment today hire must  end in 5 working days.  This time is allowed for 
you to bank this payment  and make arrangements to purchase  a new vehicle
Mr Ws understanding of this was that he could use the money to buy a car rather  than 
getting a new vehicle by arranging to clear his existing finance. But while  I think the wording 
could have been clearer, especially as RTA knew Mr W didnt own the car. I cant  hold RTA 
responsible for Mr W not sending the payment on to his finance  provider  as he knew  the car 
didnt belong  to him.
I can also understand Mr Ws frustration at the damaged car being returned  to him. But I can 
see that RTA were trying  to mitigate the storage  costs that had been accruing. In one call 
Mr Ws told that the daily cost of storing the damage car was £32 per day. And as the TPI 
had made  the PAV settlement they wouldnt cover these additional costs. So, Mr W would 
have become responsible for any continuing storage costs. So, I dont think  RTA has acted 
unfairly by returning  the damaged car to Mr W, as theyd had no response from his finance 
provider. And this prevented further  costs  falling to Mr W.
Ref: DRN75113313As I stated above many  of the issues Mr W is unhappy about  are between him and his 
finance provider.  I know Mr W will be disappointed,  but I think  RTA did do what they said 
they would. But I agree with our investigator that the letter  that accompanied the PAV 
cheque could have  been clearer about what  Mr W needed to do. And for the trouble  and 
upset this caused I think RTA should  pay Mr W £200 to compensate  for this.
I understand that since Mr W brought his complaint, the damaged car has been  collected. 
And it is for him to arrange  with his finance  provider the settling of his lease agreement.
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint. And ask RTA Claim Solutions to pay Mr W £200 for trouble 
and upset
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 May 2020
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7511331