K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Bank of Scotland  Plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (MPPI) policy in September 2003.
background
Mr B took out a plan known as a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP). TMPP can be split 
into three sections: Mortgage  Repayments  Cover (which is a form of MPPI), Life Cover  and 
Critical Illness Cover  (CIC). Mr B has complained about the MPPI  cover so Ive only looked 
at the sale of this part of the package in this decision.
The policy cost just over £16 each month and it covered Mr B in the event he wasnt working 
due to accident, sickness or unemployment  and it wouldve provided  a monthly benefit of 
£268.75 for up to 24 months following a successful claim. The policy was cancelled in March 
2010 and the mortgage account was closed  in April 2010.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed  so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of MPPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
I think its likely  Halifax  made it clear that Mr B didnt have to take out the MPPI and he 
chose to purchase the policy   although I can understand if he cant remember  this given 
how long ago it was.
I havent been able to look at all the paperwork from the time the policy was sold but I 
dont think this is surprising given how long ago the sale took place. However,  I do know 
that the way MPPI was presented in 2003  showed that it was optional, and that a 
customer needed to agree  for a policy to be set up. So Im satisfied the policy  was 
optional and I think its more likely  that Mr B was given a choice  about  the MPPI.  
Halifax recommended the MPPI to Mr B so it had to check  that the MPPI was right for 
him and, based on what Ive seen of him circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. 
For example,  Mr B wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions  to or limits on the MPPI 
cover  he told us he was employed and in good  health.
Mr B was working at the time and he says he had some  occupational benefits from his 
employers if he was off work  sick. But this doesnt  automatically  mean  that the policy  
was unsuitable.  This is because  if he were  unable to work,  the MPPI was intended to 
remove the additional pressure of maintaining mortgage repayments, at what  would 
likely be a difficult time.  And this wouldve been important to Mr B as he was solely 
responsible for making those mortgage  payments.
Ref: DRN77035602The MPPI wouldve  helped to pay the monthly  mortgage costs for up to 24 months  for 
each successful claim  and on top of any other  cover he had and for longer. So I dont 
think Mr Bs existing work benefits  wouldve made  the PPI unsuitable.  And I think it was 
reasonable of Halifax  to recommend it to him.  
  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr B about the MPPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out to protect himself   so it looks  like he wanted 
this type of cover. And it seems  like it wouldve been  useful for him if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
MPPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything else Mr B told us, but these points dont change my decision.  
So Halifax  doesnt  need to refund everything  Mr B paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered 
to give Mr B back  some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr B now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint against 
Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Andrew Macnamara
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7703560