K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about a claim he made  on his Inter Partner  Assistance  SA (IPA) 
business protection policy.
Mr M is represented  by his business partner in this complaint and in respect of the 
underlying claim. For ease of reference  I will refer to Mr M throughout this decision instead of 
his business partner.
Mr M is unhappy  that IPA havent paid all of the costs his accountant has incurred on a tax 
enquiry he conducted for him. 
background
Mr M made a claim on his business  protection policy in January 2014 for cover to instruct  an 
accountant to act for his business  in relation  to an aspect  (tax) enquiry opened  by HM 
Customs & Revenue. 
Mr M asked  IPA if he could use his own accountant  to act for him in the enquiry.  IPA agreed 
to this and set out the terms on which they were prepared to do this. One of the terms was 
that the accountants costs would only be met if IPA gave their prior authorisation to the 
sums to be incurred in writing. They also asked the accountant for some  further  information.
Mr Ms accountant provided that information  as well as a fee estimate. Correspondence 
between IPA and the accountant continued, with the accountant providing fee estimates  as 
matters continued  and IPA authorising these.
In February 2018  Mr M received a bill from his accountant  for roughly £35,000. He presented 
this to IPA for payment  but IPA refused to cover  this. They  said theyd paid all the invoices 
Mr Ms accountant had provided  them with. 
Mr M is unhappy  because  he feels the sums hes being asked to pay should be covered by 
his policy. Hes also unhappy  with how IPA have communicated with him. He says that 
theyve failed to respond to his requests for his accountants  fees to be paid.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and concluded it shouldnt  be upheld.  She 
carried out a detailed review of the invoices presented to IPA by Mr Ms accountant  and 
noted that those  sums had all been  paid.  She also thought that all of the costs IPA had 
authorised had been paid and that they had provided Mr M with responses when responses 
were requested. Mr M is unhappy with this so has asked for me to review  matters afresh.
I considered Mr Ms complaint and indicated to him that Id seen nothing that made me think 
the investigators view was wrong. I asked him for specific reasons why he didnt agree with 
it. Mr M hasnt provided anything in response  to that. The matter  has been referred to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr Ms 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN79051332The policy provides cover for a person or business  that becomes the subject of a tax 
investigation or dispute. Mr Ms business was subject to an aspect enquiry so he sought the 
assistance of an accountant to act for him in that investigation. IPA said theyd be prepared  
to pay those costs provided  they were approved in writing before they were incurred. That 
was a term of the policy so I dont think IPA did anything wrong when they put this to Mr M or 
his accountant.
As our investigator explained, its not for our service  to carry out an audit of the sums 
claimed by Mr Ms accountant. But we can look at whether IPA has paid the costs  it pre 
authorised. Having considered everything, Im satisfied they have and that theyve paid each 
and every invoice  presented to them by Mr Ms accountant. These amount to roughly 
£40,250. 
I note that in October 2015 Mr Ms accountant asked IPA if they could send them  an invoice 
for the sums  theyd incurred amounting to almost  £4,000. But IPA responded confirming 
theyd not authorised this amount so the accountants would  only be able to invoice them  for 
the sums  they had agreed- which in this case was £1,500 against those costs.
I know that Mr M now has a bill from his accountant  for £35,000  but I dont know what  those 
costs represent. Its possible that they are costs that his accountant incurred that were  not 
pre authorised with IPA. If thats  the case, that will be a matter  between Mr M and his 
accountant and not something  we can become involved  in. Thats because I havent seen 
anything that suggests IPA has acted  unreasonably  in the circumstances or done  something 
outside the scope of its policy terms. And it follows that I dont think  IPA need  to pay Mr Ms 
accountants costs  in corresponding with them about  costs that havent been pre authorised  
by them.
Mr M has said that IPA havent responded to his requests for payment. But I dont think  
thats right. Our investigator  provided a detailed  review of the correspondence Mr M provided 
us with. There was nothing in those communications  that makes  me think  IPA didnt respond 
to Mr M or unreasonably  delayed coming back  to him. And in the absence  of Mr M providing  
anything to contradict  this, I cant say that IPA has done anything wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Inter Partner  
Assistance SA.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 June  2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7905133