K821x#15complaint
Mrs N complains about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC has handled a payment into her 
account.
background
Mrs N says she sold a phone for £700 and the buyer said hed transfer the money into her 
Barclays account. This amount was received into Mrs Ns account and she says she thought 
this payment was made by a bank  transfer. So she sent the phone  to the buyer. But a few 
days later £700 was taken  from her account because the payment had in fact been made by 
a cheque which had been returned  unpaid. 
Mrs Ns unhappy and says her online banking didnt make clear the payment was made by 
cheque. If this had been  clear she wouldnt have sent the phone  until it had cleared. She 
also doesnt understand how the buyer paid a cheque into her account when Barclays  
website says a cheque can only be paid into it by the account holder or someone with the 
card. Mrs N says Barclays is responsible for what happened. And it should refund the £700 
and compensate her.
Barclays said in its final response that its mobile  banking app doesnt currently  show the type 
of payment made.  When Mrs N saw the transaction on her mobile  banking  app her available  
balance didnt change  because the funds from a cheque  needed  to be cleared before the 
balance would be affected. The problem is a civil one between Mrs N and the buyer.
Our investigator felt this complaint  should  be partly upheld. He said: 
Barclays hasnt been able to provide evidence showing  what the online entry  said 
about this payment  in. But the account  statement says its an account credit in a 
branch. Its likely that a similar entry wouldve been shown online. And its more likely 
than not that this entry wouldve  been  understood to be a deposit in branch  rather 
than a transfer. 
But this online description didnt give enough  information for Mrs N to understand if 
the deposit was cash or cheque or whether  the funds had cleared. 
Barclays website shows that only the account holder would be able to pay in a 
cheque without visiting a branch.  But there isnt any evidence that someone else 
couldnt pay in a cheque into another persons account if they visited the branch. 
On the available evidence its likely Mrs N gave her account details to the buyer to 
make a transfer into her account.  But he used them to pay a cheque  into her account 
in the branch. 
Although Barclays didnt make it clear  the payment  was a cheque  that isnt enough to 
ask it to pay Mrs N the £700 as ultimately shes lost out due to the buyers  action not 
Barclays. But it couldve been  clearer in the information it provided. As a result its fair 
for it to pay Mrs N £200 compensation for the trouble and upset shes been caused.
Mrs N remains  unhappy and has asked  for an ombudsman review.  In summary she says 
only the account holder can put cheques into their account. Barclays didnt inform her of how 
the money was paid into her account. If shed  known it was by a cheque she wouldnt have 
Ref: DRN73961862sent off the phone when  she did. Theres been a security breach. Barclays  is liable and she 
wants a full refund and compensation.
Mrs N has also confirmed Barclays has recently  paid her £200. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays cannot provide  a copy  of what appeared on Mr Ns phone when she used  its mobile 
banking app. It says this information  would  only be available  on Mrs Ns device.
But her full statement  eventually showed this was a £700 credit  deposit into a branch. I think 
on balance that its likely  the mobile  banking  app wouldve shown something similar although  
it may not have indicated  in detail exactly how the payment  was made.  From what Barclays  
has said it appears the account balance wouldve reflected the cheque amount but the 
money wouldnt have  been counted as cleared for another  five days. Even  so I think the 
likely description of the credit wouldve done enough to reasonably suggest that the money  
received into the account wasnt by a transfer.  But theres no doubt  the description  used  by 
Barclays was limited  and couldve been  more detailed and thereby clearer.
Mrs N says that theres been  a security breach on her account  and that a third party  
shouldnt have been able to pay a cheque into it. But I dont think  thats  the case. Theres 
nothing to show the accounts  security  has been  compromised.  And Ive seen  nothing  to 
suggest that a third party with the necessary account information cannot pay in a cheque  to 
a specified account in a branch.  As such I dont think Barclays  did anything wrong accepting 
the deposit of the buyers cheque into Mrs Ns account in a branch.
The main  issue here is that the buyer  has used  the account information Mrs N gave  him to 
pay a cheque in to a branch rather to carry out a bank transfer as shed asked for and 
expected. And that the buyers cheque wasnt subsequently honoured. 
Although I understand Mrs Ns frustration and strength of feeling,  I agree with Barclays that 
her dispute  is with the buyer and that is a civil matter between the two of them.
I believe Barclays has recently paid Mrs N £200  compensation in response to the 
investigators view. Taking  everything  into account  I think a payment of £200 compensation 
is a fair resolution to this complaint. And I dont  think I can reasonably ask Barclays  to now 
do or pay anything more, as Mrs N would like.
Overall I dont see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Barclays Bank UK PLC should, if it hasnt already 
done so, pay Mrs N £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.  
Ref: DRN73961863Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7396186