K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains about the suitability of the advice he received from Sun Life Assurance 
Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  (Sun Life) to transfer his preserved occupational pension  
scheme (OPS) benefits to a personal pension plan.
background
In September  1995 Mr N met with Sun Life to discuss  his retirement  planning. At that time 
Mr N was employed as a broker earning  £25,000  per year.  He had become of a member  of 
his new employers defined benefit  scheme and held preserved pension  benefits from his 
previous employment.
Sun Life advised Mr N to transfer his preserved OPS benefits to a personal pension  plan. It 
noted that Mr N wanted  to keep control of his pensions, choose how they were  invested, and 
have the flexibility  of when he wanted to access the benefits.
Within the two available fact find documents  that were completed  it was noted that the 
investment growth  needed to match Mr Ns existing OPS benefits  was 10.92%  and 10.95% 
per year. His selected attitude to risk was initially recorded as balanced but this was then 
amended to speculative .
In August  1996,  the preserved  pension benefits   both protected  and non-protected rights  
were transferred to the new personal  pension,  the total cash  equivalent  value being  £5,043.
In March 2018 Mr N, through a claims management company (CMC),  complained  about  the 
previous advice he was given  by Sun Life regarding four separate pension transfers and the 
sale of a free standing  additional voluntary contribution (FSAVC) plan. Sun Life said that two 
of the transfer  complaints had been brought outside of the time limits allowed.  It upheld the 
complaint about  the FSAVC and completed  a loss calculation, but it didnt agree to uphold 
the complaint  about the other two transfers.  
It said Mr Ns transferred  benefits only represented a small amount of his overall pension 
provision so he was able to take more risk with it. It said it had provided him with all the 
necessary risk warnings  and comparative analysis and believed he understood the risks 
involved and was prepared to take them.
Mr N accepted the position  with regards to three of the plans but wasnt  happy with the 
outcome of the two transfers  which Sun Life said were suitable recommendations, so he 
brought his complaint to us. The transfers represented both non-protected rights and 
protected rights benefits from the previous OPS  and were considered as one transfer for the 
purposes of the complaint.
One of our adjudicators reviewed Mr Ns complaint and recommended  it should be upheld. 
He said:
Mr N held no other investments, as such. He only had deposit account savings. That 
seemed inconsistent with Sun Lifes notes which said Mr N had a speculative attitude  
to risk.
Mr Ns pension transfer didnt  form part of the industry-wide pensions  review, but 
looking at what were  considered as viable growth rates  used in that review,  the rates 
Ref: DRN70792942required to match the scheme benefits  seemed to make it unlikely the transfer would 
be viable.
There didnt seem to be any benefit  in transferring the pension benefits unless there 
was a realistic prospect of exceeding  the existing benefits. That appeared highly 
unlikely in this case.
Sun Life disagreed,  it said Mr N was employed  in the financial services industry and 
wouldve expected  to accrue further  pension benefits. The transferred pension was a modest 
amount of his likely overall  pension savings and it was reasonable given his attitude to risk to 
look to achieve  higher  returns following the transfer.
The adjudicator said Mr N hadnt  made  any subsequent changes to the composition  of his 
pension plan, which wasnt  in keeping with the view that he was a speculative  investor who 
took an active interest in how his pension was invested. He maintained that the investment 
returns required were too high for the recommendation to be suitable.
Sun Life didnt agree  and asked for the complaint to be referred to an ombudsman.  So its 
been passed to me for a review and a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so I find Im in 
agreement with the adjudicator and for broadly  the same reasons.
Sun Life gave its recommendation in 1995  and the transfer completed in 1996. Therefore the 
advice didnt fall under the remit of the industry wide pensions  review of personal  pensions 
sold between 1988 and 1994.  So what I have to decide is if the recommendation was 
suitable at the time of the advice  and whether Sun Life should now conduct a pension 
review style loss calculation.
Sun Life says that when  it met Mr N he was 28 years old, had just started a new job and 
joined his new employers  company pension scheme. He was living  with his parents 
although he was looking to buy a home. He had amassed less than three years service  in 
his previous scheme and it was recorded  that he didnt wish to transfer the benefits to add 
service to the new scheme  because he didnt see himself staying there long term. 
Sun Lifes reasons  for recommending the transfer  at the time were noted as follows:
(he) wants to keep personal control of where his pensions are, which funds theyre  invested  
in and to have the ability to choose  his retirement  age (50-75) rather than have to ask the 
trustees for permission. where the necessary  investment  return is required is quite 
highis happy  with this.
In his evidence  to us Mr N has confirmed that he had very little financial experience  or 
knowledge at the time.  And he says he still doesnt  understand pensions. I think  thats also 
further supported  by the fact that he didnt review his pension with Sun Life at any point   or 
consider whether the funds were  still appropriate for him. Indeed Mr N himself didnt bring  
this complaint until the question of the advice was raised by a CMC. So Ive concluded  that 
when Mr N met with Sun Life in 1995 he would have  relied very heavily on the advice he was 
given and would have more likely than not gone ahead with a recommendation that was put 
to him.
Ref: DRN70792943Although Sun Life has listed a number of reasons for Mr N to agree to transfer, I think, on 
balance, its most likely that he would have wanted to be sure that he would be better off by 
transferring  based on the information that was known at the time.  In order  to present that 
information to Mr N, Sun Life needed to complete a pension transfer value analysis (TVAS)  
which would have confirmed the growth  that would be required from a new personal pension 
to match  the existing OPS benefits.
Sun Life did carry out the calculation, although  its unclear  when the TVAS was completed. 
The date on the TVAS was 28 August 1996, which  was when the transfer actually  completed  
and almost a year after Mr N completed  his application to transfer. I would  have expected 
the information within the TVAS to be presented to Mr N before he made  a decision to go 
ahead so its not clear  to me that this happened. Although I note the TVAS  did use the lower  
transfer value  of £4,796, which the OPS  trustees confirmed had increased to £5,043 by 
August 1996.  So its possible the TVAS date was displayed incorrectly and it was actually 
produced in August 1995.
So Ive assumed Mr N was made aware  of the information contained within  it as theres a 
number of references to the growth  rates required  and Mr Ns reaction to those figures - 
within the pension  fact find of 1995. 
The regulator published  discount rates for the purposes of the industry  wide pension review.  
And I think these rates  can be used to give an indication of what  rates of growth would be 
considered reasonable at the time  even outside  of the pensions  review.
In this case, looking at dates  the transfer was recommended  and with 30 years  to 
retirement, the rate was 10.7%. 
The rates of growth required to just match the OPS benefits, when looking at what  was 
stated within  the pension transfer  comparison in 1996, ranged from 10.85%  to 10.95%,  
which exceeded the regulators published discount rates shown above.  But  there was little 
or no benefit in Mr N transferring his pension simply to match his existing OPS benefits   he 
needed to have a reasonable expectation of exceeding the required growth. I think  its 
reasonable to assume another 1-2% growth  would be needed to provide that, which meant  
achieving almost 13% per year as a reasonable prospect. 
I think this would have  been considered a very high rate of return  to achieve consistently, 
year on year  even in 1995  and would  have required investment into high risk funds in 
order to have any realistic  prospect of achieving the required returns. Realistically, the 
growth rate needed to exceed  the OPS benefits was likely  to have been at around, or 
beyond, 12% - the highest of the three  assumed growth rates  that the regulator specified 
should be used  in illustrations at that time. And I think  it would have been difficult to maintain 
that level of growth  over a relatively  long investment horizon.
But I think its important not only to consider the required  rate of return, but also whether 
investment into the funds  necessary to achieve those returns  was in line with Mr Ns attitude 
to risk  which was initially recorded  in the fact find as being balanced, although  it was 
amended to read no (changed) always been speculative. 
Its possible that a mistake was made in the initial record,  but I havent  seen any written 
record of a robust conversation or challenge  to Mr N to explain why his attitude to risk was 
changed. I cant rule out the possibility that the attitude to risk was changed as a result of the 
required growth rates being revealed by the TVAS, rather than a change initiated  by Mr N. I 
also dont think the recorded attitude to risk was necessarily  representative  of 
Ref: DRN70792944Mr Ns financial  circumstances  at that time.   
When the advice  was given Mr N was 28 years old. He had two long term savings plans and 
all of his pension provision was held within defined benefit OPSs. In addition,  all of the 
capital he held was in deposit  based  accounts, presumably because as Sun Life recorded he 
was looking to buy a home.
Its of course  possible that Mr N was happy to expose his pension  funds  to a higher risk for 
the sake of higher returns, but the level of risk needed to achieve this was significant. And 
Im not satisfied theres any evidence to show that Mr N was a high risk or speculative 
investor. Everything that Sun Life noted in its fact find about  Mr Ns situation  in 1995 
suggested that he wasnt a high risk investor  and I think that both his attitude to risk and 
capacity for loss was, in all probability,  lower than that. 
So I think that, not only did Sun Life provide Mr N with a TVAS  that demonstrated it would be 
unlikely to provide  greater  returns  within a personal pension than he could enjoy  with his 
OPS benefits, but also that the risk required to try to provide such  returns wasnt  consistent  
with any risk appetite  actually demonstrated by Mr N. 
Sun Life has said that Mr N was employed within the financial  services industry and had 
money in some savings  policies  therefore it wasnt unreasonable  for him to have  wanted  to 
take some  risk with his pension funds. But I dont think Mr Ns occupation  which  I 
understand was in aviation claims, meant he was a knowledgeable  and experienced 
investor  especially in pensions - or that holding an insurance  type savings plan 
suggested he should be more willing to accept  higher risk with any investments he agreed to 
make. 
Sun Life says that at the time of the advice these benefits were only a small part of Mr Ns 
overall pension  provision.  And I assume  it meant  that he still had around  37 years  of 
possible pensionable service to accrue. But at that time this was his only pension  provision  
hed only just joined his new employers OPS  and the fact find noted that he didnt want to 
transfer the benefits to add service to his new scheme because  he didnt envisage  staying  
there. So Mr N planned  to move jobs in the short term and its not clear to me that Mr N was 
expecting to have  many years of membership within a final salary pension  scheme.  So I 
cant safely say that he wouldnt  have preferred to retain the guaranteed  nature of the 
previous OPS benefits hed built up if the value of those benefits  had been explained 
properly to him. 
One of Sun Lifes stated  reasons for the transfer was that Mr N would prefer  personal 
control of his pension  funds. I note that Mr N hasnt  reviewed  or changed  the funds he was 
invested in. 
I acknowledge Sun Lifes  point that this doesnt  necessarily mean that it wasnt an objective 
at the time of the transfer.  But it is nevertheless indicative of a distinct change in his appetite  
for investment control if indeed that was the case. And if Im to also take into account Mr Ns 
lack of any other investment experience, that rationale does  appear  to be compromised.
Flexibility of retirement age was also cited as a reason for the transfer, but Mr N was still 22 
years away  from the earliest  point  at which he could retire. Mr N could therefore  have 
revisited his options  closer to the time when he wished to retire. There  was no reason to do 
so for the sake of flexibility at such a young age. 
summary
Ref: DRN70792945Sun Life has conceded that the investment performance that was required from the personal 
pension to match returns from the OPS was quite high. It says Mr N stated he was happy  
with that. But I dont think the required growth  rates were consistent  with Mr Ns experience  
or understanding of investment risk, or that Mr N in any case  needed to transfer at that point 
for the sake of a possible need for flexibility some thirty years hence. For the reasons Ive 
given, my view is that the transfer wasnt suitable for Mr N, nor was it in his best interests. 
With suitable advice  I dont believe the transfer  would have taken place. I therefore think this 
complaint should  be upheld.  I think that its fair and reasonable for Sun Life to compensate 
Mr N along the following  lines.
putting things right
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited should put Mr N, as far as possible,  
into the position he would now be in but for the unsuitable advice.
Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada (U.K.)  Limited must undertake a redress  
calculation in line with the regulators pension review guidance as updated by the Financial 
Conduct Authority  in October 2017.  This calculation should be carried  out as at the date of 
this decision, and using the most  recent financial assumptions published. In accordance with 
the regulators expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate 
provider promptly following receipt of notification of Mr Ns acceptance of the decision.
Sun Life may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain
Mr Ns contribution history to the State Earnings Related Pension Scheme (SERPS  or S2P).
These details should then be used  to include a SERPS  adjustment  in the calculation, which
will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme  on Mr Ns SERPS/S2P 
entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mr Ns pension plan. The payment should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it
should be paid directly to Mr N as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow for
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. 25 per cent of the loss would be tax-free
and 75 per cent would have  been  taxed according  to his likely  income  tax rate in retirement
 presumed to be 20 per cent. So making  a notional deduction of 15 per cent overall from
the loss adequately reflects this.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment must where possible be paid to Mr N
within 90 days of the date Sun Life receives  notification of his acceptance  of my final
decision. Further interest must be added to the compensation amount at the rate of 8 per
cent per year simple  from the date of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time,
in excess of 90 days, that it takes it to pay this compensation.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above   and so any
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
Ref: DRN70792946my final decision
I uphold Mr Ns complaint  against  Sun Life Assurance Company of Canada  (U.K.) Limited  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Keith Lawrence
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7079294