K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains about what  happened  when he tried to make a payment using his 
Nationwide Building  Society debit card.
background
Mr C told us that he tried to top up his mobile phone  using his Nationwide  debit card.  He said 
the payment failed.  This had happened before, but he wanted  to make sure it would stop,  so 
he decided to complain  to Nationwide about it. He said that Nationwide  told him it would get 
back to him about  this within  three  days,  but it didnt. And when it did get back  to him, it just 
said that the problem wasnt its fault. 
Mr C didnt think this was good enough. In particular, he didnt  think Nationwide should  make 
promises about when  it was going  to contact him, then not keep them. He said that it had 
made the same mistake before, and paid compensation, but this time it had just said sorry, 
and that was it. He thought Nationwide should  pay compensation for the time hed wasted 
trying to resolve this, and the stress and upset hed faced from being misled  by his bank. 
Nationwide said it had looked at the recent  payments Mr C was trying to make to a mobile  
phone company. Each time it could see that it had authorised the payments, but they then 
werent taken by the phone company. The phone company had told Mr C that this was 
because his address  didnt  match. Nationwide  said it only had one address for Mr C, and 
that was the one it was using to write to him. So it said the failed payment wasnt its fault. It 
suggested he contact  the phone company to make sure it also had the right details for him. 
Nationwide also said that during Mr Cs initial phone call, hed been told that he would 
definitely get a call within three  days about  his complaint. After that, Nationwide  had told him 
something different  about when he would get a response. Nationwide  said that it would 
always try to contact him within three days about any complaint he made, but it couldnt  
always do that. It actually  had fifty-six  days to respond to any complaint he made. 
Nationwide apologised for this.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that Nationwide  had apologised for any 
misleading information that Mr C was given about  when hed be contacted.  But our 
adjudicator said that there was no evidence of additional inconvenience or any financial loss 
because of this, so he thought that an apology was enough to make up for this. 
Our adjudicator said that Nationwide had also confirmed that it only holds one address for 
Mr C. And hed checked that address  against  the address  that Mr C had given us. It was the 
same. So our adjudicator thought that if there was a mistake with the address, then it hadnt 
been made by Nationwide.  
Our adjudicator also said that he could see from Nationwides internal systems that it had 
approved the payment, as it said, but that the phone company then hadnt taken it. Thats 
what Nationwide had said to Mr C. And Mr C had told our service  that this problem wasnt 
happening with other transactions. So our adjudicator thought that the problem probably  
didnt lie with Nationwide.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think that Nationwide had to do any more. 
Ref: DRN79388412Mr C didnt agree with that. He said that Nationwide had also given the wrong timescales  for 
a response before, and he didnt think that just an apology for that was enough. He said that 
he shouldnt be repeatedly given the wrong  information, and especially by a bank that he 
was trusting with his income. 
Mr C didnt agree with our adjudicator, so the case was passed to me for a final decision. 
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it. 
This is what  I said then: 
-I could see from the previous complaints  that Mr C made  to Nationwide  that hed faced 
problems with paying this phone company before.  I understood  that his card may 
previously have  been blocked.  But that wasnt what had gone  wrong  this time. I looked at 
the internal codes  that Nationwides system records when a payment doesnt go through.  
It did look to me as if Nationwide authorised this payment,  but the phone company then 
didnt take the money. That was consistent with what Nationwide told Mr C when it spoke  
to him over the phone,  and when it wrote to him about this complaint.
-Mr C said that the phone company had told him that the address it held for him didnt 
match the one on his card. I thought that Nationwide had the right address for Mr C. It 
had been writing to him at the same address as he gave us.
-So if something had gone wrong  with the payments to the phone company in this case, I 
didnt think that was Nationwides fault.  I could also hear that Nationwide gave Mr C the 
authorisation code  for this transaction, and some additional information to try to support 
him in resolving this problem with the phone  company. So I thought  Nationwide  had tried 
to help Mr C to fix the problem. Because I didnt  think that Nationwide caused the 
problem, and because  it had done  what I would  expect  it to do to try to support Mr C in 
sorting this out, I said that Nationwide didnt have to do anything  to make up for the 
problems that Mr C faced trying to make  this payment. 
-I also considered whether Nationwide had let Mr C down  in how it responded to this 
problem, including  by telling him that it would contact him in three days,  but then not 
doing so. And I reached a different view to our adjudicator  on that part of Mr Cs 
complaint.
-I knew Nationwide had accepted that it gave Mr C some wrong information about when it 
would respond  to his complaint. Mr C said this wasnt the first time this had happened.  
And there did seem to have been repeated confusion on the calls Id listened to about 
whether Nationwide was going to call him within three or five working  days. 
-Nationwide then argued on the phone  that the information given to Mr C wasnt actually 
inaccurate, just confusing. But it wrote to Mr C after this to say you were  informed you 
would get a call within 3 working days. That seemed to me to be what Mr C was saying 
hed been told, and what Nationwide on its final call to him was denying was wrong.
Ref: DRN79388413-Mr C said this had shaken his confidence in Nationwide. I knew that Nationwide had 
subsequently sent Mr C a written  apology and detailed explanation of its process. That 
seemed to me to provide  a level of clarity which was noticeably  absent in Nationwides  
calls to Mr C, so I was glad to see that it had done  this. But I did think that there was at 
the least considerable confusion  on earlier calls over how and when  Nationwide  would 
be responding to Mr Cs complaint. And I thought that was Nationwides fault. 
-It also seemed as if the picture  shifted over the course of these calls.  Initially Mr C was 
told that Nationwide had authorised the payment, and the phone company had then 
declined it. But then,  in what seemed  to be a later phone call, he was told that the issue 
was still under investigation,  and Nationwide didnt  yet know whose fault it was that the 
payment had failed.  
-I also thought  that Mr C had spent a long time trying to resolve these issues. I didnt have 
all the calls that Mr C had with Nationwide about  this complaint, but just from those I had, 
I thought that the length of time that hed spent on calls did seem to me to me to be 
excessive, considering what had gone wrong. 
-I thought that did merit a payment  of compensation. So I thought that Nationwide should 
pay Mr C £50 for the confusion it caused  by providing him with conflicting information.  
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Mr C said that he appreciated that wed seen things from his side.  Although it didnt restore 
his faith in Nationwide, he said it did help. Nationwide sent a detailed response,  asking me to 
review my decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Nationwide thought that Id upheld Mr Cs complaint  because of the confusion that took place 
in the calls it had with Mr C and because I thought Nationwide  took a long time to resolve the 
issues. But Nationwide said it didnt think that was right. 
Nationwide said that Mr C had raised a number  of complaints, so he was well acquainted 
with its complaint procedure. Nationwide thought it was reasonable to assume  that the 
complaint process  wouldve been explained to Mr C before this, especially given the number 
of complaints he had made. 
I dont think its necessarily relevant  to this case that Mr C has complained before. And I note 
that Mr C was told on the second call that Nationwides complaint handling procedures had 
recently changed (although it doesnt  seem  from Nationwides later letter as if they actually 
had). Because of that, I dont think Nationwide can argue that Mr C shouldve been  so 
familiar with its complaint handling  process, that the conflicting information that Nationwide 
gave him about  how it would  resolve  this issue wouldnt  have any impact.  
Ref: DRN79388414Nationwide also says that it didnt give Mr C any conflicting information. It said that in the call 
dated 4 October  2018 its agent told Mr C that its complaints team  would aim to call Mr C 
within 3 business  days. So it said that it couldnt agree that Mr C had been  provided with any 
incorrect information. And it said that any confusion with the wording of the final response 
wouldve been minimal, if not non-existent,  given  that it had explained to Mr C on the phone  
that it hadnt provided him with any incorrect information.
Nationwide now seems  to me to be arguing that the content of its letter of 17 October was 
wrong. In that letter, it clearly accepted  that it had initially promised Mr C a phone  call within  
three working days about his complaint. And it said since then you have  been  told differing 
information about when you would get a response. 
What Nationwide  says now isnt consistent  with what it said in its letter to Mr C. So it must 
have got something  wrong. I think that the written acceptance by Nationwide  that it had 
given Mr C incorrect information  about  when it would get in touch with him is more consistent  
with what I can hear on the calls he made to Nationwide. I said in my provisional decision 
that I thought that there was, at the least, considerable confusion on earlier  calls over how 
and when Nationwide would be responding to Mr Cs complaint. And I thought that was 
Nationwides fault. I still think  that.
Nationwide said it had sent us all the calls that were relevant to this complaint. There were  
just three.  And it didnt  think that Mr C had spent a lot of time on the phone trying  to resolve 
the issue. Nationwide said it had told him why the payment had been returned but he wanted 
a complaint to be raised. 
I think that Mr C asked  for this issue to be left open,  because he hadnt yet had a chance to 
confirm with the phone company what Nationwide had said about  why his payment hadnt  
been taken. I think  that was reasonable.
At the start of the second call recording we have, Mr C said that hed rung Nationwide  back  
after his first call. He said he did that because  it didnt get in touch with him within  three 
days, as he was expecting. He said hed been  told, on this second  call, that Nationwide  had 
56 days to resolve his complaint. We dont have a recording of this call. I dont think  theres 
any reason not to believe that this call was made. So it doesnt seem as if we do have all of 
the call recordings which are relevant to this complaint. 
Nationwide also said that on the call dated 11 October 2018 its agent  had explained that the 
problem would be investigated, which was right. No complaint outcome had been reached at 
that point. 
I think Nationwides summary has missed out a rather unhelpful  point on this call. The call 
handler explained to Mr C that Nationwide was still looking into whether it had reversed his 
payment, or the phone company had. Mr C had previously been told quite  clearly  that it was 
the phone  company who had reversed the payment. This is an example of conflicting  
information being given to Mr C. And its not been clear to me why this point of Mr Cs 
complaint was still under investigation  at this stage. If the first agent  had been able to 
resolve this over the phone. 
Ref: DRN79388415Nationwide said that Id taken the view that the time spent on calls was excessive. Nationwide 
said that there were  occasions where  more  time must be taken  for it to resolve queries. It said 
that it wanted to point  out that Mr C was happy to stay on the phone, and he was very thankful 
for the help he got from its agents.  So Nationwide said it would question what impact this had 
on Mr C, considering this aspect wasnt even raised as part of the complaint. 
Whilst Mr C remained  polite throughout, I still dont think, to take the 11 October call as an 
example, that it shouldve  taken half an hour for an agent to find that Nationwide  had sent 
Mr C a letter, and to read that to him. I note that agent apologised in particular for the length 
of the call. And the agent on the first call apologised for the length of time Mr C was on hold.  
I still think that Mr C did spend  quite a long time on the phone, for what seems to me to have 
been a fairly  straightforward issue. 
I also note that Mr C asked, on the last call recording  we have, if the complaint  outcome had 
taken account  of how long hed spent  on the phone trying to sort this problem  out. He was 
told that this had been taken into account  by Nationwide, when it decided  that an apology 
was enough to make up for what had gone wrong. That seems  to me to directly contradict 
what Nationwide says now about this not having  been raised  as part of Mr Cs complaint. 
Nationwide said that it didnt think that Mr Cs complaint warranted any compensation, and 
any confusion that took place had no impact on him so that it shouldve awarded it. 
Nationwide said that a response  was issued to Mr C within  nine working days detailing  the 
reasoning behind the payment not going through. Nationwide thought  this complaint had 
been resolved  within  a timely manner.
I do think that Nationwide provided a written  response to Mr Cs complaint in a reasonable 
period of time. But I still think  that there was some unfortunate confusion in the information  
given to Mr C before this. And I still think that this merits a payment of £50 in compensation. 
Ill now make  the award I proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that Nationwide Building Society  must pay Mr C £50 in compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7938841