K821x#15complaint
Miss H says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) (now replaced  by AXA 
France IARD) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy attached to a store card Miss H took out in 2003. 
I issued my provisional decision on Miss Hs complaint  in October  2019.  I said I was 
minded not to uphold it. I invited Miss H and FICL  to let me have any further  
representations they may have before I issued my final decision.
Miss H didnt have anything further to add.
At the time I issued my provisional decision,  FICL, as the insurer,  had agreed to 
take responsibility for this complaint. But AXA France IARD has now taken on that 
responsibility instead. 
To keep things simple, Ill refer to AXA France IARD  as the seller in the rest of my 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in 
deciding Miss Hs case. 
As there  is no new information  for me to consider about the sale of the policy,  I do not 
uphold this complaint. My reasons are as the same as set out in my provisional  decision,  
which for ease of reference Ill repeat  here.
The policy was sold in a store. Miss H said she was unaware that PPI had been added. Ive 
seen Miss Hs completed form taking out the card and PPI. AXA France  IARD had to make  
it clear to Miss H that PPI was optional and she had to agree to it being  added.  Miss H 
signed the application form, signing separately to say she wanted  PPI. I think it was made  
clear that PPI was optional and Miss H said she wanted it.
AXA France  IARD didnt  recommend the PPI to Miss H, so it didnt have to check if it was 
suitable for her. But it did have to make sure Miss H got the information  she needed to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information AXA France IARD gave Miss H about the PPI wasnt as clear 
as it shouldve been. Miss H says she had a medical  condition at the time of sale and our 
adjudicator thought this condition was something  that wouldve made  it difficult  for Miss H 
to make a claim  on the policy, so they upheld her complaint.
Ive thought carefully about the information Miss H has told us about her condition.  Having  
done this, I dont have enough evidence  to fairly conclude that Miss H would have thought 
this would be the main  reason she might need to claim on the policy in the future. The 
policy wouldve covered  her for other things. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances 
Ref: DRN78735872at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the other exclusions or limits on 
the PPI cover, so I still think  PPI couldve provided  her with useful cover.
Miss H says she had sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PPI wouldve paid out 
alongside her employee  benefits. It also wouldve covered her if she became  
unemployed. So I think the PPI would have been useful for her if something went  wrong.
Overall, I dont think Miss H has lost out by anything  AXA France  IARD might have done 
wrong. So, it follows that I do not uphold her complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Miss Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7873587