K820x#14Complaint
Mr P has brought this complaint  on behalf of the estate of Mrs P. He is represented by Mr M.
The complaint is about the amount of compensation that Barclays  Bank UK Plc (Barclays)
paid to Mr P on behalf of the estate of Mrs P in respect of mis-sold  payment protection
insurance (PPI).
Background
Just to be clear that my decision is about  PPI and the following loans: 
Start date End date Loan amount  (£)
Loan 1 13/09/1996 30/01/1998 unknown
Loan 2 29/01/1998 18/12/1998 1300
Loan 3 10/12/1998 04/11/1999 1400
Loan 4 01/10/1999 13/02/2001 1800
Loan 5 12/02/2001 14/02/2002 2000
Loan 6 06/11/2001 27/11/2002 3000
Loan 7 20/11/2002 26/06/2003 3000
I have issued two provisional decisions in this matter.  My provisional  decisions are attached 
and form part of this final decision.  
In my first provisional decision, I said that I thought  the compensation Barclays had paid to 
the estate of Mrs P was fair. In response to that provisional decision,  through his 
representative, Mr P made  some  new arguments,  notably about the commission  Mrs P 
would have paid.  And so I issued a second  provisional decision. I asked the parties for their 
comments. 
Through his representative, Mr P provided  a further  response. I have not made  reference  to 
every point made, but I want to reassure the parties that I have  considered at length  all of 
the information that was provided.  I have  summarised the response insofar as it is relevant 
to my consideration to this complaint as follows:  
Mr P had been provided with further  information  that suggested eight PPI policies 
had been taken out by Mrs P; and
Barclays took too long to provide  the information  I had asked it to provide  for tax 
purposes and I should  require  it to compensate the estate of Mrs P by £50; 
My findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate that Mr P feels strongly  that his complaint should be upheld.  But for the reasons 
set out below, Barclays doesnt need to take any further action in respect  of this complaint. 
Loan 1
I said in my provisional decisions that the evidence before me didnt suggest that PPI was 
sold alongside Loan 1. I want to reiterate  that my decision is about  the seven loans set out at 
Ref: DRN71208462the start of this decision. I have considered at length the additional information that Mr P sent 
to me regarding the PPI policies that were sold. Having done  so, I still cant say that PPI was 
sold alongside this loan. I can see that Barclays said one of its searches was inconclusive. 
But that doesnt mean PPI was sold alongside  loan 1. Ive looked again at the wider 
evidence, including  Mrs Ps current account  statements  from that time, but the evidence 
does not suggest to me that PPI was sold alongside this loan.  However if any evidence 
comes to light at a later date to show Mrs P had PPI with this loan, Barclays should consider  
it.
Trouble and upset
I have thought about what was said on behalf of Mr P about paying  £50 to compensate  him 
because he had to wait for Barclays to provide the information, I told it to provide for tax 
purposes.  As  I said in my first provisional  decision,  I cannot award an additional amount for 
trouble and upset  to the executor of an estate. 
In any event, I can see that the information  I required  Barclays to provide has now been sent 
to the estate of Mrs P. 
Amount of compensation
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decisions,  I am now satisfied that Barclays  has 
fairly calculated and paid the compensation that was due for mis-sold PPI, which  also 
includes the commission that Mrs P paid.  
My final decision
There is insufficient evidence to show that Barclays Bank Plc mis-sold PPI to Mrs P 
alongside Loan 1. However, if any evidence comes to light at a later date to show  Mrs P had 
PPI with this loan, Barclays should consider it. Barclays  Bank Plc has now fairly calculated  
and paid compensation to the estate  of Mrs P for mis-selling  PPI. It does not have  to take 
any further action  in respect of this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs P 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 January  2020.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN71208463Copy of my provisional  decision
Complaint
Mr P has brought this complaint on behalf of the Estate  of Mrs P. He is represented  by Mr M.  
The complaint is about the amount of compensation that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) paid to 
Mr P on behalf of the Estate of Mrs P in respect of mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI). 
I am very sorry to hear that Mr P is currently very unwell. I am grateful to both 
Mr P and Mr M for their patience  while we have considered this complaint. 
Background
Mrs P took out a number of loans with Barclays over the years. To make things easier to follow, Ive 
set out some information about those loans below:  
Ref: DRN71208464Start date End date Loan amount (£)
Loan 1 13/09/1996 30/01/1998 unknown
Loan 2 29/01/1998 18/12/1998 1300
Loan 3 10/12/1998 04/11/1999 1400
Loan 4 01/10/1999 13/02/2001 1800
Loan 5 12/02/2001 14/02/2002 2000
Loan 6 06/11/2001 27/11/2002 3000
Loan 7 20/11/2002 26/06/2003 3000
Barclays told us that it didnt sell PPI alongside Loan 1. It said she was sold single premium PPI 
policies alongside Loans  2 to 7. That means she had to borrow extra on top of her loans to pay for the 
PPI. And she also had to pay interest on top of those premiums over the term of the loan. 
In 2018, Barclays agreed that it had mis-sold  PPI to Mrs P and it offered  to pay some compensation.  
On behalf of Mrs Ps estate  and through his representative, Mr P said he wasnt happy with the way 
Barclays had calculated the compensation  and he complained to this service. After our adjudicator 
made contact, Barclays  accepted  that it had made  a mistake in the way it calculated the 
compensation. Thats  because it hadnt treated all of the loans as part of a chain. It offered  to pay 
some more compensation. 
Barclays also recognised that it had made mistakes in the way it had dealt with the complaint.  In 
particular, it said it hadnt recognised the chain of loans and as a consequence, it asked Mr P to 
provide it with information  he had already given. It offered to pay £250 to compensate him for those  
mistakes. 
Our adjudicator considered  the complaint in detail. He thought the further offer Barclays made to 
settle the complaint  was fair. Mr M had also raised some issues about  the tax implications of the 
compensation. Our adjudicator didnt  think that was a matter  we could deal with. 
Mr P didnt agree  with our adjudicators  view. On Mr Ps behalf, Mr M sent several  emails with a lot of 
additional information for me to consider.  In a very brief summary, he said:  
Our adjudicator hadnt  looked  into whether PPI was actually sold alongside  Loan 1;
Barclays hadnt been  clear about how it had calculated the compensation paid to 
Mr P and it hadnt provided a monthly breakdown  of those calculations;
Mr P was finding it hard to claim  the income tax back from HM Revenue and Customs 
because Barclays hadnt given him a single figure showing the tax it had paid from the 
compensation;
Barclays had not provided good customer service to Mr P. 
I havent made reference to everything Mr M has sent to us, but I want to reassure both 
Mr P and Mr M that I have  considered at length everything that was sent to me.  
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
From what Ive seen so far, I dont think Barclays sold PPI alongside Loan 1. I think  Barclays has now 
paid fair compensation  for the PPI that was mis-sold to Mrs P. But Im recommending  that it write to 
Mr P to clearly set out in one document the interest that was paid as compensation, along with the 
total amount of tax deducted.  Ill explain the full reasons for my decision  below.  
Was PPI sold alongside Loan 1? 
Ref: DRN71208465I can see that in Mr Ms email of 28 July 2019, he told us he wasnt happy that our adjudicator  hadnt 
looked at whether PPI was sold alongside the loan that was taken out in September 1996. 
I can see that Mr M has been in correspondence  with us about  this issue and our adjudicator said that 
Mr P could make  a separate complaint about whether PPI was sold alongside 
Loan 1. That would be our usual  process.  But in the particular circumstances  of this case, Ive 
decided to consider the no PPI issue in this provisional  decision. Im satisfied I have  powers to do so. 
I say this because I can see that Barclays dealt with Loan 1 in its final response letter and it has also 
provided some evidence  about that loan. And Mr P is clearly unhappy  with the response.  Im also 
satisfied that the parties will have an opportunity to comment on my proposed decision about  Loan 1 
when they respond to this provisional  decision. 
I can see from the correspondence  that Mr P feels there is a high chance  that PPI was sold 
alongside loan 1. He hasnt provided us with any evidence that PPI was sold and thats not 
surprising given that it was taken out over 20 years ago.  
Barclays no longer has the paperwork for this loan. Again,  thats not surprising given the application 
was made such a long time ago. I wouldnt expect either party to keep paper records for such  a long 
time.  It has provided  us with evidence of an electronic search it undertook. It located evidence of the 
loan that Mrs P had taken  out in 1996. But the records dont show that PPI was sold alongside  it.  
I appreciate that Mr P feels strongly about this part of his complaint. But Im only able to look at 
allegations of PPI mis-selling  (and potentially recommend that redress be paid) where I can be 
satisfied that theres  enough  evidence to show Mrs P was actually sold the PPI cover. So looking at 
the evidence before me, I havent seen anything  from either party  to indicate it was. In the absence of 
any such evidence, I cant say its likely that PPI was sold with Loan 1. However if any evidence 
comes to light at a later date to show Mrs P had PPI with this loan, Barclays  should consider it. 
As things stand, I dont think PPI was sold alongside  Loan 1.  
Did Barclays  calculate  the compensation  fairly? 
For Loans  2 to 7, it is accepted that PPI was mis-sold. So I dont need to look at how Mrs P came to 
buy PPI. The issue for me to consider is whether Barclays  has offered fair compensation for that mis-
sale. 
Ive considered at length the figures Barclays provided  to show how it calculated  the compensation. I 
recognise that Mr M wants to see Barclays  calculations in spreadsheet form.  I can see he says that 
he was given  such a document  in connection with a credit card complaint.  But the complaint  before 
me is about a number of single premium policies where  the PPI was paid for up front. Because of 
that, I wouldnt expect Barclays to use the same method or spreadsheet to calculate compensation  for 
a single  premium policy as for a credit card. Thats because the premium was paid for at the start of 
the loan. 
It was also argued that Barclays should  refund 20% of the cost of the loan as compensation  for mis-
sold PPI. However,  we know how much Mrs P paid for PPI. So where  the exact figures are known, Id 
expect Barclays to use those precise  numbers, rather than an estimate.  
When calculating fair compensation, Id also expect Barclays to put a consumer  in the position  they 
would have been in if they had never  bought PPI. So the extra that was paid (including  interest)  
towards a loan because of PPI must be refunded. Barclays  must  pay 8% simple interest to 
compensate the consumer  for any time they were out of pocket because  of the mis-sold PPI. 
In this case, Mrs Ps loans were refinanced  by further borrowing and some of the cost of the PPI 
policies was carried through to later loans. I can see that some  of the PPI premiums were refunded to 
Mrs P over the years. Barclays has provided  us with Mrs Ps current account statements  and I can 
see the refunds  were  paid directly into that account.  Even though some of the premiums  were 
Ref: DRN71208466refunded, a small amount was still carried forward to the subsequent loans. So Id expect Barclays to 
refund the PPI that was carried  forward  and not refunded. 
Looking at the offer Barclays has made for each loan, I can see it has calculated the compensation as 
follows:
Upon considering the calculations Barclays has now made, Im satisfied that it has now paid fair 
compensation in line with what  this service would  require it to pay. 
 
Tax 
Mr M contended that Mr P was having trouble  reclaiming the tax Barclays had paid to 
HM Revenue and Customs  in respect of the interest set out above.  He said this was because 
Barclays had given him the refund in bits and pieces and so it was difficult  for him to fill out the 
necessary form for the refund.  
I cant  say that Barclays has done anything wrong in deducting tax from the interest that 
Mr P was paid.  We expect businesses  to do so. However,  I can see why calculating the total interest 
and tax would have been more difficult for Mr M and Mr P given that Barclays paid the compensation  
in piecemeal.  
So in response to my decision, Barclays will need to give Mr P a certificate to show how much tax has 
been paid in total.  It will need  to write  to him to set out the total gross interest, the tax that was 
deducted and the net amount of interest that he received. 
I need to make clear  to Mr M and Mr P that tax is only deducted from the interest that was added  to 
the compensation. Its not taken off the whole of the compensation amount. 
Trouble and upset 
Ive noted the comments Mr M made about Barclays  customer  service. Im aware  that Barclays has 
paid £250 in recognition of its failings in that regard. I need to make both Mr M and Mr P aware  that I 
dont have powers to award an additional amount for any trouble and upset caused to an executor of 
an estate. 
Putting things right  
Ive provisionally decided that Barclays will need  to write  to the Estate of Mrs P setting  out the total 
gross amount of interest, the amount of tax deducted and the net amount of interest that was received  
by the Estate. It would be helpful for Barclays to provide that document  without further delay and in Loan 2 
(£)Loan 3 (£) Loan 4 (£) Loan 5 (£) Loan 6 (£) Loan 7 (£)
PPI premium 151.16 184.71 297.35 279.89 474.55 461.11
Interest paid on PPI 18.97 24.51 55.98 23.89 60.22 31.30
Extra premium 
carried forward from 
previous loan0 12.61 22.48 7.73 25.85 19.63
Interest on extra 
premium0 168.55 102.97 136.28 113.82 396.44
8% interest 124.55 240.74 253.49 229.89 261.31 267.94
                                      
Less: 
Refund of PPI 
already paid0 56.04 93.75 139.04 196.65 281.10
Tax 24.91 81.85 71.28 73.23 75.02 132.87
TOTAL REFUND 269.77 493.23 567.24 465.41 664.08 762.45
Ref: DRN71208467response to this provisional decision. A copy of such correspondence should also be sent to this 
service. 
My provisional decision
Subject to any further information received  by the parties, I have provisionally  decided  that there is 
insufficient evidence  to show that Barclays Bank PLC mis-sold PPI to Mrs P alongside Loan 1. Im 
provisionally satisfied that Barclays Bank  PLC has now fairly calculated  and paid the compensation  
that it owed for mis-selling PPI to Mrs P. However,  it must write  to the Estate of Mrs P setting out the 
total gross amount of interest that was paid along  with the amount  of tax deducted and the net 
amount of interest that was paid in compensation  for mis-sold PPI. 
I now invite  all parties to submit any further evidence or comments  they wish me to consider by 22 
September 2019 after which I will issue a final decision.
Nicola Bowes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN71208468Copy of my second provisional  decision
complaint
Mr P brought  this complaint on behalf of the Estate  of Mrs P. He is represented  by Mr M.  As I said in 
my first provisional decision, I am very sorry to hear that Mr P is currently very unwell. 
The complaint is about the amount of compensation that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) paid to 
the Estate of Mrs P in respect  of mis-sold  payment protection insurance (PPI). 
background
On 22 August 2019, I issued a provisional  decision in this matter  and I asked the parties to provide 
me with any further evidence or comments they wanted me to consider.  On behalf of Mr P, Mr M sent 
quite a lot of additional information for me to look at. He also complained  that Barclays had not 
refunded the commission that Mrs P had paid alongside her PPI premiums.
Barclays responded to provide us with some figures I had asked it to send to Mrs Ps Estate.  It is 
unfortunate that Barclays did not send that information directly as I had requested.  I  have asked our 
adjudicator to provide  this information to Mr P. 
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments at some length to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. But at this stage, I dont  think  it will change my 
overall decision.  
Ill explain more about this below. I would like to reassure Mr M and Mr P that although I have not 
made reference to all of the points they made, I have considered their further comments in their 
entirety. 
The issues in the complaint are as set out in my provisional decision and Ive looked at them again as 
set out below.   
Was PPI sold alongside Loan 1?
As set out below in my provisional decision, I said that the evidence Id seen  didnt suggest  that a PPI 
policy had been sold alongside Loan  1. 
In the responses on behalf of Mr P, Mr M said that he thought it was highly  likely  that PPI was sold 
alongside Loan 1 and he thought the monthly payments  Mrs P made  showed she had PPI. 
I appreciate that Mr P feels strongly that PPI was probably attached to Loan 1. However, I cant 
reasonably say that the loan repayment is indicative of a PPI policy. As I set out in my initial 
provisional decision,  the evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest PPI was sold alongside Loan 1. 
Did Barclays  calculate  the compensation  fairly?
I can see that through Mr M, Mr P has reiterated at length that the PPI was added  to Loans 2 to 7 up 
front.  I can see from his response that he didnt think  all of the interest (or APR as Mr M referred to 
it) had ben refunded. Mr M asked me to tell Barclays to refund all of the PPI that Mrs P had paid to the 
underwriters of the policy as well. 
I have considered the various articles that were  sent to me. I want  to reassure 
Mr M and Mr P that I am aware that the PPI was added to Loans 2 to 7 up front and indeed,  I referred  
to that fact in my first provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN71208469Mr M has queried why he was not sent copies of the loan agreements. We do not have copies of the 
loan agreements on file. We understand that Barclays no longer has these documents. That is not 
surprising given the policies  were sold over 15 years ago.  Barclays doesnt have to keep records 
indefinitely. We wouldnt expect either party to keep such information  for that length of time.  
However, I have seen  the loan account statements.  From  that, Ive seen the amount of interest that 
was charged in total, alongside the repayments that Mrs P made. As I have explained in my first 
provisional decision,  I accept that the PPI was added up front and looking at the calculations Barclays 
has sent, I am satisfied  that all of the interest Mrs P paid in respect of the PPI policies for Loans 2 to 7 
has been refunded.
In his most recent correspondence, Mr M has argued that Barclays only paid comparative  redress. By 
that, he believes  that Barclays has refunded only £9 for every £100  borrowed in Mrs Ps case. 
However, comparative  redress  would be a type of compensation paid where  the financial business  
thought that Mrs P would have taken out a cheaper PPI policy elsewhere. From  the evidence I have 
seen, Barclays has not offered comparative redress in this case. To be absolutely clear, Barclays has 
worked out and refunded all of the PPI premiums that Mrs P paid, along  with the associated  interest.  
Barclays upheld the original  complaint  so it has agreed the whole  of the PPI was mis-sold  and it has 
refunded all the premiums that were  paid taking into account the actual data.
Commission 
In his further representations, Mr M said that I should direct Barclays to refund all of the commission 
that Mrs P paid in respect  of her PPI. But, the commission has already been paid back. 
It may help if I explain  that the Financial Conduct Authority  (FCA) provided guidance  and rules  on how 
businesses should approach compensation for PPI when a consumer  complains about the sale of 
PPI. It referred to a two-step approach. 
The first was that a business should look to see whether a policy was mis-sold and whether  the 
consumer would not otherwise have bought the policy  they did. And if the policy  wasnt mis-sold, the 
second step was to look to see whether the level of undisclosed commission (and profit  share) 
received by the business created an unfair  relationship  between the consumer and the business.
The rules say that a business doesnt need to consider the commission (and profit share) charged if it 
upheld the consumers complaint that PPI had been mis-sold (step  1). In other words, if a business  
finds a consumer wouldnt have bought the PPI they did and offers to put things right on that basis,  it 
doesnt need  to go on to look at any complaint about commission (step  2).
So here, Im satisfied that a complaint was made PPI that was mis-sold to Mrs P, which was upheld. 
When Barclays offered compensation to settle this complaint,  it refunded everything Mrs P had paid 
towards PPI, and importantly this included  all the commission and profit share it received.  So to be 
clear, the commission that Mrs P paid has already been refunded.  
As mis-sale  complaint had already been upheld with full compensation  being  paid, including all the 
commission and profit share, Barclays didnt have to go on to consider whether the relationship was 
unfair. 
Ive thought about whether theres anything about this particular complaint and circumstances that 
means Barclays should do something different and I dont think there is. In respect of commission, 
Barclays has done what the rules it must  follow tell it to do. So as things  stand, I wont be telling 
Barclays to do anything more about this part of the complaint. 
Ref: DRN712084610Other matters raised 
I can see that in the response to my first provisional decision, on behalf of Mr P, Mr M raised several 
other issues. Such matters  included queries about  Mrs Ps credit card account and whether Barclays 
had been irresponsible in its lending practices. 
The scope of this complaint is about the PPI policies that were  sold alongside  Mrs Ps loans. I hope 
that Mr P and Mr M will understand that when Im dealing with his PPI complaint,  I cannot  look at 
matters that are outside  that scope. 
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information received  by the parties, I have provisionally  decided  that there is 
insufficient evidence  to show that PPI was sold to Mrs P alongside Loan 1. Im provisionally satisfied 
that Barclays Bank PLC has now fairly calculated and paid the compensation  that it owed for mis-
selling PPI to Mrs P on Loans 2 to 7.  
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7120846