K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about Aviva Insurance Limiteds handling  of his car insurance policy.
background
Mr C has had car insurance with Aviva  for many  years. He had a certain type of policy  for a 
number of years. But, in December 2018, Aviva  told him that they were  no longer offering 
that type of policy  so hed need a new policy when  his policy  ended  in 28 February 2019.
Aviva told Mr C that they could offer him a different type of policy. The new policy, which 
Mr C accepted, cost substantially more than his old policy.  Mr C complained. But Aviva  didnt 
uphold his complaint. They said that the discounts  hed received for his old policy  didn't 
apply to his new policy which  was a completely new product and that they had calculated the 
premium correctly.
Mr C didn't think that was fair and brought his complaint to us. One of our adjudicators 
looked into the complaint. She felt that Aviva  hadnt done anything  wrong.  As Mr C didnt 
agree with our adjudicator, the complaint has been passed to me to decide
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be disappointing for 
Mr C, but Im not going to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
In his complaint,  Mr C has made a number of detailed points and Ive considered  all those  
carefully. But, in this decision,  I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is 
to decide if Aviva have  dealt with Mr C in a fair and reasonable way.
Insurance companies do from time to time withdraw  certain products that they have offered 
to policyholders before. And as insurance  policy contracts tend to be for periods  of 
12 months, Aviva waited until Mr Cs last policy came to an end in February 2019 before 
doing so for him. But they did tell him several months in advance  that they could no longer  
offer him that policy. Aviva offered him a new policy, which was a separate  product 
altogether to the old policy,  therefore priced  differently. Mr C accepted that new policy, but 
he had the option of going to another insurer if he wanted to.
The premium for the new policy was significantly  higher.  Mr C believes the increase was 
unfair and unjustified. It might help if I explain that we're  not the industry regulator. That 
means it's not my role to tell an insurer how much they can charge for their policies. And our 
service generally takes the view that, providing they treat people  fairly - that is they treat 
customers with similar circumstances  in the same way - insurers  are entitled to charge what  
they feel they need to in order to cover  a risk.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  In doing so insurers  take
into consideration many different factors. And its not down to me to tell insurers what factors
they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go about those assessments.
Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk and the extent of those.
Thats essentially a matter  of commercial judgement, balancing  risk against  the need  to
compete with other policies on offer, and not something we would usually think  its fair to
Ref: DRN71467602interfere with.
I can understand why Mr C thinks it was unfair for Aviva  to charge a higher premium.
But each insurer will have  their own methods of calculating risk. As insurance  is essentially 
an assessment of risk, I dont think theres anything wrong with insurers deciding they no 
longer wish to offer products  they don't consider profitable.  Similarly, I don't think its 
unreasonable for insurers to consider whether or not certain  individuals fall into higher risk 
groupings. And to charge  higher premiums  for those  customers as a higher  risk usually 
means a higher premium. So I cant say Mr C has been singled out or treated differently to 
others in similar  circumstances. As different insurers rate risks differently, its possible that 
some other insurers might  charge Mr C less and others might charge him more.
Aviva provided me with information  to show how Mr Cs 2019  premium was calculated.  That 
information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr C. But having looked  at it 
carefully, Im satisfied that Aviva treated Mr C in the same way as they would other 
policyholders in similar circumstances.  So I think they calculated  his premium  reasonably.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 August 2019. 
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7146760