K820x#14complaint
In summary  Miss Fs complaint is about  the information provided to her by 
American Express Services Europe Limited  (AESEL). She believes this was incorrect and 
resulted in her missing  out on a new member  card offer.
background
Miss F says she spoke to a customer service representative of AESEL in February 2018. 
She says that she was told in that conversation that the restriction on the new member card 
welcome bonus timeframe, was about to be changed. And she was told that she would lose 
her companion voucher if she cancelled her card.
Miss F complained to AESEL in April 2019  when  she became aware  that the information she 
had previously been given in 2018  was incorrect. The restriction on a new member card 
application was that it could only be applied for by someone who had not held any AESEL  
product for 6 months. She said she became aware that this only changed in March 2019. 
She believed  that if she hadnt been given incorrect information in 2018, she could have 
cancelled her card and reapplied sooner and earnt  another  new member  welcome  bonus.  
AESEL upheld Miss Fs complaint in part. It said there was no evidence of any telephone 
contact from Miss F in February 2018. But it did accept that Miss F had been misinformed 
about whether  she could  use a companion voucher  if she cancelled her card when she 
spoke to its customer service representative in April 2019. A credit of £25 was given to her 
as a gesture of goodwill.  
Miss Fs complaint was looked  into by one of our investigators. She explained why she 
wasnt upholding Miss Fs complaint. Miss F didnt  agree so the case has been passed to me 
for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold Miss Fs complaint. Ill explain why. 
Miss F has said that she was given  incorrect information when she spoke to AESEL  in 
February 2018. And I do understand and accept that this is her honest  recollection of what  
she was told at that time. But in addition to what Miss F has said, I need  to consider all of the 
other available evidence. 
AESEL has told us that it doesnt  have a record of Miss F contacting it in February 2018. 
Weve asked it to provide  evidence to support this. It has provided  us with a screenshot  of its 
internal records which  dont show any record of any contact with Miss F in February  2018.  
And having checked its phone records, it hasnt been able to locate  a telephone call with 
Miss F from February  2018.
AESEL has said that the restriction on the definition of a new customer only changed in 
March 2019. I think  its very unlikely  that a customer service representative would have been 
told about a change that was due to take place in 13 months time. So taking all of this into 
account, I simply dont have enough evidence  to safely decide its more  likely than not that 
Ref: DRN79274332Miss F spoke with AESEL  in February 2018 and was given the information she says she 
was. 
AESEL has credited Miss Fs account  in the sum of £25 for the incorrect  information  that 
was provided to her when  she contacted  it in April 2019. Ive not seen anything  which  
suggests this had a significant impact on Miss F and I think that sum is sufficient to 
compensate her for being  given  incorrect information when she contacted AESEL. So for the 
reasons Ive set out above I dont  think it needs  to do any more. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  I dont  uphold Miss Fs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 January 2020.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7927433