K820x#14complaint
Ms W is unhappy  that a withdrawal of an on overpayment on her mortgage was permitted by 
Nationwide Building  Society without her consent.
background
Ms W has a mortgage with Nationwide. The mortgage account had been  overpaid. The 
mortgage product  allowed any overpayment to be borrowed back.
Nationwide received a written  request  to borrow back more than £4000. The written request  
was signed. But Ms W says she didnt sign the request and her signature was forged. 
Nationwide processed  the request as though a valid request  had been  received and the sum 
requested was sent to the account from which the monthly mortgage payments came.
Nationwide didnt think it had done anything wrong. It accepted that its processes  had now 
changed but said this was to introduce  affordability  checks.
The investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld  as she didnt think Nationwide 
had done anything wrong. She looked at the withdrawal request made and compared the 
signature on the request with a genuine one from a separate mortgage document.  She didnt 
think the signatures were  different in a way that would  raise concerns about its legitimacy. 
She didnt  think the change  in Nationwides procedures had to do with lack of security.
Ms W disagrees. She says she was told by Nationwide that it changed  its security  
procedures due to affordability and the fact that they had had security issues  in the past as 
similar things  had happened. She doesnt believe the same thing could happen now and she 
doesnt think the forged signature looks the same as the signature  on the original mortgage 
papers. She points  out that the money  wasnt sent to an account in her name  despite  the 
fact that the letter accompanying  the withdrawal request suggests it was.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can understand Ms Ws frustration at what has happened here. But I dont agree that 
Nationwide is as at fault. It followed what I find it believed to be a genuine  request. It 
returned an overpayment  which  it was permitted to do under the terms of the account. And it 
sent the money to the account from which the monthly  mortgage  payments came.
I accept that if Nationwides current processes had been in placed that it might have 
detected a fraud. But that doesnt make the process that Nationwide  followed prior to the 
new processes wrong.
I agree  with Ms W that there  are differences between the two signatures  one on the 
original mortgage  papers  and one on the withdrawal request. But they arent such that the 
second signature looks to be clearly  forged.  I think Nationwide honestly believed  Ms W had 
signed both papers.
Ref: DRN70428372I also agree  that the withdrawal request says the money should be sent to an account which 
was in Ms Ws name and that Ms W has told us the account wasnt in fact in her name. But 
the account was the account  from which the monthly  mortgage  payments were received and 
that is what Nationwides processes required it to check.
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Nicola Wood 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7042837