K821x#15complaint
Mr M has complained about Cowley & Miller Independent Financial Service  Limiteds advice 
to move his stakeholder pension to a Self-Invested  Personal Pension (SIPP), and to invest in 
an unregulated  investment.
background
In 2012, Mr M received  advice from Cowley & Miller about his pension.  The pension  
planning report Cowley & Miller completed at the time recorded  that:
Mr M was 48 years  old and married
He was a managing  director, earning  just over £1,500 per month
He had reasonable knowledge of investments as he already had an existing pension 
plan, which at that time was worth £41,904
He had net assets totalling £470,000 and the investment into carbon credits  
represented 10% of Mr Ms net wealth
His main needs and priorities were to review his existing pension  arrangement  and to 
discuss investing in carbon credits 
His attitude to risk was described as Aggressive
He had a history of equity investments
Cowley & Miller recommended that Mr M switch  his stakeholder pension to a SIPP  and 
invest the full amount  transferred in carbon credits.  The SIPP and investment were 
established but the investment subsequently  became illiquid.
Mr M complained to Cowley & Miller about the advice received but it didnt provide a full 
response to his complaint. So the matter  was referred to our service  for review.  
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint and thought  that Mr M had been given 
unsuitable advice  by Cowley & Miller. She didnt consider  the SIPP or the investment was 
suitable for Mr M. It was the adjudicators view that Mr M wasnt an aggressive investor. He 
didnt have the capacity for loss on what was his only pension  provision and there was no 
evidence that he had any investment experience. 
The adjudicator also said that as carbon credits  were unregulated they shouldnt have been 
promoted to Mr M as he was a retail client. And he didnt  fall under any of the exemptions 
that allowed  the promotion of unregulated  products. As Cowley  & Miller knew  about the 
investment strategy  Mr M intended to take, it should  have investigated this further before 
making the recommendation. 
Mr M accepted the adjudicators opinion. 
Cowley & Miller didnt agree the complaint  should  succeed. It said that Mr M signed  to 
confirm he understood  the risks associated with investing in carbon credits. And it said he 
was adamant  about transferring his pension and making the investment. Cowley  and Miller 
doesnt understand how it can be held responsible  when Mr M signed a declaration 
confirming he still wished  to proceed despite knowing the risks. 
Ref: DRN79392482As the matter remains outstanding, its been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the evidence  and arguments  in order to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding the 
complaint. Ive explained why below. 
Mr M had already been approached about investing  in carbon credits prior to meeting 
Cowley & Miller. However, advice needed to be provided for Mr M to switch  plans  in order to 
facilitate the carbon credits investment; it wasnt possible to place the investment under his 
stakeholder plan. 
The introducing business wasnt regulated and couldnt provide the pension advice in order  
for the investment to proceed. So its clear  that it was Cowley & Millers involvement  which  
allowed the investment  to go ahead.  
Cowley & Millers advice shouldve taken  into account Mr Ms risk profile  and capacity for 
loss, as well as the proposed underlying investment.  It wasn't open to Cowley  & Miller to 
seek to limit its advice to the SIPP wrapper and not consider the investments. Where a 
consumer seeks advice  on a pension transfer,  consideration has to be given to the suitability 
of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper (here the SIPP) and the expected underlying  
investment. 
This is set out in the FCA handbook under COBS 9.2 Assessing suitability. Essentially 
these rules require  the business to obtain the information necessary about its client to 
have a reasonable basis for believing its recommendation meets  his investment 
objectives, that the client is able to bear any related  investment risks and that he had 
the necessary experience  and knowledge to understand  those risks.
These rules  required Cowley & Miller  to have an understanding of Mr Ms objectives and the 
risks related  to those  objectives. It couldnt  ignore Mr Ms intention  of investing in carbon 
credits. 
Carbon credits were  unregulated and highly  speculative. They didnt benefit from the normal  
investor protections such as the Financial  Services Compensation Scheme. Nor did they 
have a ready resale market. As such investing in carbon  credits  wasnt appropriate for a 
normal retail investor like Mr M. 
If Cowley & Miller didnt consider this to be suitable in Mr Ms circumstances, it 
shouldve said so  rather than presuming that the transfer of the stakeholder pension 
was necessary to facilitate the investment. 
Cowley & Miller assessed Mr M as having an aggressive attitude to risk, which was the 
highest of the five risk categories. But it wasnt appropriate to categorise him as such a high 
risk investor. The small pension that was transferred appears to have represented his entire 
pension savings. And other than his home and business, he had no other  investments or 
assets. Cowley & Miller noted that Mr M had experience of equity  investments. But from 
what Ive seen, other than his pension, Mr M didnt appear to have any other investment 
experience. And I think its unlikely  that Mr Ms existing stakeholder  pension  wouldve given 
him requisite knowledge to adequately understand the risks associated  with investing in 
Ref: DRN79392483unregulated investments. Although Mr M may have wanted to achieve growth on his pension 
fund, there  was no need for him to take such a high risk or to risk losing his pension  entirely.
I appreciate that Cowley & Miller has said that Mr M signed to say he understood  the risks 
involved. And that hed already made  a decision to invest in Carbon Credits using his 
pension before its involvement.  But theres no evidence that Mr M was an insistent client  or 
that Cowley & Miller followed  the necessary steps to treat him as such. So, as explained 
above, this didnt absolve it from providing suitable  advice; it had a duty to consider the 
suitability of the intended investment in order  to consider the overall suitability of the pension 
transfer. 
Its evident that Cowley & Miller had an understanding of the intended investment. It 
explained on the suitability letter that Mr M could invest a maximum of 10% of his net worth 
in unregulated investments. As it included Mr Ms house and business, Cowley & Miller 
deemed Mr Ms net worth to be £470,000.  But the house and business were  jointly  owned  
with his wife so this figure wasnt accurate. And I think only Mr Ms pensions  savings 
shouldve been  used when determining what percentage,  if any, shouldve  been invested in 
unregulated investments. 
In July 2010, the then regulator, the FSA,  issued  a report  Unregulated Collective 
Investment Schemes: Good and poor practice. This gives as an example of
good practice: The firm set up a maximum portfolio proportion  for UCIS investments within 
their customers portfolio and monitored it on on-going basis.  This level was between 3% 
and 5% and was backed-up by the Firms robust  and on-going due diligence  and 
monitoring.  
The same report gave  as an example  of poor practice: The firm had a strategy to put all of 
its customers and all their money into one UCIS. By advising Mr M to invest all his pensions 
savings in one unregulated investment, I think Cowley & Miller  gave poor advice to Mr M. 
And I think its likely  that had Cowley & Miller explained that carbon credits werent a suitable  
investment for him, then he wouldve gone ahead with the investment at all. And in the event 
that hed insisted, then Cowley & Miller shouldve treated  him as an insistent client.  
Mr M relied  on Cowley & Millers advice and I dont think he shouldve been  advised to 
transfer his pension, knowing the funds  would be invested in carbon credits.  The transfer to 
the SIPP was only necessary to facilitate the investment in carbon credits and due to Mr Ms 
limited fund size, and the increased charges involved, I dont think the SIPP  was suitable. 
It seems  from the sales paperwork that Mr M was unhappy with the investment returns  on 
the stakeholder  plan.  So, while I think its likely he wouldnt  have  transferred his stakeholder  
plan to the SIPP if hed been  given suitable advice,  its not clear  how he wouldve invested 
his plan going forward. Im also mindful that it may be difficult for the former pension  provider  
to now calculate  a nominal value, several years after the plan was transferred. So instead  of 
using a notional  value, I direct Cowley & Miller to calculate Mr Ms loss as set out below.
Fair compensation
My aim is that Mr M should be put as closely as possible into the position  he would probably 
now be in if he had been given suitable advice.
I take the view that Mr M would have invested differently. Its not possible to say precisely 
what he would have  done differently. But Im satisfied that what Ive set out below is fair and 
Ref: DRN79392484reasonable given Mr M's circumstances and objectives when  he invested. 
What should Cowley & Miller do?
To compensate Mr M fairly, Cowley & Miller must:
Compare the performance of Mr M's investment with that of the benchmark shown 
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Cowley & Miller should add interest  as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Cowley & Miller should pay into Mr M's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Cowley & Miller is unable to pay the total amount  into Mr M's pension  plan, it should 
pay that amount direct  to him. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Mr M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at his selected  retirement  age. 
For example, if Mr M is likely to be a basic rate taxpayer at the selected retirement 
age, the reduction  would equal the current basic rate of tax. However, if Mr M would 
have been able to take a tax free lump sum, the reduction should be applied to 75% 
of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Cowley  & Miller deducts  income  tax from 
the interest it should tell Mr M how much has been taken off. Cowley  & Miller should give Mr 
M a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue  
& Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional 
interest
SIPP still existsfor half the 
investment:  
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return  Index;  
for the other 
half: average  
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per 
year from date 
of decision to 
date of 
settlement (if 
compensation 
is not paid 
within  28 days  
of the business 
being notified 
of acceptance)
Ref: DRN79392485Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Cowley  & Miller should take ownership of 
the illiquid investment by paying a commercial value acceptable to the pension provider. 
This amount should be deducted from the compensation  and the balance  paid as I set out 
above.
If Cowley & Miller is unable to purchase  the investment, the actual value should be assumed 
to be nil for the purpose of calculation. Cowley & Miller may require that Mr M provides an 
undertaking to pay Cowley  & Miller any amount he may receive  from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Cowley & Miller will need to meet any costs  in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  Cowley & 
Miller should  use the monthly average rate for one-year fixed-rate bonds as published by the 
Bank of England.  The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous month.  
Those rates should be applied to the investment on an annually compounded basis. 
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
Mr M wanted  capital growth  with a small risk to his capital.
The average rate for the fixed  rate bonds  would be a fair measure  for someone who 
wanted to achieve  a reasonable  return  without  risk to his capital. 
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. Its a fair 
measure for someone who was prepared to take some  risk to get a higher return. 
I consider that Mr M's risk profile was in between, in the sense that he was prepared to 
take a small level of risk to attain his investment objectives. So, the 50/50 combination 
would reasonably put Mr M into that position. It does not mean  that Mr M would have  
invested 50% of his money in a fixed rate bond  and 50% in some  kind of index tracker 
investment. Rather, I consider this a reasonable compromise that broadly reflects the 
sort of return Mr M could have obtained from investments suited to his objective and 
risk attitude.
Ref: DRN79392486SIPP fees
The SIPP only exists because of the carbon credits investment. In order for the SIPP  to be 
closed and further SIPP fees prevented, this investment needs to be removed. But if
Cowley & Miller cant buy it Mr M is faced with future  SIPP  fees. I think it is fair to assume 
five years of future SIPP fees. So, if Cowley & Miller  cant  buy the investment, it should pay 
an amount equal  to five years of SIPP fees based on the current  tariff. This is in
addition to the compensation calculated using a nil value for the investment.
My final decision  
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Cowley & Miller  Independent Financial Services  
Limited should pay the amount calculated  as set out above.
Cowley & Miller Independent Financial Services Limited should  provide details of its 
calculation to Mr M in a clear, simple  format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M either to 
accept or reject my decision  before  2 August  2020.
Lorna Goulding
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7939248