K820x#14Complaint
Mr H complains that The Co-operative Bank  plc recorded a Credit Industry Fraud Avoidance 
System (CIFAS)  marker  against his name. CIFAS  is one of the UKs fraud prevention  
agencies.
Background
In July 2018, Mr H applied online for a Co-operative current  account. His application was 
declined and the bank recorded a CIFAS  marker against his name.  
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint should be upheld. She said the bank 
wasnt satisfied with the information recorded against other names Mr H is known by. And 
that Mr H hadnt made the bank aware  of any alias names.
Mr H didnt agree saying, in summary, that:
He doesnt have  any previous  names.
His credit file doesnt show any aliases.
Another bank has removed the CIFAS marker  it applied.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
CIFASs standards  for recording a marker  are very high. But, after careful consideration, 
I think The Co-operative had enough information  for a marker to be placed against  Mr Hs 
name. Let me explain  why.
As part of its account application checks, The Co-operative noted that Mr H had two CIFAS 
markers recorded against his name.  When it investigated this further, it told us that it found 
there was adverse credit information in various other names  used by Mr H. And Mr H didnt 
tell The Co-operative that he used other names, even though  this was a specific question 
during the online application process.
Mr H told us that he doesnt use other names, now or in the past.  And I appreciate its 
frustrating for him that we cant share with him the detail of what The Co-operative  has 
provided. But Im satisfied from the information  Ive seen that there was adverse credit 
information recorded against several  names which  appear, in all likelihood,  to be one and 
the same  individual as Mr H. On that basis, I think its reasonable that the Co-operative 
acted on this information in the way it did.
Ive taken into account what Mr H says about a business that misspelled his name and the 
fact that his name is very similar to an individual who would appear to have a criminal 
record. But neither  of these facts  contributed  to the Co-operatives decision to record  the 
CIFAS marker.
Ref: DRN72837642I want to reassure Mr H that Ive taken into account his other complaints which he referred to 
us. And, in particular, that fact that one of the banks that had placed a CIFAS marker  has 
now removed it. But this doesnt make a difference  to my conclusion. The Co-operative 
would still have seen  information showing Mr H had adverse credit information in his other 
names even if one of the CIFAS markers hadnt been recorded.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 April 2020
Elizabeth Dawes
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7283764