K820x#14complaint
Mrs H complains that Lloyds Bank  Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a mortgage  payment protection  
insurance (MPPI) policy.
background
Mrs H bought a regular premium MPPI policy in March 1997  at the same time as taking  out a 
mortgage. The mortgage and policy ended in September 2002.
Mrs H says Lloyds mis-sold the MPPI policy. She says she was not given the choice to have 
MPPI and it was added  without her permission. She says the costs were hidden  within  the 
mortgage repayments.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Hs complaint.  As Mrs H doesnt agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive looked at all of the information provided by both parties and decided not to uphold         
Mrs Hs complaint because of the following  reasons:
Lloyds has been unable to provide much of the sales  documentation  that was used at 
the time of sale. There is little information available and so I cant be sure how the 
policy was presented by Lloyds to Mrs H. Ive not been able to see most of the 
original sales documentation  (such as an application form or agreement).  So its 
been difficult for me to consider whether Mrs H was given a choice or not as to 
whether she should have  the MPPI policy (or whether it was added automatically).
But Im not aware of any known issues with the way Lloyds sold these policies 
around this time. And due to the amount of years  that have passed since  the sale, I 
have not been  able to obtain  a detailed  recollection  of the sale either. This though is 
understandable as many  years have passed since the meeting took place. So with 
this in mind, I cannot fairly conclude on this occasion that Mrs H wasnt  given a 
choice. I just havent seen enough to make that conclusion. 
Moving on, I think its more likely Lloyds recommended the MPPI to Mrs H and so it 
had to ensure  during the sale that the policy was suitable for Mrs Hs needs. 
After reviewing the very limited information, it doesnt look as if the MPPI policy  was 
unsuitable for Mrs H based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs H 
says she could  have  relied on 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay along  with 
very good savings.  But the benefit would have  been of use to Mrs H during a difficult 
time in addition to these benefits.  I think, on balance, Mrs H had a need for this cover 
for any extended period of unemployment  or sickness.  I also couldnt find any other 
Ref: DRN75692712reason such as a significant or limiting  term that would make the policy  unsuitable for 
her either.
Lloyds has provided some information about  the costs  relating to the MPPI policy  that 
Mrs H took out but even  though it has provided information detailing  the cover and 
how much  it cost,  I cannot be sure that these costs were  disclosed to Mrs H in a clear  
and fair way at the time of sale. That said, even if they were  disclosed clearly I dont 
think Mrs H would have done anything different and decided against having  the 
policy for the reasons that I have already given for the policy being suitable.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But its 
unlikely Mrs H wouldve been affected by any of these.
In conclusion I do not uphold Mrs Hs complaint. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to accept 
or reject my decision before 25 April 2019 .
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7569271