K820x#14complaint
Miss H is unhappy with the advice process  she went through with Vision Independent
Financial Planning Ltd and the advice  she received.  She ended up taking out a different 
annuity to that recommended and does  not think that she should  have to pay for the advice 
she received.
background
In 2017, Miss H approached Vision  for advice on taking benefits from her Self-Invested
Pension Plan (SIPP).
Miss H has provided us with copies  of notes that she said she prepared prior to and during 
her meetings  with Vision. The notes denoted  as having been  prepared for Miss Hs initial 
meeting with Vision set out various available options  including:
Income drawdown
Annuity  escalating  or level or a mix of the two
Investing part of the fund and purchasing  an annuity with the remaining fund.
The notes from the meetings  also described a number of the potential  options; including  the 
difference between  the income  available  from a level annuity and that available  from an 
escalating annuity.
On 18 July 2017  Miss H signed a fee agreement indicating that she wanted to pay for the 
advice via the product provider.
The agreement indicated that the Investment Service  level 4 had been chosen,  this was 
described as:
This is a transactional service level, offering no ongoing contact service for clients 
who simply wish to make a specific financial  arrangement without the benefit  of 
ongoing advice  or support.
Financial planning  or execution  only service.
Limited telephone support from the administration staff.
Access to our online portfolio investment service (if applicable  to the 
recommended investments).
Periodic client magazine  will be made available.
This transactional service  level will be the default service level for clients  where  no 
ongoing reviews  are deemed  necessary.
The suitability report  dated 19 July 2017  recommended that Miss H take the maximum
25% Tax Free Cash (TFC) and use the rest to purchase an annuity  escalating at 3% 
(starting at £10,592.76).
Miss Hs needs and objectives  were described as:
In your own words you have stated  that your current needs and objectives  are:
Certainty for regular  income
You do not want to worry about it in the future
Ref: DRN77862052Want it sorting now
Wants to eliminate all risk
Wants to leave nothing to chance
In discussing possible investment solutions we have agreed you would like any proposed 
investment solution  to offer the following features:
Your preference is for guaranteed income which will not drop
You would  feel comfortable  protecting the income against  inflation by building in 
an escalation of 3%
After setting out Visions recommendations  and its reasons for making them,  the report goes 
on to describe the advantages and disadvantages of the product, as follows:
Advantages
This recommendation  will meet your agreed objectives:
Guaranteed income for life
Escalating to provide  some protection against  inflation
Income will not drop
Disadvantages
Should your health deteriorate in the future you may qualify for further 
enhancements, which would  not be available as you are taking an annuity now.
If the funds are not received by [name  of annuity  provider] before the quote 
guarantee expires, you may get a lower annuity rate to that quoted.
If future  inflation averages more than 3%, the real value of your income  will be lower 
than in todays  [sic] terms.
By accepting an annuity  with a 3% increase, it will take until age 88 for you to have 
received more income in total than had you taken  a level income.
It will be age 75 before the 3% escalating  annuity  is paying  more per annum  than the 
level option.
A level annuity could  pay you £15,557.88 per annum.
The report  then describes the various  other options  for drawing  an income that were  
considered and the reasons for discounting  these.
In respect of charges the report said:
As agreed our professional fee for providing  the advice and implementation of the 
annuity is £2,000. This equates to 0.71% of the purchase price.

You can choose to pay the above  fees directly or for the fee to be paid by deduction 
from the recommended product or service by adding  it to their charges. In this 
instance, you have  chosen to pay the fees adding  it to the charges applied by [name  
of annuity provider]. Any charges will be deducted after any tax-free cash has been 
calculated and taken  so as not to reduce the amount payable to you.
Ref: DRN77862053On 9 August  2017, Vision issued an addendum with a revised recommendation; this 
explained that having reviewed the report Miss H decided she would prefer a level annuity. 
This was noted as being because of the time it would take for an escalating  annuity to pay 
out the same amount as a level annuity.  It also confirmed that Miss H had elected to pay the 
advice fee directly rather than via the product provider.
Once the applications had been  submitted Miss H primarily liaised directly  with the annuity 
provider. She also requested that the provider liaise directly with her. Initially  this was to 
chase the transfer  of the funds from her SIPP, and then she also asked for a number of 
revised quotations  and, ultimately, opted  to take reduced tax free cash of 20% and an 
increased annuity of £16,342.32  per year.
Miss H objected to paying Visions  fee on the basis that she had concerns about  the 
suitability of the advice and the level of service provided. She subsequently raised a 
complaint. Vision  did not uphold the complaint;  it felt that the fee (and the service  to be 
provided for that fee) had been clearly  communicated  and that the service provided  was in 
line what had been agreed.
Unhappy with its response Miss H referred  her complaint to this service.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint.  She didnt think  it should  be upheld.  Miss H 
disagreed, in summary, she said:
No advice was given on the TFC element, it was not until she undertook  her own 
research that she realised it could be reduced  and once she was aware of this she 
looked into the impact  this would have on the benefits available. Ultimately, she 
opted to take 20% TFC and a higher income.
Vision recommended that she invest all of her TFC into one fund along with her ISA  
this was not suitable.
Her objectives were  not as set out in our view or in the suitability report. Whilst ideally 
she did want a guaranteed income that offered  some protection  against inflation  
and knew that an escalating annuity  would  provide  this  she was already aware that 
these were poor value  for money.
She had not wanted to have a financial  review or a suitability report as these were a 
waste of time. She had already  done her research and knew  that her wish list would 
lead to an escalating  annuity being  recommended but she didnt  want  one.
What she wanted  and asked Vision  to provide on a number of occasions was 
information about escalating and level annuities (or any other suitable products) and 
for it to explain the information to her.
The information contained in the report was general and only included  a little 
information about the pros and cons of the product recommended.
She was concerned about the information in respect of how long it would take for the 
escalating annuity to pay out as much as a level annuity  and how much longer it 
would take for the former  to have paid out more than a level annuity.
She asked Vision for an explanation of this but it failed  to give her one, so she spent 
the following  weeks researching the issue  doing  the work  she was paying  Vision  to 
do.
The information provided about  the fees was misleading; she had understood that 
this would be paid by the provider.
There were  a number of errors in the report.
Because agreement  could  not be reached, the case was passed to me for review.
Ref: DRN77862054I sent my provisional decision to Miss H and Vision  on 24 June 2019, explaining why I didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. I said that I would  consider anything either party  
wanted to add as long as I received it by 24 July 2019. Neither  party made any substantive 
new submissions. So I am not inclined to depart from my findings  as set out in my 
provisional decision and I remain  of the view that Miss H should  pay Visions fees. I have 
reiterated my findings below. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The parties to this complaint have provided detailed submissions to support their position  
and I am grateful  to them for taking the time to do so. I have considered these submissions  
in their entirety. However,  I trust that they will not take the fact that my decision focuses on 
what I consider to be the central issues as a discourtesy. The purpose of this decision is not 
to address every point  raised in detail, but to set out my findings and reasons for reaching 
them.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I have  taken  into account relevant law and 
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and codes of practice; and what  I consider to have 
been good industry practice at the time.
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory (as some of it is here),
I reach  my decision on the balance  of probabilities - in other words, what I consider is most 
likely to have happened in the light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
It is clear that the relationship between Miss H and her adviser broke  down and that she 
feels strongly that she has not been provided with the service  she was due  and, as a result  
 she believes she should not have to pay Visions fees. It is my role to fairly and reasonably 
decide if the business has done anything wrong in respect of the individual  circumstances of 
the complaint  made and  if I find that the business has done something wrong  award 
compensation for any material loss or distress  and inconvenience suffered by the 
complainant.
Miss H approached Vision to get advice on taking benefits from her SIPP.  She agreed to pay 
Vision £2,000  for this in line with the above quoted  fee agreement.
Vision undertook  a fact-finding process and recommended she draw maximum tax free cash 
and take out an escalating  annuity  in line with Miss Hs stated objectives.
The suitability report set out Miss Hs needs and objectives. It described  how the 
recommendation made met those needs and objectives and the advantages and 
disadvantages of the chosen  product. Amongst other things, the disadvantages of an 
enhanced annuity were  listed  as:
If future  inflation averages more than 3%, the real value of your income  will be lower 
than in todays  [sic] terms.
By accepting an annuity  with a 3% increase, it will take until age 88 for you to have 
received more income in total than had you taken  a level income.
Ref: DRN77862055It will be age 75 before the 3% escalating  annuity  is paying  more per annum  than the 
level option.
I think the information provided  was sufficiently clear  and, taking  everything  into account, I 
am not persuaded that the advice was unsuitable.
Miss H later compared a level and an escalating annuity and decided  that the level annuity 
was better  value for money. Miss Hs notes and the suitability report indicate that this had 
been discussed on a number of occasions previously. Vision then recommended a level 
annuity.
Once the application had been submitted, Miss H seems to have taken control  of the 
situation and liaised  directly with the annuity provider and the SIPP provider. Miss H has said 
that this is because it was her understanding that Visions role came  to an end once  the 
paperwork was submitted.
The invoice issued  by Vision on 25 August 2017 states that it was for at retirement advice 
which included:
Research on suitable  options
Recommendation
Implementation of all recommendations
Once the funds  had been received by the annuity provider, Miss H asked the provider for 
various different  quotations based on reduced  TFC. Ultimately,  Miss H chose to take 20% 
TFC and an increased annuity.
It is arguable; on the one hand, that Vision  could have done more  in terms of chasing the 
providers to ensure  that the funds  were transferred in a timely manner given that the fee 
included implementation.  And, that because Miss H ultimately took benefits  on a slightly  
different basis that implementation of all recommendations did not happen in full.
On the other hand, Miss H actively took charge of the process, liaised directly with the 
relevant providers and appears to have asked  them  to do the same. Prior to this Vision 
appears to have submitted forms and dealt with queries from the relevant providers  
promptly. So, again, I dont think there  is sufficient reason  to justify not paying Visions fees.
Miss H has also raised concerns about the advice she received in respect  of TFC.  It is my 
understanding that these concerns are twofold:
1.Vision failed to advise  her that she could take less TFC and increase her income; 
and
2.When the investment  of her TFC was discussed  the investment proposed by Vision 
was unsuitable.
In respect of the latter, whilst the investment of TFC was discussed it was ultimately  decided  
that this could be reviewed once the annuity  had been set up. This service was never taken 
up and I dont think that  under the circumstances  this impacts  whether or not Miss H 
should pay for the original advice received.
Looking at all of the available correspondence, I think it is possible that Miss H could have 
gone through the initial advice process  without fully understanding all potential  options in 
Ref: DRN77862056terms of taking reduced TFC and the impact varying this could have on the income she 
would receive. There  are references  to discussions about taking maximum and/or full TFC,  
so I think Miss H would  have had some  understanding about TFC  but, I have no way of 
knowing, with any certainty, how detailed these  discussions  were. That said,  having 
concluded that the advice  was not unsuitable, I am not persuaded that the level of service  
was such to warrant not paying the agreed  fees.
It is clear that throughout the process  Miss H undertook research herself  and, based  on her 
notes, was aware of a number of the various  options  available to her. That does  not, in and 
of itself, mean that Vision  failed  to provide the service Miss H engaged it to provide. On the 
balance of the evidence, Vision  undertook a fact-finding process, issued a comprehensive 
suitability report,  had a number of meetings with Miss H and responded to the queries she 
raised.
I understand that Miss H does not think that that is the case  and I do not doubt  her 
recollections but, on the basis  of the evidence I have seen, I am unable  to conclude that 
Vision failed to provide the service  Miss H agreed to pay it for. I understand that Miss H feels  
strongly about this and that this will come as a disappointment to her but I cannot fairly and 
reasonably uphold her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I do not uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 September 2019.
Nicola Curnow
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7786205