K820x#14complaint
Mr T says Provident Personal  Credit  Limited  (trading as Satsuma) irresponsibly gave him 
loans he couldnt  afford to pay back.
background 
Satsuma provided a loan of £800 to Mr T in February 2018. Mr T was due to repay the loan 
in instalments of £177.60 over nine months.  
After making five repayments  Mr T contacted  Satsuma  in September  2018  to say he was 
having money problems. He made  an offer to pay a reduced amount  to bring the loan to a 
close on the basis that hed now paid back £888 - which  in his view covered the original loan 
and some interest.
His settlement offer wasnt acceptable to Satsuma.  There  was then an exchange of 
messages between Satsuma and Mr T - Satsuma offered  Mr T alternative proposals. 
In the end though, it wasnt possible for Satsuma  and Mr T to come to an agreement  over 
this.
And by the time he brought his complaint to us Mr T was unhappy not only about the loan, 
which he feels was irresponsibly lent to him, but also (and Im briefly summarising here)  the 
way Satsuma responded when he told it about  his money  problems, being  given information 
that Mr T thinks  is misleading about the way interest on the loan works and about the way 
Satsuma handled  his complaint about  whats happened. 
 
Our adjudicator thought about  all the complaint issues but didnt uphold Mr Ts complaint. He 
thought the loan was correctly lent and the £100  Satsuma had taken off the outstanding loan 
balance was a fair way to put things  right after it admitted delay responding to Mr Ts 
concerns when he first got in touch. Our adjudicator didnt feel that Satsuma had done 
anything else wrong and that there wasnt anything further it needed  to do to put things right 
for Mr T. 
Mr T disagreed so the complaint  was passed to me. 
my findings 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending  including all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  on our website. 
did Satsuma lend irresponsibly to Mr T?
Satsuma needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Mr T 
could repay  the loan in a sustainable manner.  These  checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate. 
Ref: DRN77752912Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ts complaint. 
Before lending to Mr T, Satsuma asked Mr T for information on his financial situation, such 
as his monthly income and his outgoings, and it took steps to check this information by 
looking at his payslip.  Satsuma noted that Mr Ts monthly income  was around £2022.
Satsuma also made  allowance for some extra expenses when thinking about what  Mr T 
could affordably  borrow  - it added on another £445.08 to the expenditure Mr T declared.
Mr T was due to repay the loan in nine equal instalments of £177.60.
From what  I can see, looking at the amount  of Mr Ts pay and his declared  outgoings,  and 
even taking into account the extra amount Satsuma added on as a buffer for outgoings Mr T 
mightve forgotten to allow for or mention, Mr T still had money left over after making  the 
monthly repayments on this loan.
This was the first loan Mr T had taken  and the checks  Satsuma carried  out didnt suggest  
that Mr T couldnt afford  to repay the loan. Mr T had sufficient disposable income to 
sustainably repay  the loan and I so dont think Satsuma was wrong  to lend this loan. 
Mr T says Satsuma  shouldve known he was in financial  difficulties at the time it lent to him. 
But I can also see that Mr T declared  his outgoing  monthly financial commitments  as £400 
per month and other  expenditure as £500. So whilst I appreciate he mayve had other debts 
elsewhere, I dont think it was wrong  for Satsuma to rely on the information Mr T gave in 
relation to how much he paid on a monthly  basis towards those  debts.
I accept that Mr Ts actual situation mayve been different to what  Satsuma was aware of. 
But as I think the checks Satsuma did before lending  this loan were proportionate in the 
circumstances, I dont  think  Satsuma  was wrong to rely on the information Mr T gave during 
his application,  or not to ask for further  information about his circumstances. 
So I dont  uphold Mr Ts complaint that Satsuma lent irresponsibly  to him.
how Satsuma responded when Mr T said he couldnt afford to pay the loan 
I agree  with our adjudicator and I dont think I've seen enough to be able to say that 
Satsuma acted unfairly or unreasonably when  Mr T told the lender he was in financial 
difficulty.
For all the reasons that our adjudicator has explained more fully in his view,  it looks to me 
like Satsuma was positive  and sympathetic  towards Mr T and it did try to work constructively 
with him to see if an affordable payment plan could be agreed. 
As our adjudicator has pointed out, Satsuma  wasnt obliged  to accept Mr Ts payment 
proposals. 
I think Satsuma responded fairly and reasonably to Mr T overall. So I don't uphold  this part 
of his complaint.  
Ref: DRN77752913how Satsuma charged interest on the loan 
I've seen a copy  of Mr Ts loan agreement. It looks to me like the terms and conditions  Mr T 
signed up to are clearly  shown  so I think Mr T wouldve  understood what  he was agreeing  
to pay overall, how much  the monthly repayments were and when the repayments were  due.
And Satsuma has explained to Mr T the way it charges interest. 
I cant see that Satsuma has given Mr T misleading  information about the way interest on the 
loan works.
So I dont  uphold this part of Mr Ts complaint.
how Satsuma handled Mr Ts complaint
I have to think about whether Satsuma responded fairly and reasonably when Mr T 
complained  and I think  it did.
When Mr T asked Satsuma to put his account  on hold it agreed to do this for a period of 56 
days  I think that was a reasonable length of time to give Mr T a breathing space, given that 
he still owed the outstanding balance,  and bearing in mind  that Satsuma was entitled to 
expect Mr T to pay.
And our adjudicator  has explained that Satsuma was entitled to report  adverse information to 
the credit  reference  agencies.
I think Satsuma was right to acknowledge its failure to respond  to the email Mr T sent on 7 
November 2018   but as far as I can see, it otherwise dealt fairly  with his complaint. And 
I think that the steps Satsuma took to reduce  Mr Ts outstanding loan balance  by £100 is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances and sufficient  to compensate Mr T for this admitted 
error. Whilst I can completely understand  how frustrating this was for Mr T when I expect he 
was anxiously waiting  to hear from Satsuma, overall I dont consider theres sufficient reason 
to award Mr T any additional payment for this, over and above the £100 allowance Satsuma 
has already made.
In my decision Ive dealt with all the main issues that Mr T complains about that affect  the 
outcome of this complaint. I appreciate that my decision will likely come as a disappointment 
to Mr T. But I hope my explanations,  and setting things out as I've done, helps to explain 
how Ive reached these conclusions. 
Ref: DRN77752914my final decision 
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold Mr Ts complaint or make an award against 
Provident Personal Credit Limited  (trading as Satsuma).  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7775291