K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2004. Mr W says American Express Services Europe Limited (American  Express) mis-sold  
him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr Ws 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here with 
the exception  of a point  about Mr Ws employment  status at the time of the sale. Mr W has 
told us he was self-employed, but I have relied  upon the information he gave at the point of 
application for his credit  card and PPI policy.  And at that time Mr W ticked the box to confirm 
he was employed, rather  than the box to say he was self-employed. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint.  And they said that because  American  
Express told us that the commission  for Mr Ws PPI was less than 50% of what he paid, 
American Express didnt  need  to pay back any of the commission he paid for the PPI.
Mr Ws representative disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion   they didnt raise any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr Ws. I havent set out that detailed information 
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding Mr Ws complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided American Express didnt need to 
tell Mr W about the commission it received  so American Express doesnt need  to pay back  
any of the commission  Mr W paid for the PPI. Ive summarised my reasons  for each of these 
conclusions below. 
 
In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
I think American Express  made  it clear that Mr W didnt have to take out the PPI and he 
chose to take it out. I say this because this was a postal application and Mr W would 
Ref: DRN72665972have completed the form in his own time and without any involvement of a representative  
of American Express.  And American Express has been  able to give us a copy of Mr Ws 
credit card application and agreement which has been completed by hand and signed 
and dated by Mr W. I see that on that form there  is a separate  section entitled Protect 
your Payments followed by a brief description  of the policy  and what  it would  cover.     
Mr W has ticked the box he needed to in order to agree to take the policy.  So, I think if 
Mr W hadnt wanted the PPI he could have  just left this section blank and taken the 
credit card without the policy.  
American Express didnt recommend the PPI to Mr W  so it didnt have  to check that the 
PPI was right or suitable for him. But it did have to give Mr W enough clear and timely 
information so he could decide  for himself if it was right for him.
Its possible the information American Express gave Mr W about  the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose  to take it out  so it looks like he 
wanted this type of cover.  The cover  wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr W  for example 
he wasnt affected by the significant  exclusions on or limits to the cover. And it wasnt too 
dissimilar to what he reasonably thought  he was buying from the information he was 
given. There were  also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental health or back 
problems. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful 
for him if something went wrong. Because of this I dont think Mr W would have  declined  
the cover  had American Express  done  anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr W would have  still taken out PPI. The policy  was sufficiently  close 
to what its likely he thought he was getting,  and I think the policy could provide a useful 
benefit in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. And in those circumstances, I 
think that he would have taken out the policy in any event.
Mr Ws representative has raised  a number of what I consider to be general  complaint 
points, which  it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These general  points  include:  a claim that 
the Financial Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying the regulators rules and 
guidance for handling PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of the 
number of significant exclusions and limitations of cover coupled with the low claims ratio;  
and the duty of utmost good faith meant American  Express should have disclosed the poor 
value and explained the significance  of the limitations and exclusions  and the impact it had 
on the chances of making a claim.
But Mr Ws representative has not said how these points  apply to the specific  facts  and 
circumstances of Mr Ws individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr Ws particular  case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold the 
mis-sale element of this complaint. 
This means  American Express doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr W.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Ref: DRN72665973Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided American Express didnt need  to disclose the commission  it 
received, so American Express  doesnt need to do pay back  any of the commission  Mr W 
paid. My reasons  are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
Mr Ws representative has made  a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin1 judgment and sections 140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on his complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr W should get back all the money he paid for the policy 
because: American  Express failed to tell Mr W about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should  find that Mr W wouldnt have taken out 
the policy had they known  about the level of commission and he should receive a refund of 
all the premiums he paid.
But in this case, American Express  has told us that the commission for Mr Ws PPI was less 
than half of what he paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how American  Express  has 
worked this out and based on what weve seen, Im satisfied that the commission  in Mr Ws 
case was less than half the cost of the PPI.
As thats  the case, taking  into account:
-the effect of section  140A and B of the Consumer Credit Act;
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  and the conclusion in that case; and
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share - introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment  in 
Plevin - which requires a business  to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and 
profit share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy
I dont think American Express needed  to tell Mr W about the commission.  So, it follows  that 
I dont think the non-disclosure created an unfair relationship  I dont think  American  
Express treated Mr W unfairly. 
This means  American Express doesnt  need  to pay Mr W back any of the commission he 
paid for the PPI. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN72665974out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr Ws complaint or make any award in 
favour of him for this part of the complaint.
And because Ive decided that American  Express Services Europe  Limited  didnt need  to 
disclose the commission  it received,  it doesnt  need to pay back any of the commission Mr W 
paid for the PPI.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 September 2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7266597