K821x#15complaint
Mr F says Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) irresponsibly  lent to him.
background
I sent my provisional decision on 7 October  2019.  A copy  of my provisional decision is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decision sets out the background of this complaint. It explains why 
I planned to uphold Mr Fs complaint about  loans  3 and 4. I said Id consider anything else 
anyone wanted  to send me  so long as I received it by 21 October 2019.
Mr F said he was happy with the provisional  decision.
Cashfloat disagreed with the provisional decision,  and Ill go through that below.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done that, Ive come to the same conclusion as before, and for much the same 
reasons.
In summary,  Cashfloat has argued  that:
Mr Fs debt problems  were mostly historical,  and his recent  credit  history looked more  
positive;
it felt satisfied defaults were more  likely  to have been paid off than sold on;
these loans were at an early stage  in the lending  cycle;
it made proportionate  checks  but was unaware  of the mortgage arrears; and-
Mr Fs income  was large in relation to his borrowing.
I do understand Cashfloats  points, and I can empathise with its position. But I already 
considered these arguments in making my provisional decision. And while  I agree with it that 
customers should not be unfairly punished  for past problems, I think  that in this case  there 
was an apparent risk that those problems were  still present.
I acknowledged that Mr F did not have an extended lending history  with Cashfloat, especially 
for loans  1 and 2. Mr Fs income may have seemed sufficient, and much of his defaulted 
debt was historic. But I dont think this was enough for Cashfloat to have thought  he could 
sustainably repay  loans 3 and 4 in view of the substantial information it had that indicated 
financial difficulties.
In addition to his historic  defaulted debts, Mr F had a large amount of current defaults which 
he was still only paying off relatively slowly. And while its possible that the satisfied defaults 
were paid off, it wouldnt have been reasonable for Cashfloat to simply assume  that was the 
case. Indeed,  as I explained in the provisional decision, it looks like much of Mr Fs debt was 
actually sold on.
Ref: DRN71054792Further, as I explained,  Mr F asked to borrow loans 3 and 4 almost  straight  away  after 
paying off the previous loan, and at the same  amount or higher. This shouldve  indicated to 
Cashfloat that his borrowing may not have  been  sustainable, and that he may have  been  
having problems  managing his money despite his seemingly sufficient income.
Mr Fs mortgage  arrears are in the copy of his credit file that I have from around the time, 
and I explained  in the provisional decision that Im satisfied  that he was indeed  in arrears. 
I acknowledged that these arrears didnt seem to appear in Cashfloats  check,  and its not 
clear why that would  be. Cashfloat  said it got Mr Fs credit report from a trustworthy source 
and there  was no mortgage  showing  on it. It felt it did reasonable and appropriate checks. 
But Cashfloat knew Mr F had a mortgage  as hed told them his mortgage repayments  were 
£931, so it seems odd to me that this didnt raise  any concerns at the time.
Further, even if I give Cashfloat the benefit of the doubt here and assume that it was 
genuinely unaware of Mr Fs mortgage arrears, then as I explained  before,  I think that the 
sheer amount of defaulted debt he was managing  was enough  that Cashfloat should  not 
have lent loans 3 or 4. This is because it was likely  that he would  not be able to meet his 
repayments for those  loans in a sustainable manner.
Overall, I still think that Cashfloat should not have  lent loans 3 or 4.
putting things right  what Cashfloat  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans  3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information  about loans 3 and 4 from Mr Fs credit file.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires businesses  to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat 
must give Mr F a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I partially uphold Mr Fs 
complaint about  Western  Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat). Western Circle Ltd (trading as 
Cashfloat) should  put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 December 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71054793COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr F says Western  Circle  Limited (trading  as Cashfloat)  irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about  four payday loans Cashfloat provided to Mr F between  August 2015 and 
February 2016. Mr Fs lending history is as follows:
Our adjudicator didnt uphold Mr Fs complaint.  Mr F disagreed with our adjudicators opinion,  
explaining he had mortgage arrears, unsettled defaults,  and gambling  on his current account. So the 
complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending  including  all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice   on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr F could repay the loans 
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts, and the consumers income and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Cashfloat should fairly  and reasonably have done more  
to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer.  These factors include:
the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could be more  difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Cashfloat was required to establish  whether  
Mr F could sustainably repay his loans   not just whether  the loan payments were affordable on a 
strict pounds and pence calculation. Loan Date opened Date closedAmount
borrowedHighest  
contractual 
repayment
1 20/08/2015 29/10/2015 £400 £209.66
2 17/11/2015 29/01/2016 £500 £268.77
3 01/02/2016 13/02/2016 £500 £245.26
4 16/02/2016 11/04/2016 £500 £269.20
Ref: DRN71054794Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the Consumer Credit Sourcebook (CONC) defines sustainable as being  without undue  
difficulties and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting  
other reasonable  commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet  the repayments . And it 
follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower wont 
be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments 
without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Fs complaint.
Like our adjudicator, Ive not seen enough to think that Cashfloat  shouldnt have lent loans 1 or 2. 
These loans  came at the very start of the lending  relationship and were not especially large  compared 
to Mr Fs reported income. From the checks Cashfloat  did, it wouldve  looked like Mr F had enough 
disposable income  to reliably  meet the repayments. I dont think  it wouldve  been proportionate for 
Cashfloat to have  investigated Mr Fs circumstances  in more detail at such an early stage  without any 
strong indications that he was in difficulties.  There doesnt  seem to have been any information  which 
Cashfloat should have  been  aware  of at that point that shouldve caused it to decline those loans or 
investigate further.
However, I dont think Cashfloat shouldve  lent loans 3 or 4. It provided the results  of the credit checks  
it did for these  loans.  It shows large  amounts of defaulted debt: around £8,000 of current defaults and 
£16,000 of satisfied defaults. And the defaults  being  satisfied  didnt mean  theyd  necessarily been 
paid off, but could mean theyd been sold on. Indeed,  I can see from Mr Fs credit  file that he had 
debts with a number of collection agencies.
Given the sheer amount  of defaulted debt Mr F was managing, I dont think it was fair for Cashfloat  to 
grant him further loans. It seems Cashfloat acknowledged this to at least some extent, as Mr F asked 
for £700 for loan 3 but it only lent him £500.
While Mr F did pay off each loan early, he took out loans 3 and 4 just a few days  after paying off the 
previous one. So Cashfloat  could not reasonably assume that his financial situation had fully 
recovered or moved on from whatever had caused him to need the previous loan.
Lastly, Mr Fs mortgage  was in arrears at the time, which wouldve been a very important  sign that he 
was in serious financial difficulties. These arrears dont seem  to appear on the credit check  
information Cashfloat sent us, and it has not commented on the mortgage arrears. But Im satisfied 
from Mr Fs correspondence  with the lender that he was indeed in arrears with his mortgage at the 
time he took out loans 3 and 4. Cashfloat says it carries out a comprehensive credit check, using  up-
to-date credit agency information, to see the status of any arrears.  So unless its credit checks  are 
not as comprehensive  as it says, Cashfloat would  have  been aware of these  mortgage arrears. And 
this should have  been  a serious concern for Cashfloat.
So for the reasons  above, I dont currently think that Cashfloat should  have lent loans 3 or 4.
putting things  right  what I think  Cashfloat should do
refund all interest and charges Mr F paid on loans  3 and 4;
pay interest of 8% simple a year on any refunded interest and charges  from the date they 
were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement; and
remove any negative information about loans  3 and 4 from Mr Fs credit file;
 HM Revenue & Customs requires businesses  to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must give 
Mr F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
Ref: DRN71054795my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Mr Fs complaint about loans 3 and 4, and to direct  
Western Circle  Limited (trading as Cashfloat)  to put things  right in the way I set out above.
Please could  Cashfloat and Mr F send me any more information or comments  to look at by 21 
October 2019. After that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7105479