K820x#14complaint
Miss M took out two packaged  bank accounts  (PBAs) with Barclays Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays), one in August  2000 and one in January 2017. She was charged a monthly fee for 
both. She says they were mis-sold.
background
Miss M took out the following accounts with Barclays:
Account Date of sale Fee paid?
Current May 1994 No
Current with overdraft February 1998 No
Additions August 2000 Yes
Current with Travel Pack January 2017 Yes
Miss M says that she was told in August 2000 in a meeting with Barclays  staff that she had 
to take out the Additions PBA in order to keep an account, and she has not otherwise used 
the benefits from it. The Additions account initial fee was £6 per month. 
The Additions account was later changed  in 2017 to a Current Account with Travel Pack 
which also had a monthly fee. Miss M says she wasnt  notified about this.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PBAs were mis-sold but Miss M disagrees  so the case has 
come to me to decide.
background 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Miss Ms complaint.
In looking at Miss Ms complaint about the Additions  account sale I need  firstly to consider 
two things; whether  she knew  she had a choice between taking out a fee free account or the 
Additions account she bought; and whether Barclays advised her to buy the Additions  
account or not. 
Miss M has been clear  in her testimony that she believes that she was not given any choice 
as she was told that she could only continue her account was if she took out the fee paying  
Additions account. Barclays says it did give Miss M a choice.
I dont doubt Miss Ms honest recollections  on this but I think  its more  likely than not that her 
memory is mistaken and she did know she had a choice. I say this because Miss M had 
previously had a fee free account  and an overdraft facility with Barclays for many  years so I 
think she would have  queried any advice that told her she had to pay a fee for an account. I 
have no systemic evidence from Barclays practices at the time that it wasnt  offering a 
choice. And I also think its more likely than not that Miss M would have known that fee free 
accounts with overdraft facilities were available from many other banks and building  
societies as these  were widely advertised and used. So I know  this will be disappointing for 
Miss M but Im not able to say that I think  she was completely unaware she had other 
options as I would have to in order to uphold her complaint on this point.
Ref: DRN71511582So I think Miss M did know  she had a choice about  whether to take out the Additions  
account and she chose to do so.
Did Barclays advise her to take out the Additions  account? 
Barclays says that this was a non-advised sale, by which it means that it didnt  recommend  the 
Additions account to Miss M personally  or advise her to take it out. Miss M says that Barclays 
did advise her to take out the Additions  account. 
I dont know what was said during the sale, but Ive not seen anything such as any records of 
discussions about Miss Ms needs and circumstances or suitability checks  to show  me clearly 
that Barclays did make a personal  recommendation to her. I accept  its possible  that in 
providing information to Miss M and explaining  the benefits of the Additions  account, Barclays  
may have  said or implied that it was good idea to take it out. But this isnt the same as giving 
personal recommendations. And based on this services knowledge of Barclays  sales  
practices throughout this period, I think its more likely than not that Barclays sold the Additions 
account to Miss M on an information only basis. This means  Barclays did not have to ensure  
that the Additions account was suitable  for Miss M at the time of the sale.
So overall, I think Miss M was aware  she had a choice about whether to take out the PBAs,  
and the only requirement on Barclays was to provide her with enough information for her to 
make an informed choice.
Did Barclays provide  Miss M with enough  information about the Additions account?
The Additions account benefits  included  purchase protection, cardholder  protection,  extended 
warranty, no fees for going overdrawn,  and a £100 interest free overdraft buffer.
I dont know what information Barclays gave to Miss M although  clearly  Miss M did have 
substantial discussions with Barclays who were  trying  to sell her the account.
Barclays has provided evidence that Miss M had been going overdrawn  regularly  before the 
date of sale, and she would have paid a £5 fee per month  each time she did so. She also 
continued to go overdrawn  regularly for a substantial period after the sale.
So I  think its more likely  than not that when Barclays  explained that the Additions account 
had a monthly fee of only £1 more than she was being  charged for going overdrawn each 
month, and that there was an interest  free £100  overdrawn  buffer zone, this was of interest to 
her. And I think she saw it as useful enough  for her to decide to take out the account.
So in my view even  if Barclays  didnt  provide  Miss M with all the information about  the 
Additions account in the sale discussion,  I think its more likely than not Miss M wouldve 
chosen to take out the account due to the overdraft benefits.
In 2017 Barclays  stopped  offering the Additions account. So it says that it wrote to Miss M 
saying that it would change her account  to the nearest equivalent  which was a Current  
Account with Tech Pack unless she responded. Barclays says that it also wrote to her after 
changing the account to say it had done  so. Miss Ms complaint is that she wasnt told about 
the change.
Ref: DRN71511583Barclays has provided copies of the letters it sent to Miss M. They  are correctly  addressed  and 
explain the situation clearly. So I dont think I can say its more  likely than not that she didnt  
receive either letter and didnt  know what was happening as I would have to if I were to uphold 
Miss Ms complaint on this point.
So overall, I think Miss M chose to take out and retain her Additions account  and the Current 
Account with Tech Pack and she hasnt lost out as result of anything Barclays  may have done 
wrong. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 October  2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7151158