K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that Nationwide Building  Society gave them incorrect information  
about when they could  make a product switch on their mortgage. Mr and Mrs B want to be 
reimbursed the extra  interest they paid as a result.
background 
Mr and Mrs B have  a mortgage with Nationwide and had a mortgage product with a fixed 
rate that ended on 31 March 2019  when the rate reverted to Nationwides  Standard Variable 
Rate (SVR).  Mr and Mrs B asked in their local branch in January 2019 about  switching 
rates and were  told that they could  make an online application up until 31 March. But when 
Mr and Mrs B applied  on 30 March  they were  told that the new rate wouldnt apply until May.
Nationwide said that as this product was coming  to an end it wrote  to Mr and Mrs B on 
7 March to say that they had until 24 March  to make an application for the product switch  to 
occur in April. Nationwide agreed  that there had been some  service issues and paid 
Mr and Mrs B £100 compensation. Our investigator thought this was fair and as Nationwide 
wrote to Mr and Mrs B about  the deadline she didnt  recommend that this complaint should  
be upheld. Mr and Mrs B disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B say they were told by a Nationwide employee in January 2019 that they had 
until 31 March to apply  for a product  switch  but this information was wrong. Nationwide has 
shown us a letter dated 7 March 2019  to Mr and Mrs B telling them that their mortgage 
product was coming to an end soon. It also says To switch and begin your new deal on the 
1st of next month, please make sure you complete your application before the 24th of this 
month. I note that this section of the letter which  appears on the first page is highlighted. 
So it would seem that if Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs B wrong information in January  it 
corrected this before the deadline ran out and Mr and Mrs B could have made the 
application on time. I note that Mr and Mrs B did began the application online a number of 
times including  on the 23 March but didnt complete it.
Unfortunately it seems that Mr and Mrs B didnt receive this letter  although it was posted and 
properly addressed. But its difficult for me to uphold  this complaint if the evidence is that 
Nationwide tried to inform Mr and Mrs B by post of the deadline date in advance of that date.  
Mr and Mrs B have  suggested other methods  of communication that Nationwide should have 
tried. Our role isnt to advise Nationwide how it contacts  its customers  but to see if it acted  
fairly and I believe that using the post was a fair means of communicating this information. 
Nationwide has acknowledged  some  service failures  and paid £100  compensation which  I 
believe is appropriate. But for the reasons Ive set out above I cant fairly uphold this 
complaint. 
my final decision
Ref: DRN70436122My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 March  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7043612