K820x#14complaint
Mr G complains that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
FICL wasnt the direct seller in this case,  but it has taken responsibility for the complaint. So 
to avoid confusion  I shall refer to it as the seller.
background
Mr G took out a store card in 1996. At the same  time he bought a PPI policy which  wouldve 
covered the repayments on his account on his card if he wasnt  able to work.
Mr G says he didnt know PPI had been  added to the card.  He says he didnt tick the box to 
say he wanted  it, so someone  else must  have done  it.
The adjudicator thought  that Mr Gs complaint shouldnt  be upheld.  Mr G disagrees, so his 
case has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complains about PPI on our website and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Gs 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
FICL has provided a copy of the application  form Mr G completed  to take out the card. 
Theres a separate  section for PPI which makes  clear that the insurance  is optional. Theres  
a tick in the box to indicate that Mr G wanted it and the form is signed. Mr G says this wasnt  
his tick. He says it must have been  entered by someone after he completed the form.
While I sympathise with Mr Gs position  its very difficult to be satisfied over 20 years later 
that this was, indeed, the case.  Mr G had PPI on his account for over 10 years  after he took 
out the card, and he received a statement each month detailing the PPI charges. I think  if Mr 
G hadnt agreed to take the PPI that hed have  queried it as soon as he saw it on his 
statement. On the balance of probabilities I think its more likely  that Mr G agreed to buy the 
PPI knowing he had a choice about  it although I understand why he might not remember that 
so many years later.
FICL didnt  make a personal recommendation to Mr G about the PPI so it didnt need to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure it was suitable  for him. But it did need to make  sure it gave 
him all the information  he needed to make his own decision.  I dont think  FICL did this well 
enough. For example,  theres no mention of what the exact  benefits  or costs were.  
But looking  at Mr Gs circumstances I dont think more information  wouldve  changed  his 
mind about  buying  it. I think  its likely Mr G understood the policy  would pay a benefit if he 
wasnt able to work. And as I think Mr G chose to take out the PPI, it seems he was 
interested in this type of cover. 
Ref: DRN74534042It doesnt look like Mr G was affected by any of the terms which mightve  made it more 
difficult for him to make a successful claim, such as those related to existing medical 
conditions or unusual employment  circumstances   so it wouldve been useful for him if 
something went wrong. I havent  seen anything to suggest the PPI was unaffordable for Mr 
G.
Mr G says he wasnt entitled  to any sick pay or redundancy pay from him employer   only 
his statutory entitlement. The policy wouldve covered his repayments  until he was able to 
return to work, so I think it was useful  for him and I dont think he wouldve changed his mind 
about taking the policy if hed understood it better.  
The policy was relatively expensive compared to others on the market  around the same  
time. But it offered  a greater benefit  than others, and couldve paid off Mr Gs entire  balance  
in a few months.
So, on balance, I think Mr G wouldve still bought  the policy if hed understood all the 
information about it. I dont think Mr G lost out as a result of anything FICL  did wrong.
my final decision
As explained, Im not upholding Mr Gs complaint, so Financial  Insurance Company Limited 
doesnt have to pay any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Sally Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7453404