K820x#14complaint
Mr Y says Gregory  Pennington Limited  (GPL) mis-sold him a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
Mr Y bought the regular premium policy alongside a debt repayment loan in 2008. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr Y disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion,  the 
complaint has been passed to me. 
Late on in this complaint,  My Y raised a concern about having paid premiums in excess  of the five 
year term.  The complaint I am considering is whether the policy  was miss-sold  in 2008. If Mr Y 
wants his other concern  looked at, he should raise that with GPL in the first instance.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive 
taken this into account in deciding Mr Ys case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ys complaint and Ill explain why.
Ive first looked at whether GPL gained Mr Ys consent and whether it made  clear to Mr Y that the 
policy was optional. Mr Y told us he agreed to the policy, but he did so as he thought he had to. 
GPL sold the policy by telephone. Sadly the actual call is no longer available. These events did 
happen over ten years ago and businesses arent  obliged to keep records indefinitely. But Ive 
been given a copy of the script the representative was supposed to follow at the time and I can see 
that the representative was supposed  to only add the cover if they got the consumers agreement.  
And in asking for that agreement they were  supposed to do so in a way that made it clear the cover 
was optional. I havent seen sufficient evidence to find that this guidance was not followed in this 
case. So having  considered all the submissions I have received in this case, I think  its more likely 
that GPL wouldve  made Mr Y aware that the PPI was optional  and that he chose to take it, even  
though he may not remember that now, many  years later. 
I dont think this was an advised sale because I havent seen anything to suggest that GPL 
said this policy was right for Mr Ys particular circumstances.  Even so, they should have 
given him enough information about  the policy so he could  decide  for himself whether it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information GPL gave Mr Y about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  been. But 
he chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time it seems  he was eligible for the policy and it doesnt  look like 
he was affected  by any of the exclusions from or limitations to the PPI cover. 
And Ive considered that Mr Y told us that he had some  sick pay and other means  he could rely on. 
But upon  a successful claim the policy couldve paid out for up to 12 months  if ill health  stopped  
him from working or if he lost his job. And it wouldve paid out in addition to any benefits his 
employer would have  paid. So, considering  all of the above, I think  Mr Y couldve found the policy  
useful. So I dont think better information about the PPI would have put him off taking out the cover.
Ref: DRN78458592my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ys complaint  and I make  no award against 
Gregory Pennington  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Y to accept or reject  
my decision  before 9 May 2019.
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7845859