K820x#14complaint
Mrs T has complained that she was obliged by Santander UK Plc to take out payment 
protection insurance (PPI) when she increased  her mortgage borrowing to £52,500 in 2003.  
She says she didnt need this form of cover as she already held life cover and health  
insurance through her employer.
background
In August  1995,  Mrs T took a mortgage  loan of approximately £33,000 with her then partner,  
repayable on an interest-only  basis over 25 years.
In September  1999, she took sole responsibility for repayment of the loan. In January 2002, 
she then changed  the basis of repayment to capital and interest and surrendered  a 
mortgage endowment  policy shed taken  out to repay the previous loan after 25 years or on 
earlier death. It seems she was recommended a level term assurance  (LTA) policy,  
providing life and critical illness cover of £33,300,  to cover the loan on this repayment basis.
   
In January 2003, Mrs T applied to increase her borrowing  by £20,000 over 25 years. By 
then, her original loan of £32,500 (from 1995) was repayable in approximately  17.5 years 
time. Mrs T cancelled the LTA policy and was recommended  to take out a decreasing  term 
assurance policy providing life cover  and critical illness cover of £52,500 over 25 years  at a 
monthly premium of £13.50.
In response to Mrs Ts complaint, Santander agreed  that she should have been advised to 
take out a DTA policy, and not a LTA policy, in January 2002 when she switched the 
repayment basis of her loan to capital and interest. Accordingly, it offered  to refund to her 
the excess monthly premiums she paid to the LTA policy until she cancelled it in February  
2003, plus interest, of £33.35. Otherwise, it was satisfied that the DTA policy  Mrs T was sold 
in January 2003 for her increased borrowing of £52,500 provided suitable forms of cover in 
her circumstances.
   
Mrs Ts complaint was investigated  by one of our adjudicators, who felt it couldnt be upheld 
because:
in 2003, Mrs T, who was employed and single, increased her borrowing to £52,500. 
While she says she held sufficient cover  through her employer for this loan, this 
would not have been suitable for mortgage  protection as Mrs T could lose this cover 
if ever she changed  employers;
the policy she was recommended is not payment protection  insurance (PPI); it is life 
cover and critical illness cover. Life cover  is provided within the policy  at no cost - the 
main benefit was critical illness cover which her employer  was unlikely to provide;
in Mrs Ts circumstances,  it was advisable that she could repay  the capital loan if she 
ever suffered a critical illness.    
     
While Santander agreed with the adjudicators assessment, Mrs T did not. She said that:
she wasnt single in 2003; she was engaged at the time and she married  in 2004;
in 2003 her future husband lived with her, so she didnt need the cover provided by 
the policy as he was in management  and they shared  all mortgage, household and 
living costs at the time;
in any event, she already held life cover through her employer to cover the loan;
Ref: DRN71272832she has other complaints with our service about Santander. 
As agreement couldnt be reached in this complaint, it has been referred to me for review.
findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see that Mrs T has brought other  complaints against Santander to our service. These 
do concern the sale of payment protection  insurance (PPI) policies she was sold in 
connection with other  loans  and mortgages. That doesnt necessarily strengthen  her case for 
this complaint to be upheld  as each case is considered on its individual  merits. And, in any 
event, the policy thats the subject of this complaint  is not payment protection  insurance, as 
she maintains.
Ive seen no evidence  that the mortgage lender required Mrs T to take out a policy  providing 
life and critical illness cover as a condition of granting her the additional loan in January 
2003.
  
So, notwithstanding what Mrs T has said, I would  have  to conclude that she was advised to 
take out the DTA policy to repay  the outstanding balance of the loan if she died or suffered a 
critical illness. 
I, therefore, must decide whether I think  the DTA policy was an appropriate recommendation 
for her, given  what  I know  of her circumstances  at the time.
It does seem that Mrs Ts complaint was triggered by the widespread publicity surrounding 
the sale of payment protection insurance  (PPI) in that she repeatedly refers to the DTA 
policy as payment protection insurance.  Mrs T had also been  recommended genuine PPI 
policies as protection for other borrowing shed taken. 
But, as both Santander and the adjudicator  have  already explained, a DTA policy  is not PPI, 
and the considerations for assessing the merits of PPI are not strictly  relevant to the advice  
she received to take out the DTA policy.
Briefly, a PPI policy would pay an income  benefit , equivalent to the monthly repayments 
Mrs T made to a loan,  if she was ever made unemployed or suffered long term incapacity 
that prevented  her working. In other  words, PPI enabled her to pay the mortgage instalments 
but it didnt repay the capital loan itself.   
On the other hand, a DTA policy pays a capital  sum in the event of her death, or on suffering 
a critical illness,  at any time during the policy  term, equivalent to the outstanding balance  of 
the mortgage. The amount she owed (which still could have been a significant sum if she 
died or suffered a critical illness in the short term) can therefore be repaid in full.
I appreciate that Mrs T may have held life cover through her employer within an occupational 
pension scheme  that could  have been sufficient to repay the outstanding mortgage loan. But 
her pension scheme would not have included critical illness that could repay  the capital loan 
if she was no longer able to work  due to a serious  illness or incapacity. It was appropriate  
that Mrs T should make separate provision for this possibility.   
Ref: DRN71272833Also, critical illness benefit  is not just appropriate to repay the capital loan; it can otherwise 
help to fund modifications to a property that might be needed  to accommodate a particular 
disability. This is an especially valuable benefit  to Mrs T, whether she was the single or not.
Employers benefits cant usually be assigned to a lender, as they are paid to a nominated 
person at the discretion  of the trustees. Also, Mrs T couldnt  be sure she would remain  with 
the same  employer for the duration of the mortgage  - she may join an employer that doesnt 
offer life assurance  and/or critical illness cover at all. 
I appreciate her employer  may have also provided  sickness benefit, but this pays an income  
for a limited  period, which could help to fund her monthly mortgage payments. But sick pay 
generally stops after 12 months;  critical illness pays a capital sum immediately on diagnosis 
of a serious illness that could repay  the loan itself and Ive seen  no evidence that Mrs T 
already held this form of cover in 2003.
I do note that, when Mrs T took additional borrowing of £20,000 on a capital repayment basis 
over 25 years in February 2003,  the outstanding  balance on her existing loan of £32,500 
was repayable in approximately 17.5 years time. 
As this existing loan wasnt restructured in February 2003 for repayment  over 25 years to 
coincide with the term of the additional loan, the DTA policy  providing life and critical illness  
cover of £52,500 over 25 years she was recommended at that time doesnt  match  the terms 
of her total borrowing. 
Mrs T should have been recommended  two DTA policies - one providing  life cover and 
critical illness cover of £32,500 over 18 years  and the other  providing  life cover and critical 
illness cover  of £20,000 over 25 years. Otherwise, she was over-insured over the whole 25 
years because the first loan would reduce at a greater rate than the reduction in cover under 
the 25 year policy, which  would also provide too much cover  over the last 7.5 years as well.
But Santander has confirmed that the monthly premiums Mrs T would have  been  required to 
pay to these two policies would have been £9.28  and £8.22 respectively;  i.e. total premiums 
of £17.50 per month.  
So, given Mrs T paid a monthly premium  of £13.20 to the DTA policy that provided too much  
cover for her mortgage loan in January 2003,  she hasnt been financially disadvantaged by 
the advice she received.
decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mrs Ts complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 December 2019.
Kim Davenport
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7127283