K820x#14complaint
Miss W and Mr M complain that Telefonica  UK Limited  (O2) charged  Miss W a device plan 
settlement fee.
background
Miss W had a contract with O2. In December 2017  she contacted O2 and asked to cancel 
her contract. She also requested a Port Authorisation Code  (PAC) to move to another  
provider. O2 provided a PAC and cancelled the contract.
Miss W subsequently received a letter asking her to pay the device plan settlement fee of 
£385. Miss W doesnt think she should  have to pay the fee. She says that when she 
contacted O2 to cancel  her contract, the advisor led her to believe that the fee would be 
waived.
Miss W hasnt paid the fee and this has resulted in adverse information being  recorded on 
her credit file.
In its final response,  O2 said it had advised  Miss W of the balance she was required to pay. 
It also said it hadnt told Miss W it would waive the fee. 
Miss W wasnt happy with the response  from O2 so she complained  to this service. She 
wants the fee waived and her credit file amended.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. She said there  was no evidence  that O2 had 
agreed to waive  the device  settlement  fee.
Miss W didnt agree.  She said shed never disputed that a device settlement fee was 
payable and that shed sold her phone  to raise funds in anticipation of the fee. She 
acknowledged that O2 never told her the fee had been waived  but said the conversation 
shed had with O2 and the information  she was given afterwards led her to believe that the 
fee had been waived.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Theres no dispute between the parties that a settlement fee is payable when a contract  is 
cancelled. I appreciate that Miss W believed that the fee had been waived, based on her 
conversation with O2 and the information she subsequently got from the MyO2  app.
Ive reviewed the information provided  by O2. This shows that Miss W was made aware on 
more than one occasion of the amount which she would  need to pay if she cancelled  her 
contract. 
I cant see that O2 ever said it would waive the fee. Miss W has explained that when she 
called O2 and was put through  to the cancellation  team, she asked the advisor to cancel the 
contract and provide a PAC. Miss W says that because this was done without the advisor 
insisting that she paid the fee first, this amounted  to a waiver of the fee. Miss W says she 
confirmed this by contacting O2 when she received the letter  asking her to pay the fee. She 
Ref: DRN77348802says she asked O2 if it was possible to terminate the contract,  receive the PAC and pay the 
termination fee later. Miss W says she was told this wasnt  possible and that the termination 
fee had to be paid when  the cancellation process  starts.
Ive taken all of the points which Miss W and Mr M have  made  into account. However, under 
Ofcom regulations, mobile providers have an obligation to provide customers  with a PAC 
regardless of whether the account is in arrears.  So I cant say that O2 did anything  wrong  by 
terminating the contract and providing a PAC.
Although Miss Ws interpretation of the conversation she had with O2 caused her to think  
that the fee had been waived,  Im not persuaded that this belief was reasonable in the 
circumstances. Ive not seen any evidence that O2 said it would waive the fee. Just because 
the fee wasnt requested at the point of cancellation  doesnt mean there  has been an implied  
waiver of the fee.
Miss W has referred to another conversation with O2 in which she says she was told that her 
complaint had been concluded in her favour.  Ive reviewed O2s contact notes but Ive not 
seen any evidence to support this.
On balance, Im satisfied that Miss W was aware  she was required to pay the fee. Im not 
persuaded that O2 either expressly or impliedly  waived the fee. Because Miss W hasnt paid 
the fee, Im unable  to say that O2 has done  anything  wrong  in reporting this information  to 
the credit  reference  agencies.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss W and Mr M 
to accept or reject my decision before 22 June 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7734880