K821x#15complaint
Miss B is unhappy with the settlement proposed by Admiral Insurance  (Gibraltar) Limited in 
respect of her home  insurance  claim for water damage
background
In December 2017 Miss B had a flood  in the basement  of her home. She contacted Admiral 
and was asked  to find the source of the leak. She instructed a local contractor. It was found 
that her neighbours water  pipe had burst and this had led to the water  coming into and 
flooding the basement. 
Admiral agreed to carry out the repairs to the areas damaged by the flood. This consisted  of 
works to remove and repair the concrete  floor slab of the basement.  Admiral started the 
drying out, installing dehumidifiers. It proposed then to carry out repairs  but the basement  
flooded again  due to heavy rainfall.  It appeared that the initial  leak from the neighbours pipe 
had created a runway which surface  water  drained into. The runway led straight into 
Miss Bs basement. Admiral said it wasnt liable  for this further water damage. It said the only 
effective way to prevent  a recurrence of the flooding would  be to block off this runway.  On 
Miss Bs property this would consist of installing tanking (waterproofing). Admiral said that as 
it wasnt responsible  for dealing with the further  flooding, Miss B would have to pay for 
tanking to be installed. It would then carry out the repairs to the floor slab. It wasnt  able to 
guarantee any repair without the basement being  tanked.
Miss B was unhappy  with this and pointed  out that she had lived there  for 25 years without 
there being any problems. Admiral  explained  that the original concrete slab would have 
provided a degree  of protection  but after the leak had damaged it there  was no longer any 
protection. It explained  that replacing the concrete slab wouldnt address the fundamental 
issues. It was unwilling to carry  out repairs to the slab or any further drying  out knowing that 
this wouldnt leave the property completely dry, in the absence  of tanking, 
Miss B complained about the way she was treated initially in her first contact with Admiral  
when it wouldnt log the claim. She said there  was debris left in her garden. She was also 
concerned that Admiral  had failed to pursue a recovery from the neighbours,  who were at 
fault.
Admiral agreed that Miss B hadnt  been treated properly in her initial claim call; it said the 
claim should have  been logged and she should  have been  offered more help. It said it would 
pay her £100 compensation. With regard to the neighbours it had investigated possible 
recovery through its solicitors but as it couldnt  be established why the pipe leaked their 
solicitors were unable to say that there  was any chance of recovery.  It noted  that Miss B was 
happy to have the debris removed when the repairs were done.  
In respect of the repairs, as Miss B was unwilling to have the tanking  installed, Admiral said 
it would  pay her £2,603.29 (net of the £600 excess), being  its estimated cost of repairing the 
concrete slab. The figure  is exclusive of VAT which it said it would pay on production of a 
VAT receipt.  It said Miss B could accept the payment without prejudicing  her complaint, but 
she decided not to accept the payment.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that, in order  to carry out a lasting and 
effective repair Admiral  should carry out work to tank the basement. He further  proposed that 
it pay compensation of £200 (an increase of £100).
Ref: DRN77880092Miss B accepted  the proposed settlement. Admiral didnt accept it. It said that Miss B doesn't  
have damp  proofing  at the property and so any repairs carried out by its contractors will be 
compromised. It doesnt feel it reasonable to expect it to guarantee the work as its not 
responsible for the maintenance of the property. Miss B will be liable to install a damp proof  
course and so a cash settlement is the best possible outcome  here as she will be able to 
have the work done at her convenience. 
The matter  has been referred to me for further consideration.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
initial claim call
It does appear that in the initial claim call, Miss B wasnt  advised  properly and the adviser 
refused to log the claim. She had to source  her own contractor to discover  the source of the 
leak without any help from Admiral.  For this service failing it agreed to pay her £100, which I 
think is reasonable.
recovery from third party
Miss B asked why a recovery of the costs from the neighbours wasnt carried out. Generally 
in order to pursue  recovery it would need to be established, legally, that the neighbour was 
at fault. The mere fact that the water  came from the neighbours pipe doesnt mean the 
neighbour is to blame. In this case it couldnt  be said why the pipe was leaking nor if the 
neighbour was at fault. Admiral referred  it to its solicitors who said that any recovery  
proceedings would likely  fail. Under the terms of the policy  it is a matter for Admiral  how far it 
goes in attempting to pursue recovery. In this case I think it took reasonable steps and in 
light of its solicitors advice I think it was reasonable that it didnt pursue this any further.
claim settlement
Admiral has made it clear that it wont carry out the repairs to the floor slab without Miss B 
having the tanking installed  first. This is because  it cant guarantee the repairs will 
successfully solve the problem of water coming  in.
The original  claim was in respect of water coming in from the neighbours burst water pipe. It 
appears that the water has caused a runway through  which surface water is channelled into 
Miss B's basement. The runway isnt easily accessible, being under the property. It has been 
determined that the only way to resolve this issue is by installing tanking to the basement.
We wouldnt normally expect an insurer to carry out preventative work in order  to stop a 
possible recurrence  of damage  to the property.  But there is a claim for water  damage here 
which requires repair. And Admiral has said clearly that the repair,  to the floor slab cant  be 
carried out, nor can any further  drying, until the tanking is installed. It doesnt believe its 
responsible for this, and is unwilling to proceed  with the repairs.
When an insurer carries  out a repair it has to be lasting  and effective. If it cant  be, as here, 
our approach is that the insurer has to carry out the further work in order to make  it lasting 
Ref: DRN77880093and effective. That work consists here of installing tanking. I appreciate that tanking wasnt 
there before but Im of the view that in order to comply with its liability  to repair under the 
claim, Admiral needs to install  the necessary tanking. This is consistent with our approach in 
this kind of case.
So I think that Admiral  should  carry out the recommended tanking  to the property in order  
that its repair will be lasting and effective.  It should  carry  out that repair  through  its appointed 
contractors, unless Miss B desires  a cash settlement,  in which  case  it should offer sufficient 
payment to carry out the tanking and repairs to the floor slab.
compensation
Admiral has offered £100 compensation in respect of the original claims call. I think it should 
increase that to £200 to account for the distress and inconvenience  caused to Miss B by its 
refusal to carry out the further  work needed.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Admiral Insurance (Gibraltar) Limited to:
install such tanking of Miss Bs basement so as to ensure that its repair/replacement of 
the floor slab is a lasting and effective repair. Or only if Miss B wants it, pay her a cash  
settlement to cover the repairs and the installing of tanking.
pay Miss B £200 compensation,  including the £100 previously offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 21 May 2020
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7788009