K821x#15complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the handling  of a claim by British Gas Insurance  Limited  under her 
central heating insurance policy. 
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in December 2018, part of which is copied 
below: 
Mrs C says that she noticed  water  dripping from a pipe above her boiler  on 11 September  
2017. She says that at this stage  the drip was minor  and she was able to contain  it. 
Mrs C reported the leak to British Gas and it sent a contractor out. He wasnt  able to turn off 
the water  to Mrs Cs property, as the stop tap had seized up. Mrs C was told to get the water  
supplier to turn off the water to the whole  street, which it did at around 11pm. 
At 11am the next day (having not had running water  for 12 hours)  British  Gass contractor 
came out again.  After  some delay two contractors  came in and decided to cut a hole in Mrs 
Cs kitchen ceiling to trace the leak, they also went into the attic. Mrs C says the contractors 
told her theyd found the leak and re-routed the pipe. The contractors werent apparently 
able to turn the water  back  on again and so Mrs C had to call the water  supplier  again  to do 
so. 
The water was turned on around three  hours after the contractors left but Mrs C says that as 
soon as the water was turned back on, water came  gushing uncontrollably through the hole 
that had been cut in the ceiling,  all over the boiler and the work top. Mrs C says she was 
covered in water and the kitchen was flooded.  Mrs C says that she ruined several  towels  
mopping up the water which she had to dispose  of and she also says that the worktop under 
the boiler and extending  to the kitchen sink has been damaged, as a result of the contractors 
not repairing  the leak properly. 
British Gas sent another contractor out at 9pm that night, who condemned the boiler and 
turned it off. Mrs C says by then they had had no running water and no flushing toilet  for 24 
hours. Mrs C says she had to get water from her local shop. The contractor said he would 
have to come back the next day to repair the pipe, which he told Mrs C had leaked as it had 
been cut too short by the contractors that had attended earlier that day.  
On the afternoon of 15 September 2017,  another  contractor  came out. He told Mrs C he 
would not be able to complete the job that day as he finished at 6pm. Mrs C says he laughed  
at her situation and swore  at her. Mrs C says she spoke to the contractors  manager  but he 
told her they had only done  the previous work  as a favour and she could not be sure the 
previous contractors were  at fault.  That contractor did apparently get the toilet  working and a 
cold tap in the kitchen  working before he left at 6pm. 
He came back and Mrs C says he spent almost the entire following day sorting out 
everything in the house: he serviced the boiler;  replaced the ball valve in the toilet  and the 
broken waste pipes; replaced  the loft insulation  that the previous contractors that thrown 
around; put back  the boxing  on the kitchen and replaced the bath panel. 
Mrs C says she had to get a friend to help get the flooring  up to prevent it from being  
damaged and makes  no claim  in relation  to this. She also had to have her electrics  checked.  
She also hasnt claimed for old towels but the volume of water was enormous  and went 
Ref: DRN71854532down the back  of all the cupboards and penetrated the worktop  leading  to it bubbling and 
warping. Previously the silicone was perfectly  white and intact; it is now mouldy and perished 
as a direct  result of the leak caused  by British Gas. The worktop has also dropped  slightly 
and Mrs C also suggests this could be from the water or possibly from the contractors 
kneeling on it to break the hole in the ceiling above. 
British Gas acknowledged that the water leak was at the point of a newly fitted joint coming 
loose. (Mrs C says this is incorrect  it was cut too short and so would never have been 
correct.) However, it disputes that it is responsible for the damage  that was caused to Mrs 
Cs home. It says the policy specifically  excludes  cover for consequential loss or damage.  
British Gas says Mrs C needs to report the damage to her home  insurer.
However, I understand that British Gas repaired the ceiling and initially  offered £25 as a 
gesture of goodwill towards the cost of replacing some towels. However,  it then seems  to 
have retracted that offer as it said the towels Mrs C disposed of were not new.   
One of our investigators  looked into the matter and recommended that it be upheld.  He 
considered that the evidence was that most  of the water damage was not a result of the 
initial leak but as a result of British Gas not reconnecting  a pipe properly. The investigator  
recommended that British  Gas pay for replacing the damaged worktop; pay £57 for the cost 
of the towels; and pay £100  compensation.  
British Gas doesnt accept the investigators assessment and so the matter has been 
referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy doesnt  cover  damage caused by an insured event, i.e. damage  that is a natural 
consequence of an insured event.  So in this case that means  that it would not be liable to fix 
or pay for damage caused by the initial leak. However, the allegation here is that British  Gas 
caused the damage as a result of an inadequate  repair of the initial leak. Mrs Cs case is that 
none of this damage would have occurred but for British Gass  negligence. 
British Gas says that there was damage already noted to have occurred to Mrs Cs home  
(due to the insured event)  when it arrived but this was possibly made slightly  worse, as its 
contractor was unable  to turn the water  off. This was not something  within  its control.
However, there followed a more  significant  leak from the kitchen ceiling, when  the water 
mains supply was turned  back on after British Gas carried out a repair. Although there  is a 
slight dispute about the specific  reason for this  Mrs C says the pipe was cut too short and 
so would inevitably have  leaked; British Gas says the new joint came  loose)  it seems  to me 
that either way, this should not have happened  and was as a result  of the contractors poor 
workmanship. 
Mrs C says the volume of water that came  through the ceiling and flooded  her kitchen was 
far greater  than the initial leak.  I accept that. The pipe was apparently supplied by the mains  
 and therefore under mains pressure - and the whole pipe was disconnected  (rather than 
water escaping from a small hole or crack  in the pipe). While the mains supply was switched 
Ref: DRN71854533off relatively quickly, the volume of water  involved  could still have caused significant 
damage. 
Mrs C has provided photographs of her kitchen worktop, which appears in good condition  
apart from there being a gap where  the worktop meets the wall and shows  the silicon  has 
blackened and is coming away. Mrs C has also provided convincing testimony about what  
happened. The second leak should never  have  happened and the volume  of water is likely 
to have caused damage, even with efforts  made to mop up all the water at the time. 
I am therefore persuaded that, on the balance of probabilities, the damage  to the work top 
was caused by British Gass error when carrying out the first repair.  There are no estimates  
available, as far as Im aware, of the cost of replacing the work top like-for-like and no 
evidence as to whether  the existing piece can be refitted. 
I also consider that there were avoidable and unnecessary delays in the handling  of this 
claim, which meant Mrs C was without running  water (for drinking, bathing and for toilet 
facilities) for much longer than should have been necessary. It seems  to me that the leak 
should have been fixed on 12 September 2017.  However, Mrs C was without running  water, 
for drinking, bathing  and toileting, for another three days after she reported the problem with 
the previous repair  carried  out on 12 September 2017. It was then another day before 
everything was fixed. I do therefore consider that some additional compensation is 
warranted to reflect the distress and inconvenience  this caused. 
Mrs C has said she had to dispose  of a number of towels which she used to mop up the 
leaking water  in the kitchen. I find her evidence about this persuasive and accept that it is 
likely she had to dispose of a number of towels. Given there is no documentary  evidence 
about the value of these  towels,  I intend to make an award of compensation that also takes 
account of this loss. 
Overall therefore I consider that a sum of £300  compensation is appropriate,  to take account  
of the delay in properly  repairing the leak, meaning Mrs C was without running water for 
longer than necessary; the flooding  of her kitchen and the additional appointments needed 
to resolve the matter;  and the loss of a number of towels. 
Ref: DRN71854534my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint and require British  Gas Insurance Limited to do the 
following: 
arrange or pay for replacing the damaged worktop; and 
pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling  of 
this matter.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
evidence they want considered. 
British Gas has not responded. 
Mrs C confirmed that she accepts my provisional  decision  and has nothing  more to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Given that no further information or evidence has been provided, I see no reason to change 
my provisional findings and I remain of the opinion that British Gas is responsible  for the 
damage caused to Mrs Cs kitchen and should  also pay compensation. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and require British Gas Insurance Limited to do the following: 
arrange or pay for replacing the damaged worktop; and 
pay £300 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused by the handling  of 
this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7185453