K820x#14complaint
Mrs Ms unhappy with the way Nationwide Building  Society dealt with her when she called 
from overseas to get her credit limit increased to cover  unexpected medical  costs.  She says 
she wasnt helped or transferred  to someone  who could help. She wants compensation of 
£40 to cover  the costs  she incurred borrowing the money needed  elsewhere.
background
Nationwide said in its final response that as Mrs M had only opened her account in 
December 2018  there  wasnt  a higher credit  limit available for her to accept when she asked  
to increase it on 7 February 2019.  It has an emergency credit card limit increase process 
which can only be actioned by a team  manager or senior member of staff. But this is only to 
be used in extreme circumstances when a customer urgently needs access to funds. Mrs M 
disconnected the call when the advisor  placed  her on hold when they went to get a manager. 
Mrs M wouldnt have met the emergency  credit limit increase criteria as she held other  
money in Nationwide accounts and she wasnt stranded with no access  to funds. She didnt 
ask for help accessing her other accounts. And the emergency credit limit increase is only a 
maximum of £500 and she wanted  £750.  The advisor advised her correctly.
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
Nationwides advisor said they couldnt  increase  Mrs Ms credit  limit and would get a 
manager to assist. But the call was terminated before any further  suggestions could 
be made.
Had the call continued Nationwide has an emergency increase process but the 
amount required  by Mrs M was more  than wouldve been  available.
Nationwide followed its process correctly and gave correct  information about 
increasing the credit limit. He cant ask it to reimburse Mrs M for the £40 she had to 
pay to a relative to cover  the cost of transferring money to her.
Mrs M remains unhappy and has asked for an ombudsman review. She feels  Nationwides 
processes are wrong when it cant access her other accounts. She was stuck  overseas in 
hospital and had no access to online banking and her card reader. She was put on hold for a 
long time and due to a queue at the hospital  she hung up. Shes disappointed as shes  a 
loyal customer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand Mrs M is raising a new and separate complaint  with Nationwide  about its 
refusal to increase her cards credit  limit. So, I cant consider that matter in this complaint.
After Nationwide  told Mrs M it couldnt increase her card credit limit she was put on hold so 
that a manager could  be involved in considering  an emergency credit limit increase. But 
unfortunately Mrs M feels she was left on hold too long and she terminated the call as she 
says she was holding  up a queue of people in the hospital. That was unfortunate.
Ref: DRN75142642If the call had continued, or if Mrs M had subsequently rung back, she wouldve been told 
that she didnt  qualify for the emergency increase  not least  as she had asked for more  than 
the £500 available on this facility.
Furthermore I think if communication  had continued  its likely the advisor or manager 
couldve made other suggestions as to how to resolve matters for example by making  a 
transfer from another of Mrs Ms Nationwide accounts  although  it appears  she wouldve had 
to have been transferred to another part of Nationwide to discuss  and action  this.
I understand how frustrating this all was for Mrs M at what  was undoubtedly a stressful time 
for her at the hospital. But Nationwide followed its correct procedure  and hasnt  done  
anything wrong. As a result I dont think I can fairly or reasonably require it to reimburse the 
£40 fee that Mrs M had to pay for the transfer of money to her.
I dont see a compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7514264