K820x#14complaint
Q  a limited company  which  Ill also call the company  has complained  about  an interest 
rate hedging  product sold in 2006  and for which HSBC  UK Bank  Plc is now responsible.
The company is claiming  consequential losses following the banks acceptance that the 
company shouldnt have taken out the product  and after the banks payment to the company 
of basic  compensation.  
background
The product  came to an end in March 2010  when the company moved to a new lender. 
The bank considered the companys claim for consequential losses and offered around 
£16,000 plus interest to settle the claim. This fell short of what  the company had asked for, 
and Q asked the ombudsman service to adjudicate.
The company divided its claim  for consequential losses  into various parts.  Some of the claim 
related to payments Q made when it moved lenders in 2010.  The company said the move  
was mainly caused by the hedging product. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold any part of Qs claim. Regarding the costs of moving  lender,  
the adjudicator  found it was HSBCs refusal to fund a further land purchase that was the 
prime reason for the move,  not the hedging product.
Q was disappointed by the adjudicators conclusions but  with one exception  - chose not to 
challenge them further. The company continued  to argue that the hedging product was the 
main reason  for moving to the new lender and so the company should reasonably receive 
back the associated  costs. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Q but I too have 
come to the conclusion the companys complaint  doesnt succeed.
There can be no absolute certainty what the prime reason was for Qs decision to change 
lenders. As thats so, I have to consider the available evidence and decide what I think the 
prime reason was likely to have been.
Having considered the evidence, Im of the clear view that HSBCs reluctance/refusal to lend 
towards the land purchase was ultimately  the main  reason Q decided to switch lenders. I say 
this because the company persisted in its attempts to maintain its relationship with HSBC,  
and it was apparently  only when the bank refused to make  the land purchase  loan that Q 
finally decided to move. 
So Ive reached  the same conclusion as the adjudicator did in this respect.  
Although Q chose not to challenge  the adjudicators other conclusions,  Ive reviewed the 
evidence and arguments regarding the other  parts of Qs claim.  I confirm that I too have 
reached the same conclusions as the adjudicator in those respects,  and for similar reasons. 
Ref: DRN73678512my final decision
My decision  is that Qs claim for consequential losses  greater  than those HSBC  UK Bank  Plc 
has offered to compensate, doesnt succeed. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 August 2019.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7367851