K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc (Bank of Scotland trading at the time of 
sale as Halifax) mis-sold them a mortgage  payment protection insurance (MPPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G arranged a mortgage with Bank of Scotland in 2005.  A couple of years  later,  
they bought a MPPI policy to protect  their mortgage repayments. They arranged joint cover 
during a telephone call in 2007 with a representative from Bank of Scotland. 
Mr and Mrs G believe  Bank of Scotland mis-sold  the policy. They say through their 
representatives that the policy was not suitable for them due to their circumstances at the 
time of sale.  They say they were not in a position to make a fully informed decision. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. As Mr and Mrs G dont agree with the 
adjudicators opinion, the complaint has been  passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint for the following reasons:
I have first of all looked at whether Bank of Scotland  gave Mr and Mrs G a choice to 
have the MPPI policy. Having looked  at all that has been  submitted, I cant  be sure how 
the policy was presented  to Mr and Mrs G when they were  sold MPPI during a telephone 
call and I havent been able to see much  like a call script  or recording. 
I do have regard  for what Mr and Mrs G have said, but because  understandably  their 
recollections are not detailed due to the many years that have passed, I have needed to 
also look into what has been provided from the time sale and consider what I know of 
sales conducted by Bank  of Scotland. And having done this, I consider it is likely Mr and 
Mrs G were advised it was a good idea to have the insurance to protect  their mortgage 
repayments, and they took the policy on that advice. 
I say this because  the documentation I do have suggests to me that the policy  was 
presented as optional. Bank  of Scotland has provided notes on screen shots  from its 
system that would  suggest to me that Mr and Mrs G were most likely given a choice and 
a conversation was most likely had around having it. The notes  include  questions that 
were asked  between  the representative and Mr and Mrs G suggesting to me a 
conversation was had between  both parties and a choice was made. In addition,  the sale 
took place some  time after the mortgage  was arranged. So I think  its likely Mr and Mrs G 
would have understood they could decline the policy.
Moving on, I think Bank of Scotland recommended the MPPI to Mr and Mrs G (rather  
than it add the policy without giving them the choice), but it doesnt look as if it was 
unsuitable for them based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time. They  say 
Ref: DRN79016752they both had 6 months full and 6 months half sick pay at the time of sale but on balance  
I still think the policy would have been useful  in a time of need, if either of them became 
sick or were made unemployed. The policy paid benefit for longer than their sick pay 
would and they would have been  able to claim alongside this too. I also couldnt find 
anything else within the policy  terms that would have made it unsuitable for                   
Mr and Mrs G such  as restrictive or significant terms.
Bank of Scotland has provided  some information about the costs relating to the MPPI  
that Mr and Mrs G took out. That said I dont know if the costs  were disclosed clearly  
during the phone  call. But even if it did disclose the costs  in a clear  way, I dont think it 
would have made any difference to the choice Mr and Mrs G made  for the reasons I 
have already given.  The policy was reasonably priced compared to similar policies 
available at the time and to the monthly  mortgage  repayment. And Mr and Mrs G could 
have cancelled the MPPI if it did become  unaffordable.
I know this will come as a disappointment to Mr and Mrs G, but in conclusion  I do not uphold  
their complaint for the reasons that I have given above.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 June  2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7901675