K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Alliance Trust Savings Limited (ATS)  unnecessarily  delayed transferring his 
Self-Invested Personal  Pension (SIPP).  
background
A brief summary of the circumstances  leading to this complaint, and my initial  conclusions,  
were set out in my provisional decision, a copy of which is attached and forms part of this 
final decision. 
In short,  Mr B had a SIPP with ATS. In August 2017  Mr B decided to transfer his SIPP to a 
different provider. Unfortunately there  were delays in the in-specie  transfer of some of Mr Bs 
assets to the new provider,  so Mr B complained to ATS. ATS wrote to Mr B in October  2017  
and compensated  Mr B for the delays and service  he experienced. However, further 
problems followed so Mr B complained again to ATS. This time ATS didnt offer any financial 
compensation but it did offer to send Mr B a hamper. Mr B didnt think this was enough.
Mr B brought his complaint to us. He wanted us to look into the delays,  and poor customer 
service, he says he experienced  between 1 November 2017  and 15 February 2018. This is 
the period between ATSs initial (October  2017)  responses to Mr Bs complaint and the date 
Mr B says his transfer was finally completed.
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. I 
invited both parties to provide further  comments.  Neither party had anything further to add.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as set out in my provisional  decision and for the same  reasons.
In my provisional decision,  I set out a timeline of events and concluded that the delay in the 
in-specie transfer wasnt  as extreme as Mr B thought. But I also concluded that ATS could  
have done better with the transfer  and that it took slightly longer than the 90 days  it would 
have usually expected. Despite this, I said compensation wasnt warranted because Mr Bs 
assets remained invested throughout the transfer  process so he was never out of the 
market and therefore  didnt suffer  any financial loss because of time the transfer took. I also 
didnt think there was any plausible evidence to say Mr B was prevented  from taking any 
alternative action he said he might have wanted to take  such  as adding  to or selling his 
holdings  whilst the transfer was happening. 
I went on to consider whether ATS should pay compensation  for the trouble and upset it 
caused. I noted that it had already paid Mr B some  compensation in cash,  which hed 
accepted, for its previous delays. I saw no good reason for an additional  large cash  award  so 
I concluded ATSs offer of a hamper was fair and reasonable. I noted that the hamper hadnt 
been sent to Mr B. 
Ive considered everything again,  and Im satisfied with the conclusions  I reached in my 
provisional decision. Ive also taken into consideration the fact that neither party  raised any 
objections to any of my provisional  findings. With all this in mind, I dont uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN72184632my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is to not uphold  Mr Bs complaint. 
Alliance Trust  Savings Limited  has offered Mr B a hamper which I think  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. If Mr B chooses to accept my decision, Alliance Trust 
Savings Limited  should arrange  to send the hamper  to Mr B at a convenient time for him. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Christian Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72184633COPY OF PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr B says Alliance Trust Savings Limited  (ATS) unnecessarily delayed  transferring  his Self-Invested 
Personal Pension (SIPP).  
background
Mr B had a SIPP with ATS. In August  2017  Mr B decided to transfer his SIPP  to a different provider. I 
will refer to this other provider  as Y. Unfortunately there were delays  in the in-specie  transfer of 
some of Mr Bs assets to Y, so Mr B complained to ATS. ATS wrote  to Mr B in October  2017 and 
compensated Mr B for the delays  and service  he experienced.  However, further problems  followed so 
Mr B complained again to ATS. This time ATS didnt  offer any financial compensation  but it did offer 
to send Mr B a hamper.  Mr B didnt  think this was enough.
Mr B brought  his complaint  to us. He wanted  us to look into the delays, and poor customer  service, he 
says he experienced between  1 November 2017 and 15 February 2018. This is the period between 
ATSs initial (October 2017) responses to Mr Bs complaint and the date Mr B says his transfer was 
finally completed.
Our investigator didnt uphold Mr Bs complaint. She said, in summary, that the delays  werent 
necessarily all ATSs fault and that there had been no financial loss to Mr B anyway because the in-
specie transfer meant his assets were always invested. 
Mr B disagreed with our investigators findings  and asked for an ombudsman to look at everything 
again.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Having  done so, my provisional decision is to not uphold Mr Bs 
complaint. I explain why below.
Timeline of events
Mr B wrote  to ATS on 3 August 2017  with a number of complaints. He also said he wanted to transfer 
to a different SIPP. ATS said it needed documents from the receiving organisation before  the transfer 
could go ahead, which it received on 30 August. Mr B complained on a number of occasions 
thereafter about delays in transferring his assets.  ATS responded with a formal  complaint response 
on 5 October  2017 and with a new response on 31 October 2017. (The copy  I have of the 31 October  
letter isnt dated but I can surmise its date from the rest of the documents  on file. The exact date 
doesnt matter to my decision.)
In the 5 October letter, ATS said it was waiting  for re-registration details from Y and this would take 
around 2-3 weeks. It apologised  for the delay  and offered Mr B compensation. In its 31 October 
letter, ATS said Mr Bs funds had left its platform on 6 October  and that it wasnt aware  of any 
problems with the funds being re-registered  to reflect Y as the new SIPP  provider. It said that the 
transfer had been completed within 38 days, which  is the time between  receiving the written 
instruction on 30 August and the date assets left its platform on 6 October. It says this was well within  
its expectation of 90 days and in line with other SIPP providers. ATS did, however, offer further 
compensation to Mr B because it had previously given him some misleading information. 
Mr B says he was satisfied with ATSs responses at the time. However, there continued to be 
problems transferring  three of Mr Bs funds (his other two funds  were transferred successfully in 
October). The delay in transferring these  three funds prompted further contact between the parties  
between November 2017 and March  2018. Mr B says the transfer wasnt fully completed until 
Ref: DRN7218463415 February 2018. He says this meant the transfer took 146 days. (This  isnt strictly true  it would  
have taken 170 days if 15 February is the end date. The 146 days is what Mr B previously  used as 
the end date,  based on when he received  a residual  dividend payment on 22 January.) 
It is this latter period,  between  November  2017 and February  2018,  which Mr B is now complaining  
about. ATS issued further formal complaint responses on 16 January  2018 and 7 March  2018. It said 
the delays werent entirely its fault, but the transfer of assets  relating to the three problem funds took 
place on 29 November 2017, so still within the 90 days it would have expected. In its 16 January  
response, it offered  to send Mr B a hamper  as full and final settlement. This wasnt sent.  In its 
7 March 2018  response, ATS said no further compensation  was warranted.
My thoughts
First of all, I dont think Mr B is correct in using  15 February 2018 (or 22 January 2018) as the end 
date for the transfer.  ATS says the transfer was completed on 29 November  2017,  which is when it 
provided Y with all the information it needed. ATSs file notes dated 29 November and 7 December 
say it was awaiting  confirmation that everything had gone through   but no such confirmation  is 
recorded in their notes. So it is possible  that there were further problems. But there are no follow-up 
notes until January, and the notes by then refer to closure  of Mr Bs account  and payment to Y of 
residual payments (for example in relation to dividends  and a refund of fees). So, on balance, Im 
satisfied the funds  were transferred at the end of November.  Yes, there were some residual payments 
made to Mr B in 2018, so, yes, technically  Mr B wasnt free of ATS until then. But I think  it would be a 
stretch to say the transfer  hadnt  been  completed just because of these (relatively small) residual 
payments. It should also be noted that residual payments  are common in in-specie transfers because 
the parties involved  dont have control over when  dividends are paid.
That said, I dont think ATSs end-date of 29 November  2017 tells the whole story either. First of all, 
using 29 November as the end date still means it took more than 90 days for the transfer to complete.  
By my reckoning, 30 August 2017 to 29 November  2017 is actually 92 days. It also looks like ATS has 
admitted to at least being partially  responsible  for the delays from November  2017 onwards because 
it said the following in its 3 November  2017 email to Mr B:
We will liaise  with the registrar to have  any discrepancies  rectified and this will ensure the re-
registration process can proceed. I appreciate that this is not the information you had hoped  to 
receive. My letter of 31 October stated there was no indication the re-registration of your shares  had 
not been  successful. In order to respond to your email  I sought an update and we subsequently 
learned that we needed  to provide the registrar with some additional information/documentation.
This suggests it was ATSs  responsibility  to provide further information and documentation  perhaps 
because it hadnt provided it previously. Its possible, of course,  that ATS had been given incomplete 
and/or incorrect  information  by a different party (Y, for example, or Mr Bs fund managers) so the 
incomplete information  ATS forwarded on to the registrar may not be its fault. ATS has alluded to this, 
but it hasnt provided us with clear supporting evidence  so its difficult to make a finding about who 
was responsible for what. Either way, it doesnt  make a difference to the outcome of the complaint, for 
reasons I will come on to later. But I can appreciate Mr Bs frustration. By its own admission,  ATS 
could have initially done better with the transfer  hence the compensation offers in October. There 
then appears  to have been further delays relating to the re-registration of shares  even after the issue 
had supposedly been sorted. ATS appears to have accepted  at least partial responsibility  for these  
problems. And, ultimately, the transfer took slightly longer than the 90 days ATS usually  expects. 
However, that doesnt mean I will be recommending  ATS pay Mr B any further compensation. Our 
remit isnt to punish businesses  for mistakes they make. Where a business does  make a mistake, our 
role is to put the consumer back in the position they would have been in if the mistake hadnt  
happened. Often this will mean compensation to account for a financial  loss that resulted from a 
businesss mistake. But, in this case, there is no financial  loss because Mr Bs assets remained 
invested right the way through  the process. So I wont be asking ATS to pay compensation.    
Ref: DRN72184635Mr B makes  the point  that he couldnt see how his funds were performing at this time,  and he couldnt 
add to or sell his holdings. However, I can only put consumers back in the position they actually would 
have been in if the businesss mistake hadnt happened. There isnt any persuasive  evidence that 
Mr B wanted  to take a particular  action, was prevented from doing so by mistakes at ATS, and 
suffered a financial loss as a result. So there is no loss as such, and notional losses are not 
something I will be asking ATS to compensate  Mr B for.
Mr B does have a stronger  case  when  he talks about compensation for the customer  service he 
received. There were  some  failings on the part of ATS and I can see this did cause Mr B 
inconvenience and upset. However, as I said, our role isnt to punish  businesses. So our awards  tend 
to be modest  in this area. Im also aware  that Mr B was told that his assets remained invested  so he 
knew he wasnt  losing out financially whilst  all the above was going on. And Im also mindful that 
some of the problems encountered by Mr B have already been compensated for, so Im looking  at the 
additional trouble and upset  ATS caused. With all this in mind, Im satisfied that ATSs  offer of a 
hamper is fair and reasonable. 
I understand the hamper hasnt been sent to Mr B. This was because  he was on holiday when it was 
first offered,  so ATS cancelled the delivery and asked Mr B to get back in touch  with a convenient 
time for it to be re-sent. Theres no further correspondence on the matter, and ATS subsequently said 
no further compensation was warranted. But if Mr B still wants the hamper and if it hasnt already 
been sent,  ATS should arrange to send  Mr B the hamper  at a convenient time for him. 
Finally, Mr B has asked  us to determine what a fair timescale for an in-specie transfer should  be. By 
way of illustration,  he has provided us with details of a business that says it aims to complete  in-
specie transfers in no longer than six weeks (42 days, in other words). I recognise  that other 
businesses may well operate  more quickly than ATS,  and may well have completed Mr Bs transfer 
more quickly.  But I cant reasonably uphold  a complaint against a business  just because its 
competitors happen to do something more quickly. To uphold a complaint, I need to be persuaded  
that a business has acted in a way it shouldnt  have done and has caused  financial loss as a result. 
For the reasons  given  above, Im not persuaded thats the case  here. 
It follows that I dont intend to uphold Mr Bs complaint.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision, subject to any more  evidence  or arguments I receive from either  party, is to not 
uphold this complaint.
Christian Wood
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7218463