K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
1997. Mr C says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why. 
Mr C has said the sale took place over a telephone  call. RBS has said the sale took place 
through a postal application and has provided the credit card application  to show  this. Based 
on what Ive seen, I think its more  likely  the sale took place through a postal application. 
RBS had to make Mr C aware  that the PPI was optional and gain his consent before adding  
it to his card. As Ive said, RBS has provided  a copy of the application form that was 
completed at the time. For PPI to be added,  the option to take the policy had to be selected.  
I can see PPI has been  selected and Mr C has signed the application. If Mr C didnt want 
PPI he didnt have  to select to take it. Mr C was also agreeing to an important  financial  
commitment, so I would  have expected  him to have looked over the form before signing in 
agreement with the information on it. So overall  I think RBS made it clear that Mr C didnt 
have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out  although I can understand why he 
may not remember this now many  years later.
RBS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr C so it didnt  have  to check if it was right for him. But it 
did have to make sure Mr C got the information he needed to decide  if it was right for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr C about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. Based 
on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would  have  been  useful for him if 
something went wrong. It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Mr C has said he would  not have  needed  the policy  as he would receive  six months full 
followed by six months half sick pay from his employer if he was too ill to work  and that he 
also had some savings  he could use. But this policy would cover 10% of the outstanding 
balance of his account for up to 12 months  if he was too sick to work or he lost his job. And 
this would be in addition to, and potentially  for longer than, any full pay he would receive. 
And it wouldve allowed  him to use any savings he had for other expenses,  or keep them 
intact for the future.  So I still think the PPI would have been  useful.
Whilst I appreciate that Mr Cs parents would have wanted to help, their support cant be 
relied upon as their circumstances  can also change, meaning they are unable to provide 
such financial assistance.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said but these points dont change my decision.
Ref: DRN75996472my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 October  2019.
Sonia Hussain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7599647