K822xcomplaint
Ms R complains that National Westminster Bank Plc wont extend the term of her interest-
only mortgage. An independent mortgage  adviser brings this complaint on her behalf.
background 
Ms R has four parts  to her mortgage  with NatWest:
-part one: £18,000 borrowed  in 2001;
-part two: £10,250  borrowed  in 2002;
-part three: £15,000 borrowed in 2003;
-part four: £30,172  borrowed in 2007.
The terms on all four parts were  initially set up to end in early 2016, and were  all paid on a 
capital and interest repayment basis.  Payments  on all four were  later changed to interest-
only at Ms Rs request.  In 2008,  also at Ms Rs request, the term on part four of the 
mortgage was extended to end in January 2021,  when Ms R will be 70 years old.
In 2014, NatWest wrote to Ms R to remind her about the approaching term end on the first 
three parts. Ms R had by then retired and said she wouldnt be able to repay the mortgage 
by the end of the term. NatWest says it looked at extending the term on a capital and interest  
repayment basis, but it didnt go ahead because  Ms R couldnt afford the payments. It 
extended the term to March 2017  to give Ms R time to explore her options and get advice. It 
then extended  it again until March 2018, and finally until March 2019   but said it wouldnt 
extend the term any further.
Ms Rs adviser complained. He said he had asked NatWest to extend the mortgage term for 
longer than a year in 2017;  this was before it had changed its policy  and it should have 
granted that longer extension. He also said NatWest  had assured him annual extensions  
wouldnt be a problem  if Ms R maintained her monthly payments. She had done that, and 
made monthly overpayments. The adviser  asked  for the term to be extended to end in 2021,  
beyond Ms Rs 70th birthday. He said she should then be able to borrow  enough through an 
equity release mortgage to repay  NatWest.
Our investigator didnt  think NatWest  had treated Ms R unfairly. She said it had already 
extended the term three times, and there was no guarantee Ms R would be able to release 
enough equity  in the future to repay the mortgage.
Ms R and her adviser didnt accept that conclusion. Her adviser didnt  think  it was right that 
one part of Ms Rs mortgage isnt due to be repaid until 2021, but NatWest is insisting on the 
other parts being repaid now. He said the terms on all parts of the mortgage should  have  
been aligned  to end in 2021 at the earliest,  Ms R is too young to raise enough money  now 
through equity  release to repay the mortgage,  and she will be homeless if NatWest  evicts 
her as she wont be able to afford to rent. 
The investigator asked  NatWest to explain its position further.  It then agreed  to align all the 
parts of Ms Rs mortgage to end at the same  time,  in January 2021.  Ms Rs adviser didnt 
think this went far enough;  he would like the term extended until Ms R is 75, when he is 
confident that she will be able to release enough  equity to repay  the mortgage.
Ref: DRN75974292my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, while I know  this isnt the 
outcome Ms R and her adviser were  hoping for, I find that NatWests offer to align the 
mortgage terms to end in early  2021  is fair.
I recognise that Ms R is in a very difficult situation.  She wants to stay in her home, and she 
cant afford to downsize or to switch her mortgage to a capital and interest  repayment  basis. 
NatWest has a duty to treat Ms R fairly  and consider her best interests. That doesnt 
necessarily mean, though, that it has to agree to extend the term for as long as she wants.  
Ms Rs adviser initially asked for a term extension to early  2021, by which time Ms R will be 
70 and will have more options  open to her in terms of equity release. It seems  to me that 
NatWest took a rigid approach to this request first of all, in applying  a policy  instead  of 
considering Ms Rs circumstances and her interests as it should have done  particularly 
given that it had already agreed the largest  part of the mortgage would run until early 2021.  
A one size fits all approach was not appropriate. Nevertheless, it has now agreed  to align 
the terms of all parts of the mortgage with an end date after Ms Rs 70th birthday, as 
originally requested.
Ms Rs adviser has said another five years  would be better, with the term ending  when  Ms R 
is 75. I can certainly understand his point  that she may be able to borrow more through 
equity release the older she gets.  But how much she can borrow will also be dependent on 
property prices and the availability and criteria of equity release schemes in the future, as 
well as on changes in regulation, and I understand Ms Rs loan-to-value ratio is currently  
more than 50%. There is no guarantee she will be able to release the equity she needs  on 
terms that are right for her.
In all the circumstances, Im satisfied that the term extension to January 2021 is reasonable 
and in Ms Rs best interests. I dont consider that extending the term further  at this stage 
would be appropriate,  and this gives Ms R more  time to continue making overpayments.  She 
has also taken independent  advice about her options and she and/or her adviser should 
keep NatWest updated about  any changes.
In making my decision, Ive noted what Ms Rs adviser has said about the assurances he 
was given in 2017 about further term extensions. But I dont think NatWest  gave any 
guarantees about this  had it done so, it would effectively have been agreeing to a lifetime 
mortgage. 
I think NatWests  letters  to Ms R about the various  term extensions  and its records of contact 
with her show it was clear that the extensions were  to give her time to consider how she 
would repay  the mortgage by the end of each extension.  Ms Rs adviser has said NatWest 
told him Ms R would need to apply for an extension each year and it would review her 
request. So I dont think it was a given that NatWest  would  always agree to an extension; 
that was always  subject to review.
Finally, Ms Rs adviser  has said he is now also concerned about NatWests  decision to lend 
Ms R more than £30,000 in 2007,  just two years after she had told it she was struggling 
financially and when  she was only paying  the interest on her existing mortgage. This point 
was raised at a late stage,  and I share  the investigators view that it should be investigated 
Ref: DRN75974293separately if Ms R wishes to complain about it. Our investigator can ask NatWest  to look into 
this as a fresh complaint  if Ms R asks her to do so.
my final decision
My final decision  if Ms R accepts it  is that National Westminster Bank Plc should align 
the terms on all parts of Ms Rs mortgage  to end on 28 January 2021, as it has offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7597429