K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Admiral Insurance Company Limited gave him incorrect information  
during the sale of a home insurance policy that led to him being  ineligible to receive 
cashback on the purchase.
background
Mr D got a quote for home insurance with Admiral through a cashback website. It offered 
£60 cashback  if he bought the policy through them. He called Admiral to complete the 
purchase and explained  about the offer. The call handler said that if he provided the 
reference number  of the quote from the company  that was offering  cashback,  then he would 
receive the offers advertised on that website.
Mr D completed  the purchase of the policy over the phone, however didnt get the cashback. 
He complained to Admiral  as he said it had misled him on the phone.  Admiral  didnt uphold 
the complaint.  It said the cashback  is offered by a third party company and Mr D would  have 
needed to buy the policy using the reference hed been given by that other companys 
website. It said  Mr D gave a reference  for a quote  from a different website and not the one 
that offered  the cashback. However,  it said if Mr D wanted to cancel the policy  it would waive 
the cancellation fee and he would only be charged for the time on cover.
Mr D was unhappy with this response as he said Admiral  had known it was his intention to 
get the cashback when  he called, so should  have been clearer about  the fact he wouldnt get 
it. He complained to this service.
Our investigator considered all the issues and didnt  uphold  the complaint. She thought as 
Mr D provided  the wrong quote reference number,  she couldnt  say Admiral had done 
anything wrong. 
Mr D still felt Admiral  had misled him. He felt it hadnt made  it clear  that the quote  reference  
he had given wasnt the one that would give cashback. He asked for the complaint to be 
looked at by an ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr D has explained that he bought  the insurance policy  with Admiral to get the £60 
cashback. I need to consider if Admiral provided  enough information  when  completing  the 
sale and if it has treated Mr D fairly  in the circumstances. 
When selling  an insurance policy, Admiral is required to give clear and not-misleading 
information so Mr D could  decide  if the policy was suitable for him. 
Mr D made  two calls to Admiral when he was buying  the policy. Ive listened  to both calls. 
The call handlers explained  to Mr D that if he provides the quote reference number he has 
received online then he will get any offers attached to that quote. Mr D was asked for the 
reference number  on both calls and both times he gave the reference for a quote from a 
different website, rather than the one that offered  the cashback.  Both call handlers confirmed 
Ref: DRN71933352the name of the website the quote  was from, back to Mr D. This should  have given Mr D the 
opportunity to realise he had given them a different reference number.
Mr D says that he feels Admiral misled him as it was aware of his intention to get cashback  
when buying the policy and didnt  warn him that he wouldnt get it with the reference he gave 
them. However Admiral has said that the call handlers  wouldnt  have  known the details of 
the quote or any offers attached to them,  other than the name of the website it had come 
from. Admiral  confirmed  the website name to Mr D and made the assumption that Mr D was 
providing the reference number that related to the quote he wanted to proceed  with. And I 
think this is enough.
By explaining the process for continuing  an online quote over the phone, and providing clear 
information about the policy he was buying, I think Admiral fulfilled this. Admiral has also 
offered to waive the cancellation fee for the policy and would  only charge Mr D for time on 
cover if he does cancel. I think this is fair in the circumstances as Admiral hadnt  made  a 
mistake and was trying  to help Mr D.
For the reasons  Ive given I dont think Admiral has treated  Mr D unfairly when selling the 
home insurance policy. It provided  Mr D with the correct information, but as he provided the 
wrong reference number,  he didnt qualify  for the offer he wanted. So although I can 
appreciate it would be frustrating for Mr D to not receive cashback  when he thought he 
would, I cant hold Admiral responsible  for this. I therefore dont uphold this complaint and 
wont require Admiral  to do anything further. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. I therefore wont  require Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited  to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Sophie Goodyear
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7193335