K821x#15complaint
Mr B felt the minimum payment on his store card wasnt adjusted  by J D Williams & 
Company Limited .
background
Mr B noticed  his minimum payment wasnt reducing despite  him making  the payments that 
were due. He felt hed been overpaying so he contacted J D Williams about this and raised a
complaint. J D Williams  confirmed that the minimum payment (£49.73) was correct. It also 
said that if Mr B paid more than the minimum payment it would only reduce the outstanding 
balance, not the minimum  payment.
Mr B contacted J D Williams again  around  five months later as he remained of the view that 
the minimum payment  was wrong. He calculated that 4% of the outstanding balance was 
around £45. He also said J D Williams had confirmed this was the case.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision which explained why I didnt think the complaint should  be 
upheld. The main  parts of my provisional  decision are outlined below.
what should the minimum payment be
The terms and conditions for Mr Bs store card said the minimum payment would be 4% 
of the total cash  price  of goods  and services ordered using the account  or £5 (whichever 
is greater), plus any outstanding arrears.  They  also said the minimum payment would  
only be recalculated  when Mr B bought more goods/services or returned any items.
The 4% referred to related to the total cost of the goods/services  not the current 
outstanding balance. So the minimum payment wouldnt change just because Mr B paid 
more than the required minimum payment.
From  what I could  tell the minimum payment stated in the monthly statements was based  
on 4% of the items Mr B had bought on the account. And the minimum payment hadnt  
changed from £49.73 because Mr B hadnt bought anything  more or returned  any items.
I didnt think J D Williams should  have  done  anything differently as the minimum 
payment was calculated in line with the terms and conditions of the account.
what information did J D Williams give Mr B
J D Williams took reasonable  steps to provide an explanation on, and to resolve, Mr Bs 
complaint quickly. The letter it sent explained why Mr Bs minimum payment hadnt  
reduced. Mr B told us he didnt  receive  the letter, which could explain why he contacted J 
D Williams again  a few months  later. The letter was addressed  correctly and J D 
Williams system  notes  appeared  to confirm that it was sent. I couldnt say for certain that 
Mr B received the letter, but I was satisfied  that J D Williams  adequately  responded to 
Mr Bs complaint when he first complained. So I concluded that J D Williams  did enough 
to resolve Mr Bs complaint at that stage.
Ref: DRN78022412But Mr B wasnt  happy that hed been given conflicting information by at least  one of the 
agents he had contact with around May 2019.  It seems Mr B contacted  J D Williams a 
few times about his complaint using  email, phone and webchat. Screen shots from the 
time sowed that one agent said the amount  due should be £45.83 (which was in line with 
Mr Bs calculations). And another  agent  apologised for Mr B previously being  told that 
hed been overcharged. I didnt know whether the two references related to the same 
incident. But they seemed  to show that Mr B was given  incorrect  information on at least  
one occasion   at a time when he was already  disputing the amount  of the minimum 
payment.
I couldnt hold J D Williams liable  if Mr B didnt understand  the terms of the account or if 
he didnt receive  its letter.  But it was responsible for the information its agents  gave out. 
And I was satisfied that one agent gave  incorrect information, or at least information that 
was misleading. However, J D Williams and its agents did give Mr B the correct 
information on other occasions. And the incorrect information didnt lead to Mr B paying 
more than he otherwise would have.  So I wasnt persuaded that Mr B had suffered so 
much to warrant making J D Williams pay compensation. Because  of this, I didnt think 
there were enough grounds to ask J D Williams to do anything  differently or to pay 
compensation to Mr B.
responses to my provisional  decision
J D Williams said it had nothing further to add.
Mr B didnt agree with my provisional decision.  He re-iterated that he never received the 
letter from J D Williams. He also said that J D Williams was required  to give correct  
information and he was given incorrect information  on various occasions  and just because 
one person gave  correct  information doesnt mean J D Williams isnt liable. He didnt think  
J D Williams acted fairly in respect of the minimum payment eg it always  made his complaint 
about the interest payable when that was never  his complaint. He said he was told several  
times that £45.83 was the correct minimum payment, and he was proven right.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont think what Mr B has said in response  to my provisional decision is anything new  it 
pretty much repeats what hes told us throughout his complaint (and what I considered 
before issuing my provisional decision). Im not therefore persuaded to change  my mind.  So 
my final decision remains as outlined  in my provisional decision, for the same  reasons. In 
summary:
the minimum payment  is based on 4% of the total cash price  of goods/services ordered 
using the account , not on the current outstanding balance;  its not re-calculated when 
more than the required minimum payment is made; and from what  I can tell the minimum 
payment stated in the monthly statements was based on 4% of the items  Mr B had 
bought on the account
J D Williams responded appropriately  to Mr Bs complaint  although I appreciate  what 
Mr B says about  not receiving the letter
Ref: DRN78022413Mr B was given incorrect/misleading information by J D Williams about the minimum 
payment, but I dont  think that in itself warrants any compensation.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Paul Daniel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7802241