K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a buy-to-let mortgage Mr P holds with Handelsbanken plc. Hes 
unhappy that the bank  appointed Law of Property Act (LPA) Receivers to take over and 
manage the property  in 2019. Rather than take possession proceedings, he wants 
Handelsbanken plc to accept repayment  proposals from him.
background
In what follows, I have  summarised events in rather  less detail than has been  presented,  
using my own words. No discourtesys intended by that; its a reflection of the informal 
service we provide.  This approach is consistent with what our enabling legislation requires of 
me. It allows me to focus on the issues on which  I consider a fair outcome will turn, and not 
be side-tracked by matters which have little or no impact on the broader outcome. 
The mortgage began in 2011; included in the contract was a break clause, allowing 
Handelsbanken to call in the loan after three years if it wished to. In 2014,  Handelsbanken  
learned of a restraining order against Mr P pursuant to a criminal investigation. That put Mr P 
in default of the mortgage terms, and so Handelsbanken exercised the break  clause.
Mr P asked Handelsbanken for more time to resolve matters;  it agreed not to enforce the 
default and in the meantime, Mr P continued  to make monthly interest payments. However, 
in 2018, Handelsbanken  learned that Mr P had been convicted  of offences. It decided  to 
exercise the power in the mortgage contract to appoint LPA Receivers;  the appointment was 
confirmed in early 2019, since  when the Receivers  have  pursued possession action. That 
action has been  put on hold since Mr P, represented here by his sister,  Ms P, complained  
that Handelsbanken had acted unfairly.
Our investigator didnt  think Handelsbanken  had done anything wrong, and didnt 
recommend the complaint be upheld. Mr P has asked for his complaint to be reviewed  by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  If I dont comment  on any specific point 
its not because  Ive failed to consider it but because I dont think I need  to comment on it in 
order to reach what I think is the right outcome in the wider context. 
My remit  is to take an overview and decide  whats fair in the round. In doing so, I dont take 
instructions from either side in the dispute,  and I dont have to answer  every  question.  But I 
assure Mr P Ive read everything hes said and provided.
Take away  all the noise around the edges, and this complaint is a lot simpler than its been 
made to look. From  the moment in 2014  that Mr P was in default of the mortgage terms, 
Handelsbanken has been within its right to require full repayment of the debt. That it didnt 
seek to enforce that right until 2018 doesnt detract  from the fundamental position  that 
Handelsbanken could fairly  and reasonably  insist  on repayment in full as the only remedy for 
the default. 
That four-year period  was simply Handelsbanken  being remarkably  patient  and showing 
Mr P forbearance, in the hope that his situation  might improve  to the point where he could 
Ref: DRN75519652repay the debt in full. It seems to me that by the time it had learned of Mr Ps conviction in 
2018, Handelsbanken had come  to the conclusion  that this was unlikely ever to happen. I 
cant say that this was an unreasonable  or unfair  conclusion for the bank  to have reached,  
and there  are certainly no grounds for me to interfere and say it should have exercised its 
judgement differently.
Similarly, theres no proper basis for me to tell Handelsbanken that it should instruct the LPA 
Receivers to enter into settlement negotiations rather than continue with the possession  
action. Its already waited  nearly six years now for Mr P to come up with proposals for 
repaying the debt in full. It doesnt have  to wait any longer, and even if it did, I would 
understand entirely if Handelsbanken didnt have  the same confidence in Mr Ps proposals 
that he has.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and below, my final decision is that I dont uphold this 
complaint or make any order or award  against Handelsbanken  plc. My final decision 
concludes this services  consideration of this complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging  in 
any further consideration or discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P, or Ms P on 
his behalf, to accept or reject my decision before  19 March 2020. 
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7551965