K821x#15complaint
Mr V and Mrs V complain  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC treated them  unfairly when the term of 
their interest only mortgage expired. Mrs V has dealt with the complaint throughout. She 
asks for a term extension  of 2 to 5 years.
background
Mr V and Mrs V took out a repayment  mortgage with Barclays in 2002. This was changed to 
interest only payments  in 2005, after they separated. The mortgage  term expired in June 
2019 with an unpaid balance. Mrs V asked  Barclays for a five-year extension, which  
Barclays declined.
Our investigator wrote to the parties  in March 2020  saying Barclays should offer an 
extension of 12 months to allow Mrs V time to sell the property. It should then review Mr V 
and Mrs Vs circumstances.
Barclays didnt agree, saying a year had already passed since  the term expired. It said it 
would allow more  time for Mrs V to sell the property if she provided the information it had 
previously requested. Mrs V wanted  Barclays to commit to a longer period. She doesnt want  
to put her property on the market at this time.  
I issued a provisional decision to the parties  to explain what I thought should happen. In it, I 
set out the following provisional findings:
The term of Mr V and Mrs Vs mortgage  expired  in June 2019 with an unpaid  
balance.
Mr V and Mrs V have divorced. While Mr V doesnt  live in the property or contribute 
to the mortgage,  his name is on the mortgage account. Mrs V says hes agreed his 
name can be taken off the account. But, while Mr V remains on the account hes 
liable, jointly and severally with Mrs V, for the debt. I need to bear this in mind when 
considering this complaint.
Mr V and Mrs V borrowed the money from Barclays, and they do have to pay it back. 
Fairness requires, as a starting point,  that they did so when it was due at the end of 
the term. Mrs V was in contact with Barclays before the term expired, to discuss 
refinancing or extending the mortgage.  Mrs V didnt meet affordability or lending  
criteria for a repayment mortgage or a new interest only mortgage. Mrs V says 
Barclays told her it could  only extend the term of the interest only mortgage if this 
was to align  it with a repayment  method  for instance, when  an endowment policy  or 
pension lump sum is due. This wasnt the case here.
Barclays said it would help Mrs V put the property on the market  and allow her a year 
to sell. Mrs V doesnt think  Barclays has been  fair. She wants it to extend  the term 
because she doesnt think its a good  time to sell, due to the uncertainty  created by 
Brexit and, more  recently, the Covid-19 pandemic.
Rules on mortgage regulation require lenders to assess affordability and, in the case  
of interest only mortgages, repayment strategy before offering or varying mortgages. 
There are certain exceptions to this for mortgages taken out before 2014, as Mr and 
Mrs Vs was. In brief, Barclays didnt have to decline Mrs Vs requests for a term 
Ref: DRN75613002extension due to issues with affordability or repayment strategy if the proposed  
change was otherwise in Mr V and Mrs Vs best interests.
I should say here though that I think its reasonable for Barclays to consider 
affordability and how the mortgage will be repaid when assessing whats  in Mr V and 
Mrs Vs best interests. Mrs V says she can make some lump sum payments towards  
repaying the mortgage. But at the end of any extension she will still have a balance 
to repay,  and no means of doing so other  than to sell the property.
Mrs V says the uncertainty has affected her health.  She wants Barclays  to offer an 
extension of three years, as any shorter period would leave her in a state of anxiety, 
not knowing whether  the term will be further  extended if shes  unable to sell her 
house. Shed like Barclays to commit to extend the term again at the end of the 12 
months extension recommended by the investigator.
It seems, from what Mrs V has said, she hasnt marketed the property or looked into 
selling it, and she doesnt intend to use the time during any term extension  to sell the 
property. I think its likely  that, at the end of any extension, Mrs V will be in the same 
position, having no means to repay  the balance other than by selling the property.  
She will have paid more  interest in the meantime. And we cant know  whether  shell  
achieve a better price  if she sells the property in the future than she would by selling 
it now. This could also potentially affect Mr V, for instance if Mrs V doesnt  maintain 
interest payments  or if sales proceeds  arent  enough to repay  the mortgage.
Mrs V says she finds the uncertainty about  what will happen with the property and 
the mortgage very stressful.  Shes  been  in regular contact with Barclays, discussing 
her circumstances and her options,  and I can understand she found this upsetting. I 
dont think though it was unfair for Barclays to ask her for information, or to attend 
appointments with its advisers. Mrs V doesnt want to sell her home and I think it was 
right that Barclays asked her for information to see what options, if any, it could offer 
to avoid this.
I think Barclays has acted fairly here,  in looking into what  options Mrs V has. 
Unfortunately, her options are limited. I know Mrs V will be disappointed,  but I dont 
think its clearly  in Mr V and Mrs Vs best interests for Barclays  to extend their 
interest-only mortgage. I dont think its reasonable or fair to require Barclays  to offer 
them a term extension.
What should happen now?
When the investigator recommended a one-year  term extension,  there were 
significant restrictions in place due to the Covid-19 pandemic. Now,  while  some 
restrictions remain in place, the property market is open.
If Mrs V hasnt  already  done so, she might  consider  seeking independent  advice to 
explore her options.
Barclays said it would allow Mrs V time to sell the property.  It says once it has 
evidence the property is on the market  for sale it would review  the situation  on a 
quarterly basis. It could  also offer an assisted voluntary sale.
Ref: DRN75613003Barclays said it would need to see income and expenditure  information to show that 
interest could be paid affordably until the property is sold. Mrs V says she has 
savings, and has set aside money  for interest payments. If Mrs V provides evidence 
of this to Barclays, I dont think it would be fair for Barclays  to also ask that she 
provides income  and expenditure  information for the period covered by the savings.
Barclays hasnt started  action for possession. Due to the Covid-19 pandemic and 
related Government  restrictions, the regulator issued guidelines. Currently, these say 
that lenders cant  take or resume possession  action until November 2020.  This gives 
Mrs V some breathing space, to seek advice about  her options and, if need be, 
arrange for the property to be offered for sale.
Mrs V should keep Barclays informed about  her intentions. Id expect Barclays to 
continue to treat Mr V and Mrs V fairly while Mrs V makes arrangements  to repay  the 
debt, and to take account of any further  guidance  issued by the regulator. But, 
ultimately, if Mrs V doesnt sell the property or otherwise repay the mortgage,  
Barclays is entitled to take possession as a last resort.
Responses to my provisional decision
Barclays said it agreed with most  of my provisional decision.  It said it couldnt agree a plan 
with Mrs V without asking about her income  and expenditure. It said it was possible that 
Mrs V had higher  outgoings than savings, meaning  a plan wasnt affordable and could lead 
to financial detriment. It later said it had to go through Mrs Vs income and expenditure to 
see if she was able to repay some  capital each month, to reduce the amount owed. It says it 
requires this of all customers  and saw no reason to treat Mrs V differently.
Mr V agreed with my provisional decision.  Mrs V didnt agree.  She explained why and re-
sent evidence.  In summary,  Mrs V said:
The investigator didnt  mention  Covid-19, the property market  is extremely  depressed 
and there could be a second lock-down.
Barclays had caused delays and given conflicting information.
Barclays refused her offers to resolve  the matter,  even though  she reduced the length of 
the extension  she requested.  Barclays  hadnt granted an extension: it put action on hold 
during her complaint.
Mr V isnt at risk as theres equity in the property.
It isnt in her best interests to force her to take out a more expensive  repayment 
mortgage or sell her property at a challenging time.
Barclays doesnt need evidence of affordability as shes  always  made payments on time.
She intends to sell the property and proposes to put it on the market in summer 2021  
when she expects  to get a better price.
Marketing her property would mean allowing  people into her home, posing a risk during 
the Covid-19 pandemic, especially to her husband  whos in his early sixties.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having read and considered what Mrs V has said following my provisional  decision, Im not 
persuaded to make  substantial changes to my provisional findings. Given our informal 
Ref: DRN75613004approach, I wont comment on each of Mrs Vs points. Thats not meant to be discourteous.  I 
want to focus on whats  at the heart  of this complaint   whether Barclays should extend  the 
term of Mr V and Mrs Vs interest only mortgage.
Mrs V says she intends to sell the property but wants to put it on the market in summer  
2021. She says this is in her best interests as she expects  to achieve a higher price. Mrs Vs 
comment that the property market  is extremely  depressed  is at odds with reports  including  
by The Royal Institution of Chartered  Surveyors (available on its website)  of strong 
demand and activity. Mrs V hasnt  provided  sufficient evidence  that now is a particularly 
difficult time to sell or that shes likely  to get a higher price  next year to make it fair and 
reasonable for me to require Barclays to allow a term extension  on this basis.
Ive also thought about Mrs Vs concerns about marketing a property at this time. The 
government has issued  advice on home  moving  during the pandemic  (available on the 
www.gov.uk website). As Ive said, the property market is active  and so while the process  
might be different, it is possible to market  property and move  home.  
Mrs V has no means to repay the mortgage  other  than by selling  the property. Mrs V says 
theres more than adequate equity in the property to repay the mortgage. Theres no 
guarantee this will still be the case next summer, or that Mrs V will be able to sell the 
property more easily or at a higher  price.  Unfortunately  theres  no certainty the Covid-19 
pandemic will be over by then. 
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be in Mr and Mrs Vs best interests to require 
Barclays to extend  the mortgage term. 
Information about affordability  while  the property is being sold
Barclays says it needs income and expenditure information from Mrs V. I dont agree that its 
reasonably necessary to ask for this in addition to proof of the savings Mrs V set aside to 
make payments  although I agree this wouldnt be the case  indefinitely. If Mrs V provides 
evidence to Barclays of enough savings to cover interest payments for at least  six months 
and maintains monthly interest payments, I dont think Barclays should  also ask that she 
provides income  and expenditure  information for the first four months after she accepts my 
decision (if she does). 
Barclays needs to treat customers fairly  and what this means in practice depends on their 
circumstances. Here, Mrs V will need to start the process of selling her home   and as shes 
said this might have additional challenges  due to the Covid-19 pandemic. I think  its fair to 
allow Mrs V a relatively short period without having to provide income  and expenditure 
information to Barclays, so she can focus  on taking  steps to sell the property, or otherwise 
refinance or repay the mortgage. 
What will happen now?
If Mrs V hasnt  already  done so, she might  consider  seeking independent  advice to explore 
her options.  
Barclays said it would allow Mrs V time to sell the property.  It says once it has evidence  the 
property is on the market for sale it would review the situation on a quarterly basis.  It says it 
could also offer an assisted voluntary sale. 
Ref: DRN75613005Due to the Covid-19 pandemic  and related Government restrictions,  the regulator issued 
guidelines. It recently issued new guidance  in effect from 20 November 2020. This sets out 
the regulators expectations about tailored forbearance and how lenders should approach 
repossessions. Barclays  should  take this, and any further guidance  into account.
Mrs V should keep Barclays informed about  her intentions. Id expect Barclays to take 
guidance from the regulator into account  and treat Mr and Mrs V fairly  while Mrs V makes 
arrangements to repay the debt. But, ultimately,  if Mrs V doesnt  sell the property or 
otherwise repay the mortgage, Barclays is entitled  to take possession as a last resort.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 December  2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7561300