K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about how long Paysafe Financial Services Limited  trading as Neteller  took 
to authorise his account.
background
Mr R says he opened a Neteller account  but it took too long to authorise his account and as 
a result he was unable to log into the account.  He says that meant he lost out on several  
transactions and the whole process  to verify his account took too long.
Mr R would like compensation  for the stress  he was caused.
Neteller says Mr R agreed to the account  terms and conditions  when  he opened the 
account. It says those terms and conditions say Mr R must provide certain documents  which 
it will then carry  out verification checks on. Neteller  says Mr R changed his address and 
gave it documents  it could  not accept which meant the process took longer and it doesnt 
accept making a mistake.
Mr R brought his complaint to us but our investigator  didnt  uphold  it. The investigator  
thought Neteller  had acted in line with the account  terms and conditions  by carrying out the 
checks and thought the account was running  within a reasonable period of time.
Mr R doesnt accept  that view and has asked that it be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for the same reasons.  I realise Mr R will be disappointed 
by my decision.
Im satisfied that Neteller is, in line with the account  terms  and conditions  which  I can see Mr 
R agreed to, entitled  to carry out verification checks on a customer before allowing an 
account to be used. I think thats what  happened here and so I dont think  Neteller made a 
mistake or acted unfairly  by carrying out those checks on Mr R. I accept that they took some  
time to carry out and I have no doubt that Mr R was caused inconvenience. But I dont think 
that means Neteller  acted unreasonably and I think that part of the delay was caused by Mr 
R changing address and by providing  documents that Neteller  couldnt  accept.
I can see that the account is now up and running and overall  as I dont think  Neteller acted 
unreasonably then I cant fairly order it to pay Mr R the compensation he would like. I 
appreciate that Mr R will remain  unhappy with my decision but I think  that businesses  such  
as Neteller are subject  to regulatory requirements to obtain appropriate verification 
documents before allowing an account  to be used.
Ref: DRN71301322my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7130132