K820x#14Complaint
Mr N complains that Shop Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) treated him 
unfairly by incorrectly applying transactions which affected his credit file.
Background
Mr N had an account with Shop  Direct  in November  2017. Mr N set up a direct  debit 
payment with Shop Direct in April 2018  but it was cancelled in June 2018.  
In November 2018, Mr N bought a satellite navigation system on a buy now,  pay later  
(BNPL) offer through the Shop Direct website, but the postage  costs  of £3.99 werent 
included. The delivery fee was added  to Mr Ns account and appeared on his monthly 
statement in December 2018 as the required  minimum monthly  payment.  Mr N didnt make 
the required payment  so Shop Direct reported this as a missed payment on his credit file.
A couple of months later, Mr N applied for a mortgage. The lender  declined Mr Ns 
application and said this was because of the missed payment on his credit file. Mr N wasnt 
aware he had a missed  payment so he contacted Shop  Direct.  Mr N said he didnt know his 
direct debit had been  cancelled.  He also said he wasnt aware the BNPL  offer didnt include 
the delivery fee. So he complained to Shop  Direct.  
Shop direct didnt uphold  the complaint. They said the postage cost had shown on Mr Ns 
December statement but he hadnt  paid it so his account had gone  into arrears. They 
explained that they had also sent emails and text messages to him to let him know  he 
needed to make a payment but he hadnt  done  so. 
Shop Direct also said Mr Ns direct debit  arrangement had been cancelled by his bank in 
June 2018. They said theyd written to Mr N to say it had been cancelled,  and his monthly 
statements would also have shown no direct  debit was in place. They  said it was their 
responsibility to report  correct information to the credit reference agencies  which  theyd done  
when Mr N missed  his payment. Mr N didnt agree so he asked this service to look into his 
complaint. 
Our investigator didnt  think Shop Direct had acted unfairly. She thought Shop Direct had 
acted reasonably by contacting Mr N in writing to let him know  his direct debit had been 
cancelled. She also felt Shop Direct  had given Mr N enough information  to show  the delivery 
fee wasnt included  in the buy now pay later offer in their correspondence with him. So she 
didnt recommend the complaint be upheld.   
Mr N didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it for broadly the same  reasons  as the investigator.  
Mr N said he wasnt aware his direct  debit had been  cancelled and that he felt this had been 
caused by Shop Direct and that this shouldve been  taken into account. However, Shop 
Direct have  shown evidence the direct debit was cancelled by Mr Ns bank. Ive seen that 
Ref: DRN71184922Shop Direct wrote to Mr N in June 2018, when the direct debit was cancelled  to let him know 
he would  need  to make  manual payments from then onwards.  
Ive also seen that Mr N made manual payments from September  2018  onwards when 
previous BNPL offers  were due to expire.  So Im persuaded Mr N was reasonably  aware his 
direct debit had been  cancelled,  before his December 2018 payment was due. And I dont 
think Shop  Direct have  treated  him unreasonably. 
Mr N said he wasnt aware the delivery  fee wasnt included in the BNPL  offer,  but Shop 
Direct feel this was clear  on both their website and in their correspondence with Mr N. Ive 
looked at the evidence  available and Ive seen that the Shop Direct website shows  a warning 
on the BNPL screen which states  N.B. Delivery and installation costs  and all financial 
services products are not included in Buy Now Pay Later and will be included  in your next 
monthly minimum payment amount.  Ive seen Mr Ns account statement which  shows the 
postage payment had been added to his account.  It also shows this as a separate amount 
on the statement  and that the payment request  is calculated on the delivery fee balance of 
£3.99. So I think it was clear the postage  cost was payable  on the December 2018 
statement.
Mr N feels Shop Direct shouldve viewed  his situation holistically and have treated him 
unfairly. The industry guidance says Shop Direct  should report data that is a fair and 
accurate reflection of account activity  to the Credit Reference Agencies.  I recognise Mr N 
feels reporting the missed  payment wasnt proportionate to the amount he needed to pay or 
a reflection of the previous conduct on his account - so this wasnt  fair. However, Mr N had 
been making manual payments since his direct debit was cancelled. And Ive also seen 
evidence that an email was sent to Mr N before his payment was due, to remind  him there 
was an outstanding balance and a minimum payment was needed. 
Shop Direct said they also sent a text message to Mr N as a further reminder. In view of the 
timescales that have  passed, they havent  been able to provide evidence  of this, but I dont 
have any reason to doubt this is the case based on what theyve provided. I cant reasonably  
say Shop Direct didnt take steps to prevent Mr N from missing the payment, or that Mr N 
wasnt aware he needed to manually keep  on top of his statements. So I think it was 
reasonable for them to report the missed  payment as they did. Ive also looked  at the credit 
contract Mr N signed which says if you fail to make at least the minimum payment  by the 
due date a £12 charge will be payable,  but this hasnt  been added to Mr Ns balance.  So I 
think Shop  Direct have  taken into account  the size of the minimum payment  Mr N missed  
and acted fairly in the circumstances. 
I realise this wont be the outcome Mr N was hoping for, but I think  Shop Direct made a fair 
and reasonable decision.  So I wont be asking them to do anything more.
Ref: DRN71184923My final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 August 2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7118492