K821x#15complaint
The estate  of Mrs B has complained Bank  of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax, wont refund 
them for cash machine  transactions which Mrs B didnt make or authorise.
The estate  is represented in this complaint by Mrs E, Mrs Bs daughter.
background
Mrs B died in November 2016. Shed  been  unable to leave the house for a period before 
then as there were  no wheelchair ramps in her property. The local care service  had taken 
her out shopping  and for coffee from September  2015  but mostly Mrs B had been bedbound  
for a long period.
Mrs E noticed that there was no money left in Mrs Bs Halifax account. She also discovered 
two more accounts had been opened in April 2013.  As her mother had learning difficulties, 
Mrs E didnt think her mum could have opened these accounts herself. She was aware her 
mother had a friend whod spent time with her over the last few years. Ill call this friend 
Ms R.
Mrs E queried the usage of these accounts.  Life insurance policies were  paid out into these 
and there  were transfers from Mrs Bs existing ISA account. There  had then been  regular 
cash withdrawals of £300. Mrs E didnt  believe  these were done by her mother  as she held 
another account where her benefits were paid and regular bills were  paid out from.
Mrs E complained to Halifax  in 2016. It seems  the fraud claim was never properly 
investigated. In August  2018 Halifax confirmed theyd reinvestigated but didnt think thered 
been fraud in Mrs Bs case. They noted  the police hadnt charged Ms R, the person Mrs E 
thought had carried out these withdrawals and there was no evidence Mrs B didnt know  
what was going  on. Halifax did increase their offer of compensation to £1,000  for the 
inconvenience caused to Mrs E.
Mrs E brought a complaint to the ombudsman  service  on behalf of her mothers  estate.
Our investigator reviewed  the evidence. This included what Mrs E told us about Ms R whod 
used her mothers card, PIN and accounts.  Our investigator considered whether Mrs B had 
been a victim of financial abuse. 
She believed  Halifax  should have noted transfers from her ISA as well as reviewing the 
frequency of the withdrawals made from Mrs Bs account. None of what  happened seemed 
to reflect  Mrs Bs normal usage. She didnt think there was anything to suggest  Mrs B 
benefitted from any of the money withdrawn or had decided to give this money  to Ms R. She 
also noted Halifaxs own customer  notes  indicated Ms R had spoken  on the phone to them  
supposedly on Mrs Bs behalf.  Halifax had noted this contradicted Ms Rs denial to the police 
of any knowledge  of Mrs Bs accounts.
Overall our investigator didnt think Mrs B had made or authorised  the disputed  transactions. 
She asked  Halifax to rework the accounts  and refund payments to the estate, along with the 
£1,000 compensation.
Mrs E didnt believe £1,000 compensation was sufficient.  Because  the money  had been  
missing from her mothers ISA, shed not been  able to afford  to refurbish her mothers house  
Ref: DRN79110872before selling it. She believed shed lost money because of this. She believes £5,000 would  
be more appropriate.   
Halifax disagreed  in principle that transactions hadnt been authorised. They  provided more  
information about what had happened:
Calls  to open the accounts in April 2013  had been made  from Mrs Bs home 
telephone. Whilst  there was a third party present at this time  likely to be Ms R  
they believed  accounts would only have  been opened with Mrs Bs explicit consent.
All of the balance  from one ISA account was transferred to a new account with a 
better interest rate. Then  funds from another account were  transferred to an Instant 
Saver account.
They believed accounts had been  opened and transfers made with Mrs Bs consent.
Subsequent  transfers from an account into the (new) Instant Saver account were 
made in subsequent years and would have  been  noted if the passbook  had been 
regularly reviewed.
Signatures for withdrawals from Mrs Bs investments  accounts  in 2013, 2014 and 
2015 with the money  being  paid into the Instant Saver matched those Halifax  held for 
Mrs B.
Mrs Bs family were  estranged so they wondered how Mrs E could be so sure the 
transactions werent authorised.
Their systems wouldnt have picked up the frequent cash  machine withdrawals as 
these were always made using the genuine card and PIN.
Our investigator confirmed the account  opening and transfers may well have been 
authorised by Mrs B. However she still believed cash machine withdrawals were not made or 
authorised by Mrs B.
After further review, including a letter  from Mrs Bs care agency which suggested  Ms R had 
her debit card; Halifax queried what exact redress wed be recommending. They didnt 
believe it was possible to rework the accounts. After further consideration Halifax offered to 
refund £26,190  which  was the amount initially thought to be fraudulent  when the fraud claim  
was first raised.
Mrs E didnt accept this outcome. This complaint  has been referred to an ombudsman for a 
final decision.
I completed a provisional decision on 1 April 2020. I didnt believe Mrs B had made  or 
authorised the disputed  withdrawals so asked Halifax  to refund the estate  in full.
Mrs E accepted this outcome but made  some  comments about the circumstances of what 
happened:
Ms R had never been a friend of her mothers. Shed taken advantage of her 
mothers situation and vulnerability.
It was truer to represent  the relationship between her and her mother  as difficult 
rather than estranged.
She believed  their distance  in the last five years was more  than likely down to Ms R.
She remained concerned that Halifax had paid so little attention to the vulnerability of 
her mother; and
She insisted on a full apology.
Ref: DRN79110873Halifax accepted  the outcome of the provisional  decision.
I now have all I need to complete  my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Both parties accepted my provisional 
decision. Im repeating  its contents here as my final decision  having  reconsidered  the 
evidence and what Mrs E has most  latterly  said in her email accepting  the outcome.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  specifically 
whether the customer  was grossly negligent in looking after their card and PIN  but nothing 
thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making here.  So when we look at whether a 
bank has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud  complaint, one of the things we consider 
is whether the customer made the transactions  themselves or allowed  them  to be made. If 
they did, then we generally wouldnt  ask the bank to refund them. 
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions, as well 
as what both Halifax and Mrs E, on behalf of the estate, have told us. Weve  also got 
evidence from a care agency  and reports of the police investigation into Ms R (mostly from 
both Mrs E and Halifax).
I dont intend to repeat everything that has been  said in either our investigators view of 
13 August 2019  or subsequent emails. Except to say Im satisfied Ive reviewed the 
complaint thoroughly.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
To state the obvious, no party knows for sure what  happened here. Mrs B had a 
friend, Ms R, who initially helped her with her accounts. New accounts  were opened 
in 2013. Its suggested  these offered a better  interest rate and different options for 
looking after Mrs Bs money.
Although Halifax  no longer  holds these calls  nor would I expect them to have done 
so  I agree its more  than likely they spoke to Mrs B when opening these accounts.
However later automated calls used  to make transfers could just as easily  have been 
made by Ms R as Mrs B. Halifax accepts this too.
After Mrs E first claimed  thered  been fraud on her mothers account in her mothers  
branch, she was told this did look like fraud. I appreciate Mrs E believes Halifax  has 
gone back on what was said then. I dont think, at the time, thered  been a thorough 
investigation and it took some  time for this to happen. Obviously this was an error by 
Halifax but I dont  think it would  be fair to say Mrs E could rely on this. That said Ive 
already told Halifax  theyve not covered themselves in glory.
Whilst its certainly true Mrs B became immobile, theres  nothing  to suggest she was 
mentally incapable of making her own decisions.  I note Mrs B has told us her mother  
had mild learning difficulties but at the same  time Mrs B was also living with her two 
sons who needed support and care.
Halifax has accepted  the withdrawals do look unusual and wouldnt be what theyd 
expect to see in cases where  a customer was making their own use of their account.  
Ref: DRN79110874However they said it was difficult to tell whether Mrs B had agreed  to give money to 
Ms R.
Evidence from the care agency  from July 2016 shows  Mrs B told her carer  "her friend 
[Ms R], is going to lose her house  as she cannot  afford the rent" and that she was 
"going to give her some money to help her out" and "[Ms R] had her bank card".
I find this concerning. Even if Ms R is a close friend, she should know theres no 
reason why shed  need to keep Mrs Bs debit card. And the story being told to Mrs B 
suggests emotional manipulation. Mrs E has told me Ms R was an addictive gambler. 
This would  certainly explain the very regular  withdrawals.
All the cash machine withdrawals were  made  from the account ending  6865. These 
date from May 2013 to August 2016. Two withdrawals from the account ending 6964  
were made on 23 and 29 April 2013. These were branch withdrawals of £500 and 
most likely to have been made with Mrs E being present so it would be difficult to 
argue these were  unauthorised. 
All other  withdrawals from that account  were transfers made to the account ending 
6865. These took place from 7 April 2015  to 4 July 2016.  It seems from the evidence 
(from the care agency) that these transfers  were  made in branch by Mrs B herself.
Ive confirmed to both parties that therefore the disputed transactions are the total 
amount of the cash machine withdrawals.  These  all came  from account ending 6865.  
This supports  the idea Ms R kept hold of Mrs Bs debit card throughout this period 
and made these withdrawals.
After reviewing spreadsheets, which have been shared with both Halifax  and Mrs E, I 
can see the cash machine  withdrawals  work  out to total £38,290. 
I can see Mrs B held another account.  This funded her bills and normal expenditure 
and was where benefits were paid into.
I appreciate things are often not as cut and dry as they seem  and I can only consider the 
issues before me based on the evidence  Ive seen. I am aware that financial abuse does 
happen and the elderly are particularly vulnerable. Overall I believe this is what  happened  
here. That may not have been  Ms Rs intent when new accounts  were first opened but I think 
its fair to say this is what occurred when reviewing the cash machine withdrawals which  
were not made, or authorised by Mrs B.
Based on this conclusion, Halifax will need to refund £38,290 to the estate of Mrs B. All 
these withdrawals were made  from the current account so Im also asking Halifax to add 8% 
simple interest per year to that figure from 3 January 2017 when Mrs E was given probate.
I have also reviewed the figure that Halifax offered Mrs E as compensation. Ive explained  to 
Mrs E we dont give payments for distress  to executors of an estate as our distress 
payments can only be for the account-holder  themselves and the impact  on them. This 
doesnt apply  in this case. Im sure she believes this is unfair  but I have little leeway.  
I have additionally considered whether Halifax should be expected  to meet  any additional 
costs that Mrs E may have had by selling her mothers property when she did. I know  she is 
very upset  about  feeling she had no option but to place her brothers in a care home as she 
couldnt afford to upgrade the property they were  living in. But I dont believe it would be fair 
and reasonable to ask Halifax to meet any costs here. Unfortunately I think  this may always  
have been a consequence following Mrs Bs death.
Mrs E is adamant that she deserves a full apology  from Halifax.  I am uncomfortable about 
instructing Halifax to provide this. Although Halifax would be required to do this if I instructed 
them to do so, I think what Mrs E is looking for is a genuine expression that theyre sorry 
Ref: DRN79110875about what happened. Itll be no consolation to her but I do believe that in cases  like this  
and Ive unfortunately seem similar cases  there  is little a bank can do to stop a determined 
fraudster masquerading  as a friend  and helpmeet. Banks are always trying to balance 
protecting their customers whilst not limiting them to use their account  as they wish. Im sure 
Halifax will note the circumstances of what happened here to learn from this.
I leave it to Halifax to decide  whether they feel an apology  is the right thing to provide here.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as 
Halifax, to:
Refund the estate of Mrs B £38,290 for the disputed cash machine withdrawals;
Add 8% simple interest a year to that amount from 3 January 2017  until the date of 
settlement; and
Pay Mrs E £1,000 in compensation  as previously offered.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the estate of Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 5 June 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7911087