K821x#15complaint
Miss K complains  that The Car Finance Company (2007) Ltd (TCFC) refused to let her reject 
a car which had been sold with incorrect mileage. 
background
In December 2016 Miss K bought second  hand  car for £4,921. It was some seven years  old 
and the mileage was shown  as 67,407.  In August 2018 Miss K noticed  there  was a 
discrepancy in the mileage. She saw the MOT history showed the car had done 33,607 miles 
on 1 August 2012, 42,146  on 1 August  2013 and 37,721 miles on 21 July 2014.
Miss K contacted TCFC  in August 2018 to let it know there was a mileage  discrepancy.  It 
said she had signed the agreement. Miss K accepted she had signed it, but the discrepancy  
wasnt brought to her attention. After  TCFC  rejected  her complaint she brought the matter  to 
this service. It was considered by one of our adjudicators who recommended  it be upheld.
The only reference  he could  see on the documentation at the point of sale was under the 
section of 'Dealer's Offer, Warranty and Invoice'. Which stated: "the mileage  stated below is 
as shown on the Vehicle Odometer". While Miss K may have signed the agreement it didnt 
refer to a mileage discrepancy. He thought the seller should  have  made it clear there was a 
discrepancy.
He thought this was misleading and was an inducement  to Miss K to buy the car. He said 
Miss K's testimony was steadfast and credible. She had explained if she was made  aware of 
the discrepancy in mileage she wouldn't have bought the car. 
However, he noted Miss K had made use of the car and had covered some 32,000 miles in 
just less than two years She had suggested  that some or all of her monthly  payments  be 
returned, but he didnt think this appropriate. However, he thought she should  be allowed to 
reject the car and be paid £500 compensation.
TCFC didnt agree and suggested  the MOT figures  may be a simple  clerical error. It noted 
there was no physical evidence that the odometer  had been tampered with. It added  that it 
didnt think the adjudicators suggestion  that it remove any credit  file data was reasonable. It 
also thought the level of compensation was high.
The adjudicator supplied a copy of the HPI check  for the car which referenced a potential 
mileage discrepancy which he thought  the dealer should have brought  to the attention of 
Miss K. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
This complaint has been submitted as a claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974. Section  75 offers  protection to customers who use certain  types of credit to make  
purchases of goods or services. Under section 75 the consumer has an equal right to claim 
against the provider of the credit or the retailer  providing the goods or services,  if there  has 
been a misrepresentation or breach of contract on the suppliers part.
Ref: DRN70566272For section 75 to apply,  the law effectively says that there has to be a:
Debtor-creditor-supplier chain to an agreement and
A clear breach of contract  or misrepresentation by the supplier in the chain.
The invoice I have  seen  from the seller shows a mileage of 67,407 for the car in December  
2016. However the HPI check shows that there  might be a mileage  discrepancy.  This is 
confirmed by the MOT certificates.  I note the suggestion by TCFC that the figures on one of 
the MOT certificates may have been  entered erroneously. That is possible, but it is clear 
there was some discrepancy  at the time Miss K bought the car and the seller should  have 
brought it to her attention.
I would have expected the seller to have  carried  out due diligence  on the car before selling it 
and that would have brought to light the discrepancy  and Miss K would  have been  able to 
make an informed purchase. However, as it did not Miss K bought  the car as a result of 
misrepresentation.
She had made good use of it and while I havent seen any service  invoices it is to be 
expected the maintenance  of a higher mileage car to be greater that a low mileage one and 
so I consider the compensation of £500 to be fair. In turn it is reasonable to expect Miss K to 
pay for the use she has made of the car and so I dont consider any of her monthly 
payments should  be returned. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct The Car Finance Company 
(2007) Ltd to:
accept rejection of the vehicle.
unwind the agreement, with nothing  further to pay.
collect the vehicle  at no further cost to Miss K.
remove any information  from Miss Ks credit  file as Miss K wouldnt have entered  into 
the agreement  if she had known there was a mileage discrepancy.
pay £500 for the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7056627