K820x#14Complaint
Mrs S complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC didnt close  down  her current  account  when  
she entered into an Individual Voluntary  Arrangement (IVA). This meant the account and its 
overdrawn balance continued  to be reported  on her credit  history and she feels  this caused 
her to be turned down  for credit after her IVA was completed.
Background
Mrs S entered into an IVA in 2004  and Barclays issued  a termination notice for the accounts 
she held with it. One of these  was a current account  which had an overdrawn balance.  
Mrs S completed her IVA in 2008.  But, when she found she was being  declined applications 
for credit with other  providers, she discovered that Barclays  hadnt  closed down her current 
account as it should  have  in 2004.  So the account and the overdrawn balance were still 
being reported on her credit  record.
She complained to Barclays in 2015 and it apologised that the arrangement to settle the debt 
of the overdraft wasnt actioned correctly in 2004. It said the account shouldve  been closed 
to its recovery unit at the time. Barclays asked Mrs S to provide a completion certification 
and documentation  from the insolvency practitioner  so that it could correct  the records. It 
also sent Mrs S a cheque  for £100  as an apology. 
But Mrs S had difficulty getting this documentation  and wasnt able to provide this to 
Barclays until 2018. In the meantime, shed  had a number of applications  for credit which 
had been turned down, as she felt this had been caused by Barclayss  mistake in 2004.
Barclays said it would close the account  and remove any related markers  from Mrs Ss 
credit history.  And it offered Mrs S a further  £500 for the distress and inconvenience shed 
been caused.
However Mrs S had to again contact Barclays when her credit file hadnt  been amended  
30 days later. She also asked it to provide her with information in subject access  requests 
but said it hadnt responded. 
Barclays apologised that the request to amend her credit file hadnt  been followed through 
and offered Mrs S a further £150 in compensation, making a total of £650.
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and thought that Barclays offer was fair in 
the circumstances. He looked  at Mrs Ss credit reports and found that she had been 
accepted for some  forms of credit since 2011.  He also felt that there  were  others  factors that 
couldve affected any applications for credit  she made such as the number of times shed 
changed address;  the amount of credit searches shed had; late payments and a default. 
So he wasnt  satisfied that Barclays should be held completely  responsible for any credit 
applications shed  had declined. The investigator also set out how Barclays  had responded 
to Mrs Ss subject access requests.
Mrs S didnt accept the investigators findings. She said the fact that shed had access to 
credit didnt take away Barclays duty of care, she thought that it had failed to exercise  
reasonable care and skill when dealing with her account  and her complaints. She felt the 
impact on her credit file had meant that the credit she could get was at higher interest rates,  
and this had caused her to default  or be late with making payments.
Ref: DRN75029032Mrs S didnt agree that Barclayss offer of compensation was fair, and didnt take into 
account her monetary loss from paying premium interest rates for credit;  wasted expenditure 
through renting as she was unable  to get a mortgage; and the distress,  upset and 
embarrassment she was caused.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
And having done this I find Ive reached  much the same conclusion  as the investigator for 
the same  reasons.
Im sorry  to hear of the difficulties Mrs S has experienced over the years, and I do appreciate 
how she feels whats happened  has impacted upon her family life. 
Financial businesses take into account a number of different  factors  when deciding to offer a 
customer credit facilities  and its possible that there were other deciding variables that meant  
that some  of Mrs Ss applications for credit were turned down. I dont think  I can say with any 
certainty that the reason  for this was solely because of Barclays reporting of her current  
account, when  there  are other factors that could also have  influenced the lending decision.  
I think this is shown in that she was able to obtain  some forms of credit during this time although 
I appreciate that this may not have been at interest rates  Mrs S considers to be competitive.
Barclays has acknowledged  that her account  shouldve been closed down and moved to its 
recovery unit in 2004, and this wouldve meant it wouldnt  have continued  reporting  on her 
credit file as long as it did. It also didnt  update  her credit  record once it received the 
documentation it asked  for, and she needed  to chase this again so that it could  be resolved 
 which  I understand  it now has been. 
Overall, Barclays  paid Mrs S £100 in 2015  as an apology at that time, and has now offered a 
total of £650 to recognise the distress and inconvenience shes  been caused and the delay 
in putting things right.. Although I can understand Mrs Ss strength of feeling  about whats  
happened, I do think this amount represents fair compensation  in the circumstances  here.
My final decision
My decision  is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC should  pay Mrs S £650, as it has already 
offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7502903