K820x#14complaint
Mr N and Miss S say Halifax  Insurance Ireland Ltd (HIIL) mis-sold them  an MPPI policy.
St Andrews  Insurance Plc has now taken responsibility for this complaint. But, to make  
things easier, Ill refer to HIIL in my decision.
background
Mr N and Miss S took out a mortgage  in 2004. A few months  later in February 2005, they 
arranged an MPPI policy  through a postal application with HIIL. The policy covered them 
both if they lost their job and for the length of time they were  sick. 
Mr N and Miss S think HIIL mis-sold the policy. They say through  their representative that 
they had significant sick pay entitlement and so didnt need PPI. They  also add that the 
costs, benefits and optionality wasnt made clear and if it had been  then they would have 
declined the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr N and Miss S disagreed. So the complaint 
has been passed to me to make a decision.
my findings
I have considered all of the available evidence and arguments from the outset, in order to 
decide what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
Weve explained  how we handle complaints on our website. Ive used this approach in        
Mr N and Miss Ss case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr N and Miss Ss complaint and I will explain why. 
I have first of looked into whether Mr N and Miss S were given the option  to have the policy. 
The policy was sold a few months  after the mortgage was arranged  through  a postal  
application although I havent been able to see much from sales documentation from that 
time including  the application form that was used.
That said,  from what I know of sales carried out by HIIL at that time, and due to the lack of 
detail provided  in Mr N and Miss Ss recollections  of the sale, I cant safely  conclude that the 
policy was sold as they have described   that they were not given  the option to have it. The 
policy was arranged after the mortgage had been agreed and so Mr N and Miss S would 
have had to complete an application form and send it in the post in order  to obtain  the cover, 
after they had the finance in place. So on balance, I dont think  the policy was compulsory or 
they were led to believe they had to have it and so I dont uphold this part of their complaint 
for the reasons given. 
Moving on, as the policy was sold to Mr N and Miss S through  a postal application  form, I 
dont think HIIL gave  them any advice to buy the policy (as I cant see that any of its 
representatives spoke  to them when they completed  the form and sent it in). But it did need 
to make sure it gave enough  information about the policy  so that Mr N and Miss S could 
make an informed choice.  I cant be sure if HIIL did this but even if it did provide clear  
information to them, I dont think it would have changed her decision  to have it anyway.
Ref: DRN71551282I say this because  although Mr N did have 6 months full and 6 months  half sick pay to rely 
on, I think Mr N and Miss S still would have benefitted from the cover provided  by the policy. 
The benefit  on offer would have  paid out in addition to any sick pay or savings they would 
have had, so they could  use any benefit available to meet  their other  expenses  at what  was 
likely to be a difficult time financially. I think Mr N and Miss S would have had some use for 
the policy so I cant  reasonably  say they didnt  need the cover provided by the policy.
In addition Mr N and Miss S werent affected by any of the conditions  limiting the policys 
main benefits, such as those affecting  self-employed people or people with pre-existing 
medical conditions.  So, as they could  have benefitted from the full extent of the cover, I think  
it unlikely they needed better information  about  the policys exclusions and limitations. 
Its possible the information HIIL gave Mr N and Miss S about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it 
should have been. But even if they had received clear information on the costs,  I dont think  
it would  have changed their mind  to have the policy  for the reasons already given. Ive also 
seen nothing to suggest it was unaffordable.
All of this means  that I dont think HIIL mis-sold  this policy to Mr N and Miss S. So I dont  
think it would  be fair to tell St Andrews Insurance PLC (who have taken responsibility for this 
complaint) to give them back what they paid for it. I know this will be a disappointment for   
Mr N and Miss S but I dont uphold their complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr N and Miss Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 April 2019.  
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7155128