K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a regular premium  payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1997. Mr and Mrs W say Bradford & Bingley  Plc mis-sold them the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ws case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs W say the PPI was added to their mortgage without their consent and if theyd 
known about it they wouldnt have chosen to take it. Bradford & Bingley  have given me a 
number of documents from the time of the sale. One of these was a copy of the signed 
mortgage application. This had a separate section for insurance which included PPI. The 
PPI section had a brief description of the cover and required  a yes or no answer.  Mr and 
Mrs W wrote  yes to indicate  they wanted  to take out the policy. And I think  they were  aware  
they could have written  no to decline  the policy as they did with other insurance products on 
the same  page.
They then selected  the level of cover  and benefit amount they wanted and requested  for the 
policy to be in Mr Ws name only. As Mr W was the main earner, I think its more  likely they 
made this decision  after considering their circumstances. I appreciate theyve said the 
advisor could have filled in this section.  While  I agree this is possible,  regardless of who it 
was that filled it in, I think its more likely it was completed alongside  a conversation  about  the 
cover, considering  theyve amended the policy to suit their needs. I also note that Mr and 
Mrs W have signed the mortgage application to agree to its contents, and I think  its more 
likely they wouldve carefully  reviewed such an important document. 
In addition to this, Bradford & Bingley  have  given me a copy  of the mortgage offer that was 
sent to Mr and Mrs W. This clearly listed PPI under  the payment details, and later on in the 
document it set out that the first six months  were free for Mr and Mrs W. After  that point, the 
initial premiums would  be £13.00 per month. After considering everything available  to me, I 
think Bradford & Bingley  made it clear that Mr and Mrs W didnt have to take out the PPI and 
that they chose  to take it out. 
Bradford & Bingley  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs W so it didnt have to check  if it 
was right for Mr W. But it did have to make sure Mr and Mrs W got the information  they 
needed to decide if it was right for them. 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley gave Mr and Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take out the PPI - so it looks like they wanted 
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of Mr Ws circumstances at the time it doesnt 
look like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would 
have been useful for him if something  went wrong. 
Mr W has said he wouldve received six months  at full pay, followed by three  months at 75% 
of his pay and then three months at 50% of his pay if he was sick. Looking at the documents  
Ref: DRN78173122Bradford & Bingley  gave  me, Mr Ws employer provided details of Mr Ws employment  when  
he applied  for the mortgage. They confirmed that Mr W wouldve received only six months of 
sick pay. I think its more likely  that the information  Mr Ws employer gave at the time of the 
sale is more accurate than the information Mr W gave when he complained. And this is 
understandable considering almost 15 years  had passed since the time of the sale and when 
Mr and Mrs W made a complaint. 
In any event, I still think Mr W couldve found the policy useful even if he did have the sick 
pay he mentioned. This is because  the sick pay he described slowly decreased after six 
months. Whereas the PPI policy couldve covered his repayments for up to 12 months per 
claim if he was too ill to work, had an accident or was made redundant. And that wouldve  
been in addition to any sick pay or redundancy pay he was entitled to. Ive also considered  
that Mr and Mrs Ws mortgage was a serious financial commitment.  And I think  its more 
likely they wouldve wanted to protect  their repayments given the serious consequences  of 
defaulting on a debt secured against their home.  On balance  I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover. 
This means  Bradford & Bingley  doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and 
Mrs W.
But Bradford  & Bingley will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W because: 
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of 
the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr and Mrs W about that. Because Bradford & 
Bingley didnt tell Mr and Mrs W, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the amount of 
commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that 
offer is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  has to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission and profit share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bradford & Bingley should also pay back  to Mr 
and Mrs W any extra interest they paid because of that.
Bradford & Bingley  should pay back to Mr and Mrs W the extra they paid each month  
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  should also pay Mr and Mrs W 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs W can claim  back  the tax if Mr W doesnt  pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs W.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does have to pay back to Mr and Mrs W any commission  and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Ref: DRN78173123Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019
Rebecca Norris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7817312