K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains that CIGNA Europe  Insurance Company SA-NV (Cigna) unfairly declined 
his travel insurance claim for two cameras damaged during his holiday.
backgroundIn November 2018, Mr T told Cigna that two cameras had been damaged whilst on a safari 
holiday three months earlier, in August 2018.  He said that one of the cameras  was mounted  
on a tripod  at his feet near a car door, and it was knocked over when the door was opened.  
He says the tripod fell forwards onto another camera on the floor, causing damage to both.  
He didnt register a claim with Cigna in November,  as he intended  to find out whether the 
damage was covered  under his home  insurance first, before claiming on his travel 
insurance.
Mr T contacted Cigna again in March 2019 to register the claim under his travel  insurance 
policy, as his home insurer had told him the damage wasnt  covered under that policy. He 
had received a quote to repair one camera for £104,  but the other was beyond repair and 
worth £2,500. Cigna  asked  him for evidence of the trip, proof of ownership, and a repair 
quote.
Cigna contacted Mr T in April 2019 to discuss the circumstances  of the claim in more detail. 
He explained  they had stopped for a break during  a group safari  tour, and that he kept the 
cameras out for later use. He said one of the cameras was mounted on a tripod  by his legs, 
and the tripod fell over onto the other  camera. He said because he wasnt  looking down at 
the camera, he wasnt sure how the tripod fell. One of the cameras  was chipped, but the 
other was beyond repair as the lens had been completely torn off.
Cigna raised some  concerns about  the claim. It noted several months had passed between 
the alleged incident date and Mr T contacting  Cigna,  and it said there  wasnt any evidence  
the damage had occurred  during  the trip. Cigna also said Mr T had provided inconsistent  
accounts about the incident, and it queried  how a camera was so severely  damaged after 
falling from such a short height. Cigna said that without  a clear and consistent account,  it 
couldnt be certain Mr T had taken  due care of the cameras.  Cigna  asked him to provide 
evidence to support  his version of events,  such as a witness statement.
Mr T said he couldnt fully recall what he had said in November 2018, but he didnt agree he 
had been inconsistent. He said its possible that someone else had told him the tripod  had 
been knocked over by the car door,  as he hadnt seen it himself. He said either way, the 
damage was caused by the tripod accidentally falling over, which  should be covered 
regardless of how it happened. 
Mr T also explained that the initial  delay in him notifying Cigna was caused by other matters 
which took priority.  He said his mother had recently been injured and he was in the process 
of starting a new job. Mr T also provided  an email from one of the tour guides which stated 
that whilst  the tour guide wasnt present when the incident happened,  he recalls Mr T 
showing him the damage during the trip.
Ref: DRN74864732Because the tour guides statement was provided  more than seven months  after the trip and 
he wasnt present when the damage occurred, Cigna didnt accept it as evidence an insured 
event had taken  place. Cigna concluded there  wasnt  enough evidence  to show the incident  
took place during the trip, and it declined the claim.
Mr T referred a complaint to this service.  One of our investigators thought the complaint 
should be upheld.  She was persuaded  that, on balance, an insured event had occurred 
whilst Mr T was on holiday.  Cigna disagreed, so the matter has been passed  to me to 
decide.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is inconclusive or 
incomplete, I have reached  my decision on the balance of probabilities  this means
I have determined what I consider is more likely  to have happened, based on all the 
evidence that is available  and the wider surrounding  circumstances.
It isnt disputed that Mr Ts cameras are damaged. However, Cigna declined the claim on the 
basis he hasnt demonstrated  an insured  event  occurred during his trip. The onus is on Mr T 
to show, on balance, an insured event happened. Here, that means showing the cameras 
were accidentally damaged during his safari  trip. If hes able to do so, then the onus  
switches to Cigna to show a policy exclusion applies, or a policy condition has been 
breached, if it wishes to decline the claim.
There are two issues for me to consider here. The first is whether the damage  happened 
during Mr Ts insured trip, and the second  is whether the damage  happened in a manner 
which is covered. I will address those issues in turn.
Cigna says that Mr T should  have contacted it sooner about  the claim; and because  so much 
time had passed  after the insured trip, its difficult to determine whether the incident occurred 
during the trip. I appreciate the point  Cigna makes here. Had Mr T made Cigna aware  of the 
incident sooner,  there wouldnt be the same  doubt there is now.  So, I dont consider Cignas 
initial concern  about  the delay to have been unreasonable.
However, Mr T has provided a statement  from a representative of the tour company, which 
in my view,  supports  the damage occurred during his holiday. Whilst I appreciate the point  
Cigna makes about the time between the incident and the statement,  I have seen no other  
reason to doubt the credibility of the statement. Theres no doubt  that Mr T was on a safari 
holiday. It follows that, its more likely than not, he would have taken his cameras with him. 
So, although  I accept  Cignas initial concern about the delay wasnt  unreasonable, Im 
persuaded Mr T has, on balance, since shown the damage occurred during the trip. 
The policy doesnt  give a specific timescale  for claims to be reported,  beyond as soon as 
possible. I accept that Mr T could have  reported the claim sooner, but given the personal 
circumstances described by Mr T and there wasnt a need  for him to replace or repair  the 
cameras urgently, overall, I dont  consider  the delays to have been so unreasonable the 
claim can fairly be declined on that basis alone.  Mr T also wouldnt have been able to 
provide Cigna with materially different information or evidence,  if the claim had been  
reported sooner.
Ref: DRN74864733Ive listened to the calls between Mr T and Cigna. When Mr T originally reported  the claim in 
November 2018,  he said the damage was caused when his tripod was knocked over by an 
opening car door. During the subsequent  call in March 2019, he wasnt sure how the tripod 
had been knocked over. Whilst Mr Ts recollection  of the incident had changed in terms of 
the car door,  Im satisfied  the cause of the damage  has been consistent throughout the 
claim, i.e. the tripod being knocked  over onto the second camera. 
I also dont consider it unreasonable that Mr Ts recollections changed between  the phone  
calls given they took place four months  apart;  and I accept what  he says about  simply 
recalling what he was told about the car door, having not seen it himself.
The policy includes  cover for accidental damage  to personal belongings. Based on Mr Ts 
recollections, Im satisfied that the damage  to his cameras was accidental   regardless of 
whether the tripod was knocked over by a car door or some  other  cause. 
Cigna says because  Mr T hasnt been  able to provide a consistent explanation about  what  
happened, it cant be certain  he was taking due care of the cameras, or they werent  left 
unattended. However, I dont consider such conclusions to be fair or reasonable.
Mr T has been  consistent in his recollection  that the cameras  were  placed by his feet, and he 
was close by them at the time. Although he says he may not have been looking down at the 
cameras or may have  had his back turned, given they were  close to him, that doesnt  lead 
me to conclude he wasnt taking due care, or they were  left unattended.
Cigna says the tripod was only one or two feet from the ground when the incident  occurred, 
so the damage  isnt consistent with a fall from that height. However, Cigna hasnt inspected 
the cameras, or provided anything to show that the damage sustained isnt consistent  with 
the incident described. As such, Im not persuaded I can reasonably place any weight on 
what it says here.
In conclusion, Im not persuaded  Cigna  declined Mr Ts claim fairly. Therefore, it should  now 
settle the claim in line with the remaining policy terms and limits. If Mr T has since repaired 
or replaced  either  camera, subject to him providing  Cigna with proof  of payment, it should 
pay interest at 8% simple  per year on this part of the settlement, from the date he paid the 
amount until the date Cigna settles the claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint. 
I require CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV  to:
-settle the claim subject to the remaining policy terms and limits; and 
-if Mr T has already repaired or replaced  either camera,  subject to him providing proof 
of payment, it should pay him interest* at 8% simple per year on this part of the 
settlement, from the date he paid the amount until the date the claim is settled
Ref: DRN74864734Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 October  2020.
Vince Martin
ombudsman
*If CIGNA Europe Insurance Company SA-NV  considers  that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs 
to deduct income tax from any interest paid, it should tell Mr T how much tax its taken off. It should  
also give him a certificate showing the amount deducted, if requested,  so he can reclaim it from              
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7486473