K820x#14complaint
Ms D complains that Barclays Bank UK plc failed to act in accordance with relevant banking  
regulations, and that she hasnt received adequate  compensation for that.  
background
Ms D had a credit card with Barclays, issued under the Barclaycard brand. In or around June 
2014 she found that she was struggling to make repayments and contacted  Barclaycard. 
From January 2015 Barclaycard  suspended  interest and charges on the account,  and in 
August 2015 the debt was sold to another company, P.
Some years  later Barclaycard identified  that, from October 2013, it hadnt  handled  cases  of 
financial difficulty as it should have done.  Specifically,  it hadnt  engaged properly with 
customers who, like Ms D, had fallen behind  with payments. It wrote to Ms D to explain  that 
and to tell her that, as a consequence, it would be refunding interest and charges incurred 
on the account between June 2014 and January 2015. To put the refund into effect,  
Barclaycard had asked  P to reduce the account  balance by over £300.
Barclaycard later paid Ms D a further £50 in recognition of the distress  this had caused her. 
Ms D didnt think that went far enough,  though, and referred the matter  to this service  where 
one of our adjudicators looked at it. The adjudicator thought, however, that Barclaycard had 
done enough and didnt  recommend any further compensation. She (the adjudicator)  noted 
that Ms Ds complaint  was in part about the way P had behaved after the debt was sold on, 
not about the actions of Barclaycard. 
Ms D didnt accept the adjudicators findings, and so the case has been passed  to me for 
review  as the final stage  in our process.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the adjudicator did, and for very similar  reasons.  
Barclaycard acknowledged that it probably  hadnt  treated Ms D fairly  some years ago  
something which came to light as a result of a wider  review. Thats not in dispute. The issue I 
have to decide is whether its done enough  to put things  right.  
Barclaycard had already suspended interest and charges from January 2015  that is, some  
years before this further issue came to light. As a result of its review,  however, it decided it 
should have done that some months sooner,  and asked P to adjust  the account to reflect  
that. It also paid Ms D a further £50. 
Since August 2015, however, Barclaycard has had no direct involvement  with the account or 
(until it wrote  to her about the review) Ms D. It wasnt responsible  for the actions of P after it 
sold the debt in 2015.
Its obviously not right that Barclaycard appears not to have followed relevant rules  and 
regulations concerning Ms Ds account  in 2014 and early 2015. But in my view its taken 
appropriate steps to address those shortcomings, and I dont believe it needs to do any 
more.
Ref: DRN75331692my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK plc does not need to do any more  to resolve 
Ms Ds complaint. Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask 
Ms D to accept or reject my decision before 28 July 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7533169