K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Bank of Scotland  plc, trading as Halifax  lowered his monthly mortgage 
payment without his permission. 
background
Mr R took out a repayment  mortgage with Halifax for £70,000. The total term of the 
mortgage was for 14 years with the first 5 being on a fixed  interest  rate. Mr Rs monthly 
repayment was around  £480. 
Mr R made  a lump sum payment of around £5,800 in 2018. A few months  later Halifax 
reduced his monthly  payment to around £380. Mr R says his monthly  repayment  amount had 
been reduced without his permission. He says the mortgage terms he agreed to say that his 
monthly payment  and his interest  rate were  fixed for the first five years. He says he took the 
mortgage out because it allowed him to overpay by 10% each year without penalty.  By 
reducing the monthly repayment he says Halifax is taking away the benefit  of overpaying. 
Halifax said it was entitled to lower the monthly mortgage payment because  Mr R had 
overpaid. It said this was set out in the terms of the mortgage. It said the term could be 
reduced instead, but Mr R would have to have an appointment with a mortgage advisor first 
to assess whether that was affordable to him. Halifax did agree it had given Mr R poor 
service when it had first tried to investigate his concerns  and paid him £115  compensation 
for his call costs and for any inconvenience caused. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said Halifax  was entitled to 
reduce the monthly payment because of the overpayment, and this was set out in the 
mortgage information booklet Mr R received. He thought the £115  compensation  was fair for 
the problems Halifax had caused  in trying to resolve Mr Rs concerns. 
Mr R didnt agree. In summary he said:
He accepted the mortgage term wont reduce when  he makes an overpayment.  But 
the terms of his mortgage specifically  say that whilst he is on the fixed  rate, the 
monthly repayments wont change. He said Halifax should  keep his monthly 
repayment the same and then re-assess the monthly repayments once the fixed rate 
period comes to an end. 
The mortgage booklet he was provided is different to the one our investigator and 
Halifax have relied on. The one he received didnt include the term about Halifax  
being allowed  to reduce the monthly repayment.  
The mortgage booklet covers a range of different  mortgages   it isnt specific to the 
product he took out. It isnt clear  which  terms should apply  to which  type of mortgage.  
The complaint has been passed  to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr R made his overpayment, the overall  amount  owed on his mortgage reduced  
significantly. If the monthly  repayment stayed the same, it would mean his mortgage would 
finish sooner than the agreed 14 years. Because a term reduction  isnt possible without prior 
Ref: DRN74741952agreement from Halifax, the only other  alternative is for the normal  monthly  repayment  to 
reduce in order to keep  the mortgage term the same. 
Mr R says he understands this point  but feels the repayment amount should only have 
changed at the end of the five year fixed rate period. Whilst I appreciate  this would be more 
beneficial to him, I cant agree it would be fair to ask Halifax to do that. Halifax has agreed to 
consider doing  so if Mr R reviews his mortgage  with one of its advisors, and I dont  think  this 
is an unreasonable request.
He says that Halifaxs actions have gone against  the terms of the mortgage. But I dont 
agree. The mortgage offer form gives an illustration of what  the repayments will be if 
payments are made  on time and for the agreed amount. But it isnt reasonable to expect the 
illustration to take account for all possible eventualities. And Mr R has made payments which 
are more than the agreed amount. 
Mr R says that the mortgage  booklet he received says the monthly  repayments  will be fixed. 
And this is true, but that doesnt  mean Halifax cant amend the repayments at all. The 
booklet explains in more detail what would happen under different circumstances (such  as 
missed payments, overpayments or additional charges). The booklet  Mr R sent us does set 
out that overpayments will reduce  the monthly repayment. And it says if hed prefer to 
reduce the mortgage term instead,  hed need  to speak to a mortgage  advisor  first. So I think 
this information  was made available to him and it was clear this would apply  to his mortgage. 
The purpose of a fixed rate mortgage is to protect against interest rate rises   and therefore 
increasing monthly repayments. Halifax hasnt increased the monthly  repayment  it agreed 
with Mr R and nor has it caused him to owe additional money. His fixed term interest rate 
remains the same and he can continue overpaying by up to 10% of the mortgage balance 
per year without charge. So Halifaxs actions havent caused Mr R any detriment. 
Lastly, Halifax has accepted it gave a poor level of service  to Mr R when  he first queried the 
repayment reduction. He had to make  several  calls and was sent back and forth between  the 
branch and the customer service helpline. I realise  this would have been very frustrating for 
Mr R, but I think  the £115 Halifax  has already paid is fair compensation for the 
inconvenience and costs Mr R incurred. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 February  2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7474195