K822xcomplaint
Mr H complains about a default  marker  which was placed on his credit file by CapQuest 
Debt Recovery Limited.
background 
Mr H had a Marbles credit card which in 2012 was assigned to CapQuest.  In 2015 CapQuest  
terminated his credit card agreement and reported his account as in default. In 2018 he 
complained about this, saying that he had never received a default  notice. He asked for a 
copy of the notice, and copies of the assignment  deed and his credit card agreement.
CapQuest said it had sent Mr H a default  notice, and that the default marker had been 
properly applied. It did not have the original signed  agreement, but it sent him a 
reconstructed copy. It said he was not entitled to see the deed  of assignment,  as it was 
confidential, but it sent him a copy of the notice of assignment. However it paid him £75 for 
inefficient complaint  handling.
Mr H was not satisfied  with that response, and so in January 2019 he brought  this complaint  
to our Service. Our investigator  only upheld it to the extent  that she recommended that 
CapQuest pay another £50 for how it had initially dealt with Mr Hs complaint. But she said 
that as CapQuest  had contacted Mr H in 2015 about  his missed payments, she would not 
uphold his complaint about the default notice.
Neither party was satisfied with that opinion, and so this complaint has been  referred  to me.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
CapQuest didnt  have the original signed credit card agreement, but in those circumstances 
it is entitled to send Mr H a reconstituted copy. It has done  so.
I agree  that Mr H is not entitled to the deed of assignment.  He is entitled to a notice of 
assignment, which is not the same thing.  It is simply a letter telling  him that his agreement 
has been assigned  to CapQuest. A copy was provided to him by CapQuest in response to 
his complaint. I have  seen  it, and it is correctly addressed. I have no reason  to doubt that this 
was sent to him in 2012.
Before terminating  Mr Hs agreement, it was essential for CapQuest to serve a notice  of 
default first. I have seen  no evidence  that this was done, and so I must therefore conclude  
that the agreement was not properly terminated. That is an error. However, I think it was a 
harmless error, because  the purpose of a default notice is to give the debtor an opportunity 
to remedy the default  by paying all arrears by the deadline in the notice. If the arrears are 
paid on time,  then the default is treated as never having happened. But even after Mr H was 
told about his missed payments, and about  the termination of his agreement, he still didnt  
pay his arrears. I will elaborate.
Mr H made  no payments at all in August, September and October 2015, He presumably 
knew this at the time. A termination letter was sent to him in November at his old address, 
but I have seen a letter  from Mr H to CapQuest  dated September, telling CapQuest  he had 
Ref: DRN70543762moved, so I accept that he may not have received that letter,  unless it was forwarded to him. 
Nevertheless, ten days later he made a payment of £150, which supports CapQuests 
assertion that it was in contact with him in that month. But after that he only made  one 
payment in the whole  of 2016,  £250 in May, and he made no more  payments until February 
2017, when he began  to pay £80 a month. (An arrangement to pay appears to have been 
agreed in June or July of that year.)
That payment  history suggests to me that even if Mr H had received a default  notice,  this 
would not have made any difference. I cant rule out the possibility that it would have done, 
and that he would have cleared the arrears, but on the balance of probabilities  that does not 
seem likely to me. So I dont think it would be fair and reasonable of me to require CapQuest 
to remove the default  marker. It accurately reflects the condition  of his account.
Mr H has complained that CapQuest  has not complied with section 78 of the Consumer 
Credit Act 1974. But that section does not apply to an agreement  once it has been 
terminated.
Mr H has complained about CapQuest  using  his wrong first name. The details CapQuest has 
in its records give another  first name  and then a middle initial which  is the same letter as the 
first letter of the first name Mr H has used throughout this complaint. In 2018 CapQuest 
wrote a letter to Mr H (at his current address)  asking for some  identification,  such  as a 
driving licence. I dont know what happened next,  but Mr H does not seem to have disputed  
that he did have  the Marbles credit  card this complaint is about. All of his Marbles  
statements are addressed to the same name that CapQuest calls him by, and were sent to 
the same  address that Mr H accepts was his old address before he moved. Mr H made  
some payments to the account. So this is not a case of mistaken  identity. Its his debt.
I think that £75 is fair compensation  for the complaint-handling  issues,  and I do not think  that 
CapQuest needs to pay more.
my final decision
So my decision is that the £75 which CapQuest  Debt Recovery Limited  has paid Mr H is fair 
compensation, and it need not do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7054376