K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  about Bank of Scotland plcs investigation into cheque fraud and 
subsequent activity on her account.  Miss J also complains about unarranged overdraft fees 
applied to her account. Miss J would like Bank  of Scotland plc to refund  her the money  from 
the cheque and also the unarranged overdraft fees.
background
Miss J has complained to our service about charges  which have been applied to her account 
in 2016 and 2017. Miss J provided us with a list of the charges in dispute.  Another 
ombudsman at this service has already considered this aspect of her case and issued a final 
decision in 2018  about the charges  applied  to her account. So, this aspect of Miss Js 
complaint has already  been dealt with so I dont need to consider this aspect  of the case.
In February 2017,  Miss J paid a cheque for £3753.75 into her account. Miss J contacted our 
service in October 2017 and explained:
the money was fraud  and the bank manager has been meeting someone at to give my 
money to them,  I am still getting charge unplanned overdraft fees
When our investigator asked Miss J more  questions she provide us a list of transactions she 
disputed on the account. All the transactions which Miss J highlighted were overdraft 
charges on the account. 
Our investigator wrote to Miss J on several occasions and sent her copies of her statements 
to ensure that there  were  no other  transactions in dispute  on the account. Miss J hasnt 
highlighted any other transactions  on the account which are in dispute.  
Miss J has said on numerous occasions that the cheque she paid in has been fraud. Miss J 
has then gone  on to say that she had been  in touch with the police and explained she put 
the cheque that went  missing  into her account and she was given a judgement  and the 
company want their money.  
Our investigator reviewed  the case and decided that there  was no fraud on the account. 
They explained once  the cheque had been  paid in the correct balance was showing on   
Miss Js account. She isnt disputing any withdrawals which  happened  on the account apart 
from the charges  which the bank applied. So, he concluded that there was no evidence of 
fraud on this account.  
Miss J was unhappy with the investigators  conclusion and asked to have the case  reviewed 
by an ombudsman. The case  was passed to me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I have reached  the same  conclusion as the investigator for broadly the 
same reason. And Ill explain why. 
overdraft charges
Ref: DRN77158432Miss Js complaint about the overdraft charges has already  been  addressed  by another 
ombudsman so I cannot consider this part of the cases. 
the cheque paid into Miss Js account
Ive seen a copy  of the cheque and weve also sent Miss J a copy. The amount written on 
the cheque is £3753.75.  The statement shows Miss Js balance  increased by £3753.75 on 
the day the cheque was lodged. Because of this, I am satisfied  that the staff member  did 
correctly pay the cheque into Miss Js account.  
withdrawals from the account
Miss J has reviewed her statements and she doesnt dispute  any of the payments which left 
her account.  The only area of dispute is the charges  applied to the account  and as Ive 
explained another ombudsman has considered  this part of the case. 
When reviewing the statements I did not come across any discrepancies.  Im satisfied that 
the balance on Miss Js account  was correct after each payment she made. Based on the 
evidence Im satisfied a staff member  did take money from her account.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Miss Js complaints against  Bank  of Scotland  plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 September 2019.
Tracey Nugent
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7715843