K820x#14complaint
Mrs T complains that Virgin Money  plc declined to reduce  the interest rate on her credit  card 
and were rude to her when she tried to speak to them about it.
background
Mrs T had a credit card with Virgin. She is self-employed  and doesnt  get regular income 
which means its hard to commit  to a regular monthly payment. For that reason, she called 
Virgin and asked if they would reduce the interest  rate. Virgin said that they couldnt, but did 
put her in touch  with the collection team who offered to talk to her about putting  a payment 
plan in place.
Mrs T explained that she couldnt  have a payment plan as she was self-employed.  She felt 
that Virgin were rude to her on the phone and didnt listen to her properly. 
Virgin have explained  that they apply the same  rate to all their customers, unless there  was 
a special promotional  offer,  which  there wasnt in Mrs Ts case. They  did accept  that their 
customer service  had not been  as good  as it could have  been when they talked to her on the 
phone, and so offered her £30 in compensation to reflect  that. 
Our adjudicator thought that Virgin had been right to pass  Mrs T on to someone  to talk to her 
about financial hardship, as she was saying  that she was finding  it difficult to meet the 
repayments. She also thought that Virgins offer to pay £30 in light of the poor telephone  
experience she had was fair in the circumstances.  
But Mrs T disagreed, and so the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
Since then,  Mrs T has raised the fact that her card had been declined on several occasions,  
which is something that she wants us to look into as well.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
What I need to decide here is whether Virgin have acted fairly  in their dealings  with Mrs T. I 
believe that they have, and Ill explain why.
It is up to Virgin to decide what interest rates  they offer to their customers.  That is a 
commercial decision,  which we cant interfere with generally. I cant  say that it is unfair of 
Virgin to not change their general practice  here and offer Mrs T a preferential  rate, at her 
request, and due to her specific circumstances. And the fact that Mrs T is a long-standing 
customer doesnt mean that I could say that it is unfair of Virgin to stick to their advertised 
rate. 
Ive listened to the call between Virgin and Mrs T. Its clear that Mrs T found it quite 
frustrating, and I can understand why. She didnt  want  to have information about a payment 
plan - she wanted to see if Virgin would reduce her interest rate.
So whilst I understand that the direction the call went in would have annoyed her, I do 
recognise that Virgin have an obligation  to help their customers and identify those  who may 
Ref: DRN79963732be in financial hardship. In light of what Mrs T was saying,  I think  Virgin were duty-bound to 
talk to her and offer to help by putting  in place a payment plan. For that reason, I dont think  
that Virgin did anything  wrong in suggesting this.  
Having listened  to the call, although  Virgin could have handled it better,  I think  that the offer 
of £30 compensation is a fair and reasonable one in the circumstances. And, in any event, I 
dont think increasing  this figure will resolve how Mrs T feels. I know  that Mrs T will be 
disappointed by this, but I wont  be telling  Virgin to pay more.
Mrs T has already been told that her other issue, about her card being declined,  is a 
separate complaint that has to be set up and looked  at separately. But she feels that the 
complaints are interlinked, and should be looked  at together.  Whilst I can see how she feels  
about this other, new, element of her complaint, I am not allowed to look at it now. This is 
because Virgin havent had a chance  to investigate and respond  to it, so it wouldnt be fair 
for me to make a decision without hearing  what they have to say. 
      
my final decision
My final decision is that I wont be asking Virgin Money plc to increase its offer of 
compensation, and its now for Mrs T to decide  if she wishes to accept it. .
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Dan Bunting
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7996373