K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains Virgin Money plc (Virgin) hasnt handled a chargeback process fairly and 
that his personal  information has been  shared with third parties.
background
In May 2018, Mr A purchased a vehicle from an auction house  for £2350.00. He found the 
vehicle to be unsatisfactory and so complained to Virgin and instigated a chargeback  
process.
Virgin credited Mr As account  in accordance with the chargeback  process but following 
information received  from the merchant re-debited the account 16 days later.
Mr A was unhappy with this outcome  and brought his complaint  to this service.
Our investigator looked into things for Mr A. He looked at the terms and conditions of the 
sale the merchant  had supplied to Virgin and the correspondence between  Virgin  and Mr A. 
He found Virgin had followed the chargeback process correctly  and found  no evidence  of 
Virgin sharing information  with third parties,  beyond  that necessary  to investigate the 
chargeback request. He concluded Virgin had acted fairly and reasonably and so didnt ask 
them to do anything further.
Mr A remained dissatisfied. He wants the balance under dispute  put back  in his account  or 
asks Virgin  to write it off. He asked for an ombudsman review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I know  it will disappoint Mr A but I think 
Virgin acted fairly in rejecting his chargeback request. Ill explain why. 
When something goes  wrong  and the payment is made in part or in full with a debit or credit  
card, it might  be possible to recover the money paid through a chargeback. A chargeback is 
the process by which payment disputes  are resolved between  card issuers and merchants. 
What this means here is that Virgin can, in some circumstances, ask for a transaction  to be 
reversed if theres a problem with the goods or services.
I understand Mr A doesnt think Virgin have applied the chargeback process  fairly  so it may 
help if I explain how the chargeback process  works. When a customer disputes a charge or 
transaction under chargeback, the transaction is temporarily removed from the customers 
account pending the outcome. The business  (in this case  Virgin) sends the dispute to the 
merchant, it must investigate the transaction, and either accepts or defends the chargeback.  
If the merchant successfully defends the chargeback,  the transaction is reinstated by the 
business. 
Ive looked carefully  at the correspondence between  Virgin and Mr A. In June, Virgin  wrote to 
Mr A to inform him they had placed  the transaction in dispute, which means Mr A didnt have 
to make any payment  for it and Virgin didnt charge any interest whilst it was investigated.  It 
asked Mr A to supply further  information. I can see Mr A supplied some  but not all the 
information Virgin needed to carry out its investigation. 
Ref: DRN76577452Virgin wrote  to Mr A to say it would make a provisional credit to his account pending the 
outcome of the investigation and wrote  to the merchant advising of the position.
Unfortunately, it seems Mr A didnt provide the information Virgin  requested but the 
merchant did respond with the terms and conditions of the sale.  Ive looked at the terms and 
conditions of the sale. Clause 14 reads:
"All conditions and warranties as to the condition. quality,  description or fitness for any 
purpose whatsoever  of any lot offered for sale or sold by the Auctioneer are hereby 
expressly excluded. No vehicle  is warranted  or held out to be roadworthy and no lot is 
warranted or held out to be merchantable  or safe for use or complying  with statutory 
requirements for use. display  or movement. Neither  the Seller nor the Auctioneer will be 
bound  by or liable  for any representation  of any kind whatsoever. whensoever  or 
howsoever made. Neither the Auctioneer nor the seller  shall be liable for any loss or 
damage whether caused by negligence or otherwise of either  or both or of their servants  
or agents and without  prejudice to the generality  of the foregoing neither the Auctioneer 
nor the Seller  shall be liable for any loss of profit. business  or production or similar or other 
loss whether  direct  or indirect or consequential.   however caused. In the circumstances   any 
potential buyer should  rely solely and exclusively upon his own inspection of any lot and 
should not treat statements made in sale particulars  or before or during the Auction by the 
Seller or the Auctioneer  either as representations  or to be relied upon. The Auctioneer has 
no authority to make representations. Buyers are advised that a sale by auction is not a 
consumer sale."
Im satisfied from what Ive seen that Virgin corresponded with Mr A promptly and clearly  
explained the chargeback  process to Mr A. It explained what information  was required to 
investigate the disputed transaction and made it clear that the funds could be taken off the 
account again, and, when they were going to take them.
Having looked  at the information supplied by the merchant, Im satisfied that Virgin 
reasonably declined the chargeback. I say this as the terms and conditions of the 
sales contract make it clear  that the merchant is not responsible for the condition or 
roadworthiness of any vehicle sold at their auction.  Im persuaded,  In this case, the 
merchant successfully defended the chargeback  so the transaction  was reinstated  on 
Mr As credit  card account.
I havent seen  anything to suggest Virgin shared  personal information beyond  that of the 
disputed transaction  brought  by Mr A either and so Im not going to ask Virgin to do 
anything further.  
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 January 2020.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7657745