K820x#14Complaint
Mr D has complained that Bank of Scotland plc, trading  has Halifax,  wont  refund cash  
withdrawals which he says he didnt  make.
Background
Mr D is disputing eleven ATM cash withdrawals, totalling £900, made between 17 
September 2016 and 6 January 2017.  The withdrawals were made from his Halifax  savings 
account.
Mr D first noticed  the withdrawals when  he received  his annual  statement. He raised a fraud 
complaint in branch in January 2017  and asked for a refund. 
Halifax didnt respond until January  2019.  It decided not to refund Mr D because:
all the disputed cash withdrawals were made with his genuine bank card and PIN
Mr D had made a couple of genuine cash withdrawals in between the disputed ones
he still had possession of his card and he hadnt  lost it
he said he hadnt shared his PIN or card with anyone else.
It concluded, therefore, that Mr D had authorised  the cash  withdrawals.
However, it acknowledged that its service had been poor and paid £140 directly into his 
account.
As Mr D didnt  agree with Halifaxs  decision, he asked this service to investigate. He said 
hed reported  the fraud  to the police who advised  him that his card might have been cloned.  
He also said that CCTV footage would  show it wasnt him making the cash  withdrawals.
An investigator looked into his complaint, but he didnt uphold  it. In summary, he felt unable 
to conclude that the withdrawals had been  made fraudulently.
Mr D didnt accept the investigators opinion so this case has now come to me for an 
ombudsmans final decision.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The investigator wrote a detailed view that sets out in full the facts,  the transactions,  the 
relevant regulations and the evidence.  Both Mr D and Halifax  have read the investigators 
view, so I wont repeat every detail here, only those  which form the basis  of my decision. 
However, I would  like to reassure Mr D that Ive read the file, including  his comments. 
Having done so, Im afraid my review  of the evidence has led me to the same overall 
conclusions as those  reached by the investigator and for broadly the same reasons.
Ref: DRN74023242In short,  Halifax is required to refund the amount of an unauthorised transaction. The 
relevant regulations, to this effect, are the Payment Services  Regulations  (2006 and 2017). 
But the bank can hold Mr D liable for any disputed  transactions if the evidence  suggests that 
its more likely than not that he made or authorised them  himself.
Mr D says he didnt make the disputed cash withdrawals. He believes his card was cloned. 
So, my primary  concern is to come  to a view about whether or not I think he made the 
withdrawals, or a third party used  a cloned card or his genuine card.
Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Ds genuine card was used to make 
the disputed transactions along with his PIN. The evidence confirms that the cash machine 
read the chip in his card. As the investigator  explained, the chip cant be cloned,  and this 
service hasnt seen any evidence of a cloned chip being used successfully. So, Im afraid I 
dont consider that a cloned  card was used to make  the cash  withdrawals.
But the regulations relevant to this case say that the card and PIN are not, on their own,  
enough to enable Halifax to hold him liable. So, I also need  to think about whether the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Mr D made the withdrawals himself.
From what  Ive seen, I dont think its unreasonable for Halifax  to conclude that Mr D made 
the disputed cash  withdrawals. This is because:
Mr D said he lives alone and doesnt receive visitors.
He said no-one  else had access to his card. He said he kept his card in his wallet  
and when he goes  out, he always has his card with him.
He didnt share his card or PIN with anyone else.
He does keep  a note of his PIN, but it is kept apart  from his card and wallet,  at home.
The warden  to his accommodation has access to his flat but he normally visits when 
Mr D is present. But even if the warden were to enter the flat while he was out, his 
card would be with him and not left behind  in the flat.
Mr D used his card for two genuine  cash withdrawals in between  the disputed  ones 
so he still had his card. And he had his card when  he reported the fraud, so it wasnt  
lost or stolen.
The genuine cash withdrawals were made  at the same ATMs as the disputed  ones.
Ref: DRN74023243Based on this evidence,  I cant see any plausible explanation  for how a third party  could get 
hold of Mr Ds card and PIN to make the disputed cash withdrawals.
Lastly, the disputed cash withdrawals occurred  over a three-month  period. Its unusual  for a 
fraudster to keep  a card for this length  of time as the risk of the card being cancelled is high. 
They are more likely to withdraw as much  cash as possible in the shortest of time.
CCTV footage  wasnt  available  in this case. Usually, it is only retained for 30 days. I 
appreciate Mr D feels strongly that CCTV footage  would exonerate  him because  it would 
show someone else at the cash machines. Its possible that CCTV might have identified that 
someone other than Mr D made the disputed withdrawals. But Mr D didnt have to make  the 
withdrawals personally in order to be liable for them under the relevant rules.  He can still be 
held responsible for them if he allowed  someone else to use his card.  So even if CCTV had 
been available,  I dont think I could say with certainty that Mr D wasnt involved.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr D authorised  the disputed cash  
withdrawals. It follows  that Halifax is entitled to hold him liable for them.
Im sorry  this will be disappointing news for Mr D, but I hope the reasons for my decision are 
clear.
my final decision
My final decision is that Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 November  2020.
Razia Karim
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7402324