K820x#14Complaint
Mr M has complained about a guaranteed bond provided by Aviva  Life & Pensions  UK 
Limited. Hes unhappy  that Aviva  didnt send him the policy documents  before he signed the 
contract. He feels he was tricked into signing the contract and wants Aviva  to remove his 
name from it.
Background
In 2017 Mr Ms mother took out a guaranteed bond (the policy). This was arranged  for her by 
an independent financial adviser (IFA). This policy was set up on a joint life basis with Mr Ms 
mother as the first life assured and Mr M as the second. While Mr Ms mother has passed 
away, given the policy pays out upon the death of the second  life assured, it is still valid and 
in place.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who felt it couldnt  be upheld.  She 
was of the view that as Mr Ms mother was the policy  holder the policy documents  had to 
only be sent to her and that by doing  this Aviva hadnt done anything wrong. She also 
explained that Mr Ms name couldnt be removed from the policy unless he cancelled the 
policy in its entirety.
Mr M didnt  agree with the assessment and was adamant  Aviva  had breached  distance 
selling regulations.
As no agreement could be reached, the complaint  has been  passed to me to decide.
 My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the outcome 
reached by the investigator, and for broadly the same reasons.
The policy holder of the bond was Mr Ms mother therefore Aviva, as the policy  provider, was 
only obliged  to send  her the policy documents,  as well as the cooling off notice period. In not 
sending Mr M these  documents Aviva hasnt breached any contract  terms or regulations as 
only the owner or policyholder should be sent all details pertaining to the policy.
While Mr M has referred to distance selling regulations,  the specific  ones that are relevant 
to financial services are the Financial  Service Distance Marketing Regulation. However,  
these only apply to sales that are conducted at a distance - in other words, via the 
telephone, online or through mail order arrangements. So, in this case, as Mr Ms mother  
actually met with the IFA when she took out the policy  these regulations are not applicable. 
I have looked  at the application form Mr Ms late mother completed  when taking out this 
policy and it can clearly  be seen  that an IFA sold this to her. Therefore, Aviva wasnt 
responsible for checking any details on the paperwork it received from the IFA nor did it have 
to check how it was set up. Therefore, its reasonable that Aviva just processed  the 
documents it received from the IFA. If Mr M is unhappy with the way the policy  was set up 
then this is something he needs  to raise with that IFA rather  than Aviva.
Ref: DRN71236392Furthermore, if Mr M is unhappy with being  named as the second life assured on this policy 
then this isnt for Aviva  to look into or answer   that would be a personal  issue  between him 
and his late mother. And its reasonable to assume  that a discussion would have taken place 
between them around the time of the sale to obtain  Mr Ms agreement for this arrangement  
to be made.
I appreciate Mr M wants his name removed from the policy, but this isnt possible unless he 
agrees to cancel  the policy. This is because  under  the General Data Protection Regulations 
(GDPR) established from May 2018, businesses only have to delete personal  records  if the 
data is no longer necessary for the purposes  which it was originally  collected.  As already 
explained, as this policy is still in force Mr M cant be removed from it without it being 
cancelled.
Therefore, for the reasons I have set out above,  Aviva has not failed in any of its duties in 
this specific complaint nor has it done anything wrong. 
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 September  2020.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7123639