K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that a finance  agreement for a van that he agreed  with Lookers Motor 
Group Limited (Lookers)  was misrepresented to him.
background
Mr M took receipt of a new vehicle in June 2017.  He financed the deal through a hire 
agreement that was brokered by Lookers. Mr M says that when he took out the agreement  
the sales agent told him he could trade  in for a different vehicle at any time. But he later 
realised that wasnt the case  and he complained that he was now locked  into an agreement  
for three years. He said he shouldve been  given a proper explanation at the time. 
But Lookers  didnt agree with him. They spoke to the sales agent who explained he 
remembered dealing with Mr M and remembered discussing the various finance options with 
him. He said Mr M had been  swayed by the cheaper monthly payments available  to him 
under this sort of agreement so Lookers didnt  think  theyd done anything  wrong and they 
noted Mr M had signed the finance agreement with them and this explained the nature of the 
agreement in detail.
But Mr M disagreed with Lookers and he referred his complaint to this service  where  our 
adjudicator provided  her opinion. She reviewed  the monthly costs of various types of 
agreement and noted that Mr Ms required  a comparatively low monthly outlay. She thought  
it was likely that cost would have been  a major factor in the decision he was making as she 
understood it was for business purposes.  She noted that the terms of the hire agreement set 
out the type of agreement and noted that the reason Mr M had selected that type of funding 
was because he didnt  want  to own the vehicle.  Overall,  whilst she couldnt entirely rule out 
that Mr M had been misinformed, she was persuaded that it was most likely he had been 
given correct information about the agreement he was entering into and that it hadnt been  
misrepresented to him.
But Mr M disagreed and he therefore asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the adjudicators view.  I know that will disappoint Mr M so please let me explain 
why.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome.
Mr M acquired his van under a hire agreement. The hire agreement is a regulated  consumer 
credit agreement and as a result  our service is able to look into complaints about it.  
Ref: DRN78304182The relevant  law says,  amongst  other  things, that the van should not have been 
misrepresented to Mr M. If it was and if, as a result  of that misrepresentation Mr M was 
persuaded to take out an agreement he wouldnt  have otherwise entered  into I would ask 
Lookers to do something about that as they are responsible.
My first consideration is the paperwork that Mr M signed when he entered  into his 
agreement. The contract explained that this was a 36 month hire agreement and there is no 
right given to voluntarily terminate the deal. 
But whilst I think  its reasonable to expect Mr M to have read and understood the contract I 
understand that they are complex and wordy  documents and it may be that he was simply 
persuaded by a sales agent, he had trust in, to take out an agreement that didnt suit him.
Im persuaded that Mr Ms main consideration was cost. I say that because hes explained 
he now wants to trade  down to a cheaper  deal and because  hes explained he couldnt  be 
certain of business  sales. As the hire agreement was the cheapest  option  I think its most 
likely thats  the one Mr M wouldve opted  for and Im supported in that because I note he 
explained he didnt  want an option  to own the vehicle and that he explained on the finance 
options  form that he would want to change the vehicle frequently. 
So whilst I understand Mr M disputes  the transaction I think  theres more evidence  than not 
that he did agree to enter into a hire agreement with no early  termination option and that the 
vehicle wasnt therefore mis-sold to him.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7830418