K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains that his trustee investment plan (TIP)  was not reinvested at the end of the 5 
year term.  He complains The Prudential Assurance Company Limited (Prudential) informed 
his advisers on a number  of occasions  that the plan was still invested  and increasing  in 
value. Mr W says Prudential also provided  a written valuation indicating the plan was 
increasing in value. 
He says Prudential  should pay him the value it quoted  in July 2018 not the value of the plan 
at the end of the term in 2014.  
background
Mr W took out a trustee investment plan in March 2009. It had a term of 5 years and was 
invested in a number of different funds.  
In December 2013 Prudential wrote to Mr W, via his advisers, and told him that his plan was 
due to mature on 11 March 2014  and that he would need to provide written  confirmation  
regarding settlement of the plan. Prudential sent a similar letter  in February  2014.  
Prudential then sent a series  of letters starting  in March 2014 and carrying  through  to 2019. 
Those letters stated  that Mr Ws plan had matured in March  2014 with a value  of around 
£124,000. They warned  Mr W. the funds  gain no growth or interest from the maturity  date 
and asked for Mr Ws instructions for withdrawal.
In 2015 Mr W changed  financial  advisers  and that change was recorded by Prudential.
In March 2017 a unit statement was produced indicating the value of the plan was around  
£155,000 and setting out the different funds it was invested in.
In around May 2017 the plan was reassigned to new trustees.  
In September  2018 a written valuation  was provided by Prudential  indicating the value of the 
plan was higher  than the maturity value.
In January 2019 Mr Ws adviser  spoke to the business and was given a valuation  of around 
£155,000. The adviser contacted Prudential again  on that day and spoke to another 
representative who confirmed the plan was still gaining  growth.  The adviser made  a third 
phone call on the same  day and was informed that the plan had matured and that what he 
had been told earlier that day was incorrect. 
In February 2019  Mr Ws adviser  complained on his behalf. He said the TIP had matured  in 
March 2014 with a value  of £124,000  but on 24 September 2018 Prudential  had written and 
given him a valuation of around £162,000 and that information  had been  passed on to Mr W. 
He also explained  that he had been given conflicting  information  in January 2019. The 
adviser said he had been given significantly higher values than the £124,000  on three 
occasions. 
Ref: DRN72358802Prudential upheld the complaint in part and apologised  for having provided conflicting 
information. It said that there had been  a system limitation which meant  Prudentials  
system hadnt recognised Mr Ws plan had matured and had continued to treat it as a live 
plan. But it said that the problem had been  fixed to stop this from happening  in the future.
It also pointed out that a number of letters had been  sent to Mr Ws advisers informing them  
that the plan had matured  and would no longer have any interest or growth. It said it couldnt 
pay Mr W the incorrect higher value because that wasnt  what  he was entitled to under the 
terms of his plan which  had matured in March  2014. But it recognised Mr W had been 
caused trouble  and upset by being given  incorrect information and offered £400  in 
compensation. 
Mr W disagreed  and referred his complaint to our service.  He said Prudential had previously 
quoted higher valuations  in November 2015,  July 2016, July 2017 and July 2018. Mr W said 
he had relied upon  that information.  Mr W said if he hadnt been given that information he 
would have reinvested the funds  in his plan.
In November 2019 Mr W reinvested the proceeds of his plan into a new TIP which  was 
invested in 4 different funds.
Our investigator considered Mr Ws complaint and didnt uphold  it. She acknowledged  that 
Mr W had been given  conflicting information. But she took into account that Prudential  had 
sent a number of letters  informing Mr W (through  his advisers)  that his plan had matured and 
was no longer earning any interest  or growth.  The investigator felt the £400 offered  for the 
trouble and upset  caused was fair and reasonable in the circumstances.
Mr W disagreed  and said his plan was originally set up with terms which meant  it would roll 
over to another investment  at maturity. He said in 2011 Prudential  changed the terms of the 
whole plan (not just the amount invested in the protected fund). So that at the maturity  date 
all the monies needed  to be taken  out and re-invested. Mr W said in the event this 
withdrawal and reinvestment did not happen, Prudential introduced what  he described as a 
punitive measure,  that no interest or growth would be added  to the plan.
Mr W said Prudential  was unable to update its systems to apply this change.  So any query 
about the value would  show  the whole amount as still being  invested. He said Prudentials 
staff were unaware that the monies were not invested so could not inform  his adviser. 
Mr W said statements  were sent to his adviser  which showed a far higher value than the 
maturity value. He questioned how he could be sure that the letters  sent by Prudential  
regarding maturity superseded those  statements. 
Mr W also questioned why Prudential  was entitled  to correct their mistake.  He pointed out 
his advisers were consistently  supplied with incorrect information over 5 years. Mr W said 
the £400 compensation offered by Prudential was insufficient and noted  the lost growth  was 
between £30,000  and £40,000. 
As no agreement could be reached  Mr Ws complaint was referred to me for review. 
Ref: DRN72358803my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr W took out a trustee investment plan (TIP)  in 2009 with a 5 year term. In 2014 that term 
came to an end. Prudential says at that point the plan matured and it was no longer invested 
in any funds and would  no longer earn interest  or growth. Mr W believes the plan continued 
to be invested,  or at least, he says under the original terms it would have continued to be 
invested. He also says the information  received from Prudential led his advisers and Mr W to 
believe that it was still invested. So he didnt make  alternative arrangements  to move the 
proceeds of his TIP to another plan. 
Terms and conditions
I can see from the application form that a 5 year term was selected for Mr Ws TIP and this 
also accords with Prudentials records. The illustration prepared for Mr W at that time also 
assumes a 5 year term. 
Mr W says originally the terms of the agreement  were such  that the plan was automatically  
reinvested at the end of the term. I cant see anything to suggest that was the case on the 
key facts/illustration  document  or the application. It merely says that Mr Ws money would be 
invested in the plan for 5 years and talks about  the amount  that might  be achieved by the 
end of that term. Prudential also says the contract  was for the 5 year term at which point  the 
plan would mature. So, overall I think on balance  that the contract  was for a 5 year term.
I have been provided with a replacement policy document  with terms and conditions for the 
plan. The terms provided appear to have been  issued in April 2014. Those terms indicate 
that previously there had been an option to reinvest  the TIP in a new plan on preferential 
terms at the end of its term.  But that this option had been removed in 2011. At that time 
Prudential would have  informed the relevant plan holders and they would  have been  able to 
respond with any reasons  why they said this shouldnt  be allowed. I note Mr W seems  to 
accept that this change occurred and from what he has said,  it appears he was aware of the 
change. 
But even if that option had still been  available in 2014 (and I dont think it was because  the 
terms and conditions indicate it was removed)  I dont  think  the re-investment would have 
happened automatically. The option  set out in the policy terms was to start a new plan on 
preferential terms. So I think that would have required something from Mr W to say he 
wanted that to happen.
On that basis I dont think Mr Ws TIP would have automatically continued to be invested 
after the 5 year term. So I am satisfied on balance that the value in March  2014 of 
£123,887.26 is the final maturity value.  
I also note this appears to have  been  accepted in the initial letter  of complaint to Prudential  
sent by Mr Ws financial  adviser as he says:
Ref: DRN72358804The above  numbered plan matured on the 11 March  2014 with a final value of 123,887. 
26.
Mr W says Prudential should  pay him the amount  it quoted  in July 2018. But I dont think  just 
because Prudential gave  Mr W, or his financial adviser, an incorrect  valuation  that entitles  
Mr W to that incorrect  amount.
Communication about the maturity date and the consequences for Mr Ws plan
In March 2014 the 5 year term came to an end. Before that happened Prudential  sent letters  
to Mr W (via his advisers) informing him that his TIP was about  to mature and warning him, 
in effect, that it would no longer be invested and wouldnt earn interest  or growth.  Those 
letters were also copied to the trustees  of the plan.
There has been no suggestion by Mr W that those letters  were  not received.  I am satisfied 
on balance that those letters were sent by Prudential. But no action was taken in response to 
those letters and the money stayed  where  it was.
Then in 2015  Mr W changed  financial advisers and Prudential recorded  that change  on its 
system. Those financial  advisers  also dont appear  to dispute that letters  from Prudential  
regarding maturity were  received.  
Mr W has explained in his complaint that in November 2015,  July 2016, July 2017 and July 
2018 his financial  adviser was given  valuations by Prudential over the phone, which  were 
significantly more than the 2014  maturity  value and showed the plan was increasing in value. 
Prudential says it is unable to say whether that was the case  as it does not hold records of 
those phone calls
Mr W has provided slightly different dates for these valuations in his timeline  (sent in 
response to a request for clarification) to the dates he set out in his initial complaint to this 
service. For instance there  is a date in 2014 but no valuation date for 2017. I also note in the 
complaint to Prudential  his financial  adviser says Prudential wrote to them on 24 September 
2018 with a higher valuation of around £162,000  and refers  to valuations given in January 
2019. But the adviser doesnt mention valuations being given by Prudential in earlier years.
That may be in part because one or more of these valuations were given to Mr Ws previous 
financial advisers. But I think this does leave a certain degree of uncertainty  as to when 
these valuations were  provided and how much  was quoted. I consider this means it is less 
clear how much any valuations were relied upon  by Mr W, particularly in the earlier years.
I also have to take into account  that letters were still being sent by Prudential  informing Mr W 
that his plan had matured  and asking for his instructions regarding  withdrawal.  Thirteen 
letters of this type were  sent after Mr Ws TIP matured. 
Ref: DRN72358805So, whilst I consider Prudential provided  conflicting  information Im not convinced it was 
reasonable for Mr W, and his advisers,  to ignore  the written correspondence and rely on one 
or two telephone  valuations. I think some further  investigation was warranted to establish  
exactly what was happening  with Mr Ws plan.  I also note that no annual statements were  
sent during this time which you might reasonably  have expected to happen if the funds were, 
in fact, still invested.
2017 onwards
I think a certain amount  of confusion was caused by some of the information provided by 
Prudential over this period. A unit statement produced by Prudential on 13 March  2017 was 
sent to the trustees of Mr Ws plan. This set out the value of the TIP which was recorded as 
£155,000 and the different funds  the plan was invested in. Prudential  has said that this was 
issued in error, as its system recorded  the plan, in error,  as still being invested.
Prudential also wrote to the trustees of the plan in September 2018 regarding  updates  to the 
PruFund and the smoothing of investment returns.  It said in that letter  We are writing  to you 
because youre  invested  in a Trustee Investment Plan.
However Prudential  also wrote to Mr Ws advisers  on 13 September  2018 informing them 
that the plan had matured  with a value of £123,  887.26 and that it was earning no growth  or 
interest.
Then a further  written  valuation was sent to Mr Ws financial advisers later in September  
2018.
Prudential acknowledged  this in its response  to Mr Ws complaint and said:
Following your request of 20 September 2018,  we incorrectly  produced  a valuation which  
detailed a growth. This was then compounded as we incorrectly advised  valuations verbally 
on several occasions thereafter.
But I note that in November 2018  Prudential sent another letter; again stating the plan had 
matured and was not earning any growth  or interest.
Mr W has provided portfolio valuations produced by his advisers in 2016 and 2018 which 
suggest his advisers  believed  the amount in the TIP had increased in value and was 
significantly higher  than the 2014 maturity value.
But I take into account there was still ongoing correspondence about the maturity  of the plan 
 with 6 letters between sent from 2016 to 2018.  
While I can see why the advisers might have  mistakenly taken the view that the TIP plan 
was still invested,  I think  if they had carried out further investigation earlier  on, this situation 
could have been resolved. 
Ref: DRN72358806So, I dont think it would  be fair to compensate Mr W for the lost growth on his plan from 
2014 to November 2019 (when it was reinvested) for the reasons I have already outlined.  
This was a plan with a 5 year term and ultimately I consider Mr W and his advisers received 
a number of letters from Prudential which should  have been  acted  upon.  The errors only 
appear to have started quite some time after maturity and after Mr Ws advisers had been 
correctly told that the plan had matured and was not earning growth or interest.
I m also not persuaded on balance that if Prudential hadnt provided  incorrect  information   
Mr W would  have reinvested  his plan earlier. I take into account  the history  of what  
happened from 2013 when Mr Ws advisers  were made  aware by Prudential of the maturity 
and the consequences for his plan, but took no action to reinvest  the plan.
I also note that Prudential confirmed in January 2019 that some of the information  it had 
provided about the value  of Mr Ws plan was incorrect  and it hadnt  been invested since  
2014. But it took Mr W a number of months after that to reinvest  his plan. This didnt happen 
until November 2019. 
Trouble and upset
I consider Mr W was caused trouble and upset by being provided  with incorrect  information 
about the value of his plan which also led to some confusion about the status of that plan. 
I take into account that incorrect  information was provided by Prudential on several 
occasions over a period of more than one year. Although I think the impact of Prudentials 
error was largely  felt in the later period from September  2018 onwards. I also note the 
difference in value between the correct  and incorrect information was significant.  So I think  it 
would have been upsetting for Mr W to have the lower maturity  value confirmed.
I consider the trouble and upset caused to Mr W was more than moderate so I dont think the 
£400 offered is sufficient  compensation. Overall I consider £600 is fair and reasonable 
compensation in the circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that Mr Ws complaint against  The Prudential  Assurance Company 
Limited is upheld  in part for the reasons outlined. Prudential should pay Mr W £600 for the 
trouble and upset  it caused him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Julia Chittenden
Ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7235880