K820x#14complaint
Mr O is unhappy with Tesco Personal  Finance PLC sending his account to a debt collector.  
background
Mr O took out a credit card with Tesco in July 2013. Mr O then started  to fall behind with his 
payments in 2017. In October 2017 Mr O sent Tesco information about his mental health 
from his GP and an income  and expenditure form.
In April 2018 Tesco issued a default notice  to Mr O as no payment had been made since  
October 2017. As he made no further  contact or payment to Tesco the credit  card was 
closed in May 2018. Mr O then sent an income and expenditure  the same as he had sent 
in 2017 - to Tesco in August 2018. So Tesco placed  his account on hold.  
In November 2018 Tesco hadnt  heard anything from Mr O so it sent a request for payment. 
In late November 2018 Mr O contacted  this service to raise  a complaint after he received 
letters from Tesco which  explained  it had asked  a collection company for help to recover its 
debt. The debt collector also sent Mr O a letter  confirming this. Mr O said the letters  made 
him feel extremely anxious and gave him a panic  attack. So he contacted  this service to 
raise a complaint.  Mr O said Tescos  letter  in November 2018 was misleading and the 
account shouldnt  have been passed to a debt collector as Tesco  was aware  of his personal 
circumstances. 
On 24 December 2018 Tesco sent Mr O a final response letter. It said it had made Mr O 
aware of the outstanding debt and hadnt made an error when asking the debt collector for 
assistance. Tesco said it wanted an updated income  and expenditure form from Mr O. And 
because it was unable  to discuss his debt it felt it was right to default and then close the 
credit card. 
Mr O remained  unhappy so he brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator  
reviewed the complaint.  She felt although  Tesco was aware of Mr Os personal 
circumstances it didnt  do anything wrong  when it asked the debt collector for help.  
Mr O disagreed with our investigator so this complaint has now been passed  to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to hear about  Mr Os personal circumstances and that he has experienced financial  
difficulties as these  are never easy situations to deal with.
Ive looked carefully  at everything Mr O and Tesco have said to see if Tesco has done  
anything wrong. Having done  so, I dont think it has. And Ill explain  why.  
When Tesco  became  aware of Mr Os financial difficulties and health condition, I would 
expect it to respond positively and sympathetically.  
Ref: DRN76980452From the evidence Ive seen, Tesco  placed the debt on hold which is what  this service  would 
expect it to do. And I believe  it made  reasonable attempts to contact Mr O. Im satisfied the 
letters were sent and clearly asked Mr O to contact it to discuss his circumstances, set up 
repayment plans  and make a payment.  The letters in 2018  also mentioned that failure to 
contact Tesco to arrange a repayment  plan could lead to the account  being passed to a debt 
collector. 
Mr O is unhappy as he doesnt think it is fair that his account was sold to a debt collector. 
However, from the information  Ive seen Tesco hadnt sold the debt. It asked a debt collector 
to help it collect the money Mr O owes. As the investigator explained, the relevant 
regulations and industry practice dont say Tesco cannot ask a third party to help them  
manage the account. 
I can understand why Mr O was unhappy  Tesco asked the debt collector  for help and the 
stress this would have  caused him. However,  I can also understand  why Tesco  took the 
action it did. Tesco doesnt have to hold Mr Os debt indefinitely. And Im satisfied that asking 
the debt collector  for assistance hasnt  financially disadvantaged Mr O or was unreasonable  
given the lack of contact  it had with him. I know he had sent previous documentation  to 
Tesco about  his financial situation in October  2017. And he resent the same  information 
again in August 2018. But although  Tesco did receive this, it doesnt  mean  it cannot  take 
further steps to try and recover Mr Os debt. 
So, Im satisfied the action Tesco has taken here wasnt unfair or unreasonable in the 
circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7698045