K820x#14complaint
This complaint relates to a conditional  sale agreement where GMAC UK Plc was the finance 
provider. GMAC UK Plc changed its name to Vauxhall Finance plc. For the purposes of this 
decision I will refer to Vauxhall throughout.  
Ms Ss concerns are to do with the quality of a car she got with finance. Her complaint is she 
has had several issues  since getting  the car and she believes the car was misrepresented  to 
her as she thinks the car was previously in an accident before she got it. 
background
Ms S got the car in June 2013 through a dealership. The car was a second-hand four year 
old car, with mileage of 60,765. The cash price of the car was £11,010 and the conditional 
sale agreement Ms S signed on 14 June 2013  shows there was a deposit  of £3,015. 
The deposit  was made up of two sources. The first source being the part-exchange of 
Ms Ss existing vehicle  (£1,500) and the second part of the deposit coming from a fixed-sum  
loan agreement from company A (£1,515). The fixed-sum loan agreement was signed by 
Ms S on 10 October 2013. 
Ms S told us she has repaid the Vauxhall agreement, but is being  pursued for sums 
outstanding in relation to the fixed-sum loan agreement  which  is now with company P  as 
they took over the debt from company A. 
There was some previous  confusion  around the purpose of the loan now with company P 
as Ms S, at one time, believed this may have related to a warranty which  she had never 
taken out. This was dealt with as a separate matter. And my understanding  is Ms S now 
accepts this second loan relates to the finance  she needed to get the car in 2013. 
One of our adjudicators first looked into Ms Ss concerns in 2016 and explained why they 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld  and the case  was closed at that time. Ms S 
contacted us about this complaint again in 2018  and - on this occasion - our service agreed 
to look into things once  more. 
provisional findings 
I issued my provisional findings to Ms S and Vauxhall. For the purposes  of this final decision, 
Ive provided a summary of those below. 
Two finance agreements were  used to help Ms S get the car. More likely  than not 
because Ms S was unable to obtain all the finance she needed from Vauxhall. I noted  
that Id not seen  who owned the title to the car when it was sold, or who owns it now.  
But that it seemed  reasonable  to assume  that ownership was with Ms S given shed 
told us she had repaid the Vauxhall  finance  agreement and that she had the car still. 
Because the main finance used  to get the car came from the conditional sale 
agreement with Vauxhall  and in the absence of any other  evidence   I thought it 
reasonable to accept  Vauxhall as the supplier of the goods to Ms S. And therefore 
that it followed Vauxhall was also responsible for the quality of the goods.  
Ref: DRN77270192I noted that as the conditional sale agreement was arranged  in June 2013, The Sale 
of Goods Act 1979 would have been  particularly relevant to this sale. And that the act 
required goods supplied  under the contract of sale to be of satisfactory quality  
which, for the purposes of the act is recognised by what  a reasonable person would 
regard as satisfactory (taking  into account  the description of the goods,  the price  and 
all other  relevant circumstances).  And recognising quality in reference to the state  
and condition of the goods   amongst other  things, the goods  being fit for purpose,  
safe and durable.  
My provisional conclusions were that Ms S was sold a car of satisfactory quality. I 
referred in detail in my provisional  findings  to Vauxhalls internal notes which 
provided some insight into what happened with the car, as well as a letter from Ms 
Ss own garage which detailed a summary  of the work  it carried  out between 2014  
and 2016. I was also aware  from an email sent by Vauxhall  to Ms S, of a HPI check 
Vauxhall had carried  out on the car. 
Initial problems with the car were fixed by Vauxhall and were all arguably due to 
general wear and tear given the age and mileage of the car. During  the time these 
issues were being  fixed,  Ms S was given a courtesy car and was paid £150 as a 
gesture of goodwill for the inconvenience.  So I didnt  think  Vauxhall had to do any 
more here in relation to these particular  issues. 
And I didnt  consider the problems logged  by Ms Ss garage between  2014 and 2016 
were a strong enough indicator that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality when it was 
sold. This was because I couldnt  ignore  the possibility these particular issues  
(different to those  noted  above) were also due to wear and tear. I also noted these 
problems started towards the end of 2014   over a year after Ms S had been  in 
possession of the car. And that Ms S may have  been using the car more  than 
expected given there was a suggestion she was using  it for her job. 
Regarding Ms Ss concerns to do with the peeling paintwork (which  she referred to 
as evidence to say the car had been  in a previous accident) I reviewed two pictures  
of the car that were  made available. One appeared to be dated from January 2016,  
but it was unclear when the second picture had been taken. I commented that 
paintwork could peel over time for a number of reasons including general wear and 
tear; how much and where Ms S may have used the car; how well the car was 
maintained, and a collision the car suffered while it was with Ms S. 
I thought the goods were more likely than not as described  to Ms S when the car 
was sold to her. 
There were some difficulties in assessing  things given  there  was no point of sale 
paperwork available, but the suggestion  that a HPI check was carried  out and shared 
with Ms S suggested  there had been no significant accident that would have led to 
the car being  written off. And I thought Ms S wouldve seen the car before she bought  
it  so I could only assume there were no immediate or obvious  signs  the car had 
been in an accident. 
I noted Ms Ss collision was in July 2014.  And that the picture of the bumper showed 
some paintwork peeling.  Ms Ss garage first noted peeling  paintwork in November 
2014  after the collision.  I said it wasnt clear  if any pictures related specifically to 
2014. But it didnt  seem unreasonable to expect that without addressing the issue, 
Ref: DRN77270193the change in weather in November wouldve slowly exacerbated the problem. I 
could see from Ms Ss garages  submissions theyd highlighted  lacquer problems to 
her on several occasions, but there  was no record of Ms S acknowledging this or 
taking steps to fix this. Rather it seemed Ms S didnt contact Vauxhall about the 
peeling paintwork until April 2016.  
Because of this I didnt think issues relating to the paintwork  were  enough  to say the 
car wasnt presented  to Ms S as described  a four year old second  hand car, with 
over 60,000 miles. Or that it was definitely  in an accident, or that it wasnt  of 
satisfactory quality when it was sold. And the issues with the car werent  enough to 
support the car was previously in an accident   that is, I thought a lot of the problems 
could be attributed  to general wear and tear. 
I also noted Ms S had been able to use the car for the duration  shes  had it. And 
there was no suggestion  the car had been  unable to reasonably perform as a second 
hand car. There was also nothing to suggest any concerns about  the general  safety  
of the car either  Vauxhalls inspectors specifically checked the car to provide such  
assurances to Ms S in October  2013, and I was aware of nothing  further.  
Lastly, I acknowledged Ms S had been managing some challenges with her health 
and that at times shed found  it difficult to pursue  things, so Id been mindful of this in 
my considerations. 
responses to my provisional  findings 
Vauxhall didnt  reply to my provisional decision and so provided nothing  further for me to 
consider. 
Ms S spoke with one of our investigators to say she wasnt happy with my provisional  
findings. Ive listened to this telephone  call before reaching my final decision and below  is a 
summary of Ms Ss comments.  
Ms S said the reference made to her health should  recognise that its not an illness  which 
she has, but a disability,  and this has at times caused difficulties with her being  able to 
pursue matters to do with the car. 
Ms S clarified it was the rear bumper that was hit in the accident while  she had the car, not 
the front bumper  which was showing in the photo.  Although she acknowledged this wouldnt 
affect the overall provisional findings  I had set out. 
She also told our investigator  that she didnt use the car a lot  particularly when she wasnt  
feeling well. And she would sometimes ask someone to just start the car when she was 
unable to drive herself. Ms S told our investigator there were times when there was no point  
getting something fixed because she wasnt using the car, but she did get it regularly 
serviced even when she wasnt using it much
Ms S acknowledged the difficulty she would have in being  able to demonstrate  how many 
times she went back to the dealership for things to be fixed  she said she had no record  of 
any of these visits. And Ms S recognised the challenges in this case  given the time thats  
now passed. 
Ref: DRN77270194The investigator and Ms S also discussed  pursuing  a complaint against company P. And 
the investigator explained  as set out in my provisional decision - that would be for Ms S to 
make enquiries as to whether there was any recourse for her there. 
And lastly  Ms S and the investigator talked about potentially approaching  her garage again 
for some further submissions to support her complaint. Ms S was given the time to do this, 
but later decided not to take this further.  So the complaint was returned to me for a final 
decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive taken into account  any relevant 
law and regulations,  regulators  rules, guidance and standards, codes of practice and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice. 
Vauxhall made no further submissions for me to consider, but Ive carefully thought  about  
the points Ms S made to our investigator during  their phone call. While  I understand this 
situation has been upsetting and difficult for Ms S, after reviewing things once  more  - with 
Ms Ss more recent comments in mind -Ive not seen enough to change  my provisional  
findings. 
That is, I dont think Ms Ss complaint should  be upheld as there  is not enough to suggest 
the car wasnt of satisfactory quality when it was sold. Or that the car wasnt  presented to Ms 
S as described  a four year old second hand  car with over 60,000 miles. I also havent seen 
enough to make me think the car was more likely than not in an accident before Ms S got it. 
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that Ms Ss complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7727019