K820x#14complaint
Ms A is unhappy Health  Shield Friendly Society Limited refused to cover the costs  of health 
screening for her and her partner.
background
Ms A is a member of a Health Shield healthcare plan provided by her employer. Towards  the 
end of last year she and her partner each attended a health screening and made a claim for 
the related costs under Ms As policy.  But the claims were declined  because the screenings 
were carried  out at a mobile facility and the policy specifically excluded  this.
Ms A was unhappy  and asked us to look into her complaint. She said shed checked with the 
health screening provider and was told Health Shield would cover the costs of the 
screenings. And the screenings were  carried  out from a hotel, a permanent  building, so she 
hadnt thought this was a mobile  facility. 
Our investigator thought the policy terms were  clear and didnt think it was wrong  of Health 
Shield to decline the claim. Ms A disagreed and said the terms shouldve  been clearer  and 
were unfair. So the complaint has come to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont uphold  it.
Both parties  seem to accept that health screenings carried  out in mobile facilities are 
excluded from cover. And Health Shield has explained the decision to exclude such from 
cover was taken in 2013/14  for pricing  and underwriting reasons. Im satisfied Health Shield 
was entitled to make this decision and I think the exclusion is clear in the policy terms and 
conditions.
I say this, despite what Ms A says about what she thought constituted  a mobile  facility.  She 
says she thought a mobile clinic  would  be one based in an actual movable vehicle or trailer.  
But while Ms A and her partners screenings  took place in a permanent building,  the clinic  
itself wasnt located  there  permanently.  It moved around to different locations and was, as a 
result, mobile. And I think its likely Ms A would have realised the hotel location was a 
temporary or occasional  arrangement when she tried to book the screenings at a time and 
place that suited her.
Even if the screening  provider reassured Ms A that the screening  would  be covered, they 
werent giving  this advice on behalf  of Health Shield. And if Ms A had any doubts she 
couldve checked direct  with Health Shield before booking the appointments.
In the circumstances, I dont think it would be fair to instruct Health Shield to cover  the costs  
of Ms As and her partners health  screenings.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN74216872Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 June  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7421687