K822xcomplaint
Ms M and Mr M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them 
payment protection insurance (PPI).  
background
Mr M took out a total mortgage  protection  plan (TMPP) in 2002 when he bought a property. 
He had a mortgage and he set up life cover and critical illness  cover  under the plan. He later 
took out PPI in 2009 under this same  TMPP policy.  Mr M complained that he was mis-sold  
the TMPP. We investigated his mis-sale complaint. Our adjudicator didnt think the PPI or 
critical illness parts of the TMPP were mis-sold to Mr M  but he did uphold Mr Ms complaint  
that he was mis-sold the life cover  part of the plan. These  events were  investigated  under  a 
separate complaint to the one that I am considering here in this provisional  decision.
Halifax made an offer to settle Mr Ms complaint and Mr M accepted this in full and final 
settlement of all the complaint issues our adjudicator had investigated as part of his enquiry. 
That file is now closed.  
So Im now concentrating  on Ms M and Mr Ms mis-sale  complaint  about the TMPP which  
protected their joint mortgage taken out to buy a home together  in 2009. This is when Ms M 
was added on to the TMPP that Mr M had previously signed  up to with his mortgage in 2002. 
Following this amendment  to the TMPP in 2009,  it covered  both Ms M and Mr M in the event 
of accident, sickness  and unemployment. It also included life cover and critical illness cover 
for Mr M.
When Bank of Scotland investigated this complaint,  it concluded the life and critical illness 
cover arranged for Mr M in 2009 was not suitable,  and it offered to refund these premiums to 
him together  with interest. I understand Mr M has now received this sum. I therefore will not 
be considering  these elements of the TMPP in this decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend upholding  Ms M and Mr Ms mis-sale complaint. Ms M 
and Mr M disagree with our adjudicators view. Ms M and Mr Ms main  concerns are that PPI 
wasnt properly explained during their meeting with a Halifax advisor in 2009. Ms M told us 
they hadnt understood how the policy  applied  to the property Mr M owned and the home 
they owned together. Theyre also concerned that theres another policy  that hasnt been 
mentioned (which Mr M and his sister  recall  being  discussed) and that this policy  has been 
missed during the investigation. Ms M has also stated that she had a pre-existing medical 
condition (PEMC) that she told the adviser  about  at the point of sale, but that this was not 
recorded on the questionnaire  completed at the time. 
The complaint came to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
In coming  to my decision Ive looked carefully  at everything Ms M and Mr M have said in 
response to the adjudicators view  including their concern that information about  another  
policy has been missed.  Also,  further comments theyve made about the cover Mr M had in 
place before Ms M was added to the TMPP in 2009. 
Ref: DRN75938672But based  on all the information I've seen, including confidential electronic records Halifax 
sent us, theres  nothing  to show any other  policy was set up. And I cant comment  on 
complaint issues that were settled when Mr M has accepted the settlement Halifax  paid him.
But Im thinking  about  upholding Ms M and Mr Ms complaint. Heres why I say this.
Ive taken into account a medical condition Ms M mentioned having around the time she took 
out PPI. 
Theres some contradictory information  about  this. When asked  by the advisor  about her 
health the paperwork Halifax completed suggests that Ms M and Mr M said no to all the 
medical questions.  But it looks like there  mightve been a misunderstanding about this. As 
Ms M says, possibly her condition wasnt problematic for her at the time and that led to some  
confusion. But Ms M is adamant that she did tell the advisor about her condition   even if 
she also said that it was in remission at the time of the sale.  
On balance, I think its unlikely that Ms M wouldnt tell Halifax about  her medical condition. 
And she says that she did.
So I think that Halifaxs recommendation  to take out the policy  doesnt  look suitable.  
If a business makes a recommendation  about  PPI, it doesnt just have  to give important 
policy information in a clear way. It also has to take reasonable  steps to make  sure the cover 
it recommends is suitable.
The policy provided  cover  for up to 24 months in the event of disability and unemployment. 
But I dont think Halifax did enough to point out to Ms M and Mr M a significant  feature of the 
policy  specifically, the impact an ongoing health  problem would have on the cover  they 
would have for Ms M under the policy. 
With the benefit of hindsight,  I can see that Ms M hasnt taken time off work  due to her 
condition. But I think that if shed been  told about the exclusion in 2009,  its unlikely  she 
wouldve still chosen to take the policy. I think its fair to say that Ms Ms PEMC  is the sort of 
condition that someone would  be reasonably concerned that theyd need to take time off 
work for at some time in the future. So, if Halifax had clearly  explained  that Ms M wasnt  
covered for absence  from work due to her PEMC, then I think its unlikely that Ms M and 
Mr M wouldve agreed to take the cover under the TMPP.  
And I think that if theyd  fully understood the effects  of the PEMC exclusion for Ms M they 
wouldnt have felt the policy offered them a sufficient worthwhile benefit  overall.
Ive taken into account that Ms M and Mr M werent  affected by any of the other  conditions  
that mightve limited  the policys main benefits  if theyd  tried to claim. But I still think they lost 
out as a result of Halifaxs failings in this case, because I dont think  theyd have taken out 
the policy if theyd  been properly informed.  And I cant see anything to show  how Halifax  
sufficiently drew this important policy term to Ms M and Mr Ms attention when they were 
deciding whether to apply  for the cover. 
Ref: DRN75938673Based on the information Id seen, my provisional decision was to uphold this complaint.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Halifax has accepted  my provisional  decision.
Ms M and Mr M have  asked me to look into an aspect of their complaint that they are still 
concerned about.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this complaint.
In coming to my final decision, I appreciate that Ms M and Mr M dont feel that all aspects  of 
their complaint are fully resolved. But, for the reasons I explained in my provisional decision 
Ive concentrated  on what happened  in 2009  when  Ms M was added  on to the TMPP that 
Mr M had taken out in 2002. 
After taking carefully into account  everything thats  been said in response to my provisional 
decision, I still think its fair to uphold  this complaint for the reasons I explained in my 
provisional decision. 
putting things right
Halifax should put Ms M and Mr M in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Halifax  should:
Pay Ms M and Mr M the amount  they paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Ms M and Mr M made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Halifax can take off 
what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must give 
Ms M and Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
Ref: DRN75938674my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and direct Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax)  to pay 
Ms M and Mr M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M and Mr M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 February  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7593867