K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains about the way Nationwide Building  Society has dealt with her request for a 
payment break. Ms F would like Nationwide to provide a payment holiday of up to twelve  
months referred to in the mortgage offer.
background
Ms F has A Nationwide mortgage since 2007. The mortgage offered a payment holiday of 
between 3-12 months. In January  2019  Ms F was off sick from work and applied for a 
payment holiday  for 12 months as this would allow her time to see if she was well enough to 
return to work. Nationwide told Ms F that she would be eligible for a three month  payment 
holiday As Ms F wanted a longer period, Nationwide sent it to their exceptions  team.  Ms F 
tried to contact Nationwide on several occasions  until the Society  told her on 28 January that 
it wouldnt allow such a break but could look at alternatives such as interest-only payments.
Our investigator felt that Nationwide had acted  reasonably and didnt recommend that this 
complaint should  be upheld.  Nationwide  offered  compensation of £125 for Ms Fs problems 
in getting a reply  from Nationwide and our investigator thought that this was appropriate. Our 
investigator also initially thought that Nationwide should honour  the offer of a three  month 
payment holiday  if Ms F decided to accept it. But after submissions from Nationwide our 
investigator changed his view on that. Ms F disagreed and asked for a review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms F unfortunately suffers from a number of illnesses.  In January Ms F contacted  
Nationwide as she was off work because of a work related illness  and on half-pay and had 
no return date for her return to work. Ive listened to a number of calls that Ms F had with 
Nationwide during this period. Ms F clearly wanted to stay in her house and her 
neighbourhood. At that time Ms F said that she wasnt in financial difficulties but might  be in 
the future  depending on how long her half-pay lasted. Ms F wanted a payment holiday to 
avoid being forced to sell her house and she thought that the twelve month period would be 
appropriate.
On listening to the calls I was of the opinion that had if Ms F applied only for a three month 
period that this would  have been granted as the initial  adviser Ms F spoke to seemed 
satisfied that there wasnt likely to be a financial  difficulty problem. Ms F believed  that the 
three month period wouldnt be of use to her and asked for a longer period. Nationwide  
operated an exceptions  process which scrutinised applications for longer  payment holiday 
periods.  
One of the advisers told Ms F that payment holidays of more than 3 months were  intended  
for people  who may be on say maternity or paternity leave and who would then be returning 
to work to enjoy the same  pay as previously. On listening to the calls,  Ms F referred to a 
work related sickness so that a return to work  in the future wouldnt have been certain. 
Ms F is concerned that although  her mortgage  referred to the availability of a 12 month 
payment holiday  that she has been unable to benefit from it. The mortgage offer does  say 
Ref: DRN73908422that a payment holiday of up to 12 months  may be available. That indicates  that certain 
criteria would apply. Nationwide says that the difficulty with Ms Fs application is that to grant  
it might  leave Ms F potentially worse off than not granting it.
I noted that because of the term and the amount of Ms Fs mortgage that had she got the 
payment holiday  that the increase in the monthly  payment would  probably  have been 
manageable, if she returned to work.  The problem being that if Ms F got a payment holiday 
and didnt return to work  she would be required to make  higher mortgage payments in the 
future when  she would be less able to make the payments. Based on that, as Mrs F had no 
return to work date and was uncertain  whether she would return to work or not, I cant  fault 
Nationwide for refusing  Ms Fs application for a 12 month payment holiday. 
I note that in his first view our investigator urged Nationwide to approve a three month 
payment holiday  for Ms F if she applied for it. When Ms F first approached Nationwide  it 
seemed that such an application would be successful at that time. But I dont believe its 
appropriate to require Nationwide to grant such an application as time and circumstances 
have moved on and each application  should be looked at in relation  to Ms F circumstances  
at the time she requests  it. The issue with a payment holiday is that it may not be 
appropriate for a person facing financial difficulties and that indeed may be Ms Fs position at 
this time.  
As Ms F was unfortunately off work and was unsure of a return date she could be facing 
financial difficulties. If Ms F is facing financial difficulties, Nationwide  has a duty to be 
positive and sympathetic  to her. In order to establish  what  Nationwide  can offer it does 
require Ms F to share information with Nationwide and that will usually mean providing an 
income and expenditure account. On listening to the calls I understand Ms Fs frustration in 
that she had to deal with a number of advisers and information about  her didnt appear to be 
retained on the system.  For that Nationwide offered and paid compensation which  seems 
reasonable.
But I also noted that Ms Fs concerns were dealt with sympathetically  so I would urge her 
continued contact  with Nationwide. I note that Nationwide  has suggested that she contact its 
Triage team  to see if they are able to offer any assistance and that seems  appropriate.  I 
appreciate that Ms F is finding this very stressful and it may be helpful if she contacted  an 
advisory service dealing with debt matters to assist her. Our investigator can provide Ms F 
with the contact details for these. But for the reasons  set out above I cant  fairly  uphold this 
complaint.
  
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7390842