K820x#14complaint
Miss J has complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold her a Select  account  
sometime prior to September 2001.  Miss J has said that she was not made aware  that this 
account was optional and says if she had been made aware  it was optional, she would have  
stayed with a fee-free account.
background
Miss J upgraded her current account to a fee-paying Select account some time prior to 
September 2001. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into this complaint already. She did not think that the 
Select account was mis-sold. Miss J did not agree with this finding  and so the complaint was 
passed to me for a final decision.
 my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained our approach to 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website and Ive taken this into 
consideration when looking into this complaint.
Having reviewed everything, I dont think Lloyds mis-sold the Select packaged account to 
Miss J. Id like to explain why I think thats  the case.
It may help for me to explain that where  matters  are in dispute,  as they are here, I have to 
make my decision  based on what I think was most likely to have happened, based  on 
everything that is available. Unfortunately, as the sale of the Select  account  took place 
around 19 years ago, Lloyds has unsurprisingly not been able to provide much in the way of 
evidence from the sale to show what exactly was discussed. 
However, Miss J has been  very firm in saying that she was not presented  the option of 
continuing with a fee-free account.  I have carefully  considered this and I can see that Miss J 
had held a fee-free account  with Lloyds for a number of years. So I think that she would have 
been aware that free accounts were available and an option for her. Additionally,  Miss J has 
not explained what she was told that made  her suddenly  believe that she could not continue 
to hold the account she had held for a number of years.
At the time the account was taken out it cost between £3 to £4 a month  and it came with 
banking benefits  such as preferential rates on loans and overdrafts alongside a £50 fee free 
overdraft. It also came  with breakdown cover from late 2001. Given that there are no records  
as to when exactly  this account was taken out it was difficult  for me to say what benefits the 
account came with when  it was taken out. Miss J had taken  out loans in the past suggesting 
she might  in the future,  she used her overdraft albeit infrequently and she drove and used 
the breakdown  cover.  
So in the circumstances, I think its more likely that Miss J took out the account  as she was, 
at least initially, attracted to the benefits that it came with  rather than because she was 
given no choice but to change her account  to one with a monthly fee.
Ref: DRN77808712I understand that Lloyds recommended the account to Miss J. This meant  that Lloyds had to 
ensure that the account was right for her. As stated above the main  benefits which  were  
likely to be in place  at the time of the upgrade  was banking benefits and breakdown cover 
and again for the reasons  above I think that Miss J could have potentially  used these  benefits  
so overall I dont think that Lloyds recommendation was inappropriate.
I accept its possible that Miss J may not have been  given all the important information about  
the account. But Ive not seen anything about her circumstances at the time that makes  me 
think she wouldve been put off from agreeing to it had she been given more information  
about it.
Overall, I understand that Miss J may be disappointed with this but having  considered  the 
very limited information available I think its more likely than not that she agreed to the 
account at the time because she was interested in the benefits  that it came  with. I can see 
that with hindsight it may not have been  value for money but this does not mean that it was 
mis-sold in the first instance.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Miss Js complaint about her Select  account.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 July 2020.
Charlie Newton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7780871