K821x#15complaint
Mr O isnt happy Unum Ltd declined a claim he made on his executive income replacement  
plan. Hes also raised concerns about  the way his claim was handled. 
background
Mr O is the director  of a company. He is the beneficiary of his companys executive income 
replacement plan. In April 2018, Mr O was signed  off work by his GP due to depression. He 
therefore raised a claim under his income  replacement plan for his loss of earnings. The 
policy had a 13 week deferred period which ended in July 2018.  
Mr O said in his claim  form that he was signed  off work because  he was suffering from a 
major depressive episode. He explained that hed been taking medication for his depression  
but it had been getting worse. He also said he had no concentration, extremely  low 
motivation and almost  no executive function.  Before  he was signed off work he also 
requested a referral  for an Attention Deficit Hyperactivity Disorders (ADHD) assessment. In 
around June 2018  a consultant psychiatrist concluded Mr O was on the milder side of the 
spectrum for both Autistic  Spectrum Disorder (ASD) and for ADHD.   
Unum declined the claim as they didnt think Mr Os illness was the reason he was unable  to 
work. They explained that Mr Os depression was long standing and he didnt  show  any 
signs of deterioration  during the deferred period. They  also didnt think  the fact he was 
diagnosed with mild ADHD and Autism  meant  his claim should be settled.  Finally,  Unum 
concluded they didnt make any errors in relation to the way his claim was handled. 
Our investigator said Unum hadnt  acted unfairly when they declined the claim, based on the 
available medical  evidence and the policy terms. However, he thought Unum had caused 
some delays by sending correspondence  to the wrong address. He also said Unum couldve 
requested and reviewed  some of the medical  evidence faster.  To resolve  the complaint, he 
said Unum should  pay Mr O £250  compensation to say sorry for the upset they caused him.
Unum accepted the investigators findings but Mr O disagreed. He was happy the 
investigator had established the above errors but he didnt think the compensation amount  
was enough. He also disagreed that the medical evidence suggested he hadnt met the 
policy terms. He provided a number of points to support his point of view.
Mr Os complaint has now been passed  to me to look at everything afresh. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im really  sorry  to hear that Mr O has had such a difficult time recently.  I can see that the 
events of the last few years have had an impact  on him emotionally  and financially.
Mr O has raised  a number of points in response to our investigators opinion. I have carefully 
reviewed each of these but I wont address  all of them  in my decision. Ill focus on the points 
I think are central to the outcome of the complaint. 
Im not upholding this complaint for the reasons Ill go on to explain.  
Ref: DRN75215532how was Unum required to consider the claim?
Under the relevant rules  and appropriate  industry  guidelines Unum was required to consider 
Mr Os claim promptly and fairly. And they shouldnt decline it unreasonably.
Its for Mr O to demonstrate to Unum that he has a valid claim. Its not for Unum  to show that 
he doesnt. I appreciate  that Mr O would like Unum to tell him whats needed  in order  to 
make a successful claim. But thats not Unums  role as they need to review  the information  
Mr Os provided  in order to decide  whether it meets the criteria of their policy  terms or not. 
Thats standard industry practice and so I dont think Unum is treating Mr O unfairly by taking 
this approach. 
The policy terms define incapacity as meaning:
the life insured cannot perform the material and substantial duties of his occupation 
because of illness or injury.
The material  and substantial duties are defined as:
the duties  necessary for the performance of the life insureds occupation that cannot
reasonably be omitted or modified.
Occupation is defined as:
The trade, profession, vocation or employment  by which  the life insured  was earning 
a living  immediately before  the date his incapacity commenced.
Illness isnt defined under  the policy. 
In light of the above, it isnt enough  for the medial evidence to show Mr O was unwell during 
the deferred period or that he was signed off work by his GP. There needs to be evidence  
his illness  prevented him from being able to work.  
did Unum decline the claim  unreasonably?
Mr Os GP notes  suggest he was diagnosed with depression in 2017  and he was controlling  
it with medication and therapy, before he was signed off work in April 2018. During this time, 
according to the medical records, he experienced symptoms including  low mood, poor 
concentration, lack of motivation and problems sleeping. These events took place before the 
deferred period  but I do think its relevant in the circumstances of this case.
In April 2018, Mr O was signed off work and the GP notes state:
Patient reviewed seeing private counselling,  doing well, on venlafaxine,  IT consultant, 
needs time off as recommended by his therapist, has income protection, feels  he 
needs to utilise the time to get better, agreed.
I think Unum concluded  reasonably that this evidence doesnt suggest Mr Os depression  
had deteriorated  to an extent that he was unable to work. The notes  appear  to suggest      
Mr Os GP signed him off work  due to his therapists (Dr H) recommendation. However, he 
was managing his condition  well by taking  medication and attending counselling.
Ref: DRN75215533Ive also reviewed Dr Hs note from the appointment in April 2018. 
The note says Mr O: 
struggles with finding a solution  for his dilemma of feeling not well equipped to  cope  
with some aspects of his work and how best to resolve this Lots of despondent 
introspective thinking over this. Feels his executive functions are not up to scratch 
Becoming more  absorbed  in mental  activities close to his work might  help to reduce 
this Asked  for a letter  to his GP, for a referral to the ADHD clinic for an assessment, 
as he suspects that he got too much of a wandering mind. 
Unum have said they dont think there is any medical evidence that suggests Mr O was told 
to take time off work.  Based on the above  note and the rest of the medical evidence  I dont 
think this is an unreasonable conclusion. The note suggests Mr O was struggling with some 
aspects of his role but the key advice  appears to be that he should focus on work activities. 
In May 2018, Mr Os GP notes mention that Mr O was doing  better  but he wasnt  ready to 
return to work. The locum doctor suggested  he could go back to work before the end of the 
sick note if he felt able.  This suggests to me that it is most  likely Mr O was encouraged to 
return back to work  despite his depression.
Around the same time Mr O was referred to a different psychiatrist (Dr Z) for an ADHD 
assessment. Mr O visited Dr Z on a number of occasions between  May and July 2018. After  
testing, Mr O was diagnosed with mild ADHD and Autism.  The reports  dont suggest Mr O 
couldnt work because of these conditions. In addition, the references to Mr Os depression 
focus on the medication he was taking for it. 
Unum also said there  wasnt a significant change in Mr Os symptoms between the time of 
his diagnosis and the time he was signed off. During that time hed been able to work and 
there wasnt detailed  reference within the notes as to why he could no longer work. 
I dont think Unum reached an unreasonable conclusion on the basis of the medical 
evidence Ive seen.  Later  GP notes refer to Mr O continuing  to see Dr Z and the fact his 
medication changed due to his newly diagnosed  conditions ASD and ADHD. The notes dont 
make a clear  or comprehensive assessment in relation to the impact of his illness  on his 
ability to work. 
In light of the above, I think  Unum reasonably concluded that Mr O didnt meet  the policy 
definition of incapacity. 
did Unum consider Dr Zs final report fairly?
Ive reviewed Dr Zs report  from November 2018.  In this report, Dr Z explains its likely Mr O 
had ADHD and Autism for most of his life even though both conditions had only recently 
been diagnosed. He also said the reason Mr O couldnt work was because  of his depression 
and referred to Global  Assessment of Functioning score (GAF) was between 41 and 50. 
This report has been reviewed by Unums Chief Medical Officer (CMO) and it hasnt 
changed their thoughts  about the outcome  of the claim. 
Ref: DRN75215534I dont think thats  unreasonable. Dr Zs report  suggests it is most likely Mr O had 
experienced both conditions  for a long time and said the reason Mr O was unable  to work 
was because of his depression. I can also see theres reference  within  the wider medical 
evidence to Mr O experiencing symptoms of these conditions for some time. And, whilst 
there was reference  to the GAF criteria, the CMO pointed out that a number  of features of 
the criteria werent met in Mr Os case.  
In any event Dr Z pointed  to depression  as being  the main reason  for Mr Os absence  from 
work but he doesnt refer to any significant new symptoms in relation  to the depression.  This 
report was also made  after the deferred  period  had ended and the claim was declined. I also 
note that Dr Z made retrospective comments about Mr Os depression  which werent  
mentioned in any of his previous reports. So I dont think Unum acted unreasonably by 
concluding it didnt  change their decision and this report hasnt changed my thoughts  on the 
outcome of Mr Os complaint.
Im aware Mr O believes this report wouldve been  provided earlier  if Unum had done  more 
to request it. I dont  agree  this is the case as Ive seen  evidence Unum requested an 
additional report and Dr Z declined to provide it. I also dont think Unum did anything  wrong 
by not pursuing  this matter any further.  This is because it was ultimately Mr Os responsibility 
to evidence his claim under the policy.
did Unum cause delays  in relation to the claim?
As both sides agree  some of Unums  actions caused delays  I wont address them  here in a 
lot of detail. But I do agree  Unum let Mr O down by sending him correspondence to the 
wrong address  - on at least two occasions.  They also delayed requesting and reviewing  all 
the relevant medical evidence from Dr H. This meant they couldve done  more to reach an 
outcome faster.  This caused Mr O inconvenience as he needed to ask Unum  to get 
information they should reasonably have already requested.
I note that Mr O believes substantial compensation should be paid and £250 doesnt  reflect  
the upset he was caused. Hes also suggested that Unum should  refund the policy premiums 
to his company.  I dont  think this would be appropriate as this issue relates to the upset he 
experienced as a beneficiary under the policy - rather  than any error involving his business 
or the policy premiums.
However, I do think Unum should  pay Mr O compensation to say sorry for the trouble and 
upset they caused him - at an already difficult time. Under the circumstances, I think £250  is 
a fair amount to say sorry as it fairly  reflects the trouble and upset caused by incorrectly 
addressed letters and some small delays  in handling  the claim.
Ref: DRN75215535my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and require Unum  Ltd to pay Mr O £250 compensation to 
reflect the trouble and upset they caused him. Unum  Ltd isnt required to do anything more in 
relation to the claim as they acted  reasonably  by declining it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 October  2019.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7521553