K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains the vehicle he acquired through a hire purchase agreement  financed by
Specialist Motor Finance Limited  was not of satisfactory quality. He wants to be
compensated for his consequential losses.
background
Mr J tells us he acquired the vehicle through a dealer Ill call R on 17 September 2018. He 
says that the vehicle  soon  began exhibiting faults so he took it to a local dealership, which  Ill 
refer to as C - as he felt he wasnt getting sufficient help from R. Whilst C is a separate 
business its part of the same group  of companies as R. Mr J said he decided he wanted to 
reject the vehicle and he emailed SMFL  to this effect on 20 October. Mr J says he hired a 
vehicle as he needed it for his work.  And he explains  it was cheaper for him to hire a van 
rather than a car. Mr J denies he ever authorised  C to carry out repairs.
SMFL told us Mr J had reported faults  with the vehicle  on 24 September. It said hed told 
them he wanted  the vehicle repaired but couldnt return  it to R due to the distance from his 
home. SMFL  said Mr J had then taken  the vehicle to C and had authorised repairs.  But on 
20 October it said it had received an email from Mr J saying he now wished to reject  the 
vehicle. SMFL told us that R, as a gesture of goodwill, had agreed to this - despite 
considering it was not required to do so as Mr J had agreed to repairs.  And it was prepared 
to go along with this decision. But it said it did not consider it should be liable for any 
additional costs.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 12 June  2019.  I said that I was minded to 
uphold the complaint - but only in part. And I stated that I did not intend to make  any award 
of compensation  to cover the cost of the replacement  vehicle Mr J hired - after he rejected 
his repaired vehicle.
Since then both parties have replied to my provisional decision.  SMFL said it accepted my 
provisional decision and that it had refunded Mr Js deposit. It confirmed the cheque had 
been cashed in February  2019. Mr J did not agree  and said he didnt think  Id taken  his 
health problems  or financial  difficulties into consideration. Hes also provided  details of the 
hire vehicles and said he didnt think he had any alternative to hiring a replacement  vehicle.  
I thank both parties for their responses. Ive considered  these but Im not minded to change 
my provisional view. Ill give full reasons and deal with the matters  raised  in the replies to my 
provisional view in my final decision which is set out below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I understand that Mr J would have been  very disappointed when his newly acquired vehicle 
exhibited serious  faults  within such a short time after supply.  And I accept that if he relies  on 
a vehicle for his employment it would have been a matter of additional concern. I also 
acknowledge that Mr J has certain  health issues which affect his daily life. This means that 
some issues  - which many of us would regard as routine  - can cause difficulties for him.
Ref: DRN75839332Where evidence is unclear or incomplete  - as some of it is here - I have  to make my decision 
on the balance  of probabilities. That is to say I decide what  is the most  likely explanation to 
account for whats happened. In trying  to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell 
us, and we look to documentary and other evidence to help us reach  a decision. This is in 
combination with our fair and reasonable remit.
I should also explain that I dont apply the law - directly - but I do take it into account. 
Relevant law here includes the Consumer Rights Act of 2015. And briefly summarised this 
gives a consumer the right to reject an item - or have it repaired - if it proves not to be of 
satisfactory quality at the point of supply.
Theres no doubt that the vehicle supplied to Mr J developed serious faults within  a short  
time of supply - the estimated cost of repair was in excess  of £1,600. So its not disputed that 
the vehicle was not of satisfactory quality  when supplied to him. As the faults occurred within 
thirty days of supply Mr J had the option  of either rejecting the vehicle and ending  the 
agreement - or having it repaired.
After the faults  developed Mr J took the vehicle to C. And theres a dispute about  whether Mr 
J authorised the repairs which were  subsequently carried out by C.
Theres a note and recordings  of phone calls which Mr J had with SMFL on 12 October. In 
the first call Mr J confirms  the vehicle is with C for repairs  - but hes unsure  who authorised 
the repairs. And later he indicates he wants to unwind the agreement. This phone call was 
then terminated  abruptly.
Later that day Mr J speaks with a different  call handler. In that phone call - which lasted just 
over eight minutes - Mr J discussed the details of the faults and the circumstances in which 
the car had been taken to C. Mr J was asked  if he wanted to unwind the agreement  and he 
replied, I dont really want to - its taken me ages to find a car. And after further 
discussion he says - amongst other things - Id rather get the work  sorted  out.
I think at that stage its clear Mr J had decided  to accept repairs to the vehicle  - his main 
concern - quite reasonably - being  that he should not have to pay for them.  But by 18 
October he had changed  his mind and decided to ask to reject the vehicle. This was 
recorded in a phone call to SMFL of that date and confirmed by email  on 20 October.
This sequence of events  is important in the context of this complaint. Having exercised his 
right to have the vehicle  repaired  - and those repairs having  been commenced - Mr J is not 
then entitled to reject the vehicle. Hed only be entitled to do so if the repairs failed - and 
theres no evidence  to this effect.
Matters then took another turn as R decided, as a gesture of goodwill and upon being made 
aware of Mr Js personal health issues, to accept his request and take the vehicle back.
Following on from Rs decision to accept  the return of the vehicle theres then a period of 
several months in which there are differences between SMFL, Mr J, R and other parties  
about various aspects  of the administrative process  to unwind the deal. I neednt go into fine 
detail about all these  issues  as most  of them have now been resolved. But they involved the 
return of the £1,000 deposit Mr J had paid at the start of the agreement  and the payment for 
items allegedly  missing from the car.
Ref: DRN75839333The consequence was that the hire purchase  agreement was not formally terminated and 
SMFL had late payment  markers recorded on Mr Js credit  file. The latest copy  of Mr Js 
credit file Ive seen is from January 2019  and this shows missed payments in October, 
November and December  2018.
I dont think this was fair as - although  it might  be factually correct - it gave an entirely  
misleading picture. SMFL knew that the agreement was in the process of being unwound 
and that no further  monthly payments were due from Mr J. And in its final response letter of 
19 December SMFL  says it will remove  information  it reported to the credit reference 
agencies once it had received funds  from R in respect of the missing  items. As that (the 
payment) was not an issue over which Mr J had any control I dont  think it was fair that his 
credit record  should  have been  impacted because of the delay in that issue being  settled.
Mr J complained to this service in December 2018 and whilst considerable progress has 
been made with attempts  to resolve  the complaint there are still some  issues  to settle. 
Foremost amongst  these is whether Mr J should  be able to recover  the costs  of hiring a 
replacement vehicle.
I accept that Mr J incurred expense when he hired  the vehicle after hed indicated he wanted 
to reject his repaired vehicle. But for SMFL  to be liable for these additional costs, Id have to 
think they were consequential upon the breach of contract arising out of the faults  on his 
vehicle. And for the reasons Ill explain I do not think they were.
A consequential loss can occur  when - as in this case - theres been a breach of contract. 
Here, that was the supplied vehicle not being  of satisfactory quality.  But the loss must arise  
directly from the breach.
Its not in dispute  that Mr J had taken the faulty vehicle to C on or around 10 October. And 
hes not had the use of it since.  And I accept that in order to maintain his employment  Mr J 
needed to find a replacement vehicle. C initially supplied him with a courtesy vehicle but that 
was only for a few days.
Ive already explained why I think Mr J originally agreed to have his vehicle repaired.  And 
whilst this was being done - and for any period when a courtesy vehicle was not supplied - it 
would probably  have been  fair and reasonable for him to obtain a temporary  replacement  
vehicle and seek to reclaim those  costs.
But its clear that by 18 October Mr J had asked to reject the vehicle. And that request was 
confirmed by email a couple  of days later. This request was granted - not as an acceptance 
that the short-term  right to reject under the Consumer  Rights Act 2015  had been  engaged - 
but as a gesture of goodwill.
The significance of this is that the hire costs incurred by Mr J did not arise from the breach of 
contract. They arose from Mr Js decision to hand  the vehicle back. The breach of contract 
had been satisfied by the repairs  being undertaken. For these reasons I do not think  Mr J 
suffered any consequential loss due to any breach of contract.
Whilst I sympathise with Mr Js situation  I think it is reasonable to expect that hed take into 
account - in making his request to return the vehicle - that hed need a replacement  vehicle 
for his work purposes. It was obviously uppermost in his mind as theres evidence from the 
notes made  by SMFL at the time,  that hed raised  the issue of hiring a vehicle. But at no time 
did SMFL agree to pay towards these  costs.
Ref: DRN75839334I do take into account the health issues to which Mr J has referred  - but I do not think that 
this alters the fact that he asked to reject  the vehicle. Once that had been accepted  by SMFL 
I dont think it is fair and reasonable to expect  it to meet the costs  of hire. I think  its fair to 
say that Mr J - once hed rejected the vehicle - wouldnt expect to have any ongoing  
obligations under  the agreement - so I dont think its reasonable to impose any upon SMFL.
As far as I can see Mr J has not made  any payments under the agreement - apart from an 
initial deposit which has now been  refunded. He had the use of the vehicle from 17 
September until 10 October. I think its fair and reasonable that he should pay for this use.
Ive already said why I thought it was unfair for SMFL to have recorded late payments on Mr 
Js credit  file. I can see that would be the cause of distress and inconvenience to him. I think 
Mr J is entitled to be compensated  for this. Its also fair that the refund of his deposit should  - 
in line with our usual approach - include a payment of interest.  The delay in making the 
refund of this payment was not something over which Mr J had any control.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im upholding  this complaint but only in part.
In order to resolve this complaint I require Specialist Motor Finance Limited to take the 
following action:
1.Calculate the payments due from Mr J for the period  between  17 September 2018 
and 10 October 2018 - and treat this period as the duration of the agreement.
2.Pay simple interest  at the rate of 8% per year on the sum of £1,000 - the deposit - 
from the date of payment to the date on which the refund cheque was sent to Mr J.
3.Pay £200 compensation to Mr J for distress and inconvenience in respect of the 
recording of late payment markers on his credit file.
4.Arrange (if not already  done)  to have the details  of the agreement removed from Mr 
Js credit  file.
Before paying  the balance  of any amount  due to Mr J (if any) arising from items 2 and 3 
above, Special  Motor  Finance Limited  may deduct the sum arising from item 1.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7583933