K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs J are unhappy that British Gas Insurance Limited didnt recognise a leak in 2017  
during an annual service.  The boiler  casing has now corroded due to the leak and it needs 
replacing. 
background
Mr and Mrs J have a HomeCare policy through British Gas which includes annual boiler 
servicing. They have  held this policy for the last eight to nine years. Since 2012 British Gas 
has been recommending  they replace their boiler  as it isnt up to current  standards (I 
understand its over 25 years old). 
Mr and Mrs J say that in 2017 they noticed a leak coming  from the drain valve above  their 
boiler and brought this to the service engineers attention during the annual service.  They  
say the engineer told them it looked like condensation  and to put a bowl under the valve  to 
catch the water  it generally reaches 10mm when they empty it. 
In 2019, the service engineer said the boiler  needed to be replaced immediately as the 
casing around  the boiler had corroded  (I understand from Mr J this was the top of the casing, 
underneath the drain valve). He eventually received quotes for a replacement boiler and 
there was a lot of discussion about  whether the boiler could be replaced  where  it was sited,  if 
it could be sited elsewhere etc. After several  visits it was agreed a new boiler could be sited 
in the same place,  although their boiler didnt actually need replacing immediately but it was 
classed as at risk.  
Mr and Mrs J complained  to British Gas, as they say they followed the advice they were  
given which  has resulted in their boiler  becoming  corroded. They  complain the engineer 
should have fixed  the problem. British  Gas didnt think  it had done  anything wrong in relation 
to the leak as there was nothing in its service  records about that. But it did agree it shouldnt 
have been necessary to have several visits from a heating service adviser about the matter, 
so it paid them £130 in compensation. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint, as she didnt think there was persuasive 
evidence Mr and Mrs J were told to put a bowl under a leak. She also referred  to an 
engineer expecting to see more corrosion  if the leak had been  ongoing  for two years.
Mr and Mrs J have asked for the matter  to be referred. In summary, they say:
They are being made  out to be liars because British Gas hasnt  kept full records  of 
what happened during their annual boiler  services.  In support of that, they have 
provided a copy of an email they sent which British Gas has confirmed  it doesnt  
have. 
They followed the advice they were given,  as they arent experts in this. And it was 
clearly the drain valve that caused  the corrosion as the leak has now stopped  since 
the drain valve was replaced. 
One of the engineers that came out following  the service advised  them  to make a 
complaint. The engineer  had said the leak should have been fixed  at the time. They 
consider this persuasive evidence  that British  Gas had done  something wrong, as 
was the compensation that was paid. 
Ref: DRN79036762my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I understand Mr and Mrs J feel very strongly  about  this, particularly because they say British 
Gas hasnt kept full records of what  happened during the annual services.  We are often 
asked to decide complaints where  records or evidence is incomplete,  for whatever reason. 
As the investigator  explained, where  that is the situation we make our decision on the 
balance of probabilities  that is, what I think likely happened given the evidence that is 
available and the wider circumstances. And I can only uphold a complaint if Im persuaded 
the business complained  about has done  something wrong. 
British Gas has records of services and other visits from 2011. I appreciate and accept that 
Mr and Mrs J believe the records are incomplete. But it seems to me, that what is recorded 
on its records is a matter  for British Gas.  I have noted the service records follow the same 
format, with codes and free-text for what happened. 
Those records show that over the years Mr and Mrs J have had energy supply advice, been 
recommended to replace their boiler (Im satisfied Mr and Mrs Js own records  show this, 
despite their arguments  to the contrary) and had parts replaced, such as radiator valves, 
amongst others.  And for 2019 the records show that the boiler was recorded  as at risk due 
to corrosion. Given the type of information that is recorded, I would expect to see some free 
text about a leak had one been occurring in 2017. But not only is there nothing about a leak 
recorded for 2017, there is also nothing for 2018, by which time the valve  would have been 
leaking for over a year. I find it unlikely that two different engineers would both fail to record  
any information about a leak.
I have considered Mr and Mrs Js testimony,  as that is also evidence. But I dont find it very 
persuasive. Even were  I to accept the first engineer told them the leak was condensation  
and to put a bowl under the valve, I would then have to accept it was reasonable for them  to 
continue relying  on that advice  for a further  two years.  I think most reasonable people  would  
likely bring  this to the attention of the engineer in 2018, or at the very least  contacted British 
Gas about the matter  again, when the leak continued. 
Accepting at face value their argument they simply  followed the advice  they were given, I 
would then have  to question why the engineer who visited in 2018, didnt investigate why a 
bowl was sited under a drain valve. I find this very odd and difficult to accept, such that I find 
it unlikely to have  occurred.
I also have to take into account  that one of the engineers didnt  consider  the corrosion levels 
to be consistent  with a leak that had been  ongoing for two years.  Mr and Mrs J havent  
provided any comparable  evidence to show that it had. Although they have provided  email 
correspondence between  themselves and a heating service adviser, who recommended  
they complain,  I dont  find this persuasive evidence  of a failure by British Gas;  it is evidence 
of the adviser  accepting  what  they were told and trying  to resolve Mr and Mrs Js concerns.
British Gas did send  Mr and Mrs J £130  compensation.  But I dont agree with their assertion 
that this was because it has accepted something went wrong  in relation to the boiler. It is 
clear from its final response that British  Gas has paid compensation because of the 
numerous visits by heating service advisers when one should have sufficed and the lack of 
quotes, not because it was responsible for any corrosion. 
Ref: DRN79036763I understand Mr and Mrs J are going  to be very disappointed by my findings, but I find British 
Gass records and arguments more persuasive  than Mr and Mrs Js testimony.  I therefore  
find its resolution of this matter to be fair and reasonable and I dont require  it to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 January 2020.
Claire Hopkins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7903676