K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H complain that Bank  of Scotland  Plc (BoS), trading as Halifax, mis-sold  them  
a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
In 1997, Mr and Mrs H were sold a PPI policy by BoS with a mortgage. The policy  protected  
their mortgage repayments for up to twelve months if Mr H wasnt  able to work because of 
an accident, sickness or unemployment.  
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed with the 
adjudicator, so the case has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in considering Mr and Mrs Hs case.  Having done so, Im not 
upholding it for reasons  that Ill now explain.
Mr and Mrs H say they were told by the BoS representative they spoke to that taking out the 
PPI policy  was a requirement for obtaining their mortgage.
BoS has provided a copy of the mortgage  application  that Mr and Mrs H completed  in 
October 1997. Theres a section on this dealing with PPI. And I can see that theres a tick in 
the box next to the statement Yes, I would like to take advantage of Halifax Mortgage 
Repayments Insurance. There are other equally prominent selections  that could have been 
ticked, including one to declining this cover.  Mr and Mrs H signed at the bottom of this 
section to confirm  the selection that theyd made.  BoS has also provided a copy  of the 
separate PPI application which Mr H signed the following month.
So, from what Ive seen,  I think that the paperwork which Mr and Mrs H completed at the 
time of the sale does  present the PPI as optional and not a requirement for them obtaining  
their mortgage. I accept that its still possible that the BoS representative they spoke to 
wrongly misled Mr and Mrs H into thinking that they wouldnt get approval for their mortgage 
without agreeing to take the PPI. But I do also need  to bear in mind that this sale took place 
well over twenty years ago and memories  of such meetings do tend to fade over time. So I 
dont think it would be fair for me to conclude that this is most likely  to have been what  
happened, based solely on what Mr and Mrs H think they remember  being  said to them then.
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs H knew at the time that they could choose 
whether to take the PPI and actively decided to do so. But I can understand why they might  
not remember this now.
Ref: DRN75809812BoS recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. This means that it needed  to ensure that the 
policy was suitable  for them. Theres no record of what  was said at the meeting, so I dont 
know all the steps  BoS took to ensure that this was the case. But from what  I know  of 
Mr and Mrs H circumstances at the time,  I cant see any reason why it wouldnt have been 
suitable for them. I say this because:
Mr H appears  to have been  eligible for the policy and not affected  by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Mr and Mrs H say they didnt need  the cover the policy gave. Mr H says he was eligible  
for generous  sick pay from his employer and they also had some savings they could  
have used if he wasnt able to work. But this policy  would have  paid out in addition  to any 
other means they might have had. And a mortgage is a big financial  commitment   
where ones home may be at risk if the monthly  repayments cant be made. So I still 
think that Mr and Mrs H would have  valued  the extra  security the policy  gave them if 
things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mr and Mrs H. And as the 
premiums were  paid monthly,  the policy could have  been  cancelled if it no longer met 
their needs.
BoS also needed to ensure that Mr and Mrs H were  given  enough  information  for them  to 
decide if they wanted to take the policy. I think its possible that the information they received 
could have been better than it was. But for much the same reasons that I dont think the 
policy was unsuitable,  I dont think better  information would have changed their minds about  
taking it. I think theyd  still have thought  it gave  them useful cover at an affordable cost.
So I dont  think that Mr and Mrs H have  lost out by anything  that BoS may have done wrong 
when it sold them this PPI policy.
my final decision
It follows from what Ive said that Im not upholding this complaint  against 
Bank of Scotland Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 December  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7580981