K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Tesco Personal Finance PLC charged him a cash handling  fee when he 
used his credit card to repay a loan.
background
Mr T has a credit  card with Tesco. He used  the card to repay  a loan. He then noticed that he 
had been charged a percentage  of the transaction as a fee for a cash withdrawal.
Mr T complained. Tesco said it had changed its terms and conditions a few months  before  
and sent out a notice of the changes to its customers. It had slightly  increased the case  
advance fee, and it had amended the definition of what came within  it.
Mr T said he hadnt received the notice of change  and didnt know  that his payment would be 
subject to the fee. So he didnt think it was fair to charge it. Our investigator  didnt  think  
Tesco had done anything wrong, so Mr T asked for an ombudsman  to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen the notice of variation of its charges  that Tesco sent out to its customers. Mr Ts 
account was set up to receive statements both by post and by email, and the change was 
enclosed with one of his monthly statements. It was clearly drawn to borrowers attention  in 
both formats.
Mr T says he didnt  receive the notice of variation. But his statements are correctly  
addressed, both to his postal address and his email address. While post does go astray 
occasionally, thats a comparatively rare occurrence. Tesco has no record of either  returned  
post or an undelivered email. I think  its very unlikely that both the postal statement and the 
email went astray. And as Mr T uses his account heavily, Id have expected him to notice if 
he didnt receive  a statement. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr T did receive the statement enclosing the notice of 
variation, but didnt  read it or realise  its significance  at the time. Im satisfied that Tesco took 
reasonable steps to draw it to his attention  before it came into effect.  The notice is clear, sets 
out what was changing,  and was issued before the change came into effect.
So I think Tesco hasnt acted unfairly here.  It told Mr T of the change to the wording and the 
increase to the fee before it was incurred. In all the circumstances  I dont think it would be 
fair to uphold the complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Ref: DRN77836942Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 April 2019.
Simon Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7783694