K820x#14complaint
Ms H has complained about the way Legal  and General Assurance Society Limited  (Legal 
and General) handled claims made  under  two term assurance policies.
background
Ms H and the late Mr P applied for joint term assurance policies with Legal  and General on 
9 December 2016. The applications were  accepted  and started  on the same day. The first 
policy provided level cover of £100,000 for death  or terminal illness over 25 years.  The 
second policy provided level cover of £20,000 for death or terminal  illness over 46 years.
Sadly on 25 December  2017 Mr P took his own life. Claims were submitted and Legal and 
General asked the late Mr Ps general  practitioner  (GP) to provide medical information 
relating to his death. Mr Ps GP included information showing Mr P had suffered  with 
depression before the policies started.  As Mr P hadnt disclosed  this in the application forms, 
Legal and General requested his medical records.
A review of the records  showed some  other  medical conditions,  including a diagnosis  of fatty 
liver that Mr P hadnt told Legal and General about and a referral for snoring. It asked  Ms H 
about this but she said she didnt know about  any of these conditions.  She also said they 
were led to believe Legal and General would be writing to their GP for medical information 
before the policies  started as theyd  given their consent for it to do so.
After considering Ms Hs responses, Legal  and General  told her it wouldnt be paying the 
claims and cancelled the policies from inception. This was because it thought Mr P had 
misrepresented his state of health  at application.  Legal and General said it wouldnt have 
provided cover if it had known Mr P had been  diagnosed  with a fatty liver. As these were 
joint policies, Legal and General asked if Ms H wanted to continue with them  on her own.  
She said she didnt, so Legal  and General returned  all of the premiums paid for both policies.
Ms H complained. She said men of Mr Ps age found it difficult  to talk about their health and 
she thought it was unfair for Legal  and General to decline the claims when he didnt lose his 
life to any of the conditions  he hadnt  disclosed. Ms H still thought  Legal  and General 
shouldve obtained  a medical  report before accepting the application. She said this decision 
had a devastating impact  on her family  who now faced the prospect of becoming  homeless.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought Mr P needed to answer several 
questions in his application form differently, so hed made misrepresentations. He said Legal 
and General had shown  it wouldnt  have  provided Mr P with any cover if it had known hed 
been diagnosed with a fatty liver.
The investigator said it was possible the policy couldve been put in place at a later date if 
Mr P had disclosed his fatty liver and then complained about the decision to decline the 
application. This may have prompted  Legal  and General to request more information  about 
the fatty liver from Mr Ps GP, as well as the other  medical issues Mr P hadnt  disclosed. But 
he thought it was unlikely the policy couldve gone ahead before March  2017. He said this 
date was relevant  because  Mr P had taken his life in December 2017,  which  wouldve been 
within the first 12 months of the policy  claims  of this nature are excluded  in the first policy  
year. For this reason, in the event the policy couldve gone  ahead,  Legal and General 
wouldnt have been able to pay the claim.  So, overall, the investigator thought the decision  to 
decline the claims and cancel the policies  was fair and in line with the relevant law.
Ref: DRN71102872Ms H didnt agree. She maintained that the other medical conditions werent relevant 
because Mr P was covered at the time of his death. She also maintained Legal and General 
had told them it would  get medical  information  from their doctors. Ms H asked for a final 
decision on the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding it.
I know this will be very disappointing for Ms H as this has been an incredibly difficult time for 
her family. I want her to know that Im very sorry for her loss and I didnt take this decision 
lightly. I will explain how I reached this decision below.
In reviewing this complaint Ive considered the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and 
Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA), which mirrors this services longstanding  approach  to 
cases like this. It sets out the roles  and duties of the consumer and insurer  when entering 
into an insurance contract. CIDRA  places the consumer under a duty to take reasonable 
care not to make a misrepresentation (i.e. to say something untrue or misleading),  provided 
the insurer has asked  a clear question. If the consumer  doesnt take reasonable care to 
answer questions  accurately it sets out the remedies available to the insurer.
was there  a misrepresentation?
The applications Mr P and Ms H completed on 9 December 2016 asked the following 
questions:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, during the last 2 years 
have you seen a doctor,  nurse or other  health professional for:
any condition affecting your gall bladder,  liver or pancreas, for example hepatitis, 
fatty liver?
any condition affecting your lungs or breathing, for example asthma, emphysema, 
sleep apnoea,  sarcoidosis?
anxiety, depression or stress  thats  required treatment  or counselling,  or chronic  
fatigue syndrome?
Mr P answered, no to these questions. But his medical records  show that in March  2016 
Mr P saw his GP about depression and suicidal thoughts. As a result his medication was 
increased. There was a follow up appointment in May 2016 where Mr P said his depressed  
mood was persisting. The records also show Mr P underwent some tests in March 2016  
these showed  he had abnormal liver function and he was told about this at an appointment 
in June 2016. He was then referred for an ultrasound scan of his abdomen. The scan  took 
place in July 2016 and Mr P was diagnosed with a fatty liver. A note in his records from 
August 2016 shows the diagnosis of fatty liver was discussed with Mr P and he was advised  
about his diet. A note from November 2016  shows Mr P was referred to the ear, nose and 
throat (ENT) department because of snoring  and daytime tiredness.
Ref: DRN71102873The questions in the application forms Mr P and Ms H completed  were clear and they 
highlighted the importance of answering  the questions truthfully  and accurately. They said if 
they didnt it could mean a claim might not be paid. So Im satisfied Legal  and General  
brought to Mr P and Ms Hs attention the need to answer the questions fully and accurately, 
and the consequences if they didnt do so.
With this in mind, Im satisfied  that Mr P needed to respond positively to the questions Ive 
set out above.  Mr P had been  diagnosed with depression  and fatty liver, both of which were 
specifically mentioned in the questions,  and Mr P had seen his GP about  these  conditions  
within the last year. Its possible Mr P might not have thought to have disclosed his referral  to 
the ENT department  about his snoring in response  to the question about conditions  affecting 
breathing. But there  was an additional  question in the application form which  asked:
Apart from anything youve already told us about in this application, do you have  any 
medical condition  or symptom that:
youre waiting to be seen at or attending  hospital for?
As Mr P had been  referred to the ENT department at a hospital,  I think he shouldve 
answered this question positively if he hadnt  already disclosed his referral  in the earlier  
question.
Following the applications  being  received  Legal and General sent copies of them to Mr P 
and Ms H with a Checking Your Details form. The covering letter contained the following 
warning:
If the answers on your application are not correct, are incomplete, or are out of date it may 
mean that a claim will be declined and the policy or policies cancelled. In the event of a claim 
we may request  a report from your doctor to support your application answers. Please tell us 
straight away if you need to change any of your answers before your policy starts. Please 
read the personal details document carefully.
Mr P ticked  a box to confirm his details  were correct and signed the declaration  on 
23 January 2017.  So, Im satisfied he had a further  opportunity to ensure the answers he 
gave were correct. As Ive said above, I think Mr P needed to answer the questions above 
differently.
what would  Legal  and General have done differently?
Legal and General classified Mr Ps misrepresentation as deliberate or reckless. Under 
CIDRA, this would allow it to cancel  the policy and keep the premiums paid. But in this case,  
Legal and General has returned the premiums  paid. This would be the remedy  available  if 
the misrepresentation was categorised as careless. And overall, I think it would be fairer to 
categorise it in this way. This is because Mr P made  a medical disclosure  in the application 
form so it isnt fair to say he didnt take any care whatsoever, which I consider to be the 
ordinary meaning  of reckless.
Under CIDRA, when  its found a consumer has made a careless misrepresentation, the insurer 
can take whatever  action  it would have taken if the correct answer been given at the point of 
application. Legal and General has shown us that if it had known Mr P had been diagnosed with a 
fatty liver, it wouldnt have offered him any cover at all. So, Im satisfied the applications wouldve 
been declined  if Mr P provided  an accurate  picture of his health at the time.
Ref: DRN71102874It isnt possible to know what wouldve happened next. But Ive considered  what wouldve 
happened if Mr P and Ms H had complained  about  Legal and Generals decision, to see whether 
its possible the policy couldve  gone  ahead at a later date.
Legal and General said it wouldve wanted to know more about  Mr Ps history  of depression 
and his fatty liver diagnosis. So, it wouldve asked Mr Ps GP to complete a patient  health 
report. On receipt  of this, Legal and General  says it wouldve been able to provide Mr P with 
cover, despite his fatty liver. This is because the medical records show the fatty liver wasnt  
alcohol related.  But it wouldve  charged an additional premium.  It also said it wouldve 
charged an additional premium because of Mr Ps history of depression. But as Mr P was 
waiting to be seen  by the ENT department it wouldve  postponed  the application for three 
months. I think  this is fair because I wouldnt expect an insurer  to put a policy  in place whilst  
investigations are ongoing, as it cant fully underwrite the risk.
In light of this, I think the earliest the policy couldve have been put in place (if at all) was 
February/March 2017. Sadly, this doesnt  mean  that Legal and General could or should  pay 
the claims arising from Mr Ps death.  This is because the policies include the following  
exclusion:
Death in the first year
This policy will be cancelled if within the first year of the policy, the life insured dies as a 
result of:
-Suicide or,
-Intentional and serious self-injury or,
-An event  where, in our reasonable opinion,  the life insured took their own life.
As Mr P took his own life in December 2017,  this wouldve been within the first year of the 
policy (assuming a start date in February or March 2017). So, the claims wouldve been 
excluded.
For this reason, overall I dont think it was unfair for Legal and General to decline the claims 
and cancel the policies.
I know Ms H doesnt think it is fair for Legal  and General to have taken this action, when the 
diagnosis of fatty liver and the ENT referral arent  linked in any way to Mr Ps death. But as 
Ive explained  above, Mr P and Ms H had a duty to provide  accurate responses  to the 
questions posed  in the application forms. The action Legal and General took after finding out 
about the misrepresentations is in line with the relevant law, so I dont think its decision is 
unreasonable in the circumstances.
Ms H has also said Legal  and General ought to have obtained medical information from their 
GPs before offering  them  any terms of insurance. Shes said they were led to believe it 
would, particularly as it had asked for their consent  to do so. But the applications contained 
the following  statement:
Its very important you answer  every  question truthfully and accurately to ensure all valid 
claims are paid to protect you and your dependants. If you dont, it could mean  a claim may 
not be paid and your policy may be cancelled.
Ref: DRN71102875Legal & General wont always write  to your doctor to confirm your answers.
Please confirm you have  read this statement by clicking this box
The above  statement was marked,  Yes  beside  this.
So, overall, I think Mr P and Ms H wouldve  known  their responsibility to provide full and 
accurate responses  to the questions posed in the application forms and that there  wasnt 
any promise that Legal and General would write to their GP. I also think  they confirmed their 
understanding of this in the application forms.
In light of the above, Im not upholding  this complaint. I know this isnt the outcome Ms H 
was hoping for and I appreciate it leaves her family  in a difficult position. But I hope Ms H 
understands the reason  why Ive reached this decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 March 2019.
Hannah Wise
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7110287