K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint against Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) is that it wont  accept his 
fraud claim  and issue a refund.
background
Between 9 and 11 February 2018 Mr Ds Nationwide account  was used to make payments  
to two merchants. Mr M says he was ill at the time, and didnt make  these payments himself. 
One of the merchants didnt accept the payment,  so this money was refunded to Mr M. But 
the other one did accept,  and these are the transactions he wants  Nationwide  to reimburse 
him for now, as he says hes been a victim  of fraud and didnt make them.
He complained to Nationwide,  and it responded explaining that its fraud investigation 
outcome indicated that hed authorised the transactions, so it wouldnt refund them.
Mr M then brought his complaint  to our service,  saying he didnt think Nationwide had treated 
him fairly in declining his fraud  claim.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and obtained  further evidence  from both parties. On the 
basis of everything,  she concluded that it didnt seem  likely that Mr M hadnt been involved in 
some way with the transactions,  and that as she agreed they were authorised by him, she 
didnt think Nationwide  had been wrong  to decline his claim.
Mr M remained unhappy, and asked for an ombudsmans review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I dont have better news for Mr M. Ive reviewed the evidence carefully, and 
I agree  with our Investigator that the most  feasible and likely scenario is that Mr M either 
made the transactions himself,  or allowed somebody else to do so.
I appreciate my decision will come as a disappointment  to Mr M, and that his position is likely  
to remain that this outcome is wrong. But I think its the only fair and reasonable one I can 
reach on all the evidence, and Id like to explain why.
Our Investigator  already  explained in her view the regulations that we consider when looking 
at a case like this. To briefly re-cap:-
The regulations relevant  to this case are the Payment Service Regulations 2017. These 
explain that a payment  out of someones  account can only be authorised if the payer  has 
consented to it. The payment service provider must show  the payment was authenticated. 
But its not enough for the bank to simply rely on the fact that the card was used; that doesnt 
necessarily mean that the payment transaction was authorised by the account holder.
Whether a payment has been authorised or not is important, because  account holders will 
be liable  for payments theyve authorised and, generally speaking,  banks will be liable for
Ref: DRN72903652unauthorised payments.  Although account holders can become liable for unauthorised 
payments when they havent met certain obligations.  These  are set out in Reg 72 of the 
PSRs 2017.
Mr M reported the disputed transactions to Nationwide on 13 February 2018, saying hed 
been ill and at home when theyd been  made. He said he believed  he had his bank  card in 
his possession the whole time. He explained that he lived with family, and there were visitors 
to the house. 
He said he might have  had his online banking customer number written down, but more than 
that was needed to access the portal  like memorable  data and a pass-number. He also 
says he thinks there  might  have been  automatic account access via a banking  app, but the 
evidence doesnt  support  that. 
We know that on 9 February 2018, before the disputed transactions  started, that the account 
received a large credit. The evidence  suggests that this money was anticipated by Mr M, as 
it was moved into another account  (and back again) as soon as it was available. I agree with 
our Investigator that given this context  it seems unlikely that he then didnt access his 
account again, either to use or check on this money,  until 13 February. 
Then theres  the matter of the mobile  phone  contact on 10 February,  where Nationwide 
contacted Mr M on his number and asked him to ring back  to confirm  the transactions  he 
was trying to make  were  authorised. While Mr M says he cant be certain where  his phone 
was at all times while he was ill, Im not persuaded its likely that an unknown  third party was 
able to take the phone;  pick up Nationwides message; call it back; pass security and all that 
entailed; in order to confirm the transactions  were genuine.
Having carefully considered all the possible scenarios, Im satisfied that the most  likely 
version of events is that Mr M made  the transactions himself, or authorised  someone else to 
do so. Either way, that means Nationwides entitled not to issue  him with a refund  under his 
fraud claim. And it means I cant uphold  the complaint. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN72903653
Ref: DRN7290365