K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that American Express Services Europe Limited wrongly registered a default  
on his account.
background
Mr S was on a repayment plan with American  Expresss agent, AIC. In August 2017 AIC 
defaulted his account. Mr S complained  that this should not have happened,  because  none 
of his payments  had been as much  as 30 days late. He asked for the default to be removed 
from his credit file.
American Express dealt with Mr Ss complaint, and said the default had been correctly 
applied because one of his payments had been  made 43 days late. There is a dispute about  
which day of the month  the payment was due, and this is the reason for the dispute about 
whether the late payment was 43 days or (as Mr S insists) 27 days late.
In January 2009 Mr S brought this complaint to our Service, but our adjudicator  did not 
uphold it. He said there was no evidence to support Mr Ss claim that his payment due date 
had been moved.  He also said that there was no legal or regulatory requirement for 
American Express or its agent  to wait for 30 days for payment before defaulting an account. 
That was only their internal policy. So he did not recommend that the default  be removed.
Mr S was adamant  that AIC had agreed  to change his payment date. He asked the 
adjudicator to obtain call recordings,  or transcripts of phone calls,  between  him and AIC to 
verify what had been said. But AIC no longer had these due to the passage  of time. Mr S 
doubted that this was true. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I do not uphold it. I will explain why.
The terms of the repayment plan were  that Mr S would  pay £50 a month. Originally each 
payment was due on the 17th of each  month,  but on 20 April 2017  this was changed to the 
20th of each month.  The payment that had been  due on 17 April was paid on 20 April. AIC 
wrote a letter to Mr S to confirm the new arrangement.
Mr S says that on receiving that letter, he called AIC again to ask for the payment date to be 
moved a second  time, this time to the 5th of the following month  so the payment which 
would be due on 20 May would now become due on 5 June. This is in dispute. AIC has no 
record of any such conversation or agreement,  nor did it send Mr S another letter to confirm  
the new date.  It does not keep phone call recordings for longer than six months, so by the time 
call recordings  were requested in 2019, all calls during the relevant period had been deleted. 
I accept that explanation, as that is common practice and I have no reason to doubt it.
If AIC had agreed to move the payment  date to the 5th of the month,  then I would expect this 
to have been recorded on its systems, but it was not. AICs schedule  of payments gives  the 
payment due date as the 17th until April 2017, when  it becomes the 20th and stays  at that 
date in the subsequent  months. Furthermore,  the entry in AICs system  notes  dated  26 July 
2017 reads "check for next payment 20th August" which does not support  Mr Ss recollection  
of events.
Ref: DRN76543522The next payment  was made on 1 June,  which would  have been four days early if the due 
date had been 5 June.  That was not in character  for Mr S, since during the period from 
November 2016  to September 2017 most  of Mr Ss payments were late, and two were on 
time, but no other  payments were early.
So for all of the above reasons, I do not accept that the payment date was moved to the 5th 
of the month.  I think the next payment after April was due on 20 May, and was paid 12 days 
late  not early.
The payment which  was due on 20 June was paid on 17 July.
The payment which  was due on 20 July was paid on 1 September. No money  was paid in 
August. The account  was defaulted on 28 August, in line with AICs  policy  of not defaulting 
customers who have been in arrears for less than 30 days. So I dont think that the default 
was applied in error,  or that there are any grounds on which  I could require it to be removed.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7654352