K820x#14complaint
Mrs C and Mr C complain that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC removed a Power  of Attorney  from 
their accounts without notice.
background
Mrs C and Mr C registered a Power of Attorney (POA) on each others Barclays accounts in 
2002. In 2017 they found  out that Barclays removed the POAs  without informing them.  Mrs 
C and Mr C have letters from Barclays from 2002  confirming  the existence  of the POAs but 
say Barclays has given  them misleading and conflicting information  about what happened  
and why. They say Barclays  can not find the original documents or answer  their questions 
about where those  documents  are and what has happened to them.
Mrs C and Mr C would  like a full investigation  into whats  happened and for Barclays  to 
answer the many questions they have asked  of it. They would also like Barclays to improve 
the standards of their POA department  and say its mistake has affected their health and 
caused significant distress and inconvenience.
Barclays has been unable  to say exactly whats happened and told Mrs C and Mr C that it 
didnt have a record of receiving the POAs and that they were  no longer valid. It says it 
reinstated the POAs and has paid Mrs C and Mr C compensation of £750  each  and has 
answered some of the questions asked of it.
Mrs C and Mr C brought  their complaint to us. Our investigator thought overall  that Barclays  
had made  mistakes but had paid a fair and reasonable amount of compensation. The 
investigator explained the role of this service  and thought it wasnt our role to carry out a full 
investigation into what happened here.  The investigator thought  Barclays had tried to 
provide answers  to some of the questions raised  by Mrs C and Mr C.
Mrs C and Mr C do not accept that view and say they cant  understand why their complaint 
wasnt upheld by the investigator. They say its taken 15 months  to try and resolve  the 
situation which has had an adverse  affect  on their health. They  also say the compensation 
doesnt go far enough and that as a result Barclays doesnt have any incentive to improve  its 
service.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the overall 
view that Barclays has handled  this matter badly but paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation. I appreciate that Mrs C and Mr C will be disappointed by my decision and I 
appreciate how strongly they feel about  whats happened here. I also confirm  that I have 
read Mrs C and Mr Cs letter of 25 January 2019.
There is no question here that Barclays made a mistake either  by not registering the POAs  
correctly in 2002 or by removing them in 2017.  Its not clear  whats happened.  But having  
looked at the letters  Barclays sent Mrs C and Mr C in 2002 Im satisfied they would have 
believed the POAs were  correctly set up. I can also see that the POAs  operated  without 
issue until 2017. So in those circumstances I would have expected  Barclays to have spoken 
to the parties  before  removing  the POAs.
Ref: DRN78286712I have no doubt  the removal of the POAs in this way by Barclays  caused  Mrs C and Mr C a 
significant level of distress and inconvenience  and I appreciate that both of them were not in 
good health. I also appreciate that Mrs C and Mr C wanted answers  from Barclays about 
what had happened. I can see that Barclays has provided answers to some of the questions  
raised by Mrs C and Mr C. But I accept that Barclays has been  unable to explain exactly 
what took place  and why and I also accept  that its provided conflicting explanations. But as 
the investigator has explained,  we are not the regulator of banks and building societies. And 
so I cant order an investigation  into whats happened or fairly order  Barclays answer any of 
the questions  raised  by Mrs C and Mr C.
Im satisfied that Barclays has apologised for what happened and has paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation of £750 each. I appreciate  Mrs C and Mr C say that 
amount doesnt  go far enough. But I think it fairly reflects the level of Barclays mistake and 
the impact it had upon Mrs C and Mr C. I accept  that it took until about March  2018 for the 
POAs to be reapplied  to the accounts. But I think the compensation paid fairly reflects  that 
delay. I appreciate Mrs C and Mr C say they have been waiting for about 15months  to try 
and resolve the issues but for the reasons Ive explained I think Barclays has tried to answer 
the questions  raised.
Overall Im satisfied that through no fault of Mrs C and Mr C the POAs were removed. I 
appreciate their frustration  and the inconvenience that must  have caused them  but Im 
satisfied the compensation paid by Barclays is fair and reasonable. I also think  that this 
brings an end to what we, in trying to sort out this complaint informally, can do. I realise  Mrs 
C and Mr C will have  unanswered questions.  But I hope they appreciate that as we are not 
Barclays regulator we cant  conduct the investigation they would like or order that Barclays  
department dealing with such matters improve its standards.
my final decision
My final decision is that Barclays Bank  UK PLC has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation and I dont  require it to do anything further in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C and Mr C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2019. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7828671