K821x#15complaint
Mrs C complains that Santander UK Plc mis-sold her payment protection  insurance  (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out by Mrs C during a meeting at a Santander  
branch in 2001. The policy was taken out in order to protect her mortgage monthly 
repayments in the event  she couldnt work as a result of accident or sickness.  
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint on the basis that Santander  hadnt  provided Mrs C with 
all the information  it shouldve done  in particular, it hadnt  made  Mrs C aware that the 
policy offered her only limited benefit in her particular  situation. 
Santander disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint.  
The policy provided  cover  for up to 12 months in the event of accident  or sickness.  But 
I dont think Santander  did enough  to point  out to Mrs C a significant feature of the policy  
specifically, the impact her existing  health  problems would have on the cover  shed get 
under the policy.  
Under the terms of the policy, it wouldnt pay out for a disability claim in the following 
circumstances: 
oany condition you had at the start date
oany condition for which you had received treatment during the 12 months 
before the start date
Mrs C told us that she had been diagnosed with a long term health condition in 2000. So, 
she had a firm diagnosis  of her condition by the time she took out this PPI. 
I dont think its likely  that Mrs C wouldve wanted this PPI if shed realised she would be 
paying for a policy  that offered her only limited benefits.
I think if Mrs C had been aware that she wouldnt  have been able to claim for any absence  
related to an existing  health problem she wouldnt have thought PPI provided  good value. 
I say this because  sickness  cover was a significant part of the benefit Mrs C bought.  
Ive taken into account that Santander  would like to see evidence  to support what  Mrs C has 
told us about her health at the time she took out the PPI  particularly as Mrs C initially gave 
us some contradictory information.  
Ref: DRN77842652But, as this sale took place so long ago, I dont think its reasonable to expect Mrs C to be 
able to provide  evidence  from 2000/2001 to back up what  shes  told us. I dont  think  theres 
any reason to doubt the information Mrs C has now clarified and confirmed to us. So it 
wouldnt be fair or reasonable for me to disregard what shes  told us about a pre-existing 
health condition  she had when she signed up for this policy.
This was an advised  sale. So the onus was on Santander to check  if Mrs C was likely to be 
caught by any policy limitation. I cant see how or if it did this. So it doesnt  appear that 
Santander explained to her that there was a risk she wouldnt be able to claim on the policy  
in all the circumstances she mightve  expected. 
Mrs C wouldve been able to claim for other benefits  under the policy.  But I think Mrs C has 
lost out as a result of Santanders  failings  in this case, because I dont think shed have 
taken out the policy  if shed  been properly informed.
putting things right
Santander should put Mrs C in the position she wouldve  been  had she not taken out the 
policy. So, Santander  should: 
Pay Mrs C the amount she paid each month for the PPI
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Santander can take off what 
she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Santander to take off tax from this interest. Santander  
must give Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For these reasons I uphold this complaint  and direct Santander UK Plc to pay Mrs C as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 March  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7784265