K821x#15complaint
Miss S has complained  about  the way AXA Insurance  UK Plc dealt with an incident she
reported and the poor service she received. Miss S held a car insurance policy with AXA.
background
Miss S was involved in a low impact  incident in July 2017. The other driver admitted fault at
the time and Miss S obtained details from an independent witness.  She reported the incident
to AXA but didnt make a claim.
In August  2017  AXA sent Miss S her renewal  notice. She was unhappy with the increase in
premium - so at renewal  in September 2017 she bought a policy with a different insurer.
Miss S complained to AXA. Her new insurer  asked Miss S for proof of her No Claims
Discount (NCD). Between September 2017  and January 2018 Miss S received conflicting
information from AXA - both about how it was dealing with the incident and how her NCD
had been affected. Miss Ss new insurer increased  her premium to reflect  a reduced NCD
from 15 years to four.
In February 2018  AXA upheld  Miss Ss complaint. It said it could have handled  things better.
It said it had recorded  the claim as a notification only. It paid Miss S £50 compensation.
Miss S remained unhappy and so she asked us to look at her complaint.  She provided a
detailed chronology of her contact with AXA. She explained that she is a working  parent of
five children and spent over 30 hours of her time on the phone with AXA trying to resolve
things.
Our investigator thought AXA hadnt paid enough  compensation to reflect  the poor service it
had provided. So she recommended AXA pay Miss S an additional £100 compensation.
AXA accepted the investigators findings.  Miss S didnt. She said that even though her new
insurer changed her policy  once it received confirmation of her correct NCD, she still paid an
additional £110.14 compared to the original quote. Miss S told us that her new insurer said
the reason for this was because the price  changed between the time of the original quote
and when it received  confirmation of Miss Ss correct NCD from AXA.
In October  2018 we asked AXA to confirm that it had recorded  the claim as a notification
only on the Central Underwriting Exchange database. And we asked it if it had confirmed it
had reduced Miss Ss NCD in error - as AXA hadnt  addressed this in its reply to Miss Ss
complaint. We asked AXA if - due to the time it had taken to resolve  the issue for Miss S - it
would consider increasing the compensation award  to a total of £250.
AXA replied  in January  2019. It provided  a screenshot to show its correctly recorded  the
claim as a notification only and Miss Ss NCD wasnt affected. AXA said it wanted  an
ombudsman to decide if it should  pay more  than the investigators recommendation of £100
compensation.
I issued a provisional decision on 5 February 2019.  I thought AXA should increase the 
compensation it paid to Miss S by £200  so overall  it should  pay £250 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience it caused her.
Ref: DRN73368972Miss S accepted  my provisional  decision. AXA didnt reply.  So the case  has been passed  
back to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent received any new evidence  to 
change my recommendations in my provisional  decision. So my final decision remains along  
the same  lines.
I think AXA should increase the compensation award to reflect the distress  and
inconvenience its poor service caused  Miss S by a further £200. This is in addition to the £50
compensation its already paid. Miss S has told us she didnt cash  the £50 cheque AXA sent 
her over a year ago. So its now expired. So if this is the case, I think AXA should pay an 
overall compensation award to Miss S for £250 as it will need  to cancel the expired cheque 
payment of £50 its already sent.
Its clear from Miss Ss chronology that she received  a poor service  from AXA.  I dont intend
to repeat the chronology  in the same  detail here.  But AXA apologised to Miss S for
incorrectly telling her that it had received a claim from the other  driver,  it had accepted fault,
and had settled  the claim  without  telling her. It hadnt received a claim from the other driver.
It failed to call Miss S back when promised.  AXA didnt have a record of a previous call
where Miss S asked AXA to cancel her policy  and was advised that AXA would record  the
incident as a notification only as Miss S didnt  intend  to claim. And it hasnt been able to
show it provided Miss S with a letter to pass to her new insurer confirming it had restored her
NCD. When AXA replied to Miss Ss complaint, it didnt confirm  the position  either  way.
Miss S said she forwarded  AXAs letter to her new insurer and they contacted  AXA - and
said AXA told it her NCD was still at four years.  Miss S later received an email from AXA
confirming her NCD stood  at 16 years, which she forwarded to her new insurer.
Miss S explained that she had to borrow the additional premium  her new insurer  charged her
from a friend. She spent  a considerable amount of time dealing with AXA and with a busy
family she found this very stressful and worrying.
AXA accepts  that it provided a poor service to Miss S. Given the length  of time it took to
correctly confirm the outcome of the claim and to confirm Miss Ss correct  NCD, I think AXA
should pay Miss S £200 in addition to the £50 its already paid her.
Miss S has explained that her new insurer told her that because of the length  of time it took
for AXA to confirm her correct NCD, this made a difference to the premium she was quoted
when she bought the policy - and when it retrospectively applied  the reduced  NCD. If Miss S
is unhappy with the amount in the reduction  her new insurer  made,  she can make  a separate
complaint to them. If she remains unhappy with their reply,  she can ask us to look at things
for her.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay 
Miss S £200 compensation in addition to the £50 its already paid her for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused. If  as Miss S has said  she didnt cash  the £50 cheque  AXA sent 
her in January 2018, AXA will need  to cancel the previous expired cheque and pay a total 
compensation payment of £250  to Miss S.
Ref: DRN73368973AXA Insurance UK Plc must pay the compensation within  28 days of the date on which  we 
tell it Miss S accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate 
of 8% a year
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 22 March 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7336897