K821x#15complaint
Mr Ps complaint is about the service  provided  by British Gas Insurance Limited in relation to 
a central heating insurance  policy and its refusal to continue  to provide cover to Mr P. 
The parties will see that Ive changed  the respondent from British  Gas Services Limited
to British Gas Insurance Limited.  This is because we have no jurisdiction  over British
Gas Services Limited  for a complaint about  the handling of the insurance policy; its only
an insurance intermediary, not an insurer.
This is an important legal technicality but it does not affect the outcome of the case and
as British Gas Services  Limited  responded to the complaint on behalf of British Gas
Insurance Limited, theres  no need  for it to review the matter  again or issue a further final
response.
background
Mr P has raised a complaint after a recent claim.  He says the engineer  didnt have his 
identification; he also moved a table number  and didnt move; and left a light on. Mr P also 
said that engineers  attending various  appointments dont turn up when they are meant to. As 
part of his complaint, Mr P asked British Gas that it guarantee  that only employed engineers, 
and not contractors, attend future  claims;  and that they attend within specific  allotted  time 
frames with their identification. 
British Gas apologised for the table and light issue and offered to come back and move  the 
table. However, it also said that it cant guarantee it would be able to only send British Gas 
employees and not use contractors. British Gas also says that Mr Ps behaviour towards 
some engineers has been unreasonable and they are not willing  to attend his property alone.  
During a recent visit the engineer had left his identification in his van, when he went  back  to 
get it Mr P became argumentative  and confrontational. Given  this, it doesnt  consider it can 
meet Mr Ps expectations  about cover  and how claims will be dealt with and his behaviour. 
British Gas said it is not prepared to continue  to insure Mr P. Since telling Mr P this, it says 
he has applied online for policies which it has had to cancel, refunding  any premiums hed 
paid.
Mr P says British Gas is discriminating against him, due to his disabilities by refusing  to 
accommodate his requests and refusing  to insure him. 
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She concluded that it was not unreasonable 
to ask for British Gas engineers to attend any appointment, rather  than contractors, but this 
would mean  there might  sometimes be delays in attendances. The investigator also 
concluded that while delays may happen, engineers should have contacted  Mr P to notify 
him if they were running late for appointments. The investigator recommended  that British  
Gas pay Mr P £100 compensation for these issues. However, the investigator also 
concluded that British Gas was entitled to refuse to cover Mr P.  
Mr P accepted the investigators assessment but British  Gas didnt think  any compensation 
is warranted. The matter  has therefore been passed  to me.
Ref: DRN74025352my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and refusal to 
provide future cover
Insurers are not obliged to agree to insure  any one and individuals  have no legal right to be 
insured. While we would expect an insurer to act reasonably and not refuse cover for 
unlawful or unfair reasons, I do not have any power  to require British Gas to reinstate cover 
for Mr P or to make it agree to cover  him in the future. I can consider if any compensation 
might be appropriate  if I concluded  that a decision to not insurer were  unfair  or 
unreasonable.
 
Mr P has said its decision  is based on his disability and he is being  discriminated against. He 
says his mother is also disabled and British Gas has noted  on her policy that it would not 
send contractors to any call outs to her property and so he questions why it cant  do the 
same for him?  British  Gas might have been able to agree  to this for Mr Ps mother  (I have no 
other information about this) but this doesnt mean it is discriminating  against Mr P in this 
case. And its decision to refuse future cover is not just based on his demand that only British  
Gas employees attend any call outs. 
British Gas has decided  not to renew  cover for Mr P based on his behaviour and his 
expectations about how claims should be dealt  with. Overall, I am not persuaded that this is 
unfair or unreasonable. British Gas has provided cover for some  time and dealt with a 
number of claims about which Mr P has made multiple complaints. Ive listened to various 
phone calls between him and British Gas. From  these and the other evidence available  to 
me, I consider that it tried to provide  the service that Mr P could reasonably expect. While I 
have not seen any particular evidence of aggressive behaviour, it is clear to me that British  
Gas was not going to be able to provide the service that Mr P wanted. Overall therefore, I do 
not consider that British Gass decision not to insure Mr P was unreasonable.
In relation to the handling of Mr Ps most recent  claims, I agree with the investigator that 
some compensation is appropriate. Mr P was not kept as informed as he should have been 
about the times that engineers would get to his property, and there  were  some other service 
issues, and so I agree that the sum of £100 is appropriate. 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited in part and require it to pay    
Mr P £100  compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by its handling of his 
claim. (I understand British Gas has already  made this payment after the investigator first 
recommended it, in which case it does not need to pay anything further.)  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 February  2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7402535