K821x#15Complaint
Mrs S has complained about advice she received from Portal Financial Services  LLP 
(Portafina) to transfer a defined  benefit occupational pension  scheme  (OPS) she held with 
her former employer to a Self-Invested Personal Pension (SIPP). The funds within  the SIPP 
were then used to invest in several unregulated collective investment schemes (UCIS).
Mrs S is being represented by a third party but for ease of reading the decision Ill refer to all 
representations as being made by Mrs S.
Background
Mrs S, aged  54, was introduced to Portafina  in 2014 after shed  been  in contact with another 
business, from here on referred to as Firm C. At the time, Firm C was an appointed 
representative (AR) of another regulated business,  Firm S. Firm S was authorised by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA) to provide investment advice, but neither it, nor Firm C 
were permitted to give pension transfer  advice.
Portafina had an established business  arrangement  with Firm C, whereby Portafina would 
provide pension transfer advice before referring the client back to Firm C for investment 
advice on the transferred  funds, and this model was followed  for Mrs S.
A Portafina paraplanner spoke to Mrs S and recorded that she was looking to release tax-
free cash  (TFC)  from her OPS, combine it with money released from her partners pension, 
then purchase a buy to let (BTL) property to supplement their retirement income.  
The cash  equivalent  transfer value (CETV) of the OPS recorded that the transfer value of 
approximately £158,000 represented  13 years  7 months service;  the deferred  pension at the 
quote date was £7,766  per year; the earliest  age benefits could be taken unreduced was 65 
but early retirement  from age 55 could be requested. It paid a 50% dependants  pension on 
death or if there  was no dependant then it would repay the members contributions of 
£10,800 plus interest if death was before retirement.
Portafina conducted an attitude to risk (ATR) assessment which  concluded Mrs S had a 
balanced ATR, which was defined as;
Balanced investors  typically have moderate levels of knowledge  about  investment matters 
and will pay some attention to keeping up to date with investment matters. They may have 
some experience of investment, including investing in products  containing  riskier assets 
such as equities  and bonds.  In general balanced  investors understand that they have to take 
investment risk in order to be able to meet their long term goals. They  are likely  to be willing 
to take risk with part of their available assets.  Balanced investors will usually be able to 
make up their minds on investment matters relatively quickly, but do still suffer  from some  
feelings of regret  when their investment decisions turn out badly.
A transfer  value analysis  (TVAS)  calculated critical yields at age 65 of 11.5% per year 
based on a full pension or 9.9%  per year after taking TFC and receiving a reduced pension. 
It also calculated hurdle  rates of 6.4% and 5.8%  respectively.
Portafina sent Mrs S a suitability report which recommended  she transfer her OPS  to a 
SIPP. It said that the investment advice would be provided to her by Firm C. The new SIPP  
was opened in September 2015  and the CETV of £158,742.35 was transferred
Ref: DRN72229242on 29 September 2015. Mrs S took TFC of £39,685.75. The following unregulated 
investments were made  later that year, with the remainder invested in regulated funds and 
some held as cash:
UCIS
Brisa Investments  £3,300
Biomass Investments  £3,900
UK Strategic  Residential  £3,900
Lakeview UK Holdings   £3,900
Motion Picture Global  £3,900
Portafina charged an initial advice fee of 5% of the transfer value, of which  2% would go to 
Firm C as part of their introducer  arrangement.
Firm C went into liquidation and in 2017 Mrs S made  a claim to the Financial Services 
Compensation Scheme (FSCS) for compensation because of the actions of Firm C. 
However, it said she didnt have a valid claim because Portafina were responsible for the 
pension transfer  advice and as such, the subsequent investment advice.
In 2019 Mrs S complained to Portafina  that the advice was unsuitable and they were 
negligent because  although she wanted access to her TFC. She said alternatives werent 
explored; the loss of guaranteed benefits  wasnt adequately explained; their ATR 
assessment was inadequate and she didnt have the capacity to risk losses. Mrs S thought 
Portafina was responsible  for her ending  up with unregulated investments which were 
unsuitable because  they were high risk and illiquid;  and although death benefits  may have 
been a priority for Mrs S the illiquid investments  reduced  this benefit.
However, Portafina rejected the complaint, saying the transfer was suitable for her and met 
her objectives of accessing her TFC and providing  superior death benefits.  It also said that it 
wasnt responsible  for providing any investment advice, as this was the responsibility of 
Firm C. Mrs S then brought her complaint to this service.
An adjudicator considered  the complaint and recommended it be upheld. He didnt think the 
transfer was suitable because the objective to release TFC to purchase a BTL property 
carried risk and didnt  justify the loss of guarantees. He also thought  that the required critical 
yield was too high to justify transferring. He noted that Portafina should have considered the 
underlying investments, as it was not possible to provide suitable advice without knowing 
where the funds  were  going to be invested. He recommended Mrs S be put back into the 
position she wouldve  been in but for the unsuitable advice to transfer. He also 
recommended Portafina pay £250  for the trouble and upset  caused.
Portafina disagreed  and argued that they conducted appropriate due diligence on Firm C 
and werent responsible for their investment  advice;  their analysis did factor in the relevant 
fees and charges; Mrs Ss ATR was correctly assessed  as Balanced and because  she had 
no intention of buying an annuity  it was more appropriate to base the advice on the hurdle 
rate rather  than the Critical  Yield.  It also said the call recording between  the paraplanner and 
Mrs S also confirmed that she was experienced in BTL and funding  a BTL from the transfer 
may have  resulted in a better income  based  on the return  of capital employed and an 
increase in death benefits, which were much  lower in the OPS because she wasnt married.
Because the parties dont  agree, the case has come to me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN72229243My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
Portafina advised Mrs S to transfer  her OPS  to a SIPP  but says it didnt provide any 
recommendation regarding the investments held within the SIPP as Firm C was meant to 
provide this. Although the intention was for another regulated firm to advise on and arrange 
Mrs Ss underlying SIPP investments, I dont think that meant Portafinas responsibilities 
ended once the SIPP was set up, the funds  transferred, and the money then made available   
for investment. I believe that as Mrs Ss financial adviser, Portafina still had a duty to ensure 
the overall transaction was suitable,  even though another regulated  firm was involved.
Suitable advice  couldnt,  in my view, be given without thinking  about the intended  
investment. Portafina  appeared  to recognise this in its suitability report when, despite saying 
Firm C would  provide specific investment advice, it set out recommendations for the fund 
asset classes Mrs S should  invest in and to what extent. The recommendations made up a 
model portfolio  for a balanced investor, which Portafina satisfied itself Mrs S was. And its 
partly on the basis that Mrs S invested in line with a suitable model portfolio and achieved   
the relevant targeted  returns that Portafina concluded transferring could increase her overall 
pension benefits  and therefore be worthwhile.  
The regulators position
Having thought carefully about what happened  here, I dont think Portafinas  advice to 
transfer was suitable. And I dont think it was right to try to limit its advice in the way it sought 
to. At the time of the advice the regulator  had made its view clear  that it considered in order 
to suitably advise  on pension transfers, a firm needed to consider the suitability of the 
underlying investments to be held in it. 
The regulators position  was evident  in its 2013 alert where it said:
Financial advisers  (...) are under the mistaken  impression (...) they do not have to consider 
the unregulated  investment as part of their advice to invest  in the SIPP and that they only 
need to consider the suitability of the SIPP in the abstract. This is incorrect. 
The [regulators] view is that the provision of suitable advice generally requires consideration 
of the other investments  held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which is 
a vehicle for investment in other products (such as SIPPs and other  wrappers), 
consideration of the suitability of the overall proposition,  that is, the wrapper and the 
expected underlying investments in unregulated  schemes. It should  be particularly clear  to 
financial advisers that, where a customer seeks advice on a pension  transfer in 
implementing a wider  investment  strategy, the advice on the pension transfer must take 
account of the overall investment strategy the customer is contemplating (...) If you give 
regulated advice and the recommendation will enable investment in unregulated items, you 
cannot separate out the unregulated elements from the regulated elements.  
I acknowledge that the regulators statement in the alert is not guidance  or rules in the 
sense that such  requirements are specified by the regulator in its handbook. Nonetheless, 
I think it is a relevant consideration when determining this complaint by reference to what is, 
in my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of the case.
Ref: DRN72229244In doing so, I also acknowledge that in the scenario set out in the alert,  the other firm that 
made the investment recommendations for the underlying assets of the SIPP  was an 
unregulated introducer. Whereas in Mrs Ss case. Firm C was authorised  to conduct 
investment business  under its AR agreement with Firm S, and in turn Firm C could itself be 
pursued for compensation by a consumer within the financial  services  regulatory regime.
Portafina may believe that this in turn distinguished the circumstances of Mrs Ss transaction
from the scenario  that the alert was aimed  at, and as a result absolved it from its duty to
assess the overall suitability of the proposed investments. It might say that was particularly
the case as it had said to Mrs S that it wasnt providing any advice on the underlying
investments as Firm C was doing  that. Whilst  Ive given  that possibility careful thought,
I dont agree that the alert was limited to those  very specific circumstances.
I can see that the alert makes it clear that suitable  investment advice  generally  requires 
consideration of the other investments held by the customer, as well as the suitability of the 
overall proposition  when  advice is given on a product that is a vehicle for investment in other  
products (such as the SIPP in Mrs Ss case).  It further  refers  to the broadly applicable rules 
and guidance  that ensure that in all instances of advice, a firm must first take time to 
familiarise itself with the wider investment and financial circumstances. In saying that, I dont 
think the FCA intended that in pension transfer  cases, regard to the overall proposition  was 
only required  where the introducing firm was unregulated, or where the assets  contemplated 
included unregulated investments.
In my view, the regulator was indicating that these are standards that have broad application 
to pension switch  and transfer advice,  but pointing out that it had particular concern about 
cases in which unregulated firms and unregulated products put the consumer at risk. So, 
I think the alert is relevant  to firms in the position of Portafina in this case. This is further 
demonstrated by an alert from the regulator in 2014  which stated:
Where a financial adviser recommends a SIPP knowing that the customer  will (...) transfer 
(...) to release funds  to invest through a SIPP, then the suitability of the underlying 
investment must form part of the advice given  to the customer. If the underlying investment 
is not suitable (...), then the overall advice is not suitable.
If a firm does not fully understand the underlying  investment  proposition intended to be held 
within a SIPP, then it should not offer advice on the pension transfer (...) at all as it will not 
be able to assess suitability of the transaction  as a whole. 
Both alerts specifically referred  to the regulators  overarching Principles for Businesses  
(PRIN) and Conduct of Business Rules (COBS), which  Portafina  was subject to. And with  
reference to PRIN and COBS the alerts  said a firm would  fall short  of its obligations under 
these precepts if it didnt  familiarise  itself with the intended investment strategy  and that it 
wouldnt be able to recommend a new product, like a SIPP, without doing so. So, Portafinas 
advice on the suitability of the transfer had to include the suitability of the underlying 
investments. I dont think there was any ambiguity regarding  the regulators position  on the 
matter.
Under COBS 2.1.2 Portafina also couldnt seek to exclude or restrict its duty or liability to 
Mrs S under the regulatory system. So, saying it was operating  under  a limited retainer didnt 
absolve it of its duty of care to ensure the advice it was providing  was suitable  again, this 
had to include consideration  of how Mrs Ss funds would be invested.
Ref: DRN72229245COBS 9.2 required  Portafina to take reasonable steps to make sure its recommendation was 
suitable for Mrs S. To achieve  this, COBS 9.2.2R said Portafina had to obtain  enough  
information from Mrs S to ensure its recommendation  met her objectives, that she could bear 
the related investment risks consistent with these  objectives and that she had the necessary 
experience and knowledge  to understand the risks involved in the transaction.  COBS 9.2.2R 
included the following wording:
(...) The information regarding the investment objectives of a client  must include,  where  
relevant, information  on the length of time for which he wishes  to hold the investment, his 
preferences regarding risk taking, his risk profile,  and the purposes of the investment. 
So as part of the fact-finding process  Portafina had to understand Mrs Ss objectives and the 
related risks.  It wasnt  free to ignore how Mrs Ss funds  were going to be invested  
irrespective of Firm Cs involvement. I consider the underlying investments in the SIPP  to be  
inextricably linked to the risks relating  to the SIPP, so assessing the risk and suitability of a 
transfer without  knowing  what Mrs S would invest in within  the wrapper, doesnt in my mind   
seem reasonably possible.
Like COBS, PRIN formed part of the regulatory  framework that existed  at the time of 
Portafinas advice  and had to be complied  with. Principles 1 (conducting business with 
integrity); 2 (exercising due skill, care and diligence); 6 (having regard for customers  
interests and treating  them  fairly); 7 (communicating information in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way) and 9 (ensuring the suitability of advice  for a customer  entitled to rely on the 
firms judgement) are of particular relevance to this case. In addition to what  Ive outlined  
above. Ive considered Portafinas advice with these  in mind.
As Portafina didnt consider itself responsible for any advice regarding the underlying assets 
of the SIPP  it recommended, it says it was unaware of where,  further to Firm Cs 
involvement, Mrs Ss transferred funds would ultimately be invested. As Firm C was  
regulated and able to provide investment advice with a duty to ensure this was suitable,  it 
says it saw no issue with this.
I recognise that the FCA allows  for two advisers  to work together to provide suitable advice 
to their mutual client. However,  the alerts  make it clear that a firm that is asked to advise on 
a pension transfer needs to be aware  of the intended investments before it advises on the 
transfer, in order  to provide suitable  advice.  So, it shouldve requested this information from 
Firm C before providing advice. And, as confirmed in the 2014 alert, if it didnt  fully 
understand the underlying  investment proposition intended to be held within  the SIPP,  it 
should not have offered advice on the pension transfer at all. So, in the absence of Portafina  
knowing the investments  Firm C intended for Mrs S, it couldnt in my view provide her with 
suitable advice  to transfer her OPS. 
I accept that as a result  of its AR agreement with Firm S, Firm C was required to give 
suitable advice.  However, I dont agree  that this negated Portafinas duty to do the same. As 
Mrs Ss appointed financial adviser,  it had a significant responsibility to provide suitable  
advice and act in Mrs Ss best interests. And as Ive said,  this had to include an awareness 
of where Mrs Ss funds  would be invested.
Portafina has told us in other cases similar to Mrs Ss case that as part of its due diligence it 
carried out on Firm C, it requested details  of the investment strategy it was likely to deploy  
for clients with a balanced ATR, such as Mrs S. And this was reflected in the suitability  report 
Ref: DRN72229246where it set out what spread of investments it thought  would be suitable for Mrs S, as 
follows:
Cash 10%
Equities 60%
Other Fixed  Interest 12%
Secured Structured Bonds 18%
But I dont think that satisfies the regulators expectations as set out in the alerts. The checks  
it made weren't specific  to the investments  envisaged for Mrs S. So, I still think  Portafina 
needed to do more to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the expected  
investment proposition that Firm C intended  for Mrs S. It needed,  at the very least,  to ask  
Firm C for an outline of that proposition. Portafina  couldnt reasonably  assess the suitability 
of the transfer  it was recommending without  doing so.
Portafina says the asset allocation table outlined its expectations as to the types and blend 
of investments to be recommended by Firm C, so its advice to Mrs S was not given in 
ignorance of the likely  investments strategy. But I dont think  it was sufficient for Portafina 
simply to recommend a broad spread of investments in its suitability report  for Mrs S in the 
expectation that that would bring about the necessary alignment with Firm Cs investment 
recommendations. Further, I do not agree that broad references to investment classes, 
(such as equities  and other fixed interest), would give consumers in the position of Mrs S 
sufficient information  to enable them to spot discrepancies. As things transpired  for Mrs S, 
and in the absence of any further checks by Portafina, the investments she was eventually 
advised to purchase  were  significantly removed from the investments Portafina 
contemplated when  it advised her to transfer  away from her OPS  in the first place. 
Further, I should add that even if I was satisfied Portafina could adequately assess  the 
suitability of the transfer by merely  recommending potential investments into broad asset 
classes, with no further steps taken to align its advice with Firm Cs recommendations, 
I dont think the asset allocation  set out in the table would in any event have been suitable 
for Mrs S. I say this because the model  portfolio suggested that 18% of the pension fund 
should be invested in secure structured bonds.  These are described  in the suitability report   
as asset back debt securities that are issued  for a fix term. The report  goes on to explain that 
these are not covered by the FSCS.  And that there  are credit risks  due to the possibility of 
the company borrowing the money  going  into default   and liquidity risks.
In my view, this puts the secure structured bonds at the higher end of the risk spectrum  and 
would generally  mean  that theyre  unsuitable for an inexperienced investor, with a fairly  
modest pension fund. So, Im not satisfied that a portfolio that wouldve invested 18% of 
Mrs Ss pension  fund in unregulated and potentially illiquid funds,  wouldve  been suitable for 
a client in Mrs Ss position in any event.
The reality  is that having  followed Portafinas transfer advice, over 17% of Mrs Ss SIPP after 
fees and TFC were taken was invested in UCIS. I think the regulators 2010 UCIS findings  
are relevant  here. The regulator said that as well as UCIS only being eligible for promotion  to 
certain customers (generally sophisticated, high net worth investors),  as an example, even 
when a customer was deemed eligible for the promotion of UCIS, suitable advice involved 
limiting a client's exposure  to these investments to 3% to 5% of their retirement provision. In 
Mrs Ss case, 17% of her remaining SIPP fund  which, other than her assumed state 
pension entitlement,  represented her only retirement provision  was invested in UCIS.  
I dont think UCIS was suitable for Mrs S at all, let alone in the proportion invested. Theres  
Ref: DRN72229247nothing to indicate Mrs S had the requisite knowledge or experience  to accept  or understand 
the risks associated with these types of investments.
In my view, had Portafina requested information  about the proposed  investments and been 
advised that Firm C intended to invest Mrs S in UCIS,  it couldve queried  this given how at 
odds it was with what it determined an appropriate asset allocation for Mrs S was.
I dont agree with Portafinas assessment of Mrs Ss risk rating  as balanced  Ill explain why 
later  or its recommendation she invest 18% of her remaining  funds in structured  bonds  in 
the suitability report. However, I think that had appropriate enquiries been  made, it wouldve 
become apparent something was amiss with Firms Cs proposal  and that the transfer was 
therefore unsuitable and likely to lead to Mrs S being exposed to more risk than Portafina 
considered appropriate.
I think its likely that, having  realised how significantly the investments Firm C intended to 
make differed from those  it had based  its suitability assessment  on, Portafina couldve taken 
preventative action or at the very least made Mrs S aware of the situation so she could, if 
servicing rights had already been  transferred to Firm C, have sought to take corrective action 
herself.
Overall, I think Portafina needed to satisfy itself that its recommendation was based on the 
investment proposition that Firm C intended  for Mrs S. It shouldve asked Firm C for the 
specifics of this or, as a minimum, an outline of the proposition. Had it done so, and Firm C 
had given it a clear framework of the proposition, then I wouldve expected Portafina to have 
advised Mrs S that it couldnt recommend she transfer away  from her OPS  in those 
circumstances. If Portafina had warned Mrs S against investing in line with Firm Cs  
proposal, I think its more likely  than not that Mrs S wouldve  listened  to it and not gone 
ahead with the transfer.
In my view, the fact that Portafina didnt take sufficient steps to consider the investment 
proposal for Mrs S when assessing  the suitability of the proposed transfer  meant that it 
couldnt reasonably conclude the course  of action it recommended  as a solution  to Mrs Ss 
needs was being made  on a sound basis. And as a result of these shortcomings,  it seems to 
me that Firm C was in effect given  the freedom and opportunity to do as it wished with how 
Mrs Ss SIPP was invested. 
The advice to transfer
Notwithstanding what Ive said above, I dont  think the suitability of Portafinas advice turns 
solely on where Mrs Ss funds were ultimately  invested. Portafinas recommendation that 
she transfer to a SIPP in the first place is an important consideration. And were  it not for the 
transfer and Portafinas incomplete and, in my view, flawed advice regarding  this, Im not 
persuaded Mrs S wouldve ultimately  gone on to invest as she did.
OPSs typically have  significant benefits  and guarantees. Giving  up the benefits and 
guarantees available under an OPS and subjecting future pension  income  to the risks 
associated with unpredictable investment returns should only be done where it can be 
shown that it was clearly  in the best interests of the consumer. The COBS  guidance 
(COBS19.1.6G) at the time of the advice, stated: 
When advising a retail client who is, or is eligible to be, a member of a defined benefits  
occupational pension scheme  whether to transfer,  convert or opt-out, a firm should  start by 
Ref: DRN72229248assuming that a transfer or opt-out will not be suitable. A firm should  only then consider a  
transfer or opt-out to be suitable if it can clearly demonstrate, on contemporary evidence,  
that the transfer or opt-out is in the client's  best interests.  
Given what the regulator says, my starting point is that a transfer wont usually be suitable. 
Therell need to be good reasons why a transfer  will be in the consumers best interests.  And 
generally, a transfer  will only be in the consumers  best interests if theres  a reasonable 
prospect that the new arrangement will provide better retirement benefits. The transfer  will 
also need to be suitable, taking into account  the individuals particular circumstances. 
At the time of advice  Mrs S was aged 54, employed as a part-time  teaching assistant 
earning £12,000 per year and was living with her long-term partner. They  owned  a property 
worth £190,000. Mrs S had a son and was concerned that he wouldnt get much from the 
OPS if she died. She was a standard retail investor  with eleven years  until her intended 
retirement age and until her preserved  pension became payable  in full. Aside from her state 
pension entitlement,  which was assumed, her OPS represented her sole retirement 
provision. The suitability report says Mrs S had an investment property worth £130,000. No 
other details  were recorded, but Mrs S has since  told us she and her partner bought the 
property outright so it wasnt mortgaged. The suitability report states that Mrs S didnt have  
any other assets, but she has also told us she had some savings. 
It seems  to me that Mrs Ss OPS  was her most valuable asset. It provided a guaranteed  
income at retirement  with increases,  as well as a dependants pension. Based  on this I think 
Portafina should have recognized the significance  of Mrs Ss OPS  and proceeded with 
caution. Transferring  her OPS meant that Mrs S would be losing her guarantees and instead 
relying on investment  performance from a new scheme. But I dont think  her situation  lent 
itself to taking such  risks. 
Based on a risk profile Mrs S completed,  Portafina said it believed  she had a balanced  ATR. 
But the answers to a number of the questions leant themselves to a low ATR. For example, 
Mrs S said people who knew her would describe her as a cautious person;  that she felt 
uncomfortable about investing  in the stockmarket; that she generally  looked for safer 
investments even if it meant lower returns;  that it took her a long time to make  up her mind  
about investment  matters;  and that she was concerned by the volatility  of the stockmarket.  
Furthermore, during  the call with the paraplanner  Mrs S said that she wanted  low risk rather  
than balanced  risk. However, when the paraplanner said that this would mean that hed need 
to get the TVAS recalculated, she changed her mind and accepted  balanced.
Mrs Ss capacity  to accept risk (or capacity  for loss) was an important part of Portafinas risk 
assessment. But I dont think this was given adequate consideration. In assessing her 
capacity for loss Portafina said that overall,  Mrs S was prepared to suffer  a potential 
reduction in pension of up to 10% in order to achieve ownership  and personal control of her 
pension. Portafina  said it considered factors like her chosen retirement age, other  retirement 
provision, current circumstances and future capital needs. Having done so, it concluded that 
she had the capacity to, absorb potential  losses and shoulder risk in pursuit  of [her] overall 
pension objectives". It said that the transfer wouldnt be her only source  of income  as she 
would also be in receipt of her State Pension. But this entitlement was assumed because 
Portafina didnt  check it. Mrs S had a second property but any capital or income she could 
achieve through it wouldve always been  dependent on the property/rental market. So, I think 
the OPS was her most significant retirement asset.  Mrs S was working part-time on a 
modest income, so her capacity to build up additional retirement  provision was limited. Given  
Ref: DRN72229249what they knew, I dont  think Portafina  couldve reasonably concluded that Mrs S was able to 
absorb losses of up to 10%. 
Based on everything  Ive seen, I dont think Mrs Ss ATR was balanced.  Having considered 
the answers Mrs S gave  in the risk assessment, her investment experience  and capacity for 
loss, I think it was actually  low.  However, I think the paraplanner persuaded Mrs S to opt for 
a higher ATR than she was comfortable  with. 
An important part of assessing the viability of an OPS transfer, is a careful analysis of the 
investment returns required from any investments in the receiving scheme, to match (let 
alone exceed)  the benefits  that are being  given up by transferring  out of the OPS.  And that 
needs to be done in conjunction with other important considerations, including  the investors  
ATR, financial circumstances and objectives. 
Under COBS 19.1.2, the regulator  required a business arranging a pension transfer to:
1.compare the benefits likely (on reasonable assumptions) to be paid under a defined 
benefits pension  scheme with the benefits afforded by a personal pension  scheme  or 
stakeholder pension scheme,  before  it advises  a retail client to transfer out of a 
defined benefits  pension scheme;
2.ensure that that comparison includes enough  information for the retail client to be 
able to make  an informed decision;
3.give the retail client a copy of the comparison,  drawing the retail clients  attention  to  
the factors that do and do not support the firms advice, no later than when the key 
features document is provided;  and 
4.take reasonable steps to ensure that the client understands the firms  comparison  
and its advice.
COBS 19.1.3 goes on to say that in particular the comparison should:
1.take into account all of the retail  clients relevant circumstances;
2.have regard to the benefits and options  available  under the ceding scheme and the 
effect of replacing  them with the benefits and options under the proposed scheme;
3.explain the assumptions on which it is based  and the rates  of return  that would have 
to be achieved to replicate  the benefits  being given up; and
4.be illustrated on rates  of return which take into account the likely expected returns of 
the assets in which  the retail clients funds will be invested.
Portafinas advice  was given at a time when  there  were no industry  standard  projection rates 
to assess the likelihood of the critical yield being achieved. But at the time the regulators 
assumed future growth rates for personal  pension illustrations were 2% (low); 5% 
(intermediate); and 8% (high). Whilst advisers  werent required to refer to these  rates when 
giving transfer  advice, I consider they provide a useful indication of what growth rates  would 
have been considered reasonably achievable when the advice was given in this case.
In terms of the investment risk Mrs S would be taking on by transferring, Portafina  produced  
a Transfer Value Analysis (TVAS) report.  This showed the critical yield required to match  
benefits from the OPS  was 11.5%,  or 9.9% if she took her full TFC.  So, assuming she took 
her full TFC, the transfer value needed  to consistently grow at a rate of around 9.9% each 
year for Mrs S not to be financially worse off by transferring. This was very high. But if the 
transfer was only going to match the benefits given  up thered be little point in transferring  - 
there needed to be a reasonable  prospect  Mrs S would be better off. So, I think  a return 
Ref: DRN722292410closer to 10.5%,  which exceeded the highest maximum projected growth rate at the time, 
would have been required for Mrs S to gain any advantage. Im not satisfied  that was a 
reasonable expectation.
Portafina has argued that the critical yield is not relevant; it based its recommendation on the 
lifetime hurdle rate instead of the critical yield, which produced a much  lower target of 
6.11%. It said this was more relevant  as Mrs S didnt want  to take an annuity. Portafina said 
the hurdle rate was lower than the level of growth  Portafinas own model portfolio was 
projected to return,  6.13%, making the transfer  viable.
Firstly, I dont think it is reasonable to simply disregard  the critical yield and I dont think  there 
is sufficient evidence to demonstrate that Mrs S definitely wouldnt have wanted to take an 
annuity. I dont  think this was explored  by Portafina in any meaningful sense, and it as over 
10 years  until Mrs S intended to retire.  So, I dont think  Portafina could reasonably  say Mrs S 
definitely wouldnt have  wanted to take an annuity  at retirement.  And even if I thought it was 
reasonable to use the hurdle rate here,  I still dont think  there was a realistic prospect of 
Mrs S gaining any advantage in exchange for the risks of transfer. Portafinas projected 
figure of 6.11% was higher than the regulators  intermediate growth  rate of 5%, so I dont 
think it was a realistic indicator of future growth  for a balanced risk investor  anyway. 
Furthermore, as Ive said, I think Mrs S had a low ATR and not balanced, so I think a more  
realistic indicator was the lower growth  rate of 2%, which was far lower than the hurdle rate 
required to match her OPS benefits.
So, both the critical  yield and the hurdle rate were significantly  higher than the level of 
growth Mrs S could reasonably expect to achieve,  based on industry standards for a low risk 
investor. Because of this she was highly  likely  to receive a lower  income  in retirement  by 
transferring. This was not made clear to Mrs S and, in fact the opposite was stated in 
Portafinas suitability  report:
The gross investment  return  after charges required to match your schemes benefits based 
on the agreed planning assumptions is 6.11% per year.  Therefore  we believe that a transfer 
could be able to increase  the overall pension and tax free cash  benefits available to you. 
And as the regulator has made  plain,  when considering whether to make a personal 
recommendation to transfer away from an OPS, a firm should  not regard a rate of return 
which may replicate  the benefits being given up from the OPS  as sufficient in itself (COBS 
19.1.7B G). In light of that, I think its important to emphasise again that the starting point  for 
the transfer advice in this case ought to have been  that it was unsuitable (COBS 19.1.6G).  
So, I think Portafina ought to have made Mrs S aware that it was in her best interest  to 
preserve her OPS benefits. 
It is clear that death benefits were important to Mrs S and this could have been a valid 
reason to consider transferring an OPS. Mrs S was unmarried  but living with her long-term 
partner and she was concerned about  death benefits for her son. The OPS offered a 50% 
dependants pension and a small lump sum, but her son seems  to have been ineligible for a 
childs pension. Its unclear if her partner  wouldve  been eligible for the dependants pension 
because this doesnt appear  to have been fully researched  by Portafina or discussed  in 
detail with Mrs S. But assuming he wasnt, the resulting improvement in death benefits  still 
needed to be weighed up in light of Mrs Ss circumstances. She was aged 55 with no 
apparent health  issues,  so I dont think potentially improved death  benefits would outweigh 
the disadvantages of transferring if this had been explained clearly to her. Furthermore, if 
Mrs S was genuinely concerned about leaving her son money  in the event  of her death, 
Ref: DRN722292411I think it wouldve been in her best interest to explore  taking some  life assurance,  rather than 
placing her retirement provision at risk.
Despite one of Mrs Ss noted objectives  being flexibility, in my view,  there was no obvious  
need for the flexibility  the plan provided  and there was no conversation about how this would 
work in practice.  There was no discussion about how much  income Mrs S would need  in 
retirement and whether  this would vary, or why. And as she had no other  pension  provision 
aside from her assumed  State Pension, Mrs S would be reliant upon her OPS  to provide a 
regular income for the rest of her life. I appreciate  that Mrs Ss investment property may 
have been part of her retirement plans, but it was jointly owned with her partner.  So, it isnt 
clear what  income this couldve generated to supplement her pension.  Any income derived 
from the property also wouldnt have been  guaranteed as it was dependent on the rental 
market.
The only other legitimate  reason for considering recommending Mrs S transfer her OPS  was 
to release funds  early  in order to purchase a BTL. Mrs S has told us that she did in fact use 
her TFC to help purchase another property. However,  the adviser had a duty to fully explore 
all alternatives to transferring Mrs Ss OPS in order to demonstrate that proceeding with the 
transfer was in her best interests, but I dont think he did. Alternative  ways of raising the 
funds to meet this objective werent discussed  during the paraplanner call and I cannot see 
that this was explored in the suitability  report.  Not only should  Portafina have explored 
alternatives but it shouldve explained whether  or not they were viable and why. To do this it 
needed to understand Mrs Ss financial situation and future income needs, but it didnt  do so.
Ive asked Mrs S what she wouldve done  if alternatives were discussed with her. She said 
that she wouldnt have  used her TFC to purchase  the BTL but wouldve instead  used 
savings and/or re-mortgaged her main property or their investment  property  instead.  I cant  
say for certain that Mrs S wouldve been able to get a BTL mortgage, but as Mrs S was 
mortgage-free at the time, it seems to me it wouldve been possible. Ultimately, however,  
this is a moot point.  Portafina didnt explore this with Mrs S as it shouldve  done, so Mrs S 
has been denied  the opportunity to make  alternative  arrangements  that didnt place her 
retirement provisions at risk. And in this regard I think  it failed  to act in her best interests.
Portafina had a significant and overriding responsibility to challenge Mrs Ss objectives and 
not accept them at face value. Mrs S wasnt a financial expert and was heavily reliant  on 
Portafina for its advice  and expertise.  So, I think it needed to do more than just note Mrs Ss 
objectives and agree to facilitate what she thought was the best way of achieving them, 
especially when there might be viable alternatives  to meeting those goals. 
Mrs S didnt necessarily have to wait until age 65 to take her OPS benefits, however I note 
that there  was no discussion  about  or investigation  into taking them immediately.  Early  
retirement from age 55 was available to Mrs S, as confirmed in the CETV.  The exact level of 
pension and TFC this would have provided  is not known, but this is because Portafina  didnt 
appear to make any such enquiries at the time. Even when Mrs S asked if this was an option 
during the paraplanner  call, she was told that shed  need to investigate this herself.  Just 
because an early retirement factor would be applied doesnt mean  that Mrs S would be 
worse off, as she wouldve also benefitted from income many years earlier.  Its also arguable 
that although the amount  of TFC wouldve likely been lower, this may still have met her 
needs when combined with savings  and/or re-mortgaging one of her properties, and she 
would also receive  an immediate income  from her pension.
Ref: DRN722292412Regarding the risks associated with its recommendation, I do accept that Portafina covered 
some of these. However, disclosure isnt the same as suitability and in my view Portafina 
shouldnt have gone on to recommend the transfer. 
I dont think the advice for Mrs S to transfer was suitable and I think it presented a level of 
risk above  what she shouldve been advised to take. Accordingly, I dont think  it was in her 
best interests and so I think Portafina  shouldve provided Mrs S with clear  advice not to 
transfer her OPS. Although Portafina  provided  Mrs S with information about the transfer, 
I dont believe it was as clear, comprehensive and balanced as it needed to be for her to 
make an informed decision about whether or not to transfer.
Ive thought about whether, if shed  been  correctly advised by Portafina  not to transfer, Mrs S 
would have gone ahead with the transfer  anyway.  Having carefully considered  all the 
circumstances in this case, I dont believe  she would  have. I accept  that Mrs S had a 
motivation for wanting to access her TFC,  but the long-term disadvantages of doing so were 
not set out clearly. As Ive already  said, Mrs S has said that she wouldve acted differently 
had alternatives been  fully presented to her.
I believe it was clear  from the outset that Mrs S was seeking  to rely on the comprehensive 
information and suitable advice she reasonably expected to obtain  from Portafina. And 
I think Portafinas failings  in appropriately assessing the overall suitability  of the transaction  it 
was recommending played  a pivotal role in her decision  to transfer. I think its unlikely that 
Mrs S wouldve  opted to transfer when she did, had she been made aware of the 
alternatives available,  such as using her savings  or retiring early  from her OPS. 
As a professional adviser  which,  unlike Firm C, was authorised to provide transfer advice, 
Portafinas recommendation  wouldve  carried significant weight and could, I believe, have 
dissuaded Mrs S from proceeding with the transfer  and subsequent investments.  I accept  its 
possible Mrs S may still have wanted to go ahead anyway. But I think, at the very least, if 
Portafina had advised against  this, that would  have made her think about things. 
Alternatively, had Mrs S proceeded against such advice,  Portafina couldve discharged its 
professional responsibility  to her appropriately.  For example,  it couldve treated  her as an 
insistent client. However,  theres nothing  to indicate Mrs S wouldve acted against the advice  
shed been given. 
Overall, I consider that the losses suffered by Mrs S are as a result of the unsuitable advice 
provided by Portafina.  And had it not been  for this unsuitable advice, I dont believe she 
would have gone ahead with the transfer  of her OPS or invested over 17% of her remaining 
fund in UCIS.
I recognise that it can be argued Firm C may have  also separately caused  some of Mrs Ss 
losses. So, Ive considered whether I should  apportion only part of the responsibility for 
compensating the loss to Portafina.  In the circumstances, though,  I think apportioning 
responsibility to Portafina for the whole  of the loss represents fair compensation. I dont  
accept that anything Firm C did was an intervening act which  absolves  Portafina of its 
responsibility for Mrs Ss losses.
I think its important to emphasise that Firm C and Portafina were  in a business  relationship  
in which  each firm agreed to provide services that were designed to bring  about  a single 
outcome for clients  pension-release advice and investment. Because  Firm C wasnt 
authorised to provide pension transfer advice, it referred Mrs S to Portafina. Portafina 
Ref: DRN722292413advised Mrs S to transfer to a SIPP, it set up the SIPP and arranged  for her existing pension  
benefits to be transferred.  It also benefitted  financially from this advice.
I acknowledge that Firm C advised  Mrs S to invest a significant  share  of her SIPP funds  in 
UCIS. But, as Ive explained, Portafinas  understanding that it could reasonably  limit its 
advice to just the transfer and the SIPP  was wrong;  it needed to consider  the proposed 
investments too, even  if Firm C was advising Mrs S on the investments. It was only as a 
result of Portafinas involvement that Mrs S transferred her OPS benefits  to the SIPP.  
Portafinas role was pivotal, since the eventual investments were fully reliant on the funds 
being transferred  first; if that hadnt happened, she couldnt have invested  as she did. 
In terms of the FSCS, I am aware  that, as a fund of last resort, the FSCS wont  pay out on 
claims where it is aware that another firm was involved in the transaction,  and it considers  
that firm might also be responsible for a consumers losses.  It has already been confirmed 
with Mrs S that she did approach the FSCS to complain about Firm C in 2017, but they did 
not accept her claim and directed her to complain to Portafina. This means that 
apportionment of only part of the loss to Portafina  could  risk leaving Mrs S out of pocket.
I think its important to point out that Im not saying Portafina is wholly  responsible for the 
losses simply because Firm S and Firm C are now in liquidation. My starting  point as to 
causation is that Portafina gave unsuitable advice and it is responsible  for the losses Mrs S 
suffered in transferring her existing benefits to the SIPP and investing as she did. That isnt, 
to my mind, wrong in law or irrational but reflects the facts of the case and my view of the fair 
and reasonable position.  So, overall,  I think apportioning responsibility to Portafina for the 
whole of the loss represents  fair compensation in this case.  
Putting things  right
A fair and reasonable outcome would  be for the business to put Mrs S, as far as possible, 
into the position she would now be in but for Portafinas unsuitable  advice. I consider Mrs S  
could have remained in the occupational scheme. Portafina must therefore  undertake a  
redress calculation in line with the regulators pension review  guidance as updated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in its Finalised  Guidance  17/9: Guidance for firms on how to 
calculate redress for unsuitable DB pension transfers. 
This calculation should  be carried out as at the date of my final decision and using the most 
recent financial assumptions at the date of that decision. In accordance  with the regulators 
expectations, this should be undertaken or submitted to an appropriate provider promptly 
following receipt of notification of Mrs Ss acceptance of the decision. 
Portafina may wish to contact the Department for Work and Pensions (DWP) to obtain 
Mrs Ss contribution history  to the State Earnings Related Pension  Scheme  (SERPS  or 
S2P). These details  should then be used  to include a SERPS adjustment in the calculation,  
which will take into account the impact of leaving  the occupational scheme on Mrs Ss 
SERPS/S2P entitlement.
If the redress calculation  demonstrates a loss, the compensation should if possible be paid 
into Mrs Ss pension plan.  The payment  should  allow for the effect of charges and any 
available tax relief.  The compensation  shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance. 
Ref: DRN722292414If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Mrs S as a lump sum after making a notional deduction to allow  for 
income tax that would otherwise have  been paid. Typically, 25% of the loss could have been 
taken as tax-free cash and 75% would have been taxed according to her likely income tax 
rate in retirement  - presumed  to be 20%.  So making  a notional deduction of 15% overall 
from the loss adequately  reflects this. 
The payment resulting  from all the steps  above  is the compensation amount. The 
compensation amount must where possible be paid to Mrs S within  90 days of the date 
Portafina receives notification of her acceptance of my final decision. Further  interest must  
be added  to the compensation amount at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of my 
final decision  to the date of settlement for any time,  in excess of 90 days,  that it takes  
Portafina to pay Mrs S.
Its possible that data gathering  for a SERPS  adjustment may mean that the actual time 
taken to settle goes  beyond  the 90 day period allowed for settlement above  - and so any 
period of time where  the only outstanding  item required to undertake the calculation is data 
from DWP may be added to the 90 day period in which interest wont apply.
In addition, Portafina should  pay Mrs S £250 for disruption to her retirement planning.
My aim is to return Mrs S to the position she wouldve been in but for the actions of 
Portafina. This is complicated  where  investments are illiquid  (meaning  they cannot  be readily 
sold on the open market) as their value cant be determined, which appears to be the case  
here.
To calculate the compensation, Portafina  should  agree an amount with the SIPP provider as 
a commercial value, then pay the sum agreed to the SIPP plus any costs, and take 
ownership of the investment. If Portafina  is unable to buy the investment, it should give it a 
nil value for the purposes of calculating compensation. The value of the SIPP used in the 
calculations should  include anything Portafina  has paid into the SIPP and any outstanding 
charges yet to be applied  to the SIPP should  be deducted.
In return for this, Portafina may ask Mrs S to provide an undertaking to account  to it for the 
net amount of any payment she may receive from the investment. That undertaking should  
allow for the effect of any tax and charges on what she receives. Portafina will need to meet 
any costs in drawing up the undertaking. If Portafina  asks Mrs S to provide an undertaking,
payment of the compensation awarded  may be dependent  upon provision of that 
undertaking.
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
(should Mrs S wish to move  her investment portfolio) and further SIPP  fees to be prevented,  
the investment  needs to be removed from the SIPP. Ive set out above how this might be 
achieved by Portafina taking over the investment, or this is something that Mrs S can  
discuss with her SIPP provider directly. But I dont know how long that will take.
Third parties are involved, and we dont have  the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Portafina  pay Mrs S an upfront lump  sum  
equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide  a reasonable  period  for the parties  to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Ref: DRN722292415Where I uphold  a complaint, I can award  fair compensation of up to £150,000, plus any 
interest and/or costs  that I consider are appropriate. Where I consider that fair compensation 
requires payment of an amount that might exceed £150,000, I may recommend that the 
business pays the balance. 
Determination and money award: I require Portal Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs S the 
compensation amount as set out in the steps  above,  up to a maximum of £150,000.
Where the compensation amount does not exceed £150,000, I additionally require Portal  
Financial Services LLP to pay Mrs S any interest on that amount in full, as set out above.
Where the compensation amount already exceeds  £150,000, I only require Portal Financial  
Services LLP to pay Mrs S any interest as set out above on the sum of £150,000.
Recommendation: If the compensation amount  exceeds £150,000, I also recommend that 
Portal Financial Services LLP pays Mrs S the balance. I additionally recommend any interest 
calculated as set out above on this balance to be paid to Mrs S.
If Mrs S accepts  my final decision,  the money  award  is binding  on Portal  Financial Services  
LLP. My recommendation is not binding on Portal Financial  Services  LLP. Further, its 
unlikely that Mrs S can accept my decision and go to court to ask for the balance. Mrs S may 
want to consider getting independent legal advice  before deciding whether to accept this 
decision. 
My final decision
I uphold the complaint and direct Portal Financial Services  LLP to pay compensation as set 
out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or
reject my decision  before 28 June  2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7222924