K820x#14complaint
Mr M and his son are unhappy  with the way Barclays Bank UK Plc treated them after a 
business support  manager became involved  with their farming  business and the related 
accounts held with the bank.
background
In March 2014 Mr M bought a beef farm which he intended on changing  over to dairy. Mr M 
was a sole trader at that time. Mr M had some  capital  already from the sale of another  farm. 
But he also he borrowed  money from Barclays and took out a business current account 
along with an overdraft facility. Mr Ms main  point of contact at the bank was a Senior 
Agriculture Manager.
Unfortunately, development of the farm didnt proceed as quickly  as expected and the 
anticipated income wasnt being  realised  by the end of the first year. Because of this, in 
March 2015 a business support manager  (BSM) was appointed by the bank. Barclays says 
BSMs are appointed  to help when a business  is struggling. The bank also commissioned a 
Whole Farm  Review  Report. 
Mr M and the BSM met for the first time in May 2015. Mr M says the BSM was arrogant, 
wouldnt listen, didnt understand farming and made inappropriate  suggestions about  what  to 
do with the business. He also refused to allow  a transfer of land which has had widespread 
repercussions, particularly  in light of Mr Ms subsequent separation and pending  divorce 
from his wife.
Around the same time, the decision  was taken for Mr Ms son to join the business  as a 
partner and the name was changed.  The two business loans  were  refinanced  and the 
current account amended so that, in effect,  both Mr M and his son were liable for repayment 
of the debts. My understanding  is that the terms of the loans and overdraft  facility  were 
otherwise unchanged.
Mr M says he was reluctant to complain about the BSMs conduct as he thought it might 
affect his relationship with the bank.  But he eventually felt he had to say something and 
made a formal complaint in February  2016. Barclays investigated his concerns, sent a 
regional director to discuss things with Mr M and bank agreed to appoint a different  BSM. An 
Agriculture Business Manager (ABM) from the bank also became involved.
In April 2016 Barclays sent its final response letter to Mr M. It credited £750 to the business 
current account in recognition that some of its actions may have added  to Mr Ms stress  and 
anxiety. And said, in summary,  that:
Mr M hadnt  provided enough  information for the bank to follow up his concerns about 
there having been a data protection breach.
It accepted some  discussions between Mr M and the first BSM may have been  
challenging but a degree of challenge  in such a situation may be necessary and 
appropriate. The first BSM had taken some constructive  steps to support the business  
and the bank thought  hed done  enough. But it accepted some  of Mr Ms feedback about 
how the first BSM had communicated with him. 
Ref: DRN72730402It did not accept the bank could be blamed for the loss of income resulting from the 
business failure to expand as quickly as expected.
The first BSM should have provided a letter explaining why the final tranche of money  
had been delayed which Mr M couldve shown to the milk supply company. But, in the 
circumstances, it didnt accept  that provision of the letter  wouldve greatly affected the 
position with the milk supply company.
It didnt agree the banks refusal  to allow the transfer of land was inappropriate given the 
adverse effect  this would have had on the banks security value.
It didnt agree the interest margin on the overdraft and the loan set up fees were  
unreasonable, given the risks posed. But, as a gesture of goodwill it offered to reduce 
the interest margin on the overdraft to 2.75% above base rate.
Mr M didnt  think  £750 compensation was enough but the bank confirmed he had exhausted 
the complaint  process and could refer the matter to this service if he remained unhappy.
Mr M got in touch with us in September 2016  and again the following year. But his complaint 
was not progressed because he didnt provide sufficient details about his concerns. 
In the meantime there were ongoing discussions with the bank about selling or transferring 
some of the farmland. Initially this was to include a sale/transfer to Mr Ms wifes  parents and 
another to Mr Ms son but, latterly, the proposal was just to transfer some land to Mr Ms son. 
In December 2017 Mr Ms solicitor confirmed  that Mr M no longer planned on making any 
transfer.
In January 2018 Mr M complained again to Barclays. But the bank said the majority of his 
concerns had already been  considered as part of the 2016 complaint. Mr M said, since then, 
hed been unhappy that the ABM had left the bank without warning and he was unhappy 
with the lack of handover. Barclays didnt think this changed  anything or wouldve greatly 
affected Mr M but offered a further  £25 compensation as a gesture of goodwill.
Mr M remained disappointed with Barclays response and got in touch with us again. He 
repeated his concerns about  the way the first BSM had acted and estimated that the banks 
failings had cost the business at least £30,000 in lost income.  He also expanded on the 
concerns hed expressed about the ABM.  He said the ABM had been appointed to arrange 
the transfer of land that the first BSM had previously blocked. Mr M says the ABMs failure to 
progress the transfer meant that portion of land has had to be included  in his divorce  
settlement.
I issued a provisional decision in July 2019  setting out why I didnt  think Barclays  should  
have to do anything  further to put things right. I found as follows.
Are there  any issues that Mr M has raised  which I have not looked into?
In response to the investigators assessment, Mr M made various comments  about  the 
Senior Agriculture Manager  in relation to things shed said and advice she had or hadnt 
given (including  that she should  have told him to take out life insurance).  But, as far as I can 
see, Mr M put forward no such concerns as part of the complaint he raised with the bank. As 
a result,  Barclays investigation focussed  on the first BSMs and the ABMs  actions  and 
Ref: DRN72730403Mr Ms relationship with those individuals. I similarly  restricted my consideration of this 
complaint to what happened  after the BSM was appointed to Mr Ms business. 
Did the bank disclose  information about Mr Ms situation inappropriately?
Mr M told the bank that a neighbour  made  a comment which indicated he knew  more  about 
his business and financial situation than he should.  But Mr M didnt feel able to give the bank 
any more information  in order for them  to investigate this. So I could see why this matter 
wasnt pursued further and couldnt  fairly  criticise the bank  for not doing  so.
Should the bank  be held responsible for the business losses Mr M has claimed?
Mr M had commented at length about  his dissatisfaction with how the first BSM conducted 
himself during their meetings, the advice he gave and his unwillingness  to allow the transfer 
of land. Amongst  other  things, hed also obtained a statement  from an individual   who, it 
seemed, was commissioned to produce a specialist dairy report  for a whole farm review in 
late-2015  which similarly  criticised  the BSMs approach. And his solicitor  had commented  
on the effect of the missed opportunity to transfer the land.
I took into account everything  Mr M had said and provided but I also considered the banks 
side of things. That included the notes the first BSM made as well as the whole farm review,  
various option/budget reports and a valuation report produced by a RICS-registered valuer. 
Overall I noted:
The bank  sought expert advice about  the value  of the farm and its potential  future,  
including the possible ways it could increase its revenue through diversification. And, 
despite what Mr M thought, I didnt  think it was unreasonable of the bank to put forward 
the proposals it did, not least given the depressed milk industry  and lower  than expected  
output and income.
Mr M suggested  the BSM didnt have the business interests  at heart  and took too long to 
release tranches of the loan. But I disagreed   I thought the notes made and actions 
taken after he was appointed suggested  he was trying to help the business  develop and 
succeed. That included him agreeing, in July 2015, to release the final £50,000 loan 
tranche, renewal of the £75,000 overdraft  and that the loan facilities could be refinanced  
once the partnership with Mr Ms son was in place. He also noted that although the 
business was in a difficult situation, the past three months  performance had been 
positive and he was keen to support the business and let things proceed with close 
monitoring. 
The bank  had already accepted it could have written the letter  that Mr M had apparently 
asked for in order to help procure a better contract with the milk supply company. But, 
like the bank, I wasnt satisfied the available evidence indicated it was more likely than 
not this would have guaranteed  hed get the contract he wanted. I said that, not least, 
because all the evidence  suggested  there had been  a significant downturn in the dairy  
sector with oversupply driving down prices,  making it more difficult  to obtain a favourable  
supply contract.
I could see some discussions mustve  taken place by October 2015 about the possibility 
of moving some  of the farmland into Mr Ms sons name and some  to his wifes parents. 
But this seemed to have been  conditional,  at least in part, on some money being given to 
Ref: DRN72730404Mr M by his/his wifes family which he intended  on using to reduce some/all of his hire 
purchase debts. By January 2016  this request had been refused because  the money 
hadnt been forthcoming and the BSM thought the loss of the land would unreasonably 
dilute the banks security. Mr M and, after the refinancing of the loans, his son had given 
the bank a legal charge over the entire  farm in order to secure the borrowing they 
required. So was satisfied it was for the bank to decide if it was willing to allow any of the 
farmland to change  hands. And I could understand the banks concern about 
relinquishing any of the security  at a time when the business still had considerable debts 
and a limited track record of income  sufficient to sustain  and/or  repay  that debt. 
It seemed to me that Mr M and the BSM experienced quite  a severe clash of personalities, 
which meant they were  unable to establish  a good working relationship.  And, given Mr Ms 
experience being a dairy farmer,  I could understand why he may have found the banks  
suggestions and approach unpalatable.  But I didnt think that meant the bank acted  unfairly 
overall. There was no dispute  the business  wasnt developing in the way that had been 
anticipated and I thought  it understandable  the bank had concerns about this to the extent 
that it considered  it necessary to intervene.  
Also, I thought  the bank  took Mr Ms concerns seriously when he raised them.  It appointed  
another BSM,  it investigated  the matter, reassured Mr M more  than once that their 
relationship wouldnt  be harmed as a result  of his complaint, explained in detail why it didnt 
agree with most of what Mr M had complained about  and offered £750 compensation. 
Overall, I thought Barclays acted appropriately in this respect and made a fair and 
reasonable offer of compensation given that some of its actions mightve contributed  to the 
stress Mr M was already suffering.
Did the bank unreasonably delay the transfer  of land after the new BSM  was appointed?
I was satisfied it was for the bank to decide if it was willing to allow any of the farmland to 
change hands.  
Mr M had suggested that the new BSM  and/or the ABM agreed to the transfer  of land soon  
after they became  involved  with his business,  towards the middle of 2016. But, from the 
records Id seen, I thought its more likely the bank agreed to consider this but gave no 
guarantees it would  be allowed. I said that, not least, because  of an email  the new BSM sent 
to Mr Ms solicitor  on 12 August  2016  in which he copied an extract  of a note hed sent Mr M. 
This said the bank  was supportive of his plan to sell c.30 acres but certain conditions needed 
to be met. And Mr Ms desire to sell two other tranches of land would be reviewed further in 
2017.
Further emails passed between the bank  and Mr Ms solicitor. And by October 2016 it 
seemed the idea of selling some land to Mr Ms wifes parents had been dropped but the 
plan remained to transfer some to Mr Ms son. The bank spoke with its own solicitors about  
that and it seemed Mr M was reluctant to proceed given the likely costs involved.  The banks 
records indicate it left matters with Mr M and his solicitor to get in touch if he decided to go 
ahead. 
There are no records  that Mr M told the bank  he wished  to proceed with the transfer until 
mid-June 2017.  The new BSM emailed Mr Ms solicitor on 19 June to say hed spoken with 
Mr M who wished  the transfer  to go ahead and confirmed it was on a tight timescale. This 
email was also the first record  Id seen of the bank being aware that Mr M was facing 
Ref: DRN72730405divorce. Mr M says he told the ABM that he wished to proceed with the transfer some time 
before June 2017. But Id seen no record of this and I had some difficulty understanding  
why, if Mr M had confirmed he wished to proceed, he didnt chase up matters relating to this 
with his solicitor and/or  the bank at any point between October 2016 and June 2017. 
It was apparent the ABM  resigned at some point  in June 2017 and was released  on 
gardening leave. In my experience that wouldve meant he was no longer allowed to contact 
the customers he had previously been dealing  with and that seemed the likely reason for not 
advising Mr M about his resignation. I thought  the bank couldve advised Mr M about this 
soon after it happened  but, given what Ive already  said, I dont think the ABMs resignation 
unduly affected the transfer of land.  And the bank has already offered £25 compensation in 
recognition of its failure to tell Mr M promptly about  the fact the ABM  would no longer be 
involved with his business. That award  was still available if Mr M and his son chose to 
accept it.
Various emails were exchanged between the bank, its solicitors and Mr Ms solicitor  in June 
2017. The bank  explained it was reluctant to allow the transfer  of land until it fully understood 
the situation between Mr M and his wife  at one time there was the possibility that she 
would seek an inhibition  order on the farm and the bank  had concerns about the risks this 
might pose. On 21 June 2017 the new BSM emailed Mr Ms solicitor setting out the banks 
concerns and confirming it couldnt give any guarantees that it would allow  the proposed 
transfer of land. The new BSM left it with Mr Ms solicitor to discuss with Mr M. That same 
email was forwarded to Mr M the following day.
On 2 November  2017 the new BSM  emailed  Mr M with reference to a conversation thatd  
taken place earlier in the week. The new BSM confirmed hed asked the banks solicitors  for 
a quote to complete the work relating to the proposed transfer of land and explained  the 
banks solicitors wanted to speak with Mr Ms matrimonial lawyer  as well as Mr Ms solicitor. 
Mr M gave  his permission, and this was forwarded  to the banks solicitors,  the following day.
Again, Id seen  no correspondence between June and November that related to the transfer 
of land. And, as Id already said, the bank left the matter in Mr M and his solicitors  hands on 
21 June 2017.  
In light of the above, I didnt think the bank made  inappropriate decisions about the transfer 
of land or unreasonably  delayed it. So I didnt think it would be fair to hold Barclays 
responsible for any financial  losses Mr M and his son claimed to have suffered because  the 
transfer of land didnt take place. 
Barclays accepted  my provisional findings,  but Mr M and his son did not. They  said,  in 
summary, that:
Mr Ms son was first made a partner in the business in January 2015. And they met the 
first BSM for the first time in May 2015.  So it was wrong of me to say these  two events 
happened around the same time.
They expected  discussions with the first BSM  to be somewhat challenging. But he had a 
poor attitude and acted  in an intimidating way throughout their relationship.  His proposals 
were based on very limited knowledge  and were  entirely unreasonable.  The fact I cant  
see this shows my own lack of knowledge  and experience. The first BSMs involvement  
led to a direct loss from milk sales amounting to more  than £33,500  and other losses  
relating to extra borrowing, lack of income  and stock sales.
Ref: DRN72730406They werent particularly happy  with the proposed transfer of land to Mr Ms wifes 
parents but had to consider it given their circumstances. The bank lied when it said the 
transfer of land to Mr Ms son would  have adversely affected the banks security. And 
instruction was given  to the ABM to proceed with the sale as cost-effectively and as soon  
as possible, which  was reiterated in January  2017.  They  were assured this would 
happen and know  such matters  can take some  time to complete, which is why they didnt 
chase things up between  October  2016  and June 2017.  
They didnt previously  want to give the name of the person who told them about the data 
breach because of their ongoing relationship with her. But theyre happy to provide that 
now.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr M and his son are disappointed with my provisional findings but they havent 
presented any new evidence for me to consider and have  really just repeated their concerns, 
which I think have been clear from the outset. So I still havent seen sufficient evidence to 
show, for example,  that:
The first BSM should have allowed  the transfers of land to Mr Ms wifes parents  and/or  
to Mr Ms son. Or that the recommendations he made were wholly inappropriate and led 
directly to the losses Mr M and his son have claimed. 
The second BSM and ABM guaranteed the transfers of land to Mr Ms wifes parents 
and/or to Mr Ms son would be permitted.  Or that the bank had received everything it 
needed from Mr M and his son to properly consider  whether this was viable and/or 
presented an acceptable risk to the bank.
I also note what Mr M and his son say about  the timeline I described. I accept Mr Ms son 
mightve become  a partner earlier in 2015 than I suggested. But the difference  is a matter of 
months and I dont think it makes a difference as far as my overall conclusions are 
concerned.
Mr M has now given  me the name of the individual who told him about the data breach. But 
what Ive had to decide is whether the bank did enough at the time, given the information  
provided then. And I think it did. If Mr M now wants to share  this new information with 
Barclays then it can look into what further action can be taken. But I wouldnt  expect  the 
bank to revisits any of the matters that have been  dealt with specifically  in this decision.
In the circumstances I see no reason to depart from the conclusions  set out in my provisional 
decision and summarised above.
Ref: DRN72730407my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M and his son 
to accept or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7273040