K820x#14complaint
Mrs M complains Tesco Personal Finance PLC,  trading as Tesco Bank,  will not refund two 
disputed transactions  made on her Tesco credit card.
background
Mrs M complained her credit  card had been used without her consent  for a small transaction  
in a supermarket  and then a £70 cash withdrawal  in June  2017.  Tesco  told her they didnt 
think the transactions were unauthorised as the genuine card and PIN were  used. Mrs M 
also still had her credit card. Another bank, whose  card had also been  used fraudulently,  
refunded Mrs M in 2019.
Tesco could  show the transactions were made close to Mrs Ms home.  They also didnt 
believe the pattern  of use showed this was done by an unknown third party.
Our adjudicator considered the evidence. He noted there was no CCTV which  Mrs M had 
pressed would confirm  it hadnt been her that had made these  transactions. He also tried to 
get Tesco to agree to refund the transactions to Mrs M after the other bank made their 
refund. He intended to uphold this transaction as there was no evidence Mrs M had 
consented to these two transactions.
This adjudicator moved roles within the service and an investigator took over this complaint.  
The investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he couldnt find another explanation for how 
Mrs Ms card was used, and returned to her.
Mrs M didnt  believe that was the right outcome. Shes asked an ombudsman to consider  her 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached a different 
conclusion to our investigator. Ive already confirmed this to both Tesco  and Mrs M. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this conclusion.
The Payment Services Regulations primarily  require banks to refund customers if they didnt 
make or authorise payments themselves. Certain  other circumstances do apply  but 
nothing thats  had an impact on the decision Im making here as the card being used is a 
credit card. So when  we look at whether a bank has acted fairly  in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions  
themselves, as well as what both Tesco and Mrs M has told us.
Firstly from the audit  information that Tesco  has presented, Im in no doubt the genuine  card 
and PIN were used  to make these two transactions for £1.89 and £70. I know Mrs M 
believes her card was cloned.  This is not the case  and if anybody had had a copy  of her 
card that worked Id have expected a lot more transactions to have  been  made  with her 
credit card.
Ref: DRN72166802I am also aware that Mrs Ms husband  was a secondary cardholder  on this account. But I 
cant see that hed used his card anytime in the previous six months, as Tesco has 
confirmed. Mrs M told us that his card was not available for use.
Throughout the period both Tesco and ourselves have been reviewing this complaint, 
Mrs Ms story  has remained consistent.  She and her husband had come back from the West 
Country that morning and neither of them had left the house. I find her evidence  to be 
plausible.
I dont know how someone managed to get Mrs Ms card, use it and then return it. There are 
obviously very limited chances for this to have happened. I know  Mrs M feels Tesco  has 
pointed the finger of suspicion  at everybody she knows and this is unfair. Theyve also 
suggested its now difficult for Mrs M to change  her story and admit that she knew  who could 
have used her card.
I cant shift from the view this wasnt an unknown third party  as nobody else will have  had 
access to Mrs Ms home. But Im aware there  were  also fraudulent  transactions  on one of 
Mrs Ms other accounts. She used the same PIN for both cards. Her other bank refunded  
these in full as they could  not show shed consented  to them.  Ive noted one of those 
transactions happened within minutes of the two disputed Tesco  credit  card transactions.
Tesco has also pointed out as Mr M is a secondary cardholder  if hed made the transactions, 
shed be liable for his spend. This would  be under  the terms and conditions  for her credit  
card. I think it would be difficult for me to make a finding Mr M had made these transactions 
without more evidence.
Its not my role to decide how the fraud happened and who carried it out but rather  whether 
the customer consented to the transactions. Taking  into account all I know about this case, I 
dont believe  Mrs M did. On that basis its only fair for Tesco to put things right.   
Mrs M paid off the debt for these two transactions to make sure she didnt attract  any 
additional credit  card charges (particularly  as one of those was a cash  withdrawal). Ill be 
asking Tesco to refund  those amounts and the related cash  withdrawal charges, along with 
8% simple  interest from the time Mrs M paid off her credit card debt.
Ive also asked Tesco to pay Mrs M £100 compensation for the inconvenience. As I 
mentioned to them I find it slightly odd a complaint involving two transactions  totalling less 
than £75 is having to be considered by an ombudsman more than two and a half years  after 
those transactions  were  made. What  I should emphasise is that this does not take into 
account any delays  caused by this service whilst reviewing this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is to instruct  Tesco Personal Finance PLC, 
trading as Tesco Bank, to:
Refund Mrs M £71.89  for the two transactions she didnt  authorise  along with 
associated charges;
Add 8% simple interest to that amount from the time Mrs M paid her credit card bill to 
the date of settlement; and
Pay Mrs M £100 for the inconvenience  caused.
Ref: DRN72166803Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 January 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7216680