K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs B are complaining that their adviser, Mr D, advised them  to withdraw money  
from existing investments and loan him the proceeds. Unfortunately, the money wasnt  
repaid and it later became clear  theyd been victims  of fraud. 
At the time they withdrew money  from their investments and loaned money to Mr D, he was 
an agent of Truly  Independent Limited  (Truly). Mr and Mrs B believe its responsible for his 
actions.
background
Mr and Mrs B say theyd dealt with Mr D since 2003. During that time, they made  a number 
of payments to him. In return they expected to receive a series of regular payments, some  of 
which were made, and their money  back. It subsequently turned out Mr and Mrs B were  
actually the victims of a complex fraud, for which Mr D was convicted  and imprisoned, 
involving a number of his clients.
At the time of most of these payments, Mr D was an appointed representative  of another  
business, TenetConnect Services Limited  (Tenet). Those payments have been  the subject of 
a separate complaint about Tenet. This complaint concerns  the actions of Mr D after 
20 September 2013, when he became an agent  (or registered individual) of Truly.
Mr and Mrs B say that in 2013, Mr D advised them to cash in a Sterling individual savings 
account (ISA) and a maximum investment plan (MIP) with Skandia  and loan the money to 
him. They say he told them  theyd receive  more  in interest payments on the loan than they 
would from the investments.
In October  2013, Mr and Mrs B signed encashment instruction forms for both investments 
and £36,000 of the proceeds were given  to Mr D. The rest they retained to pay off their 
mortgage and pay for home improvements.
£5,000 of the money given to Mr D was a short-term loan that was fully repaid a few days 
later. The remaining £31,000 was added  to some existing loans theyd given him, which, 
according to the signed agreement theyve provided, was to be repaid after Mr D had repaid 
loans made  earlier that were set to finish in 2016 and 2017. Its my understanding that none  
of the money  on the £31,000 loan was repaid and no interest  payments were  made.
Truly didnt accept Mr and Mrs Bs complaint. It said the payment to Mr D was a personal 
loan, which  wasnt a regulated activity, and that theres no record  of regulated advice  being  
given. So it says its not responsible for this activity.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  be upheld. He felt Mr D was involved  in the 
encashment of the Sterling and Skandia  investments and that this amounted  to a regulated 
activity he was authorised  by Truly to carry out. He felt this was linked to the fraudulent  
payment and that Truly is therefore responsible for that also.
Truly didnt accept the investigators assessment,  making the following key points:
Mr and Mrs B were never  clients of Truly. Theres no evidence its terms of business  
were issued  to them.  The email correspondence between Mr D and Mr B suggests the 
advice to cash  the existing investments was given while  he was still authorised by 
Ref: DRN76980282Tenet, an arrangement which officially ended on 27 September 2013, and before he 
joined Truly.
At the time they were cashed, the servicing  agent  for the investments  was recorded as 
Dhanda Financial. Dhanda Financial was authorised by Tenet and was never authorised  
by Truly. Mr D (not Dhanda Financial) joined Truly as a registered individual and the 
agency for the investments was never  transferred. So he couldnt  have been acting for 
Truly when they were cashed.
The encashments and the loan cant be considered mutually  exclusively. They were 
solely for the purpose of fraud and thats not an activity Truly permitted. Section 2.1 of 
its contract  with Mr D specifically says it wont be held responsible for any fraudulent 
acts committed  by him or his staff. 
I previously issued my provisional decision explaining why I thought this complaint should be 
upheld. An extract is attached and forms part of this decision.
Truly told us it had no further information  to provide. Mr and Mrs B confirmed they agreed 
with my findings. They also told us theyve received total payments of £11,431.85  from the 
courts in respect  of the fraud. They say the last payment was £13.21 in April 2018 and that 
they dont anticipate receiving any more in the future.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As neither party had anything  to add to 
my provisional decision, my conclusions havent changed.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
If Mr and Mrs B accept  my decision,  Truly  Independent Limited must pay them 
compensation calculated using the method set out in my provisional  decision. It should 
provide them  with details of its calculations  in a clear and understandable format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 July 2019.  
Jim Biles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76980283extract from provisional decision:
my provisional  findings
Throughout this provisional decision, Ive referred to the rules I must  follow in assessing all aspects of 
this complaint. These are set out in the Dispute Resolution (DISP) rules, published  as part of the 
Financial Conduct Authoritys (FCA) Handbook.
As the industry regulator, it would be for the FCA to monitor Trulys  oversight and supervision of Mr D 
and I wont be commenting on that. The only thing I will say is that this complaint seems to be the 
result of a sophisticated fraud. But that doesnt mean Truly isnt ultimately  responsible for some or all 
of his actions.
In reaching this decision, Ive relied on the following  key pieces of evidence:
An email from Mr D to Mr B dated 30 September 2013 that said:
Just to let you know I finally merged with the new firm Truly Independent  last Friday.  We will 
need to meet up to transfer your policies.  Can you please let me have some dates for next 
week when we can meet up?
A completed Skandia encashment  instruction form dated 14 October  2013.
A completed Sterling encashment instruction form dated 14 October  2013.
A letter from Truly dated 18 October 2013 that appears to show it sent the encashment form to 
Sterling.
A letter from Truly dated 21 October 2013 that appears to show it sent the encashment form to 
Skandia.
A letter from Sterling  to Mrs B dated 24 October 2013 confirming the closure of her ISA and the 
sale of units  valued at £44,903.93.
A letter from Skandia to Mrs B dated 28 October 2013 confirming the surrender of her MIP for 
£10,054.93.
Mr and Mrs Bs bank statements showing:
receipt of £44,903.93 from Sterling  and £10,054.93 from Skandia on 28 and 30 October  
2013;
four payments totalling  £36,000 to Mr D between  5 and 7 November 2013; and
receipt of a payment  of £5,000 from Mr D on 14 November 2013.
An undated loan agreement signed  by Mr and Mrs B and Mr D confirming a new loan of £31,000, 
which was to be incorporated with existing money they had lent him.
A Truly  business card Mr and Mrs B say they were given by Mr D.
Various documents provided  by Truly, including a copy contract and compliance manual, setting  
out the nature of Mr Ds relationship with it and the activities  he was authorised to carry  out.
Mr Bs police witness statement.
Ref: DRN76980284If Truly hasnt  seen any of this information, it can ask the investigator  for copies before  responding to 
this provisional  decision.
jurisdiction
The issue I must address  in deciding whether we can consider the merits of this complaint is whether 
Truly can be held responsible for the actions of its agent. Ive considered all the evidence to decide  
whether this is a complaint we can look at. We dont have jurisdiction to consider all complaints.  Our 
jurisdiction depends on the facts of the case and we have to make findings  on the facts  that are 
material to jurisdiction in order to decide whether  a complaint is one we can look at.
When we receive a complaint about the acts or omissions  of an agent, all the usual  jurisdiction tests 
apply:
Do we have  jurisdiction over the respondent firm? In other  words, did the actions being 
complained about  take place when the adviser  was an agent  of the business  being  complained 
about?
Does the complaint relate to an activity we cover?
Do we have  territorial jurisdiction?
Is the complainant eligible?
Was the complaint made within the relevant time limits?
In this case, Im satisfied  these tests are met. Mr and Mrs B are eligible complainants, referred  their 
complaint to us in time, we have territorial jurisdiction and Mr D was an agent  of Truly at the time of 
the acts complained about. 
Beyond this, the issue of whether Truly is responsible for the conduct of its agent involves a three 
stage test:
 
step 1 - identify the specific acts complained  of;
step 2 - consider whether  those acts are regulated activities or ancillary thereto;  
step 3 - consider whether  the business was responsible for those activities by reason of agency 
or vicarious  liability.  
step 1  what are the specific acts being complained  about
Im satisfied this complaint is essentially about the suitability of the advice Mr and Mrs B say Mr D 
gave them to cash in their Sterling and Skandia investments  (withdrawing more than they needed  to 
repay their mortgage and fund home improvements) and the misappropriation  of some of that money.
Truly doesnt seem to be disputing  that Mr D was involved in Mr and Mrs B taking extra money  from 
their investments or that they paid £31,000 of the money they received to him. I think  the 
documentation Ive listed above provides compelling evidence to support Mr and Mrs Bs recollections  
on this, particularly the signed  loan agreement, the covering letters showing Mr D was involved in the 
encashments and their bank  statements  showing what happened to their money.
step 2  are the acts being complained about regulated activities  or ancillary  to regulated 
activities
Regulated activities  are specified in Part II of the FSMA 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 (the 
RAO) and include  advising  on the merits of buying or selling a particular investment  which is a 
Ref: DRN76980285security or a relevant investment (article  53 RAO), and making arrangements for another  person  to 
buy or sell or subscribe for a security or relevant investment (article 25 RAO).
Mr and Mrs Bs money wasnt put into a regulated investment.  It seems it wasnt invested at all and 
was instead misappropriated by Mr D. But the Sterling and Skandia investments  they cashed to fund 
the payment to him were  relevant investments according  to the RAO. So if Mr D advised Mr and Mrs 
B to take money  from those investments, or arranged  it, that would amount to a regulated activity  in 
its own right.
Im satisfied Mr D gave advice to Mr and Mrs B to take an additional amount from their investments 
and was involved in arranging  this. I say this because thats their recollection as confirmed in Mr Bs 
police witness statement. And, given their relative inexperience in investment matters and history of 
following Mr Ds advice, I think  its what likely  happened.  I think  its unlikely they decided,  of their own 
volition, to take additional money  above what they needed to repay their mortgage and fund home  
improvements  from the investments and give it to him. Instead, I think  Mr and Mrs B trusted Mr D 
and acted on his advice in the belief theyd receive  a higher return  through the scheme he was 
offering.
Given the close connection  and proximity  between  the encashment of the investments and Mr and 
Mrs B giving the proceeds to Mr D, Im also satisfied the fraudulent payment took place  during the 
course of the regulated activity of advising  on and arranging the sale of relevant  investments. And that 
the advice to withdraw  additional money was given with the misappropriation in mind - a point Truly  
clearly seems to accept towards  the end of its response to the investigators  assessment.
 
Advising on the merits of buying or selling  an investment that is a security or relevant  investment is a 
regulated activity. On the basis that the payment to Mr D was funded by the encashment of existing 
regulated investments, and the adviser  advised  on and/or arranged those  encashments, that payment 
was part and parcel of that regulated activity and would potentially fall within our jurisdiction.
I think  this point was established in the recent  judicial review case  of TenetConnect Services Ltd v 
Financial Ombudsman Service  [2018]. The judge explained that where a consumer has been advised 
to sell a regulated investment in order to fund unregulated investments, this would  form a single piece  
of regulated investment  advice. The circumstances  of this case are very similar to Mr and Mrs Bs. In 
both cases, the consumers were advised by Mr D to sell units in regulated investments to make 
fraudulent payments to him.
In his judgement, the judge said the following:
I would have  concluded, even had the Ombudsman not, that the advice to buy, to put it 
simply, though taken  by itself and in isolation, was unregulated, was here all part and parcel 
of the advice  to sell, and was "regulated". This is not a case  where the advice to sell arose 
from the need  to dispose of an underperforming or risky asset, whereafter the IFA would  look 
for something better. It is not simply that the advice was given at the same time,  or that the 
trades took place so closely  in time. That helps to evidence that the advice  to buy was what  
led to the advice to sell. The advice to sell was given  so that the alternative unregulated 
investments could be made; they were compared, and their advantages persuaded Mr and 
Mrs T to accept the advice to sell. The advice,  put simply was that, because they could do 
better in unregulated  investments, they should  sell the specified investments.  The advice on 
unregulated investment  justified the advice on the specified investments, and in that way, 
became part of the regulated  advice.  The Ombudsman was bound to conclude that they were 
part and parcel of the same  advice. I conclude  that the whole advice was regulated activity, 
and that the Ombudsman  had jurisdiction.   
I believe the judges comments  are also applicable to this case. The advice Mr and Mrs B are 
complaining about (to use the proceeds of selling units in existing  investments to fund a fraudulent 
payment to the adviser) was part of a regulated activity (advising on and/or arranging the sale of units 
in the bonds). Without the withdrawal  from the regulated investments, there would have been no 
Ref: DRN76980286unregulated payment  to Mr D. So I think its right to consider the transactions as being inextricably  
linked and forming  a single piece of regulated advice. 
Taking everything into account, Im satisfied the activities complained about  fall within our jurisdiction 
as set out at DISP 2.3.1R. They relate to acts or omissions in carrying out regulated  activities.
step 3 - is Truly responsible  for those activities by reason  of agency  or vicarious liability  
Based on what Ive said above, the complaint  against Truly is one I can consider if Mr Ds fraudulent 
acts took place:
while he was acting  as its agent; and 
were part of business it authorised him to carry out. 
On the first point,  Ive considered Trulys view that Mr D wasnt acting as its agent  at this time, but Im 
not persuaded  by this. Mr D and Mr and Mrs B didnt have a personal  relationship  their relationship  
was a professional one of financial advisor and consumer. So Im satisfied  Mr Ds actions in advising 
on the withdrawal from the bond and the resultant fraud  which  is the subject of this complaint   were 
carried out in his professional capacity  as an adviser. 
With regard to who Mr D was representing at the time, Ive noted Trulys comments about  Mr Ds 
email of 30 September 2013, which  it believes shows any advice to cash the existing investments  was 
given before  he became its agent. But even if it could be shown conclusively  that the advice started  
earlier, that doesnt mean  it didnt  continue  or wasnt reinforced after he became  an agent  of Truly.
Mr and Mrs B have said they were told and believed Mr D was representing Truly  when the 
encashments and fraudulent  payment  were arranged  and I think  theres compelling evidence to support 
this. According to the FCA register,  hed been registered with Truly  since 20 September  2013  more 
than three  weeks before the encashment instructions were completed.  Incidentally,  I also notice Dhanda  
Financial ceased to be an appointed representative of Tenet on 27 September  2013  more  than two 
weeks before  the instructions. 
I think  this leads to the conclusion  Mr D was representing Truly as this is the business  he was 
authorised by at the time. In my view, this is supported  by the following:
the covering letter  with which the encashment forms were sent to Sterling and Skandia were  on 
Truly headed paper;
the business card Mr and Mrs B have provided that they say Mr D gave them, says he 
represented Truly;
Mr Ds email  of 30 September 2013 saying  he was now part of Truly and that arrangements will be 
made to transfer  (presumably the agency) of Mr and Mrs Bs policies.
Truly appears to think that the fact the agency of Mr and Mrs Bs investments hadnt been transferred 
to its name means  it couldnt be responsible for any advice given about cashing  them  in, but I dont 
think thats correct. Im not currently aware of any requirement saying  an adviser cant make  
recommendations on a consumers existing  investment unless he/she is recorded by the provider as 
the servicing agent.
On the basis that I believe the weight  of evidence  shows Mr D was representing Truly  when he 
advised Mr and Mrs B to take additional money from their investments and give it to him and helped 
them arrange  that - acts that constituted regulated activities, I must consider Truly responsible for that 
act if any part of it was something it authorised him to do.
Ref: DRN76980287Ive reviewed Mr Ds contract with Truly and the other information its provided and I dont think this 
placed any restrictions  on him advising  clients  to sell units in existing  investments. The compliance  
manual dated December 2012 appears to show Mr D was authorised to carry out regulated activities, 
including:
arranging (bringing about) deals  in investments;
making arrangements with a view to transactions in investments; and
advising on investments (except pension  transfers and opt outs);
Ive not currently seen  anything to indicate  Mr D wasnt authorised to advise clients on selling units  in 
existing investments  or to help arrange this and it hasnt argued that in response to the investigators  
assessment. So it currently appears the overall regulated activity  of which the fraud was a part  
involved activities Mr D was authorised by Truly to carry out. 
conclusions on jurisdiction
Im satisfied Mr D advised  Mr and Mrs B on the sale of their existing investments  and helped  arrange  this, 
and that the fraud was part and parcel of this regulated activity. Im also satisfied the advice  to sell and 
the involvement in arranging this were activities Truly authorised Mr D to carry  out and that he was 
representing it at the time. On balance, and taking everything into account, I think I have to conclude Mr 
Ds actions were  also the actions  of Truly and that this complaint falls within our jurisdiction and is one I 
can consider.
merits and putting things right
I dont think there are any grounds on which I could reasonably conclude  the course of action Mr D 
proposed for Mr and Mrs B was suitable for their needs or otherwise legitimate.  Given  my finding  Truly 
is responsible for the fraud  he carried out, I think its fair and reasonable  to require it to pay 
compensation for any loss that resulted.
In assessing whats fair compensation, my aim is to restore (as far as possible) the position that would 
have existed but for the fraud Truly is responsible for. Ive seen nothing  to indicate Mr and Mrs B were  
looking to withdraw additional amounts (above what they needed to repay  their mortgage and pay for 
home improvements) from their investments and theyve  told us they would have left this money 
where it was. So without his intervention, I think its most likely the money  given to Mr D would have 
remained invested as it was. So I think  the current value Mr and Mrs Bs money would  have achieved 
if left invested in their Sterling and Skandia investments should form the basis of any compensation 
payment.
When they cashed  their investments, Mr and Mrs B received a total of £54,958.86. £44,903.93  (82% 
of the total) was from Sterling and £10,054.93 (18% of the total) from Skandia. So when calculating  
compensation, I think its reasonable to assume  £25,420  (or 82%) of the £31,000 given to Mr D was 
funded from the Sterling investment and the remaining £5,580  (or 18%) from the Skandia investment.
I understand Mr and Mrs B have also received back some  of the money they lost due to this fraud 
through the courts. In calculating compensation, I think it would be reasonable for Truly to take 
account of any money recovered in respect of this loan only. Id expect Mr and Mrs B to provide 
details if asked. 
If its not possible to identify which  particular loan any money recovered relates to, which I think  is 
likely, it would  be reasonable  to deduct the relevant  part of the total payment in relation to the total of 
all fraudulent loans. Based on the information currently  available,  it looks  like Mr and Mrs B made  
payments totalling £160,000 to Mr D, including the one in this complaint. £31,000 is 19.4% of 
£160,000, so it seems reasonable to assume 19.4% of any court payment related  to the loan in this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN76980288In addition to any financial  loss resulting from Mr Ds actions as a Truly  agent, I think it must have 
been very upsetting for Mr and Mrs B to find out theyd been  defrauded of a considerable sum by their 
adviser and this must have caused a deal of upset and put them to considerable unnecessary trouble.
The true impact of the situation  on Mr and Mrs B, and therefore  the amount to award for their trouble 
and upset, is difficult  to assess.  But in the circumstances  of this case, I think  a substantial  payment is 
due and that the amount  of £500 is fair.
To put things right, I currently think Truly should pay Mr and Mrs B compensation  of F, where:
A.= the amount the £25,420 taken from their Sterling ISA would  now be worth if it had been left 
where it was and invested in the same fund(s). Sterling should  be able to calculate  this figure;
B.= the amount the £5,580 taken from their Skandia MIP would now be worth if it had been left 
where it was and invested in the same fund(s). Skandia should be able to calculate this figure;
C.= the relevant portion (probably 19.4%) of any money Mr and Mrs B have so far recovered  from 
the courts in respect of Mr Ds fraud;
D.= (A + B) - C
E. = £500  for their trouble and upset; and
F.= D + E
Id expect Truly to calculate  compensation due at the date of my final decision. If this amount isnt 
paid within 28 days of the date on which  Mr and Mrs B accept my decision,  it would need to add 
simple interest  at 8% per year to the whole amount from the date of my decision to the date it makes 
payment. Income  tax may be payable  on this interest.
If Truly is concerned Mr and Mrs B may still recover money in the future, it should be entitled to 
require them to sign over their rights to the relevant proportion (19.4%)  of all future  payments they 
receive as part of this settlement. Id expect Mr and Mrs B to agree to that. It would be for Truly to pay 
any costs  associated  with drawing up an appropriate  agreement.
my provisional  decision
My provisional  decision  is that I intend to uphold this complaint. I currently think Truly Independent 
Limited should pay Mr and Mrs B compensation calculated using the method  set out above.
Ref: DRN7698028