K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains that J.P.Morgan Europe  Limited  wont refund disputed cash withdrawals 
made from his account. 
background
Mr S says that fraudulent cash withdrawals totalling £4,740 were made from his JP Morgan 
account between  the 24 June 2017 and 12 October 2017. 
Mr S was in custody between the dates of the disputed transactions.  Prior  to being 
imprisoned Mr S explained that he lived alone.  He says that he left his debit card in a draw  in 
the kitchen, and a number  of his family members  including his ex-partner  had access to 
his property at the time of the withdrawals. Mr S also says that hed changed his PIN to a 
memorable number and its likely  his ex-partner  was aware  of this number. 
On the 1 December 2017  Mr Ss mother identified the disputed  transactions via a paper 
statement and notified JP Morgan. 
JP Morgan  investigated  and decided not to refund the disputed transactions. They  said Mr S 
hadnt looked after his security details  appropriately  because:
Section 2 of the Terms and Conditions states  to keep  your card and PIN safe and the 
PIN was required for the transactions
there was no opportunity for a third party to see Mr Ss PIN
Section 6.1 of their Terms and Conditions states  that Mr S must notify them   as soon 
as possible of a change in address
they cant be held liable if Mr S hasnt taken appropriate steps to ensure the safety of 
his account
As Mr S didnt agree  with JP Morgans decision,  he asked us to investigate.  
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. In summary,  he concluded 
that the withdrawals  had been made fraudulently  and Mr S hadnt  failed with intent or gross 
negligence to look after his details. 
Mr S accepted our investigators opinion. But JP Morgan responded to say:
Mr S was in receipt of Employment Support Allowance (ESA) benefit  which  he wasnt 
entitled to at the time
Mr S was arrested on the 22 November  2016, but withdrawals took place on the 23 
and 29 November 2016 which arent  disputed. If Mr S was in custody at the time of 
the withdrawals did he give his card and PIN and consent to someone  else to carry 
out these transactions? 
the withdrawals were made using the card and correct PIN which doesnt indicate the 
card and PIN were  kept safe
Mr S failed  with gross  negligence to look after his details, he was careless with his 
PIN, card and didnt  take reasonable steps  to protect his account 
Ref: DRN71771652As JP Morgan didnt  agree,  its been  passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
for much the same reasons.
Generally, JP Morgan  cant  hold Mr S liable for the disputed  withdrawals  if the evidence  
suggests its more  likely  than not he didnt make  or authorise them  himself. In other  words  
they were unauthorised transactions.  
JP Morgan  accept that Mr S was in prison at the time of the disputed  withdrawals therefore 
couldnt have  carried them  out and havent suggested that Mr S gave consent  for another 
third party to carry out the transactions. So Im satisfied the transactions  were unauthorised. 
But I also need to take into account whether  Ms S has acted with gross negligence. For JP 
Morgan to hold Mr S liable for the disputed  transactions  they need  to evidence hes acted 
with a very significant  degree of carelessness. But I dont think  this was the case. I say this 
because:
Mr S kept his debit  card in a drawer in the kitchen of his home address. Only four 
people had access to Mr Ss property during the time he was in custody  but theres 
no evidence any were  aware  of the location of his card which  Im satisfied was kept 
in what would be regarded, by a reasonable person,  as a secure location. 
Theres no evidence that Mr S wrote down  his PIN or deliberately shared it with 
anyone  instead he changed  it to a memorable sequence which  someone known to 
him could have guessed or seen him enter  at an earlier point in time. 
Mr S didnt  notify JP Morgan that he entered custody prior to the first disputed  
transaction as per the terms and conditions  of his account. If Mr S had notified JP 
Morgan then its likely they would have been  able to block  any transactions  until he 
was released. But, although Mr S hasnt followed the terms and conditions  of his 
account, I dont  think  this amounts to a very significant degree of carelessness.
In response to our investigators opinion, JP Morgan said Mr S was in receipt of ESA 
benefits which he wasnt entitled to at the time. Its possible  that Mr S wasnt  entitled to the 
ESA benefits at the time of the transactions  but I dont  think  this changes  JP Morgans 
liability for the transactions under the relevant  rules.  Theyve also queried  whether Mr S 
carried out two transactions which took place  in November  2016 soon after he was arrested 
for the first time  but Ive not seen any evidence Mr S was in custody at this time and 
carried out the transactions. So this doesnt  change my conclusion. 
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr S didnt authorise the disputed 
withdrawals and wasnt grossly negligent  with his details. It follows  that JP Morgan arent 
entitled to hold Mr S liable for them, and need to refund him £4,740.  
my final decision
my final decision is I direct JP Morgan Limited  to:
Ref: DRN71771653-Reimburse Mr S £4,740. In making  this refund J.P.Morgan Limited, in accordance 
with the terms and conditions applicable  to Mr Ss account,  is entitled to withhold up 
to £50. If it exercises this right,  I consider it would be fair and reasonable for it to 
inform Mr S of its decision to do so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 October  2019.
Jeff burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7177165