K820x#14complaint
Mr Ms complaint is about the sale and subsequent renewal of a contractor protection  
insurance policy.
Mr M says the policy was mis-sold.  
background
In 2008 Mr M took out a contractor protection  policy  with his bank.  He continued to renew it 
each year. In 2010 Allianz took on the provision  and sale of the policy from his bank. 
In 2017 Mr M made a claim on the insurance  for the theft of his lawnmower which  had been 
stolen from his trailer.  The claim was declined because the insurer said it was excluded by 
the policy. Mr M made a complaint about this separately to our service.    We decided that the 
claim had been  declined fairly. Because of this Mr M says the policy must have been mis-
sold because he asked  Allianz for his trailer  to be covered in the event of a claim.
Our investigator considered Mr Ms complaint and concluded that she didnt think it had been 
mis-sold. Mr M doesnt agree so the matter has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I wont be upholding Mr 
Ms complaint. Ill explain why.
Although the policy was initially sold to Mr M by his bank in 2008, Im only looking at the sale 
and renewal of the policy  by Allianz  from 2010  onwards. So whilst  I appreciate that prior to 
that time,  Mr Ms bank  initially sold the policy on an advised basis,  thats not the test Ill be 
applying to the sale of the policy by Allianz. Thats  because when Allianz  took on the sale 
and provision of the insurance, they did so on a non-advised basis. That means  that they 
had to give Mr M enough information  for him to assess whether  the insurance  was suitable 
for his needs  and circumstances,  rather than ensure the policy  was suitable for him.
The documents Ive seen  in 2010 dont contain the exclusion that affected Mr Ms claim in 
2017. So Ive looked at when that exclusion appeared in the policy  terms and whether Mr M 
was given enough information  to decide whether he wanted to take out the insurance.  
In 2011 Allianz  sent Mr M a renewal letter  together  with a policy summary. Page 5 of the 
summary contains the significant exclusions and limitations applicable to contract works, 
which included plant  and tools. The exclusion that applied to Mr Ms claim in 2017,  which  
refers to unattended items, is contained in that section. I think the document  was reasonably 
clear and that Mr M wouldve been  able to refer to it, but even if it wasnt I dont think this 
wouldve made a difference  to Mr Ms decision to take the policy.  I say this because  Mr M 
wouldnt necessarily been worried about it at that point. I appreciate that he says that when 
he took the cover in 2008 initially, he did so to ensure his equipment  was covered - but that 
doesnt mean it would  be covered in every  situation  or that Mr M couldve predicted the 
situation, that gave rise to his claim, wouldve arisen in 2011. And I think  the insurance  
provided other valuable  benefits that wouldve appealed to Mr M in any event.
Ref: DRN74777232I know Mr M feels it wouldve been difficult for him to ensure his tools  were attended to on all 
occasions because  of the nature of his work,  but I dont think  that makes a difference.  As 
Ive said I dont think this wouldve  been a situation  he was particularly looking to ensure 
cover was in place for in 2011. And if he had been, I think its likely he wouldve picked up on 
this when the policy summary  was sent to him at renewal. I understand Mr M feels  Allianz  
shouldve called him to discuss the policy exclusions but I dont think this is something they 
needed to do - they only needed to give him enough  information  to decide whether he 
wanted to take the cover.  
Mr M is concerned about the terms of the policy in 2010. But they didnt  impact  on his claim 
and given he took the policy the following year with the exclusion that affected  his claim, I 
dont think that anything contained  within them wouldve  impacted  on his decision to take out 
the insurance at that time.
Mr M is also concerned about the cover he purchased after his claim, in relation  to his trailer,  
was declined. Having  considered the two calls Mr M had with Allianz in 2018,  I cant say 
Allianz did anything  wrong  or gave him misleading information. Allianz confirmed that Mr Ms 
trailer would  be covered  under  the policy but that exclusions  would  apply to the scenario he 
presented - namely if his tools were left unattended. Mr M also spoke with a representative 
from Allianzs claims team who also explained that she couldnt  comment on the various 
eventualities Mr M presented. Thats in line with what I wouldve expected Allianz to do. And 
it was for Mr M to satisfy  himself whether he wanted to take the policy  based  on the 
information Allianz had given him. 
Finally, Mr M has referred to a number of other calls he feels  are relevant to the outcome of 
this complaint. Ive considered the ones I have. I understand theres a call from 2013 that 
Allianz has been unable to locate.  There is nothing in the calls I have listened to that makes 
a difference to the outcome of this complaint.  As the investigator explained, the issue is 
whether Mr M was given  enough information about the exclusion that affected his claim in 
2017 that enabled him to decide whether to take the policy  in 2011  and beyond.  My finding 
is that he was and theres nothing in the calls Ive heard that alters my view.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint against Allianz Insurance Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before15 May 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7477723