K820x#14complaint
Miss K complains  Southern Rock Insurance Company  unfairly avoided  her motor insurance 
policy and declined her claim.
Miss Ks had a representative for this complaint. For simplicity Ive referred to their actions 
as though they were hers.  
background
In December 2019 I issued a provisional decision.  I said why I didnt intend to interfere with 
Southern Rocks decision to avoid Miss Ks policy, refuse her claim and seek  to recover its 
costs from her. I also explained why it should return her premium and remove any records 
from databases of her making a deliberate or reckless misrepresentation. 
I asked Southern Rock and Miss K if they had any further information they would like me to 
consider before I made  a final decision. Southern Rock accepted most of what  I said.  But 
said it should be able to deduct the premium paid by Miss K from the claim costs its seeking 
to recover. Miss K didnt  accept my findings.  She provided various  points for me to consider.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not making 
Southern Rock reinstate the policy or cover the claim. 
Miss K says Southern Rock only suggested  Fast Food Restaurant and Take  Away  Food  
Supplier as more appropriate selections, as they dont cover these so could avoid the policy.  
I said the first of those  isnt available so its not relevant. I think  Fast Food is a reasonable 
description of the industry. 
Ive also said Pizza Delivery and Take Away Food Supplier  are too. They  describe the food 
retailer nature of Miss Ks employer  a pizza delivery and take away  business. Miss Ks 
suggested Food Production. Im not persuaded thats a reasonable description. It would be 
more appropriate  for a food manufacturer rather than retailer.   
Restaurant-unlicensed has also been suggested by Miss K. But, despite Southern Rock 
referring to restaurant,  I dont agree  its a reasonable description of Miss Ks employers 
industry. 
The questions on the website and policy documentation should be considered  with 
misrepresentation says Miss K. I said in my provisional decision that I had considered the 
website questions. 
Miss K also points out that on her policy documentation  no answer is shown to the question  
what type of industry do you work in? She says if it had it might have allowed her to revisit 
the answer and so contact Southern Rock to discuss  her role. The statement of fact doesnt  
mention industry  just occupation. But even if it had, Im not persuaded Miss K would have 
then got in touch with Southern Rock to discuss the issue.
Southern Rocks provided details of the claim costs. If it chooses  to deduct the premium 
refund from those, rather than pay it direct  to Miss K, I wont interfere.
Ref: DRN78006312my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not interfering with Southern Rock Insurance Companys  
decision to avoid Miss Ks policy, refuse her claim or recover  its cost from her. It will need to 
return her premium but can deduct  it from the costs its seeking to recover  if it chooses. It will 
need to remove  any records from databases of her making a deliberate  or reckless 
misrepresentation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss K to accept 
or reject my decision before 30 March 2020..
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN78006313PROVISIONAL DECISION 
complaint
Miss K complains  Southern  Rock Insurance Company  unfairly avoided her motor insurance policy 
and declined  her claim.
background
In October 2018 Miss K took out a Southern Rock motor insurance policy. She used a price 
comparison website. Then the policy  was sold through an intermediary. In December 2018  she had 
an accident. She claimed on the policy. But Southern Rock said shed  given incorrect information 
when taking out the policy. It said she had deliberately or recklessly made  a misrepresentation about 
the type of industry she worked in and her occupation type. 
Southern Rock said if Miss K had provided the correct  information about  the type of industry  she 
worked in it wouldnt have offered her cover. And because of that it refused to cover the damage to 
her car and avoided her policy (treating it as though it never existed). It also said it intends to pursue 
her for recovery of any payments its obliged  to make  in connection with the accident.  
Miss K complained  but Southern  Rock  didnt change its decision. Our investigator didnt think  Miss K 
had been asked a clear question when taking out the policy. She said Miss K hadnt made  a qualifying 
misrepresentation. So Southern Rock had unfairly avoided the policy. To put matters right she 
recommended it remove any record  of the avoidance  and pay Miss K £150 compensation. 
Southern Rock didnt accept the assessment. So the complaint has come to me for a final decision.  
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
An insurer can take certain action, like avoiding a policy, if a qualifying  misrepresentation has been 
made in line with the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosure  and Representations) Act 2012 (CIDRA). I 
think Miss K did make  a qualifying misrepresentation. So Southern Rock fairly avoided  her policy. So I 
dont intend to make it reinstate the policy and consider her claim. But I dont  agree that her 
misrepresentation was reckless or deliberate. So Southern Rock will need to refund her premium.  
The intermediary was acting  as an agent  for Miss K. It passed  the information  she provided on to 
Southern Rock.  When taking out the policy  online, Miss K was asked What type of industry  do you 
work in? (eg: Education or Retailing). Southern Rocks shown she answered  Food Store.
Southern Rock says this was an incorrect answer - a misrepresentation. It says a food store  is a shop 
or supermarket that sells a wide variety  of food and other related items.  I think thats a reasonable 
definition. But Miss K actually worked  for a pizza delivery and take away company. That is quite 
different from a food store. So I accept she did make a misrepresentation. 
But for Southern Rock  to take any action,  like avoid her policy, it needs to be a qualifying 
misrepresentation. For that a few things are required. Firstly Miss K must have failed to take 
reasonable care not to make the misrepresentation. 
CIDRA sets out a number of things to be considered when deciding if a consumer  took reasonable  
care. One is how specific and clear was the questions asked. Another  is any relevant  explanatory 
material. 
Ive already provided the question  she was asked about her industry. The question itself is clear and 
specific. I think a reasonable  consumer  would understand it. But Miss K didnt have a free choice of 
Ref: DRN78006314answer. She could only choose  from a set list of industries. So Ive considered if she took reasonable 
care when selecting  from that list.
An explanatory note asked  Miss K to enter her type of business. It explains that a list of business 
types will appear determined by the letters she entered. It instructs her to select the one relevant to 
the business type she works in. It explains that if her type isnt listed she should choose  one that 
reflects the industry she works  in. So when asking if Miss K took reasonable care I need to consider 
what industry types were  available to her. 
Choosing a label for a business isnt an exact science. There  will likely be some room for debate. But 
Im aware of Miss Ks employer and I dont  think a reasonable consumer in its employment would 
consider it to be a provider  of food stores.  But if that was the option available  that best reflected its 
industry I might say she did take reasonable care. So Ive considered what else was available.
Southern Rock said Miss K should  have chosen Fast Food Restaurant.  Shes said her industry  is a 
Food Service. But it seems neither were available  options.  So she couldnt have selected those   
Southern Rock says the list on the website was the same as it is now.  Currently if food is entered, as 
I think  it likely  was by Miss K, Food Store is offered as a suggested option. Also suggested, amongst  
a few others, is Fast Food. Southern Rock says she should have chosen that or Take Away Food 
Supplier. 
Miss K says her industry isnt fast food. But I think a reasonable consumer  would have considered  
either of Southern  Rocks suggestions a better reflection than Food  Store. Pizza Delivery  was 
available as well. Thats also a better  match  than Food Store. So it seems other more appropriate 
options were  available. 
So considering the circumstances, including  the employer, the question  asked, the explanatory notes 
and options available, Miss K didnt  take reasonable  care not to make a misrepresentation.  
Miss K says she has a condition  a type that can make it difficult to understand written information. 
So a family member entered the details during the insurance application. Even with a condition and a 
representative Miss Ks still required  to take reasonable care. The representative could have read out 
the options and information to Miss K. 
For there to be a qualifying misrepresentation,  in line with CIDRA, Southern Rock  also needs  to 
show that without the misrepresentation it wouldnt have offered cover - or would  have only done so 
on different terms. Its provided underwriting criteria to show  what  would have happened if Miss K had 
selected Fast Food, Pizza Delivery or Take Away Food Supplier.  Those are the options  that better 
reflect her industry.  Southern Rock  wouldnt  have offered cover if shed selected any of them. So 
there was a qualifying misrepresentation. That means Southern Rock  fairly avoided the policy and 
refused the claim.  
Southern Rocks  said the misrepresentation was deliberate or reckless. That would  mean  it, in line 
with CIDRA, could keep the premiums paid for the policy.  But it hasnt shown Miss K deliberately or 
recklessly provided  the wrong information. It seems  to me that she, or her representative,  just didnt 
take enough care when choosing  the business type.  There doesnt seem to have  been anything 
deliberate or reckless about it.
 
So Southern  Rock  will need to refund Miss K what she paid for the cover. As shes been without that 
money it will need to add simple interest at 8% from the date the policy  was avoided to the date of 
settlement. It will also need to remove or amend any records internally or externally that refer to a 
deliberate or reckless misrepresentation or fraud.   
Ref: DRN78006315Miss K says Southern  Rocks decision is unfair as she wasnt using her car to get to work. But its not 
the use of car that she misrepresented. It was her industry type. Southern Rocks  entitled to consider 
the employment of someone when considering  if it wants to provide cover to them   regardless of 
whether or not they use their car to get to work.  
Southern Rocks  also said she misrepresented her employment role. I havent considered that as 
Southern Rock can fairly  avoid her policy because of the industry type misrepresentation.  So it 
wouldnt make a difference to the outcome  of this complaint.  
So Im not going to interfere with Southern Rocks  decisions to avoid the policy, refuse the claim and 
recover its costs from Miss K. But I do intend  to require  it to refund Miss Ks premium. 
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont intend to interfere  with Southern Rock Insurance Companys 
decision to avoid Miss Ks policy, refuse her claim  or recover  its cost from Miss K. But it will need to 
return her premium and remove any records from databases of her making  a deliberate  or reckless 
misrepresentation. 
Daniel Martin
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7800631