K820x#14complaint
Mr S is unhappy with Retail Money Market Ltd (trading as RateSetter). Mr S thinks it acted 
irresponsibly when it gave  him a loan. Mr S said he shouldnt  have  been  given the loan as it 
was unaffordable,  and he couldnt  pay it back.
background
Mr S borrowed £12,500  and in doing so agreed to repay a total amount of £13,838.40  over 
36 months. This meant  Mr S would need to repay £384.40 a month. Mr S said he couldnt 
afford this, and its caused him financial difficulty. He said if RateSetter had carried  out 
reasonable checks, it wouldve identified  that he had a serious  gambling  addiction and that 
hed taken out other large loans to pay for his habit.
 
RateSetter said it followed its normal procedure and it acted in line with all the usual lending 
criteria it applies  to such borrowing. It said it carried out affordability and credit checks to 
ensure it was right to lend to Mr S. Mr S didnt accept this and brought  his complaint to this 
service.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He said RateSetter  did carry out reasonable 
and proportionate affordability  checks before approving  the loan. He said RateSetter looked  
at the cost of credit,  Mr Ss existing financial commitments and his financial position at the 
time. Our investigator said the credit  check done through  a credit reference agency  had 
shown Mr S with a good high credit score. In relation to Mr Ss existing outgoings there  were  
no missed payments, defaults or county  court  judgements.
Our investigator didnt  think it was reasonable to expect RateSetter  to know that Mr S had a 
gambling addiction  and that the loan was being  used in this way. Mr S hadnt  disclosed this 
information to it. And he didnt think it needed to carry  out further detailed checks to find this 
out as Mr S now suggests.  Our investigator said it was clear Mr S had been able to maintain 
the repayments since this loan was taken out, including making overpayments. So, he didnt 
think there was any early indication to RateSetter  that Mr S was in financial difficulties or 
unable to afford the loan.
Overall, our investigator thought that RateSetter  was unlikely to have considered the lending  
was unaffordable  even if it had done more checks. Mr S didnt accept this, and he asked  
for his complaint  to be passed to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I want to assure Mr S that Ive looked  at all of the information and considered everything he 
has said very carefully. But I dont think theres  a great deal I can add to what our 
investigator has said already. 
For me to uphold this complaint, Id have  to be persuaded  that RateSetter didnt carry out 
reasonable and proportionate checks before lending Mr S the money.
Ref: DRN74328552Ive considered the checks RateSetter  did undertake. Im satisfied it asked Mr S for 
information about his personal situation,  his income  and it reviewed Mr Ss credit file to 
check his payment history  and existing commitments.
As far as I can see, Mr S had a good  credit  record at the time he took out the loan. He kept 
up with repayments  and there are no signs of any problem debts  such  as defaults, county 
court judgements or excessive indebtedness   RateSetter had checked these points. There 
was no evidence of any significant short-term borrowing.  Mr  S was keeping up with 
repayments so, there was no record of any issues with Mr S keeping  on top of his bills.
RateSetter did get a credit  check done through a credit reference agency.  The details 
provided from this show Mr S had a good  credit score.  So, there was no poor credit history  
or low credit  score for RateSetter to find when  it did the checking.  Mr S was also in a secure 
job with a good income.
I appreciate Mr S said he has a gambling  addiction and was using the money to pay for his 
habit. Ive no reason  to doubt what hes said. But I dont think RateSetter could reasonably 
have known about that at the time he requested the loan, from the evidence Ive seen.
Mr S has not only been paying this loan since it was taken out, he was also sometimes  
making overpayments.  So, I dont think there wouldve been any signs  to RateSetter that 
Mr S was having difficulty making  his payments either.
On balance, taking  everything into account,  I think RateSetter acted reasonably when it gave 
Mr S the loan. I cant see why it shouldve  concluded that the loan was unaffordable to Mr S. 
So, I dont think I can find it was irresponsible of RateSetter to lend to Mr S in these 
circumstances. Im not upholding the complaint or requiring  RateSetter  to write off the 
balance or provide a refund.
It seems  more  recently as though Mr Ss situation  has deteriorated, I dont know if this is 
linked to Mr Ss gambling addiction, as hes now finding himself  in financial difficulties. But at 
the time the loan was taken out there was no reason not to lend to Mr S. Still, I remind  
RateSetter of its obligation  to exercise  forbearance,  in these circumstances,  going  forward.
my final decision
I don't uphold this complaint. I make  no award  against Retail  Money Market Ltd (trading as 
RateSetter).
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 October  2020.  
John Quinlan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7432855