K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold  him payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
Mr M applied  for a credit card in 2002  and bought a PPI policy  at the same time.
He says he had good sick pay benefits and, if hed known the cover was optional,  wouldve 
declined it.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Ms complaint didnt uphold it. Mr M disagrees and so his 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain why.
It seems  Mr M bought the PPI in a branch  meeting with a Halifax  adviser.  Halifax needed to 
make it clear  to him the PPI was optional and it also needed to get his agreement to it. 
I dont know how Halifax explained the PPI to Mr M in the meeting. But I do have a copy  of 
the credit  card application form Mr M signed at the time. I can see it says,  under a section 
headed Product details, If you want these services please mark the relevant boxes. One 
of the boxes is for PPI (the other  is for card protection). Theres an x in the box for PPI. So 
I think Mr M agreed  to it, knowing he didnt have to. If he hadnt wanted it, I think this box 
wouldve been left blank (as the one for card protection  was)  and PPI wouldnt have been 
added to his account.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr M, so it needed  to make sure it was right for him 
in his circumstances. I dont know what steps  Halifax took to do this. But, from what Ive 
seen of Mr Ms circumstances  at the time and the policy details Halifax has given us, I think it 
was right for him. I say this because:
Mr M qualified  that is, he was eligible   for the PPI. And he wouldnt have been 
affected by some  of the things the policy didnt cover  like known health issues or 
unusual employment  arrangements. So there was nothing to stop him claiming  the full 
benefit of the policy  if hed needed to.
Mr M says he got good sick pay and couldve relied on his partners salary to make  his 
card repayments if necessary. But the PPI couldve helped with these for up to 10 
months for each  successful unemployment claim Mr M made and for up to 12 months if 
he was off work sick  which is longer than his full sick pay wouldve lasted (and it 
wouldve paid out on top of it). So I think the PPI still gave Mr M useful  additional 
protection.
I havent seen anything to make  me think the PPI was unaffordable for Mr M or that its 
cost made it unsuitable for him.
Ref: DRN78161642As well as making sure the PPI was right for him, Halifax shouldve  given Mr M enough clear 
information about the PPI for him to decide  if he wanted to buy it. As before, I dont know  
what steps Halifax took to do this. Its possible  it didnt explain some things as clearly  as it 
shouldve done   like the true cost of the cover, what its benefits were  and what  it didnt 
cover. But, as Ive said, I think Mr M chose  to take out the PPI and it was right for him in his 
circumstances. And so I think clearer information  would only have confirmed  this to him and 
wouldnt have made him change his mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7816164