K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained that Admiral Insurance Company Limited  unfairly increased his motor 
insurance premium.
background
Mr B had an Admiral policy. He told it that hed gently scraped  his car against a wall, but that 
the damage was minor and he wasn't  making  a claim. When  his policy  came  to renew he 
found out that Admiral had taken the previous incident into account  when calculating his 
premium. And that it had recorded the incident on a shared insurance database.
Mr B didn't  think that was fair and brought his complaint  to us. Our adjudicator didn't think 
Admiral had done anything wrong.  Mr B didnt agree so his complaint's been  passed to me 
to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not going to uphold 
it. 
I can fully understand  why Mr B doesnt  think its fair that his premium is affected  by an 
incident which didn't result  in a claim and which didn't  lead to any loss for Admiral. But 
insurance is essentially an assessment of risk. When deciding how much  to charge for their 
policies insurers will make an assessment of the likelihood  that their policyholders  will make 
a claim and how much they might  have to pay out for those. And insurers  will take into 
account a number of different factors when deciding what  to charge for insurance. And if the 
assessment of risk increases, an insurer may decide to increase the premium.
Were not the industry regulator. That means its not my role to tell an insurer  how much it 
can charge for its policies.  Neither  is it my role to tell an insurer  what factors it should  take 
into account when  assessing risk. Different  insurers will have different views on what  
presents a risk and the extent of those. Thats essentially  a matter of commercial judgement 
and not something  we would usually think its fair to interfere with. And we generally  take the 
view that, providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customer with similar 
circumstances in the same way - insurers are entitled to charge what they feel they need to 
in order to cover a risk.
In this case its apparent  that one of the risk factors Admiral takes into account  is whether a 
drivers been involved in an incident,  whether that leads to a claim or not. And thats  certainly 
not an unusual  practice across the motor insurance industry. So if Admiral  thinks  drivers 
whove been involved in an incident  that doesn't lead to a claim pose a greater risk than 
drivers who havent, its entitled to charge a higher premium. 
I can understand Mr B may not agree  with Admirals assessment of risk. And this isn't the 
approach of all insurers.  But this doesn't mean that Admirals done anything wrong. Its 
entitled to decide its rating  factors in response  to its assessment of the risks it covers and 
the market it operates in. And as Ive said above it's not for me to tell Admiral  how it should 
go about assessing the risk it believes its policyholders present. Thats something its 
allowed to do when  balancing its need to cover any perceived risks against its desire to be 
Ref: DRN79662252competitive and retain a customers business. So I don't  think  its approach to rating risk is 
unfair.
Admirals shown us some  details showing how its risk assessment has changed for Mr B. 
That information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with him. But having looked  at it 
carefully Im satisfied it treated Mr B as it would other consumers with similar circumstances. 
So I don't think  it calculated Mr Bs premium  unfairly.
For completeness Ill add that Mr Bs said that the incident has affected his no claims bonus 
(NCB). But I can confirm  thats not the case and the incident hasn't affected his NCB in any 
way.
Mr B was also unhappy that Admiral had recorded  the incident  on a shared database.  But 
I've seen that Admiral recorded the incident as notification only.  In other words, its 
accurately recorded  that Mr B told it about  the incident but didn't make  a claim. And such  
incidents don't affect (NCB) entitlement. Mr Bs policy requires him to tell Admiral about any 
incidents. And insurers are required to notify the shared database of any such  incident, 
regardless of whether a claim is made or not. Thats what  Admiral did so I don't think its 
acted unfairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7966225