K820x#14complaint
Ms B is unhappy with the increases in her late mothers (Mrs H) premiums on her medical 
insurance policy held with Saga Services Limited  (Saga).
While Saga were not the underwriter of the policy, it was responsible for setting the final 
price in relation  to the premiums  charged  and is therefore responsible  for this complaint.
As Mrs H sadly passed away while the complaint was with our service, for ease, I will refer to 
the late Mrs H simply as Mrs H within this decision.  
background
Mrs Hs medical  policy  started  in June 2002. The earliest known premium  shows  Mrs Hs 
policy cost £815.44  in June 2004. 
The policys  cost increased  over the years and in June 2017, Mrs Hs annual  premium cost 
£3,691.46 for the year.
In May 2018, Ms B contacted Saga. There was a lot of communication between Ms B and 
Saga around this time about Mrs Hs policy.
Broadly summarised, Ms B was unhappy with June 2018s renewal premium  and thought it 
cost too much. Ms B also thought Mrs H had been  overpaying for medical insurance with 
Saga for many years.  Ms B was also unhappy with other aspects  such as the confusion as 
to what her mother was actually covered for and the difficulties in not being able to obtain  a 
relevant policy  document.
Overall Saga  didnt  uphold the main part of the complaint, as it considered  Mrs Hs policy 
had been priced  correctly  over the years. But Saga did say some  things had gone  wrong.  It 
explained that Mrs Hs policy  had automatically renewed three times since there had been 
contact in 2014. But Sagas process was to contact older consumers periodically to make 
sure they were still happy with their policy  under the process it should have contacted 
Mrs H in 2017. As this hadnt happened, Saga offered a three month discount on the 2018 
cost, totalling  £907.16.  Saga also offered £427.12 as compensation to cover a medical 
consultation Mrs H had paid for.
Ms B was unhappy  with Sagas response and referred the matter  to our service.  Ms B 
thought Mrs H had lost out as a result of not receiving loyalty discounts and remained of the 
opinion that Mrs Hs premiums had increased  unfairly.
While the complaint was with our service, Saga amended its offer. It explained  that while the 
premiums it charged were correct, it felt it should have contacted  Mrs H in 2017  and wanted 
to amend its offer to reflect this. It updated offer included refunding a discount of the 
maximum it could  for 2017s  premium  (£302.38) on top of the three month discount on 
2018s premium (£907.16) and the consultation  fee it had agreed to pay (£427.12). It offered 
to pay all of this amount  directly.
This offer was put to Ms B in June 2019.   Ms B, on behalf of Mrs H, accepted the offer in 
relation to her concerns  that Mrs H wasnt offered  loyalty discounts.  But it was agreed  by all 
parties that Ms Bs concern that Mrs Hs premiums  increased unfairly over the years, would 
still be looked into.
Ref: DRN77082752Recently one of our investigators  looked into the premiums  Mrs H was charged over the 
years. They  explained that they couldnt  tell Saga what  it should charge but that they could 
look into whether Mrs H had been treated fairly. So in essence they considered whether the 
premiums increased just because Mrs H wasnt engaging at renewal, which wouldnt be fair, 
or whether there were  legitimate risk related  reasons  for the premiums  increasing. 
Our investigator didnt  think Saga had treated Mrs H unfairly. They considered  that the price 
increased in line with the policy being a medical policy and, as such, the risk was greater  as 
Mrs H got older, so the premiums increased to reflect the risk.
As the matters hasnt  been resolved its been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Before I explain my findings, I would like to explain what I can and cant  look at within  this 
decision. 
With regards to the loyalty discounts Saga offers its customers  that is Sagas own 
commercial decision to make. Saga admitted it should have contacted  Mrs H in 2017  under  
its own internal processes  and it didnt. But it made an offer to resolve that aspect  of Mrs Hs 
complaint. The offer made was accepted, so I wont  be looking into this aspect any further.
Within this decision I will look into Ms Bs concern that Mrs Hs was charged  too much.
I would like to make it clear that I dont  have the power to tell a business what its insurance 
should cost. I would be, in effect  determining or telling a business  how it should operate   
and thats not my role. 
But I can look at whether Saga treated Mrs H fairly throughout the time she held her home  
insurance policy with it.
Its not unusual  for the cost of an insurance  policy to change  at each renewal. And there can 
be several, legitimate  reasons for this. But as most policies automatically renew if a 
consumer doesnt  stop it, a consumer who doesnt engage with the renewal process  or shop  
around can find they are paying much more for their cover than a new customer. 
An insurer  hasnt necessarily done anything wrong by changing  the premium at renewal but 
where they knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the consumer wasnt engaging with 
the renewals process, they should  have  taken care to make sure they treated these 
consumers fairly  and that they didnt  take advantage of the consumers behaviour  by 
increasing their premiums just because  someone wasnt  engaging.  
So Ive looked  into the policy Mrs H held with Saga to see what  happened.
As explained above, an insurer  isnt necessary doing anything wrong by changing the 
premium each year at renewal  and this can happen for a number of reasons.
Ref: DRN77082753Each insurer, in determining its policys costs, is entitled to form its own view of risk. And 
from this, it decides the costs associated with the risk. If an insurer thinks  theres  a greater 
risk than before,  the premium will increase accordingly  theres nothing wrong with this.
Saga says the increases  in Mrs Hs premiums  over the years were for risk related reasons.  
There were some claims over the years which had an impact  on the premium but the main 
increases in the later years were  due to the greater likelihood  that Mrs H would make a claim 
as she got older. 
Broadly summarised; with medical  insurance cover, the older a consumer gets, the likelihood 
of that consumer needing to claim becomes greater. So the risk is greater. There is also a 
greater risk of a consumer  developing more  severe  illnesses. These potential risks will have 
an impact on the premium that an insurer will decide  to charge its consumers. 
Saga says it increased  Mrs Hs premiums  in line with its underwriting criteria  which factors  in 
all the potential risks. This isnt uncommon. Im also mindful that Mrs H wasnt  treated any 
differently to other  consumers. Its underwriting criteria applied to all consumers.  So someone 
of a similar age to Mrs H, would have  experienced similar increases each year.   
So, from what Ive seen,  there seem to be legitimate  risk related reasons for the premium  
increasing over the years. Importantly  Saga,  wasnt increasing Mrs Hs premiums  just 
because she wasnt engaging. 
I appreciate Saga didnt contact Mrs H in 2017,  but Saga  has made an offer to right that 
error, which was accepted  by Ms B.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B, on behalf of 
the estate of Mrs H, to accept or reject my decision before 8 May 2020.
Matthew Horner
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7708275