K820x#14Complaint
Mr W and Mrs H complain that Moneybarn No. 1 Limited refused to let them reject a faulty 
car.
Background
In August  2018  Mr W and Mrs H acquired  a second  hand car at a cost of £5,208 funded  by a 
conditional sale agreement and a deposit  of £400. It was some  eight  years  old and had done 
76,229 miles. 
Shortly after taking deliver Mr W took the vehicle to a main dealer for a free health check. 
This identified a number  of issues  including a leak from the oil cooler, severely  corroded  and 
pitted brake  discs, insecure wheel arch liner and the tracking was out which was causing the 
tyres to wear unevenly.  Mr W says the head gasket needed to be replaced.
Mr W says the dealer was unhelpful,  but eventually agreed to repair the car. It says that 
replaced an oil seal and although it considered the brakes to be satisfactory it replaced discs 
and pads. Mr W says the brakes produced smoke when  he drove the car, but the dealer 
says this was to be expected until they bedded  in. 
Mr W took the car to another  garage which carried out work on the brakes which  was paid 
for by the dealer which  also paid £150  in compensation. 
The dealer  says that it next heard from Mr W in January 2019  when he told them of 
problems with the wheel alignment (tracking), a water hose and the alternator. The dealer  
said the alternator was covered by the warranty which came with the car which  could be 
carried out by an approved garage. It says it offered to recover the car. 
Mr W obtained an estimate from another garage showing further work that was required. 
This was for tyres, water pump, engine belts and the HVAC  (heating,  ventilation  and air 
conditioning) module. Moneybarn said it considered these to be wear  and wear issues.
Mr W and Mrs H brought their complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of 
our adjudicators who didnt recommended it be upheld. He reviewed all the evidence and 
concluded the later work was all of a wear  and tear nature and not linked to previous repairs.  
He said that taking into account  the cars age and mileage of the vehicle at point of sale,  it 
would be expected that some parts would wear out.
In June 2019 Mr W and Mrs H opted  to voluntary terminate the agreement and return the 
car. Mr W explained  that they had been encountering further issues  with the gearbox  and the 
vehicle appeared to jump. They were facing financial difficulty  and they couldnt afford  to pay 
for more repairs. Our adjudicator suggested  an independent inspection to identify  if the faults 
were inherent, but they were unable to arrange  this and Moneybarn remained of the view 
that the faults hadnt been present  at the point of sale. Mr W didnt agree and asked that the 
matter be referred to an ombudsman. No further information was provided.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN79978112In considering what is fair and reasonable, I need to have regard to the relevant law and 
regulations, regulators  rules, guidance and standards and codes of practice and (where 
appropriate) what  I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Moneybarn is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
The relevant  law says that under a contract to supply goods,  there  is an implied  term that 
the quality of the goods is satisfactory .
The relevant  law says that the quality of the goods is satisfactory if they meet the standard 
that a reasonable person  would consider satisfactory taking into account  any description of 
the goods, price  and all other relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case  
involving a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  
include things like the age and the mileage  at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I can see that Mr W and Mrs H have had an unfortunate experience  with the car, but I dont 
consider I can uphold their complaint. I will explain why.
In short  I am not persuaded that the car was inherently faulty at the point of sale. In the first 
instance the dealer carried out repairs to the brakes  and even  if it wasnt as helpful  as it 
could have been I cannot hold Moneybarn responsible for that. Moneybarn  wasnt  aware of 
this work  as Mr W didnt contact it until January 2019.
It is worth noting that it is not unusual for new brakes to smoke  as they bed in and I suspect 
that happened with this car. However,  despite that the dealer paid for further  work on the 
brakes and made a goodwill  payment.
As for the tread on the tyres being  low this is something Mr W and Mrs H had opportunity  to 
inspect before acquiring the car. Furthermore, such items are subject to wear and tear and I 
cannot safely conclude  that that fact the tread  was low is grounds for rejection.
On the other issues, such as the water pump,  engine belts  and the HVAC  module the 
business has said these  are also wear and tear issues.  However, I understand these were 
resolved as was the oil leak. This makes it difficult  to say they were present at the point of 
sale. An independent  inspection was suggested  by our adjudicator, but this wasnt taken up 
and with the car returned by Mr W and Mrs H the opportunity to explore that option has now 
passed. Regrettably I cannot  reach  any conclusion on the later issues with the gears  
referred to by Mr W for much the same  reason.   
The car was relatively  elderly and had done  a substantial mileage and it is to be expected 
that various items will suffer wear and tear and begin to fail. Some of these issues were dealt 
with by the dealer and a goodwill payment made. I also note that it passed its MOT shortly 
prior to sale and while this is not a guarantee that a car is fault free it doesnt  support the 
complaint made by Mr W and Mrs H. Therefore in conclusion while  I have every  sympathy  
with their situation I cannot safely uphold their complaint. 
Ref: DRN79978113My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2020.
Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7997811