K820x#14complaint
Mr B says Nationwide Building Society  mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
Mr B bought the policy in 1994  when  he took out a loan. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr B disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Bs case.
Where, as here, the evidence  is incomplete or inconclusive  I need to decide  what I thinks 
most likely to have happened, based  on the information I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. Ill explain why.
Nationwide no longer  has copies of the documents which Mr B signed when he took out 
the loan and the PPI. I dont think thats  surprising  or unreasonable,  given that the sale 
took place  nearly 25 years  ago. But it means  Ive got very little information to go on. So 
Ive used  our experience of this type of sale to help me decide what I think is most likely  
to have happened. Ive also looked at samples of loan agreements  that were  in use by 
Nationwide around  the time that Mr B took out the loan.
In the absence  of Mr Bs original loan agreement, Ive looked at the samples that 
Nationwide has sent us. It hasnt been able to confirm whether the loan was secured or 
unsecured. But its provided  example loan agreements for both types of loan. They  are in 
a similar  format  to many others that weve seen. Both set out the monthly  PPI premium 
separately, and reasonably clearly and prominently.  And the PPIs described, in both 
cases, as Optional  Credit  Insurance.
I understand that its frustrating that Im having  to reach my decision without the original 
documents. But because of the way the way the PPI was most  likely described on the 
loan agreement,  Im satisfied,  on balance, that Mr B would have  realised at the time that 
the PPI was an optional extra, and not something he needed to take in order  to get the 
loan. And I think its more likely than not that he agreed to take out the PPI - although 
I can understand how he may have forgotten this, so many years later.
Mr B says he cant remember  whether  Nationwide recommended  the PPI to him. 
Nationwide says it didnt  provide any advice  or recommendation  about  the PPI. And Ive 
seen nothing to suggest that the policy was sold on an advised basis. But Nationwide  still 
had a responsibility to give Mr B clear enough  information to enable him to decide for 
himself whether he wanted to take the PPI.
Ref: DRN76237552Mr B was eligible  for the policy. Hes told us he was entitled to sick pay from his 
employer. And he says he also had some  savings.  But based on what we know  about  
PPI policies at the time, Im satisfied  that its likely that if hed made  a successful claim 
on the PPI for accident, sickness or unemployment, it would  have paid his monthly  loan 
payments for at least  12 months.  And I think its likely thats  longer  than Mr B would have 
been entitled to full sick pay for. Whats more,  it would  have  paid out in addition  to any 
payments he received  from his employer. So he could have used those to meet  other 
day-to-day expenses. 
Ive borne in mind  that Mr Bs told us he had substantial savings when he took out the 
PPI. But hes told us that the purpose of the loan was to refinance or consolidate other 
debts. And I can see that Mr B took out a further  loan with Nationwide  shortly  after he 
repaid the loan.  So if Mr B had the savings hes told us about, it seems  that he chose to 
protect them, rather than using them to repay his debt or borrowing less. If Mr B had 
made a successful claim on the PPI, he wouldnt have needed to use his savings to 
make his monthly loan repayments.  Taking  everything  into account, I think  the PPI could 
have been useful for Mr B.
On the basis of the sample loan agreements  provided, Im satisfied, on balance,  that the 
cost of the policy would have been shown reasonably clearly and prominently. So I think  
Mr B would have understood how much the PPI would cost.  And I havent  seen anything 
to make me think he couldnt afford  it. And since Mr B was paying  for the policy monthly, 
he could have cancelled  it at any time with no further cost.
Its possible Nationwide didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover (for 
example, existing medical conditions or unusual  employment situations). But based on 
what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time, its unlikely  Mr B would have been 
affected by any of these.
So taking everything into account, I cant fairly conclude  that the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7623755