K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says Canada Square  Operations Limited (CSO) mis-sold her a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1999.  The policy was added  to 
Mrs Hs credit card account when she applied for the card online.  
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mrs H disagreed with the adjudicators  opinion  
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint because:
I think CSO  made  Mrs H aware  that the PPI was optional and that she chose to take it  
although I understand why she can no longer remember this. When Mrs H applied for the 
card she did so online. CSO has shown us that, as part of that application,  Mrs H was asked 
to say yes or no to confirm if she wanted PPI or not. The online application  wouldnt  allow  
her to continue without making  a choice. This was an automated system, and Im satisfied 
Mrs H must have  chosen yes for the PPI to be added  to her account.  
CSO didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was suitable for her. 
Its possible the information CSO gave Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should have 
been. But Mrs H chose  to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted this type of 
cover. She was not affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the policy was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. So I think it unlikely Mrs H would have made 
a different decision if better information  had been  provided. On balance  I think  she would still 
have taken out the policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs H to let me 
know whether she accepts or rejects my decision before  8 June 2019. 
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7204985