K820x#14complaint
Ms L complains that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited is pursuing  her for a debt she 
doesnt believe she owes. 
background 
Link says that in September 1996  Ms L opened  a credit card account with a bank. 
Unfortunately, Ms L suffered some  financial difficulties and the account developed arrears. In 
both 2007 and 2010 a debt management  company entered into a repayment plan on Ms Ls 
behalf to clear the outstanding balance at the rate of £1 per month. A standing order  was set 
up for the payments. 
In October  2016 the debt was sold by the bank to another company who appointed Link to 
manage the account. A letter was sent to Ms L informing her of this change.  This letter also 
said the current agreement to repay the balance at £1.00 per month would continue to be 
honoured. 
As Ms L was paying the debt via standing order to the bank, the bank forwarded the monthly  
payments received on to Link. 
In 2017 Ms L complained to Link saying  that the debt wasnt hers. Link didnt uphold her 
complaint. And in 2018 Ms L requested, under  section 77/78 of the Consumer Credit  Act 
1974, that Link provide her with the credit card agreement. Link informed Ms L that it was 
unable to do so and that the debt was unenforceable. However,  Link said that although the 
debt couldnt be enforced  it remained collectable. 
Ms L complained to Link that it had no right to take the money she was paying each month  
as she said these payments were  for a different  debt and should be repaid to the bank. Ms L 
was unhappy  at Links responses  to her complaint and says she felt harassed by its actions. 
Link didnt uphold her complaint saying that the bank  had passed  the debt over to a new 
company who had assigned Link to manage the account on its behalf and the payments Ms 
L had been making were to clear this debt. 
Miss L was unhappy at Links  response  and complained to this service. Our investigator said 
she didnt think Link had acted unfairly and so didnt recommend Ms Ls complaint should  be 
upheld. 
Our investigator said that due to the age of the debt there wasnt  as much paperwork and 
evidence as would have been the case if the debt was not so old. But she said,  looking 
through the history,  she was satisfied that the debt did belong  to Ms L. 
Ms L disagreed with our investigators  view and so the complaint has been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Ms L feels strongly this isnt her debt, and disputes she took out this particular 
credit card in 1996. Ive seen that the credit card agreement cant  be produced due to the 
passage of time, and that Link has said this debt is unenforceable. And, while  it is a matter  
Ref: DRN78207002for the court as to whether  a debt is enforceable or not Link is still entitled to collect the 
outstanding amount even if cant enforce it.
Ms L has said that she did have credit  cards, and that she also suffered financial  difficulties 
so I think she accepts  there are outstanding debts. Ms L says Link is, in effect,  syphoning 
off legitimate payments  to clear a debt she agrees she owes from a credit  card and using 
that money to pay towards this debt that she says isnt hers. But I think there has been 
confusion due to the bank  using  the credit  card account number to refer to the debt but Link 
then using the credit card number. 
I can understand that the use of two different numbers for the same debt has raised  doubts  
for Ms L but the bank  has confirmed that the accounts ending 4006  and 8041  are one and 
the same. All credit card accounts have two numbers,  one being  the long card number, 
which can change when  the card is replaced,  and the other being the actual account 
number. It appears that the bank used the credit card account number in its dealings  with Ms 
L but that Link has used  the long credit  card number. I dont know  why Link has used the 
credit card number rather than the account number but I dont  think  I can reasonably say this 
was done to deliberately cause confusion or to hide any wrongdoing by Link.
I know Ms L remains  concerned about the two numbers relating to the same  debt and 
doesnt accept  what the bank has said, but Im satisfied that what it says is correct.  The debt 
Ms L agreed  to pay off at £1 per month for an outstanding credit  card account ending  in 
8041 is the debt that was assigned to Link to collect. This is why the bank has forwarded the 
payments she makes each month on to Link, and which  Link has deducted from the 
outstanding balance. Link hasnt diverted money from an account.
Ive seen that Ms L says she didnt take out the particular credit card that the bank says she 
did, but I dont  think  I need to resolve exactly which card it was, but I do need to be satisfied 
that there  is a debt owed by Ms L to Link.
Ms L set up a standing  order  to pay £1 per month  to pay off an outstanding  credit card debt 
several years ago. Ive also seen  that a debt management company  assisted  her in setting 
up this repayment  plan with the bank. As Im satisfied this account  is the one that was later 
assigned to a new company by the bank  and that company  appointed  Link to manage  the 
account I think its reasonable  to say that Ms L has accepted she owes this debt. She has 
been making payments for many years. 
Ive also seen that Ms L thought that it was unfair Link didnt reimburse  the £1 fee she paid it 
when she requested a copy of her executed credit agreement as this couldnt be provided.  
This fee is payable under  section 77 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  and looking  at this 
section I think its worded to allow the fee to remain payable even if the document cant  be 
supplied.. Link also didnt  say the fee would be reimbursed if it wasnt  able to fulfil the 
request. I therefore dont  think  I can reasonably  ask Link to reimburse this fee even though  it 
wasnt able to supply  a copy of the agreement.  
So, looking  at the evidence, I dont think Link has acted unfairly in seeking  to collect  the 
outstanding amount and it has also abided by the payment plan of £1 per month. So, Im not 
upholding Ms Ls complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Ms Ls complaint. 
Ref: DRN78207003Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7820700