K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Clydesdale  Financial Services Limited trading as Barclays  Partner  
Finance didnt deal fairly with his claim under section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
He wants it to cancel  his debt.
background
Mr H tells us he had a kitchen installed by a company Ill call W. He says there were a 
number of faults following the installation  and that he complained about this to W. The faults 
included - but were  not limited to - issues with misaligned doors,  incorrect fitting of the 
washing machine  and wrong  colour  of the kitchen.
Mr H says that because  of these issues it was agreed  between  himself and W that it (W) 
would repay  BPF and that he would then repay  W. Mr H says some of the issues  with his 
kitchen are still unresolved more  than three  years  after the installation.  And he doesnt think  
BPF should be asking  him for repayment.
BPF told us that Mr H took out a fixed  sum loan agreement in 2015 to fund the kitchen. It 
said W had commenced the installation in March  2015 and in June 2015 - following contact 
from the customer - it said W had supplied some replacement items. It said that by January 
2016 Mr H had not signed off the kitchen and so W had tried to contact him. And that it (W) 
continued to do so throughout the following  months.  When contact was eventually  restored it 
said Mr H had complained  to W that there were still outstanding items - but said he didnt 
want W to undertake repairs as his wife was unwell. BPF said that it had agreed  to activate 
the loan in June 2017 - and had sent an email to Mr H to confirm this. 
BPF further  advised  that it wasnt until May 2018  that it was contacted by Mr H, who 
complained about several unresolved matters. But after several  attempts - to confirm  the 
details of his complaint  - had failed, it said it closed  his claim. Later, it said it had agreed  to 
have the arrears on his account re-written but had advised Mr H that payments needed to 
start in October 2018. BPF said it had confirmed with W that there  had never been any 
agreement between Mr H and W for W to pay off Mr Hs loan.
Our investigator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld.  He didnt think BPF 
had done anything wrong. Our investigator  found that the kitchen had been installed in 2015. 
And that BPF had taken  reasonable  steps to resolve the issues Mr H had encountered with 
W. He noted that BPF had also made  a gesture of goodwill relating to the arrears  and putting 
the start date for repayments back until October 2018.
Mr H didnt agree with this outcome and wanted  an ombudsman  to make the final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr H has experienced  ongoing  problems over the installation  of his kitchen.  
And I understand hes also had to deal with personal  issues including illness in his family 
and financial  difficulties  following the loss of his employment. So I accept  this has been  a 
difficult period for him.
Ref: DRN77457332Mr Hs complaint comprises  of two main issues, namely faults  with the supply and 
installation of the kitchen and whether BPF should be seeking  repayment of the loan. Whilst 
these are related  matters  - I need  to deal with them separately as different  considerations 
apply.
Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some of it is here - I make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities. In trying to resolve complaints,  we listen to what the 
parties tell us, and we look to documentary and other evidence to help us reach  a decision. 
This is in combination  with our fair and reasonable remit.
As this complaint  is against BPF, Im deciding if its dealt fairly with Mr Hs claim under 
section 75. Im not determining the merits of any underlying claim Mr H may have  against  W. 
Although in deciding if BPF have treated him fairly  I have to look at the way its considered 
this aspect.
Ill deal firstly with the loan as during the course  of the enquiry into this complaint it was later 
suggested that Mr H was unaware  of the nature of the agreement. His wife told us that at the 
time the kitchen was purchased it was taken out on a buy now pay later arrangement which 
required payment  after one year. And she told us that they had the money to pay and had 
not intended to incur  interest charges.
When Mr H first complained to this service  its recorded that he told the investigator  who took 
the complaint  that W had agreed  to repay  the loan to BPF and that he would repay  W. And 
that he was complaining about the fact that BPF was seeking repayments from him. It may 
be this inconsistency  is simply  due to a misunderstanding between  Mr H and Mrs H as to the 
nature of the loan. But Ive no reason to believe Mr H did not know  the terms of the 
agreement which was in his sole name.
This conclusion is supported as Ive also seen a copy of the fixed sum loan agreement which 
appears to bear Mr Hs signature. This loan came with the option to pay in full within  twelve  
months - in which case there would be no interest charged. But the agreement also made 
clear that - if the loan remained unpaid after this period - interest  would be charged. And it 
set out both the rate of interest  and the total amount  of interest that would  apply. 
Immediately above  the signature is a list of conditions including:
Signing this agreement means  you:
 have received a copy of your pre-contract credit information {if you have  not, you should 
ask for it);
 are entering into a legally  binding  agreement to keep to the terms and conditions shown;
I think this shows Mr H knew, or ought reasonably to have known, the type of agreement he 
was signing and the terms which he was accepting. So I cannot see any reason why BPF 
should not be able to rely on this agreement.
Mr H has maintained that W had agreed to repay  the loan to BPF - but hes been  unable to 
produce documentary  evidence to support this contention. And BPF has informed us that W 
had stated that there was no such agreement.
Ref: DRN77457333Id have expected - if Mr H and W had reached an agreement for W to repay BPF and 
receive direct payments from Mr H - this would have  been evidenced in writing. Whether 
Mr H has misunderstood the details of exchanges  he had with W I cant say - but I dont think  
W ever agreed to repay BPF on his behalf.  
As it happens this finding does not make any difference  to my final decision. Id have 
reached the same conclusion - that BPF should  be able to seek  repayment from Mr H - even 
if there had been  an agreement  between  W and Mr H for W to make  that payment.
Ive already said why I think BPF should  be able to rely on the terms of the agreement it had 
with Mr H. Even if Mr H and W had reached a separate agreement between  themselves 
about who would repay BPF - that has no effect on the agreement between  BPF and Mr H.
Its not open to Mr H to assign the debt he owed to BPF to W.
Theres no evidence that BPF was ever aware of any alternative arrangement  - or agreed  to 
be bound  by it. And as the loan remains unpaid I dont consider there is any valid reason 
why BPF should not seek repayment  of the loan directly from Mr H.
Ill now deal with the issues about  which Mr H complains in relation to the supply and fitting  
of the kitchen. Whilst I dont apply the law - directly - I do take it into account.  And relevant 
legislation here includes section 75. Briefly  summarised, where theres  been  a breach of 
contract and/or misrepresentation by the supplier  of goods and/or services  (in this case W) 
this legislation  allows a consumer - in certain  circumstances  -  to bring  a like claim against 
the provider of finance ( in this case BPF) as they could against  the supplier of the goods  
and/or services.
Theres no doubt there were some  faults  and theres evidence that W did arrange  to try and 
do some  remedial work shortly after installation.  Ive also seen letters from BPF sent to Mr H 
in May and June  2018 seeking information about  the issues relating to the complaint. I cant  
see these received a response although I understand Mr H says he didnt receive these 
letters - despite  them  being addressed correctly. But Ive also seen notes of contacts 
between BPF and Mr H in which its recorded  he said he didnt want W back in his house.
Our investigator, in an attempt to progress  the case, has also asked to be shown evidence of 
any outstanding  current issues.  I cant see that Mr H has supplied any persuasive  evidence -
despite saying  he would  do so.
Mr H has now had the kitchen installed for around  four years. I think thats ample time for 
him to supply evidence  if there were any serious issues  remaining unresolved.  And in 
reaching this view I take into account the difficulties hes faced and to which  I earlier referred
So, I dont think BPF has done anything wrong in going ahead and seeking repayment of the 
loan. And I can see it made  a gesture of goodwill and delayed the start of repayments by 
four months. That seems a very fair response to and acknowledgement  of the financial 
difficulties faced by Mr H.
In summary,  I find that BPF has done  all that could reasonably be expected  to resolve  this 
complaint. I think it has dealt with Mr Hs complaint in relation  to the loan repayment and 
section 75 claim fairly. And I think  its entitled to proceed with seeking repayment  of the debt.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr H Im not upholding this complaint.
Ref: DRN77457334my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7745733