K821x#15complaint 
Mr H has complained that Swinton Group  Ltd didnt tell him he needed to make sure his 
insurer knew hed changed  the storage location of his caravan and accepted  it. He has also 
complained that Swinton didnt send  him the full policy wording or explain what  a secure 
storage location  was. 
background
Mr H took out caravan  insurance by telephone through  Swinton at the beginning of August 
2017, based on it being stored at his home.  Towards the end of October 2017, Mr H moved 
the caravan to a new location.  
A few months later Mr Hs caravan  was stolen from the new location, so he claimed on his 
insurance policy. His claim  was declined and his policy  cancelled  from when the caravan 
was moved to the new storage location. This was on the basis his insurer hadnt  been 
notified about the new storage location and wouldnt have provided cover  at this location  if it 
had been told. 
Mr H complained to Swinton that it hadnt  told him he needed to let it or his insurer know 
about a change in storage location during the sale of the policy to him. He did mention the 
fact he thought hed called Swinton to tell it about  the new storage location, but couldnt be 
sure of this. 
 
Swinton explained its records  show it posted the policy  documents, including a policy  
summary, to Mr H on 3 August 2017.  It also pointed out that when Mr H took out the policy 
its adviser told him thered be an administration fee for changes and cited a change of the 
storage location  as an example. So it felt Mr H should have known the insurer needed to 
know about the new storage location  and accept  it. 
Unhappy with this response,  Mr H brought the complaint to us. 
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She said the fact there was no cover at a storage 
location the insurer hadnt accepted was a significant exclusion,  which  Swinton should  have  
highlighted. And she felt that if it had highlighted this Mr H wouldnt have moved his caravan. 
In view of this, she felt Swinton should  cover the financial  loss Mr H had suffered  as a result  
of his caravan  being stolen and his claim turned  down.  
Swinton doesnt  agree  with the investigators assessment. It thinks  its adviser was clear  
about the need to tell the insurer  about  the change in storage location in the call Mr H made 
to take out the policy. And  in any event  it doesnt  accept  the fact theres  no cover at a 
storage location  the insurer hasnt accepted is a significant exclusion.  
As Swinton doesnt agree with our investigators  assessment, Mr Hs complaint has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided to uphold  it.
Ref: DRN73816362This wasnt an advised sale, so Swintons obligations according to the Insurance  Conduct of 
Business Sourcebook  (ICOBS) were  to provide Mr H with clear, fair and not misleading 
information about the policy. It also needed to make sure Mr H was able to make  an 
informed decision on whether the pollcy was right for him. I think this means  Swinton  needed  
to draw any significant exclusions to his attention. 
Theres an exclusion on page six of the policy which says the insurer Will not pay for loss or 
damage to the Caravan and its Contents  unless kept whilst not in use within  the boundaries 
of Your permanent home or other  location as notified to and accepted by Us.
This clause  takes  out all cover for the insured caravan if it is not stored at a location  
accepted by the insurer. So, I think it is a significant exclusion that needed  to be specifically 
drawn to Mr Hs attention  when he brought the policy. 
Swinton has argued  this isnt a significant exclusion  because  anyone buying a policy  like this 
(and its drawn a comparison with a car insurance policy) would realise they needed  to let 
their broker  or insurer know about  a change of address. But this ignores  the fact that it failed 
to draw the consequences of not getting the insurers acceptance of a new storage location  
to Mr Hs attention. And I dont think most  people realise the significance of the storage 
location to a caravan insurer; especially in light of the security devices that are generally 
fitted to caravans whilst  in storage.  
Ive listened to the call Mr H made when he brought the policy. And Ive noted  Swintons 
adviser told him there  was a £25 fee for any changes  and cited a change  in the storage 
location of the caravan as an example. But she didnt mention the consequences of not 
letting it know about this change and getting  confirmation the insurer  accepted the new 
location. And  in view of this  I dont think she did enough to draw the abovementioned  
exclusion to Mr Hs attention. 
However, I think this would only have prejudiced Mr H if the documentation he received after 
the sale didnt  highlight this exclusion either. I say this because  if it had, he would or should  
have been aware  of the significance of a new storage location not being accepted by the 
insurer. 
Swinton initially  sent us a copy of the policy wording,  key facts document and schedule  it 
says it sent to Mr H when he brought the policy. But, more recently, it provided us with a 
second set of documents, which are different, and said these were sent to Mr H at the time. 
However, Mr H has also provided us with a copy of the key facts document he received at 
the time of sale. This is the same as the one Swinton initially provided to us. And Ive not 
seen anything to suggest Mr H was sent a further set of documents. The insurer has said the 
policy wording from the second  set of documents Swinton sent us wasnt  produced until 
September 2017. And I can see Mr Hs policy was sold to him a month before this, in August 
2017, so it cant  have been  the one that was sent to him. And this and the fact Mr H has 
actually sent us a copy  of the key facts  document he received, means  I think  its most likely 
the documents Swinton  sent us initially were the ones it sent to Mr H. 
Mr H has said he only received a covering letter  and the key facts document.  But, this seems  
unlikely to me, as he didnt query  not having the policy when he got the letter, despite it 
referring to the policy wording. 
Ref: DRN73816363On page three of the policy wording theres  a condition in large,  clear  font under  change of 
circumstances which refers to the information in the policy schedule and says You must tell 
us [the insurer] as soon as possible  of any changes to this information  including, of course, 
any change of address.  The storage location  was detailed in the schedule.  
But I dont think this in itself was enough to draw Mr Hs attention  to the fact his caravan 
wouldnt be covered  if he moved it to a new storage location, which the insurer hadnt 
accepted. I say this, as it only refers to change of address and doesnt specifically mention 
this is a change  of the storage address. Nor does it mention the consequences  of the insurer 
not having accepted  the new storage location. And neither this clause nor the exclusion,  
which applies if the insurer hasnt  accepted  the storage location, was mentioned  in the key 
facts document  Mr H received. 
So I think the fact that the exclusion wasnt mentioned in the key facts  document  or 
highlighted anywhere else in the policy documentation means  Swintons failure to properly  
draw it to Mr Hs attention over the telephone when he brought the policy  prejudiced Mr Hs 
position. This is because  I think if Swinton had done  this hed have realised how I important 
it was to make sure his insurer  had accepted  the new storage location. 
I think hed then have  made sure he had confirmation the insurer  accepted  it, not moved his 
caravan at all, moved it back to his home or moved  it to storage location the insurer 
accepted. And this means it most likely wouldnt  have been stolen and he wouldnt have lost 
a caravan worth around £20,000.  
This means  I think  Swintons failure to highlight the need for the insurer to have accepted  the 
new storage location  has caused  Mr H to lose out financially. And I think the fair and 
reasonable outcome to this complaint is for Swinton to put him back in the position he would 
have been in but for its failure to meet its obligations. 
So I think Swinton  need to pay Mr H enough  to go and buy a like for like replacement 
caravan. Our investigator has established a like for like replacement would cost £20,250 with 
the extras Mr H had and Mr H accepts  this. So, I think this is the amount Swinton should pay 
him. 
I also think Swintons failure to fulfil its obligations  has caused Mr H a great deal of 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience. Hes had the upset of his caravan being stolen, his 
claim being turned down  and hes been without a caravan for significant  period of time. And I 
think this warrants a compensation payment  of £500. This is the amount I think  is 
appropriate for this level of distress and inconvenience and in line with awards weve  made 
in other  similar  cases, so I think its fair and reasonable. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  set out above, Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint and order Swinton 
Group Ltd to pay Mr H £20,250  for the financial loss hes suffered and £500 in compensation 
for distress and inconvenience.  
Ref: DRN73816364Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Robert Short
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7381636