K820x#14complaint
Mr T has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited  failed to update  him about a decision it 
made to settle  a claim under  his motorcycle insurance policy. Mr T doesnt  agree with how 
Ageas reached  its decision.
background
Mr T bought  a third party cover motorcycle insurance policy with Ageas in January 2017. In 
September 2017 Ageas wrote to Mr T. It said it wanted to speak to him about  a claim it 
received from another driver for an incident  that happened in June 2017.
In September  2017 Mr T asked Ageas to communicate with him by email for recording 
purposes and he asked for more information  about  the claim.  He provided his account in 
October 2017. Mr T said the vehicles didnt collide. But he said hed had to brake in order  to 
avoid a collision with the other  drivers car.
Ageas didnt hear anything further from the third party  insurer. So in November 2017 it 
closed its file. However, in June  2018  it received further information  from the third party  
insurer  which said it intended  to issue court proceedings if it couldnt settle the claim with 
Ageas.
There were no independent witnesses and so it came  down  to being one drivers word 
against the other. However, the third party insurer provided an engineers report  to show 
damage to the third partys car consistent  with his account. So in November 2018  Ageas 
agreed to settle  the claim on a without prejudice basis  - split 50%50%. It wrote to Mr T to 
tell him the outcome. 
Mr T complained to Ageas. He was unhappy that it had reached its decision without his 
permission. He thought Ageas should  have kept him updated as he hadnt heard anything in 
over a year. 
Ageas said it had dealt  with the claim correctly and in line with the policy.  It said because it 
settled the claim on a without prejudice  basis, this didnt prevent Mr T from pursuing the 
third party directly for his losses.
Mr T asked  us to look at his complaint. He said Ageas  had lied. It said it didnt have a 
contact number for him  but his policy documents show it did. He thought this was an 
excuse by Ageas for failing to update him. 
Our investigator thought Ageas had dealt with the claim reasonably. She thought there had 
been a gap in keeping  Mr T updated.  But she didnt think Ageas actions made a difference 
to the outcome of the claim. 
Mr T didnt  agree. So the case has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why. 
Ref: DRN70950352We dont decide  liability as this is the role of the courts. But we can look at whether  an 
insurer reached its decision reasonably and in line with the policy.
Mr Ts policy with Ageas  has a term which Ive found  in most motor insurance  policies Ive 
seen  so it isnt unusual. This term allows Ageas to settle a claim as it sees fit. This means  
it might  make a decision Mr T doesnt agree with but the policy  allows Ageas to do this. We 
dont disagree  with this term in principle, provided  the insurer shows  it treated its customer 
fairly. 
Mr T and the other driver have provided different accounts of what  happened. Mr T says the 
vehicles didnt collide  but he had to brake  because  the other driver switched lanes and he 
had to take action to avoid a collision.
The other driver said that Mr T collided into his car and caused damage. The third party  
insurer provided evidence  of causation by way of photos and an independent  engineers 
report. 
There were no independent witnesses  so it was for Ageas to decide whether its chances of 
success were  high enough to consider the significant costs and risk of defending  the claim to 
court. Or Ageas could  decide to settle  the claim without prejudice  and on the best terms 
possible. As it was one partys word over the other, the insurers  agreed  to settle the claim on 
a 50%50% basis. I think Ageas reached its decision reasonably. 
Ageas wrote  to the third party insurer in October 2017 and asked for further information. But 
it didnt hear from them  and so, in November  2017 it closed its file. 
In June 2018 the third party insurer made  contact  with Ageas again. As this was still well 
within the period  of time for the third party to bring a claim, I think it was reasonable for 
Ageas to consider. 
Mr T asked  Ageas  why it didnt contact him before  it made  its decision.  He says that Ageas 
lied to him because it said it had no contact number  for him. 
In a letter to Mr T dated 8 January 2019 Ageas said that it didnt have a contact number for 
Mr T. I agree with Mr T that from his policy document  it had recorded  his phone number. So 
Ageas was incorrect here. However,  the letter also says:
I also note that when  you first contacted  us via email on the 19 September 2017, 
you advised that you would only deal with such a matter via email  for record 
purposes.
Ageas has provided  a copy  of Mr Ts email dated 19 September  2017 which confirms his 
request when Ageas asked to speak  to him to discuss the incident.  
Mr T says that of course  he would have accepted a phone call if it was absolutely necessary. 
But he feels  Ageas used his request to be contacted by email as an excuse to ignore him. 
Mr T feels Ageas has prejudiced any claim he may want to make  against the third party  
because of the way its settled the claim.
Ive thought about the impact and consequences  for Mr T by Ageas  decision not to contact 
him until it reached its decision in November 2018.  I understand he was upset to find out it 
had settled the claim. 
Ref: DRN70950353But as Ive said, I think Ageas acted  reasonably  here in the decision it reached. So the 
remaining issue is whether its lack of update to Mr T between June 2018 and November 
2018 made a difference. I dont think it did. Even  if Ageas  had updated Mr T in June 2018  
or attempted  to call him to discuss the claim - I think the outcome of the claim would have 
been the same. There was no update to give Mr T since it last communicated with him in 
October 2017. And had Ageas attempted to call Mr T to discuss the claim, I think  Mr T may 
have been justified in criticising Ageas because it hadnt  communicated with him as hed 
asked. 
I dont think the way Ageas has settled the claim has prejudiced Mr T, because  its settled it 
in line with the policy and on a without  prejudice  basis. I understand Mr T will be 
disappointed with my decision. But I dont  think Ageas acted unreasonably. So this means  I 
dont think it needs  to do any more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 July 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7095035