K822xcomplaint
Mr H and Miss S complain that Preferred Mortgages  Limited (PML) incorrectly added  
charges and fees to their mortgage  account. And they say that PML took unnecessary  legal 
action against  them which caused  them distress. They want  PML to refund the fees and 
charges, including the legal costs, and pay them compensation equivalent to at least  one 
months mortgage payment.
background 
Mr H and Miss S took out a mortgage  with PML in 2007. After experiencing financial 
difficulties they fell into arrears on the mortgage.  They made a number of complaints to PML 
and, in 2018, brought a complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator investigated their complaint. He explained that our approach to fees and 
charges is generally  to say that lenders are entitled  to charge them  as long as they are set 
out in the mortgage terms and conditions and are in line with the current tariff of fees.  But we 
would normally say it wasnt  fair or reasonable for a lender to add a charge in a month  where 
a consumer makes at least their contractual  monthly repayment.
Having reviewed the evidence, he felt that some of the arrears fees had been charged fairly,  
as no mortgage  payments  had been  made in those months. But he said that PML agreed 
that Mr H and Miss S had made  the contractual mortgage repayment  due in October  2017.  
So it had agreed  to refund the arrears  fee of £55 that was charged to their account in 
November 2018.
In relation to the legal and enforcement fees,  he said that Mr H and Miss S hadnt explained 
why they felt that these should  be refunded. Based on the level of arrears on the account  
and the ongoing erratic  payment history  he couldnt say that these fees should be refunded. 
Mr H and Miss S accept the adjudicators conclusions in relation to the arrears management 
fees. But they do not agree that the enforcement fee and legal costs were  correctly charged 
to their account. They say that there  was no need  for PML to take court action, so these 
charges should  be refunded. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having reviewed all the evidence, I agree with the adjudicator that some of the arrears fees 
were fairly charged to Mr H and Miss Ss account, on the basis that no mortgage repayments 
were made in the preceding month.  But I note that he recommended that PML should refund 
the fee of £55 added to their account in November 2018, along with any accrued interest. 
PML has agreed to do so. I also agree that this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances. 
And I note that Mr H and Miss S have  accepted  the adjudicators comments  on this part of 
their complaint.
Mr H and Miss S do not agree that the enforcement fee and legal  costs  were correctly  
charged to their account. They  say that there was no need  for PML to take court action. So 
they say that these  fees should  be refunded.
Ref: DRN79180252Ive considered what Mr H and Miss S have to say but, having  done so, I dont agree. As the 
adjudicator has explained,  a lender is entitled  to take court  action as a matter of its 
commercial judgement. In this case,  I note that there were substantial arrears  on the account 
when PML took enforcement action in November 2017. So Im not persuaded that PML 
acted unreasonably in the circumstances. And, under the terms of the mortgage it is entitled 
to add fees for this to Mr H and Miss Ss account.  
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. I order Preferred Mortgages Limited to pay 
Mr H and Miss S £55 in respect of the arrears fee added to their account in November 2018,  
together with any interest charged  on that fee, plus 8% interest from the date the fee was 
deducted to the date of payment. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Miss S 
to accept or reject my decision before 30 April 2019.
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7918025