K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage in the names of Mr C1 and Mr C2 taken out with Accord  
Mortgages Limited. Mr C1, who has dealt with the complaint throughout, says that Accord 
has overcharged interest on the mortgage  account. Mr C1 wants  the excess  interest  
refunded and compensation of £200. 
Mr C1 has also complained that Accord asked him to make  his complaint in writing  rather  
than over the telephone. Finally Mr C1 says the mortgage was mis-sold.
background
On 21 March 2017 Mr C1 and Mr C2 took out a mortgage  with Accord, on the advice of a 
mortgage broker. The mortgage was on a fixed rate of 1.69% per annum until 28 February  
2019, thereafter reverting to Accords Standard Variable Rate. The amount advanced was 
£489,745.
The mortgage offer says:
Interest will be charged on your loan daily. This means that we will calculate  and 
charge you interest  for each day on the balance shown on your account  (including 
any other sums debited  to your account) at the end of the day. The interest will then 
be added  to your loan, on which you will pay interest the following day
After the fixed rate expired,  Mr V1 complained to Accord that it had miscalculated interest  
and that he had been overcharged 0.014% annual for the entire two-year period. Mr C1 
calculated his losses at approximately £150  of excess interest. He said that the product was 
advertised and sold on the pretence of an interest rate of 1.69%, whilst through an opaque 
method of calculating and compounding interest,  he had been charged an effective annual 
rate of 1.704%.
Accord didnt uphold  the complaint, explaining that interest had been charged in accordance  
with the mortgage terms and conditions.  Dissatisfied with Accords  response, Mr C1 brought 
his complaint to us.
An investigator looked at the complaint and asked Accord  for more information about  the 
interest rate calculations.  After considering the information provided, the investigator didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld. He was satisfied there had been no miscalculation.
Mr C1 disagreed with the investigators findings and asked for an ombudsman to review  the 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I will begin by explaining  that the Financial Ombudsman Service  does not audit mortgage 
accounts. Nor do we have  any power  to tell Accord how to apply  interest to its accounts; it is 
the role of the Financial Conduct  Authority  to regulate mortgage lenders and to oversee its 
lending policies.
Ref: DRN73108872This means  that in reaching my decision I have not carried out my own calculations;  instead 
I have looked  at everything  Mr C1 and Accord have said, and looked  at the calculations each 
have provided. 
Ive noted what  Mr C1 has said. He thinks the way Accord has calculated  interest  is for 
simple, not compound interest. So, according to Mr C1, when Accord applies its methods of 
calculation to compound interest, this results in him being overcharged  0.014% annually.
Accord, on the other hand, has provided  its own calculations  in which it explains how interest 
is calculated and applied  to the account. Accord also looked at Mr C1s calculations to see 
where the discrepancy was, as he had done with Accords calculations.
Looking at everything both parties  have said, and after reviewing the calculations, Im 
satisfied that interest has not been miscalculated or misapplied  to the mortgage account. I 
can see that Mr C1 has applied a flat daily interest  amount of £22 from inception of the 
mortgage throughout the entire fixed rate period.  I think  this is incorrect. 
The daily interest  amount  on 21 March 2017  (the date the mortgage began) was, in fact, 
£22.68. This is calculated  as follows:
£489,745.00 x 1.69% divided by 365 days = £22.68. 
As this is a repayment  mortgage, it is subject to amortisation, so the amount of capital upon  
which interest is calculated is not fixed as suggested by Mr C1, but fluctuates as capital is 
repaid.
Given this, Im satisfied that Accords calculations  are a more accurate reflection of how 
interest has been applied to the account  than Mr C1s. It follows  that Im also satisfied that 
Mr C1 and Mr C2 have  not been overcharged.
Mr C1 is unhappy that he was told to put his complaint  in writing. He says that Accord 
wouldnt take his complaint over the telephone. He has complained about this to us. But 
complaint-handling isnt a regulated activity  and so its not covered under our rules. This 
means that I cant consider a complaint about  the way in which Accord  dealt with Mr C1s 
complaint.
Mr C1 also told the investigator that he thought  the mortgage had been mis-sold. The 
investigator explained that the mortgage was sold through a broker, but that our database of 
businesses showed  that the broker was not covered by the Financial Ombudsman Service. I 
must apologise to Mr C1, because it appears our database may need  updating.  
Ref: DRN73108873The website for the mortgage broker which sold this mortgage confirms it is regulated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority, and provides its registration number. The website also makes 
reference to the Financial  Ombudsman Service. In the circumstances, I think  the broker 
should be covered  by our service. 
I have requested our database to be updated but in the meantime, Mr C1 is free to complain 
direct to the broker if he thinks the mortgage was mis-sold.  If he is dissatisfied with the 
brokers response, he can bring  a complaint to us about this, should he wish to do so. There  
is a specific section on the brokers website headed Complaints where Mr C1 can fine all 
the information he needs to do this.
I appreciated this is not the outcome Mr C1 was hoping  for, but after considering everything 
he and Accord have  said, Im satisfied the mortgage interest has not been miscalculated. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C1 and Mr C2 
to accept or reject my decision before 2 May 2020.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7310887