K820x#14complaint
Mrs M, on behalf  of herself  and the estate of Mr M, says Lloyds Bank plc mis-sold them a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
The late Mr M and Mrs M bought the policy to protect their repayments when they took out a 
loan. It was at a meeting in 2000  in one of the banks branches. The loan included an 
amount to pay for the policy.  The cover was in Mrs Ms sole name and it provided her with 
cover for accident, sickness  and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed so the complaint was passed 
to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why.
Mrs M says she cant remember  PPI being mentioned at the point of sale.  I cant 
know what was discussed in the meeting but Ive looked at the paperwork available  
from the sale. On the loan agreement the cost of the PPI was set out separately 
under the heading  Optional Loan Protection  Insurance. And lower down the form,  the 
options to select  or decline  PPI were set out with equal  prominence. Mr and Mrs M 
selected the Yes  box. Ive thought carefully about Mrs Ms comments  but I also have 
to consider how long ago the sale was and how that might affect what  she recalls. 
Overall I think  its most likely Lloyds made  Mr and Mrs M aware  they had a choice 
about buying PPI, and they chose to take it out for Mrs M.  
Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mrs M. And it seems to have been suitable for her 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Mrs M was entitled to six 
months sick pay but the PPI wouldve paid out in addition  to any work  benefits - for 
up to the term of the loan for accident and sickness claims  and for up to 12 months 
for unemployment. Mrs M says Mr Ms salary could  always have covered her if 
needed, but thats not suitable  alternative  protection. Its not guaranteed and peoples 
circumstances can change. Overall, I think the PPI wouldve been useful for them if 
Mrs M was sick or lost her job. 
The cash  price of the policy and the monthly  cost were shown on the agreement  but 
the interest payable  wasnt  set out separately. But as the PPI was competitively 
priced and apparently  affordable, I dont  think Mr and Mrs M wouldve made a 
different decision if theyd been  given  clearer cost information. The missing interest 
payment was under £1 a month, so it seems unlikely  knowing this would have made 
a difference to their decision. And given how long the policy  couldve paid out for, if 
Mrs M made a successful claim she couldve got back quite a bit more than they paid 
for it.
Ref: DRN76166012Mrs M wouldve only got back  a limited refund of the PPI premium  if she cancelled  
the policy early. But I havent  seen anything  from the time the policy was sold to 
suggest she thought shed repay the loan early. So I dont think  this meant the policy  
wasnt right for her.
Its possible Lloyds didnt point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  But Mrs M 
doesnt appear to have  been affected by any of those things (such  as type of 
employment contract or pre-existing medical conditions). So I think its unlikely they 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided   overall, 
I think they would still have taken out the policy for Mrs M.
It follows I dont think Mrs M and the estate of Mr M have  lost out because of any problems 
with the sale.
my final decision
My decision  is I dont  uphold Mrs M and the estate of Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs M to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 July 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7616601