K820x#14complaint
Mr A and his representative complain  about incorrect information  he was given by Lloyds 
Bank PLC when trying to transfer  money from his account and about the way he was 
treated.
background
Mr A says he was given incorrect information on several occasions by Lloyds when  trying  to 
make a transfer of £80,000 to a building  society.  He called and was told the transfer couldnt 
be made as he didnt have the phone security code.  Lloyds said this would be sent to him by 
post and he could then phone in to complete the transfer. Alternatively he could go into a 
branch to carry out the transfer.  This Mr A did despite it being  difficult due to his personal 
circumstances, of which they say Lloyds was aware. But as he hadnt  been told there was a 
£25 fee to make the transfer he declined  to proceed. After the arrival of the security code Mr 
A called again  to make the transfer.  He says he wasnt asked for the security code and was 
given conflicting  information. He was told he could only transfer  £10,000 on the phone. Mr A 
was transferred to the fraud department  and after lengthy delays  he was put through  to the 
complaints department. Mr A and his representative  want Lloyds to pay him compensation 
for the lack of compassion shown towards  him and the inconvenience  he was caused.
Lloyds accepted in its final response  that Mr A was given incorrect information on the phone  
and wasnt given the service he expected in branch. There  it had told him he couldnt do the 
transfer but he wasnt offered any alternative. It did later tell him he could make  smaller 
transactions using  internet banking. And Mr A made the total transfer over two days using 
internet banking. This led to him losing some interest on the money. Lloyds said it was 
mindful that this has caused considerable upset and may have  had a detrimental impact on 
Mr As health. It apologised for this and has paid him a total of £194.25 to put things right 
and cover his expenses.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator felt this complaint shouldnt be upheld. In summary she said:
Lloyds accepts incorrect  information  was given to Mr A on the phone  and he wasnt 
told of a fee for the transfer.  When he went into the branch he also wasnt  told of his 
other options. This wasnt satisfactory  and must  have been  difficult for Mr A given his 
personal circumstances.
Mr A completed the transfer in a number of smaller amounts. This wouldve been 
frustrating for him and taken a longer time than if hed been  told of all his options 
sooner. 
Lloyds has acknowledged  its error  and apologised. And its paid Mr A total 
compensation of £194.25. This includes £150  for the distress and inconvenience he 
suffered, £26.25  to cover his expenses  and £18 for lost interest. This is fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr A and his representative remained unhappy  and asked for an ombudsman  review. They  
said Lloyds was fully aware of Mr As particular personal circumstances and given them,  it 
hadnt treated  him fairly. They didnt  think hed been compensated fairly. Theyve also been 
told that the fee for the transfer  shouldve been waived in view of the difficulties  he was 
Ref: DRN77758112caused when  trying to transfer his own money. If so he couldve transferred £50,000 at that 
stage to get the bulk of the money into the building  society. The miserly amount paid to Mr A 
overlooks extra problems incurred which havent been  dealt  with in the complaint. And they 
say it doesnt  reflect  the difficulties and utter inconvenience  caused to a person in his 
position.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision in this complaint on 2 May 2019.  In summary, subject to any 
further evidence  and submissions from the parties,  I was minded to uphold  the complaint. 
Taking everything into account  I felt on balance that it was reasonable for Lloyds to pay Mr A 
an additional  £75 compensation for the distress and inconvenience hed been caused.
Mr As representative said he accepted  the additional £75 compensation. But it must be paid 
directly into Mr As bank account so he doesnt have to incur  another trip to a bank as he 
doesnt have a Lloyds bank anywhere  near him.
Lloyds says it doesnt agree with my provisional decision. It says Mr As representative had 
said £150 compensation was a derisory amount. And its unreasonable to believe that if an 
additional £75 or even  £100 had been offered it wouldve been  accepted.  Given its quick 
response to resolve  the issue for Mr A and the option offered to do a CHAPS payment, it 
wouldve normally only offered only up to £50 compensation. It wasnt  aware of Mr As 
medical issues at the time. But it increased  its offer to a more significant sum of £150 to 
reflect them.  Its offer was fair and reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lloyds has accepted that it let Mr A down more  than once. 
To put things right its paid him £26.25  to cover his expenses, including for phone  costs and 
going into the branch, and £18 for lost interest.  I think thats fair and reasonable.
Lloyds has also paid Mr A £150 for the distress  and inconvenience he experienced. Mr As 
representative has said this amount  is miserly and isnt enough.
So, all that remains is for me to consider  is whether this payment of £150 is enough to 
compensate Mr A for the distress and inconvenience hes been  caused.
I have no doubt  that Lloyds  failings  on the phone and in branch led to Mr A experiencing 
some distress and inconvenience. And I think that this wouldve been made more  significant 
given Mr As particular personal situation and circumstances.
Lloyds says it wasnt aware of Mr As medical  conditions and personal circumstances at the 
time. But I note that Mr As representative repeatedly told Lloyds how stressful  all this was 
for him. And she also said it was very difficult to get him out of the house and then stressful 
for him to be out, on what proved to be an abortive trip to the branch. I think  that shouldve  
alerted Lloyds to the fact Mr A may have particular  needs and vulnerabilities. And it wouldve 
been reasonable for it to have asked more questions about  how it could assist him. 
Ref: DRN77758113Lloyds has also accepted that the events mayve  had a detrimental  effect  on Mr As health. 
Although I note theres no formal expert  medical  evidence to back this up.
Mr A also had to make  a number of smaller transactions over two days  using internet 
banking to finally get the whole £80,000  transferred which wouldve been inconvenient  and 
stressful for him.
Even so I must also take into account  that everything was resolved relatively  quickly in a 
couple of days.
Ive noted everything  Lloyds  has recently said. Taking everything into account, including the 
level of awards we make and Mr As particular circumstances, I still dont think £150 is quite 
enough compensation for the distress and inconvenience Mr A was caused.  And I remain of 
the view that its fair and reasonable  for Lloyds to pay Mr A an additional £75 compensation 
over and above everything  else its already  done.  That takes the award  of compensation for 
the distress and inconvenience  he was caused  to a total of £225.  It was fair for Lloyds to 
also pay him £26.25  to cover his expenses and £18 for lost interest.
This service also isnt a regulator and we cant fine or punish a business.
Overall I consider its fair and reasonable for Lloyds to now pay Mr A an additional £75 
compensation, in addition  to what its already paid, to put things right.  Given Mr As 
circumstances I think Lloyds should  pay this sum directly into Mr As nominated bank 
account.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  To put things  right Lloyds Bank PLC should pay Mr A an additional 
£75 compensation  directly  into Mr As nominated bank account.
Ref: DRN77758114Lloyds must  pay the compensation  within 28 days of the date on which we tell it Mr A 
accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest  on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a year simple.
If Lloyds considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr A how much  its taken off. It should also give him a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 August 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7775811