K821x#15complaint
Mr M is unhappy  with what DAS Legal Expenses Insurance Company Limited  (DAS) did 
after he made a claim  on his landlord insurance  policy. 
All references to DAS include its claims handlers.  
background
Last year Mr M took out a landlord insurance policy which included legal expenses  cover 
with DAS. In July he made a claim under the rent guarantee section of his policy because his 
tenant was in rent arrears. DAS said this wasnt covered because the date of occurrence 
was within  90 days of the policy start date. Mr M queried whether hed be covered to take 
eviction proceedings against his tenant and DAS provided advice about this. 
In December Mr M told DAS hed started eviction proceedings against the tenant. DAS 
asked for a copy of the notice hed issued  which  Mr M provided on 21 December. However, 
that wasnt passed on for review until 9 January. The claim was validated  on 31 January and 
an assessment was carried out to see whether it was likely to be successful.  DAS advised 
Mr M on 7 February that was the case.  
Mr M complained as he thought this process  had taken too long. DAS accepted there had 
been a delay in passing the claim on for review and offered to pay Mr M £100. Our 
investigator thought  that was fair but Mr M didnt  agree. He accepted  his claim for loss of 
rent was excluded by the policy but said progress on his eviction claim hadnt been made 
until February. He said that delay  meant  hed lost out on more rent than would otherwise be 
the case. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both sides now seem to agree the claim Mr M made  under the rent guarantee section of the 
policy wasnt covered.  And having looked  at the policy I can see that under the What  is not 
covered  section it excludes any disagreement with your tenant when the date of 
occurrence is within the first 90 days of the first period  of insurance and the tenancy 
agreement started before  the start of this Section.   As that appears to be the case  here I 
dont think DAS did anything wrong  in turning down this part of Mr Ms claim.  
Its also not in dispute  there was a delay  by DAS once Mr M got back  in touch seeking help 
with the eviction proceedings he wanted to take. DAS has accepted  it didnt pass on the 
claim for review until 9 January. And it also appears there was then some delay by its claims 
handlers in looking  at this as the validation process  doesnt appear to have started for a 
further two weeks. 
DAS says the actions  of its claims handlers arent something its responsible  for because as 
a solicitors firm they are separately  regulated. If this was a complaint about  their actions as 
solicitors (for example about  the quality of the legal advice theyd provided) Id agree. But I 
dont think thats  the case  here. It appears  at this point the solicitors were claims handling on 
behalf of DAS and I think  thats something  it is responsible for. 
Ref: DRN70976612So Ive thought about what  the impact of the overall delay has been on Mr M  and what 
should be done to put that right. I appreciate he feels he lost out on additional rent because 
of the delay. But I dont think its possible to say whether, without the delay, hed have been 
able to let out his property  sooner and what rental  income he might have achieved  if hed 
done so. 
Ive also taken into account that, although there does  appear to have been some  delay by 
the claims handlers, it took them under  a month  to confirm the claim had reasonable 
prospects of success.  I appreciate Mr M wanted  that to happen  more  quickly  but I dont think 
thats an unreasonable timeframe.  
And the delay in passing on the claim for review  took in the Christmas period. So even if that 
had been done earlier its unlikely significant progress would have been made during that 
time. Taking  all of that into account Im satisfied the £100 DAS has offered  is a reasonable 
way of recognising  the inconvenience  Mr M was caused by what it got wrong. 
my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint  because  I think DAS Legal Expenses  Insurance  
Company Limited  has already done  enough  to put things right. It will need to pay Mr M £100  
if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 August 2019.
 
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7097661