K821x#15complaint
Mrs P complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold her two packaged bank 
accounts, a Current  Account  Plus Account (CAPA) in 2008 and a Barclays  Tech Pack  (TP) 
in 2016.
background
Mrs P had recently come into the UK in 2008 and needed a bank account. She took out a 
CAPA with Barclays which incurred a monthly fee.
In 2016 Barclays  stopped  providing the CAPA and it wrote  to Mrs P before and after moving 
her across  to an account with a TP which incurred a higher  fee than the CAPA.
Mrs P says that she spoke and read very little English in 2008 and not much more  in 2016. 
And she says the CAPA and the TP were not suitable for her.
Barclays accepts that the CAPA was mis-sold and has offered Mrs P redress.  But Barclays  
doesnt accept  that the TP was mis-sold.  
Our adjudicator upheld  Mrs Ps complaint about  the TP but Barclays disagrees  so the 
complaint comes to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mrs Ps complaint.
Barclays has upheld Mrs Ps complaint about  the 2008 sale of the CAPA saying that it was 
unable to show that that the CAPA was suitable  for her or that it wasnt  mis-sold, so I dont 
need to look into that any further.  
In this decision Im considering whether  the 2016  migration of the TP was fair or not. 
Barclays wrote to Mrs P in 2016  telling her that it would  change her account  from a CAPA  to 
a more expensive  TP unless she opted out within approximately 60 days. And it wrote  to her 
again after the change to tell her it had done it. Ive seen a copy  of the letters and in my view 
you would  need  a good standard of reading  English to understand them.  
Mrs P says her standard of reading  English was poor and I find this credible as it is not her 
first language, and although by 2016  she had been in this country  for several  years, its not 
uncommon for people  not to develop their language  skills when living  in another  country. I 
also note that she says she wrote her recent  complaint originally in her own language and 
had it translated  for her. 
Mrs P says that Barclays had told her in 2008 that it would send her notification of anything  
that changed her account in her own language and ask for her authorisation in advance.  
Barclays has not refuted  this but says that during the years prior to 2016 it has spoken  to her 
twice about her account and she has taken out savings  accounts and a loan with it so her 
English must have  improved. But I think these interactions would be possible for her with 
Ref: DRN71288792rudimentary spoken  English so in my view it doesnt  mean Mrs P could read good English. 
And having had Mrs P as a customer since 2008,  I think Barclays  was aware of her 
communication difficulties.
So I think its more likely  than not that when Barclays wrote  to Mrs P in 2016, it was aware 
she had difficulty in communicating  and I dont think it acted fairly in sending  her letters it 
knew she would find difficult to read that required her to opt out of a significant change to her 
account. I also note that when  she later became aware of what  the TP was and what  she 
was paying for it in 2017, she closed the account.
So I think Mrs P lost out when Barclays changed her account  to a TP in 2016.
putting things right
I require Barclays to: 
Pay Mrs P the amount  she paid each month for the Tech Pack
Add simple interest to each payment from when she paid it until she gets it back. The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mrs P has saved  money because of a better rate on her overdraft by having  the 
packaged account and Barclays can show exactly how much Mrs P saved, it may deduct 
these savings from the amount it pays her  but only after it has calculated  the two points  
above. Barclays must explain clearly and simply to Mrs P how it has worked out any 
deductions.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires  Barclays to take off tax from this interest. Barclays must give Mrs 
P a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained I uphold Mrs Ps complaint and require Barclays  Bank  UK 
PLC  to put things right as Ive described  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7128879