K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs H say that HSBC UK Bank Plc (trading as First Direct) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in November 2018,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Neither Mr and Mrs H or HSBC  sent me anything further to consider.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  As Ive not received any new evidence, Ive reached the same conclusions             
I reached in my provisional  decision, for the same  reasons.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to accept  
or reject my decision before 25 February  2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
copy of provisional decision
complaint
Mr and Mrs H say HSBC  Bank  plc (trading  as First Direct) mis-sold them a payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ref: DRN79896452Mr and Mrs H took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 2002. They paid a monthly  amount for the 
policy. The policy covered Mr and Mrs H.
It seems that Mr and Mrs H spoke to First Direct  over the phone when applying for their mortgage and 
they were then sent out paperwork relating to the PPI.
 
Our adjudicator upheld the complaint. HSBC Bank plc (trading as First Direct) disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Hs case. 
Im currently  intending to not uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint because:
Due to the time thats passed since this sale, theres no call recording now available. So I 
dont know what, if anything was discussed about the PPI when Mr and Mrs H were applying 
for their mortgage.
First Direct  have said that some paperwork wouldve been sent to Mr and Mrs H following the 
phone call. Again due to the passage of time, no copies are available of the original 
documents sent to Mr and Mrs H.
What First Direct has been able to show us are example copies of the documents  that would 
have been sent to Mr and Mrs H following the phone call. These include a PPI application 
form and a direct debit  form specifically for PPI. 
In my opinion,  these  documents presented the PPI as optional and required                    Mr 
and Mrs Hs consent  for PPI to be added. Ive weighed this up against what              Mr and 
Mrs H have said about  not being  made aware that PPI was optional  or even being  aware that 
it had been added to their account.  
In addition First Direct has said that the first six months of the PPI were  free. As the PPI 
wasnt cancelled at the end of the six months, this suggests that Mr and Mrs H wanted the 
cover that the PPI provided. 
On balance, I think  its more likely than not that First Direct presented the PPI as optional  
before Mr and Mrs H agreed to take it out. As the PPI was paid for by a separate direct debit, 
it also seems  reasonable to assume that Mr and Mrs H signed the direct debit form to agree  
to it.
First Direct didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H so it didnt have to check if it was right 
for them. But they did still have to give Mr and Mrs H good enough information  so they could 
decide if the PPI was right for them. 
I think First Direct  couldve explained the cost of the policy better than it did. But even if it had, 
I think Mr and Mrs H would  still have bought it. I say this because  Mr and Mrs H seem, based  
on what  Ive been told so far, to have had limited other means of making their repayments if 
they were unwell and unable to work or if they were made unemployed.  So I think  they had a 
need for the policy and could have found it useful.
Ref: DRN79896453Its possible  First Direct didnt point out the main things the policy  didnt cover.  But        Mr and 
Mrs H dont appear to have been  affected  by any of those things.  
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Hs comments, but these points dont change my provisional 
decision.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently dont intend to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
If either Mr and Mrs H or HSBC Bank plc (trading as First Direct) have  anything further to add, they 
should do so by 5 December 2018. Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7989645