K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Ms M says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  her the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ms M said she knew nothing about the PPI until recently but she also said she was told 
she had to take the PPI to get the credit. These are very different complaint points and 
its understandable that there  may be inconsistencies as these events happened so long 
ago. Bank of Scotland has said it would have  made the optional nature of the policy clear 
and would have  got Ms Ms consent  to add the policy. Where theres a dispute about  
what happened, I have to base my decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  taking into account  all the evidence thats available.
Bank of Scotland has given me a copy of the credit card application form. Ms Ms 
personal details  have been  pre-populated  on the application and the PPI has been 
selected  whilst other equally prominent products have not. And from what we know  
more generally about  how Bank of Scotland sold PPI around this time I think its likely 
there would have been a conversation with the Bank of Scotland  representative about 
PPI prior to the details being entered  on the application and Ms M has signed  the 
application so I think this reflected what she wanted.  If she didnt want the PPI she could 
have questioned this at the time. 
So overall I think Bank of Scotland  made Ms M aware that she had a choice about 
buying the PPI, and she agreed to take the policy at the time.  
From  what I have  read and been told I think Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to 
Ms M so it had to check that the PPI was right for her  and based on what  Ive seen of 
her circumstances at the time,  I think that it was. For example she wasnt  affected by any 
of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover and she seems to have  had a need for the 
cover.  
Its possible the information Bank of Scotland gave Ms M about the PPI wasnt as clear  
as it shouldve been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for her if something went  wrong. It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information about the PPI would 
have put her off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Ms M has said - including what  she has told us about her sick 
pay. Ms M has said she wouldve got six months  sick pay from her employer. But this policy 
couldve paid Ms M a monthly  benefit for up to 12 months if she was unable to work and this 
wouldve been in addition to any sick pay or savings Ms M mightve had. It wouldve also 
Ref: DRN71153432covered her if she lost her job for up to 12 months   so she couldve found the policy  useful. 
And these  points dont  change  my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Ms M paid for it. But Bank of Scotland has already  offered to give Ms M back  
some of the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Bank of Scotland will make arrangements to pay Ms M now Ive issued my final decision, if it 
hasnt done so already. 
my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  I dont uphold Ms Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms M to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7115343