K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Nationwide  Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy for their mortgage.
background
I sent my last provisional decision on 27 March 2019. A copy  of that, and my first 
provisional decision, is attached and forms part of this final decision.
My provisional decisions set out the background of this complaint. They  explain why 
I thought this policy had been  mis-sold.  I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to 
send me  so long as I received it by 27 April 2019.
Mr and Mrs Ls representatives  replied  to confirm they were happy with the decision and 
had nothing more  to add.
Nationwide confirmed it had received  the decision,  but did not add anything  more.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Neither side have  sent me anything new to consider. So having reconsidered the case, Ive 
come to the same conclusion as before: that if Nationwide had given Mr and Mrs L clear 
enough information about the policys unemployment exclusions,  then they would not have 
bought it.
putting things right
Nationwide should  put Mr and Mrs L in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken out 
PPI. The policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled already, and Nationwide  
should:
Pay Mr and Mrs L back the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Nationwide can take 
off what they got for the claim from the amount it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Nationwide  to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide 
must give Mr and Mrs L a certificate  showing how much tax its taken  off if they ask for one. 
Mr and Mrs L can claim back the tax if they dont  pay tax.
Ref: DRN73893422my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above and in my provisional decisions, I uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls 
complaint about  Nationwide Building Society.
Nationwide Building  Society should  put things right in the way I set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs L to 
accept or reject my decision  before  30 May 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73893423COPY OF SECOND  PROVISION DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy for their mortgage.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out with a mortgage in 1998.  It covered  Mr L only, in 
case he was off work sick or lost his job. Mr and Mrs L paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  
premium, which didnt  attract  interest.
I sent my first provisional decision on 23 January 2019. A copy of that provisional decision is 
attached and forms  part of this decision.  There, I explained why I thought  that if Nationwide  had 
given Mr and Mrs L clear  enough information about the policys exclusions for unemployment 
claims, then they wouldnt have bought it.
I said Id consider anything else anyone wanted to send me. Both sides responded  with further  
points, which Ill go through below.
my provisional  findings
Ive reconsidered all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Nationwide made the following points:
Mr Ls bank statements showed that he continued to receive payments from his employer 
during the off-season,  and didnt appear to receive a direct salary from anyone  else.  So 
Nationwide argued that he was full-time  employed.
When Nationwide spoke to Mrs L on the phone, the staff member recorded  her as saying that 
Mr L was a permanent member of staff and just did reduced hours in the off-season.
According to records Nationwide  had found, it looked like Mr L had been with his employer 
since 1992.
Mr and Mrs L responded with the following:
While  Mr L did continue to be paid by the same company during the off-season, this work was 
informal, wasnt part of his seasonal  contract, and wasnt guaranteed. His hours  and days  
varied and this is reflected  in the reduced pay and its larger fluctuations during the off-season.
Mr L was previously on a trial for the company in 1992, but didnt join them for a paid role until 
1996.
They  provided an email  from the companys HR manager, who confirmed the 1996 start date,  
that it was a seasonal contract, and that it was up to the contractors to find work in the off-
season.
Ive thought carefully about  the new evidence and arguments that both sides have sent.  I understand 
where Nationwide is coming from, and why it has questioned what Mr Ls exact employment  status  
was. I also appreciate that, assuming the call note is accurate, Mrs L described  Mr L as a permanent  
employee. With that said, it looks like Mr Ls employment status was complicated, and its easy to see 
why another person might misremember it when  asked over two decades  later.
I think  that the email  from the companys  HR manager is compelling. It states clearly that all 
employees at Mr Ls level were on seasonal  contracts and that they had to find work in the off-season. 
This is the most objective evidence  I have of Mr Ls employment  status at the time, and it fits with 
what hes said about  how his employment worked, as well as how that is reflected in the amounts he 
was paid on his bank statements. And given the nature of his job and his employment  sector, it makes 
sense that his contract wouldve been seasonal.
Ref: DRN73893424I am conscious that we dont  have  a copy of Mr Ls contract. But I have to be fair to both sides here. 
For example, Nationwide  does  not have  any documents  from the sale and has been unable to show 
that Mr and Mrs L even agreed to the PPI. However,  I gave it the benefit  of the doubt  here, since 
I cant  reasonably  expect  it to have held onto documents from a sale over two decades ago for an 
account that has long since been closed. Similarly, I cant reasonably expect  Mr L, or his former 
employer, to have a copy  of a contract from so long ago for a job that hes long since left.
Since coming to our service,  Mr and Mrs L have  consistently referred to Mr L as being on a seasonal 
contract. His former employer has confirmed this. Weighing  up all the evidence, I think its most  likely 
that Mr L was indeed  on a seasonal contract,  and that his work in the off-season was separate  and 
temporary  even if it could be with the same  employer.
As I explained in my previous provisional decision, this PPI policy  excluded unemployment claims for 
seasonal workers and for temporary  jobs. So it doesnt look like Mr L could have realistically claimed if 
hed lost either job. And if Mr and Mrs L had understood this, then I dont think  theyd have bought the 
policy. Since I cant see that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs L clear enough information about these  
exclusions at the time of the sale, it follows that I still think this policy  was most  likely to have been 
mis-sold to them.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I still plan to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint about  Nationwide  
Building Society. I plan to direct Nationwide  Building Society to put things right in the way I set out in 
my first provisional decision.
Please could  Nationwide and Mr and Mrs L send me any more information or comments to look at by 
27 April 2019. After  that, Ill reconsider the case.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73893425COPY OF FIRST  PROVISIONAL DECISION
complaint
Mr and Mrs L say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them a payment protection insurance (PPI)  
policy for their mortgage.
background
This complaint is about  a PPI policy  taken out with a mortgage in 1998.  It covered  Mr L only, in case 
he was off work sick or lost his job. Mr and Mrs L paid for the PPI with a regular monthly  premium, 
which didnt attract interest.
Our adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs L disagreed with the adjudicators opinion,  so 
the complaints  been passed  to me to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken  
this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ls case. 
Based on what Ive seen so far, I think Mr and Mrs Ls PPI policy was mis-sold here, and Ill explain 
why.
Nationwide didnt recommend the policy to Mr L, so it didnt have to check it was right for him. But it 
did have to give Mr and Mrs L information about the policy that was clear, fair, and not misleading, so 
they could decide for themselves whether it was right for him.
I cant  see that Nationwide gave Mr and Mrs L clear information about  the policys exclusions  at the 
point of sale.  And I think this wouldve mattered to them,  because  of how difficult it wouldve been to 
claim in Mr Ls work  situation.
Mr L told us he was on a two-year seasonal contract  with his employer. He said he was only paid 
during the season, and had to find temporary alternative work in the off-season  which was a number 
of months at a time.
However, the PPI policy did not cover unemployment claims for people who worked  seasonal jobs. 
Nor did it cover  contract workers, unless theyd been continuously employed with the same employer  
for at least two years   and given  how long the off-season was, I dont think theyd have considered 
Mr Ls contracts to be continuous.  Lastly,  the policy  wouldnt have covered any temporary  jobs that 
Mr L worked in between  seasons.
So it doesnt  look like the policy was of much  use to Mr L in his employment situation. And so if 
Nationwide had given  Mr and Mrs L clear enough information about the policys exclusions, then 
I dont think theyd  have bought it. And so I think Mr and Mrs L have most likely lost out because  of 
what Nationwide did wrong.
putting things  right
Nationwide should put Mr and Mrs L in the position theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. The 
policy should be cancelled, if it hasnt been cancelled  already,  and Nationwide should:
Pay Mr and Mrs L back  the amount  they paid each month  for the PPI.
Ref: DRN73893426Add simple  interest to each payment from when  they paid it until they get it back. The rate of 
interest is 8% simple a year.
If Mr and Mrs L made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, Nationwide can take off what they 
got for the claim from the amount  it owes them.   
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Nationwide to take off tax from this interest. Nationwide must give Mr and 
Mrs L a certificate  showing how much  tax its taken off if they ask for one. Mr and Mrs L can claim back  the tax if 
they dont pay tax.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I plan to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ls complaint,  and to direct Nationwide 
Building Society to put things right in the way I set out above.
Please could  Nationwide and Mr and Mrs L send me any more information or comments to look at by 
6 February 2019. After  that, Ill issue my final decision.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7389342