K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy. Mr C says 
he was mis-sold such a policy in 2005 with a new mortgage.
Barclays Bank UK PLC is now responsible  for the sale.  But to keep things simple Ill refer 
mainly to Woolwich because  it was trading under  that brand name.  
background
The MPPI was sold when Mr C was re-mortgaging. It covered him in the event of being 
unable to work or losing  his job. Our adjudicator who looked  at the complaint recommended 
that it shouldnt  be upheld but Mr C disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans  final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.
I can see this case has taken a while to look at, not least  because the business sent us 
some information about the MPPI  policy being  claimed on, which doesnt appear to be 
completely correct. Not unreasonably Mr C challenged this information and weve since 
established that what we were told about  the claim isnt right.  
Its unfortunate that this issue has occurred and Mr C will have no doubt found the resulting 
delay it caused  by it to be very frustrating.
Nevertheless, the first thing I need to consider here is whether Mr C ever agreed to this 
policy in the first place.  He told us in his complaint questionnaire that he was recommended  
the MPPI  cover by an adviser and Ive got no doubt  his mortgage application form was filled 
out for him rather than by him.
However, thats not particularly unusual and I can see from the form that a discussion 
probably took place  about  whether he wanted to protect his mortgage  repayments against 
something unexpected potentially happening.
The application form, in my view, portrayed the MPPI as an optional product because  there 
were two clear yes and no choices about having the cover.  Ultimately  Mr C chose to buy 
MPPI protection  costing £17.85 per month by ticking the yes box and he initialled at that 
point. He also signed the application form. 
He was also given  a Mortgage Offer document. This is an important document  which I think 
Mr C would have wanted to read quite carefully.  As regards insurance(s) it said You are not 
required to take out any insurance  through Woolwich. It also said the only insurance he 
needed to have (with any provider) was buildings cover. 
So my finding  is that he consented to the MPPI  policy  being  set up.
Ref: DRN76356772As Ive said,  the policy was recommended  to him so Woolwich  had a duty to ensure the 
cover was suitable for Mr Cs situation. Whether  different people feel the need  for this type of 
cover can vary because of their circumstances and their attitude to risk. But Mr C was 
eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
types of policy. I dont think the cost of the cover was substantially different from similar 
policies being  marketed at the time and Ive nothing to say Mr C found  the monthly 
premiums unaffordable.
Mr C told us he already enjoyed some protection from sickness  through  his job but I think  it 
would have been quite moderate. His mortgage,  on the other  hand,  was secured against his 
home, so I can at least understand how a policy like this could have been of use to him in his 
situation. Policies like this are there to help in financially difficult times and it could have paid 
out a monthly  sum of £300 for up to 12 months. So I think the MPPI was suitable for him.
Woolwich also had to make sure the information it provided was clear, fair and not 
misleading. I cant say whether Mr C was told everything about the policy  or that Woolwich  
did everything right. But he was sent a welcome  letter about the MPPI and I think  hed have 
been supplied  with the policy rules.
Taking all the evidence into account, I think it shows there  was most likely a discussion with 
the adviser about the policy which Mr C engaged  in. Because of all these  things, I cant 
safely say this policy was mis-sold.
Finally, I understand  there was some  friction caused  by a later refusal to authorise  and pay a 
claim on the policy. Weve told Mr C a separate complaint would be needed  for this but I 
note this all revolved around  his specific employment situation which wasnt  straightforward 
due to other issues. For the mis-sale  element, Im sorry I cant help Mr C on this occasion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint. And I dont  direct  Barclays Bank 
UK PLC to pay Mr C any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 August 2018.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7635677