K820x#14Complaint
Mrs G, on Mr Gs behalf, complains Lloyds Bank  plc acted irresponsibly when it allowed Mr 
G to open a credit card and take out a loan.
Background
In July 2013 Mr G applied for a credit card in branch. During  the application process, Mr G 
said he was earning  £17,000 a year. After  carrying out a credit  search,  Lloyds offered Mr G a 
credit card with a £12,000 credit limit. Shortly after receiving the card, Mr G carried  out a 
£7,000 balance transfer from another  credit card.
In October  2013, Mr G applied for a loan in branch. But this time he told Lloyds he was 
earning over £4,000  a month.  And after going through  Mr Gs income and expenditure, 
Lloyds offered him a £25,000  loan.  The loan was paid into Mr and Mrs Gs joint current 
account. Around £8,000  of this was used to pay off a loan in Mrs Gs name,  around  £10,000  
was used to repay a joint overdraft and the balance was put into a joint savings account. Mr 
G made  the contractual payments on the loan until May 2014, when he indicated  he was 
having difficulty making the payments.  After  this he sent Lloyds a repayment plan offering to 
pay £1 a month towards his loan.
Mrs G, on Mr Gs behalf, complained that the bank hadnt carried  out appropriate checks  
before agreeing to provide him with the credit card or the loan. She said that they werent  
affordable and that Mr Gs mental  health was such that he couldnt have understood what he 
was agreeing to. She also considered that Lloyds hadnt treated Mr G fairly in respect of the 
overdraft and said too that the bank had addressed letters  to Mr G alone   even after shed 
asked that they be addressed to her. This had caused additional and unnecessary distress.  
One of our investigators  considered Mr Gs complaint and, in January 2018,  indicated how 
he thought it should be resolved  after Lloyds had offered various  concessions.
In respect of the credit card, Lloyds offered to refund interest and charges applied  to the 
account, but not to write off the balance. The investigator thought  this was fair. He concluded 
that Lloyds couldnt have  known about Mr Gs mental health  issues at the time it agreed  to 
the card. Mr G had said that he had income of some £17,000, and the investigator noted  too 
that the credit card account  had been  used to transfer a balance from a different account  
making that part of Mr Gs borrowing cheaper  than it had been.
Lloyds had made a similar  offer in respect  of the loan  namely,  to write off the interest 
applied to the account, as well as any interest already paid. The investigator  agreed that the 
bank should have carried out more  checks,  in particular since  Mr G had said his income  was 
significantly greater than it had been just a few months earlier.  But the investigator also 
noted that a significant  part of the loan had been  used to repay  existing debt. Overall, the 
investigator thought  the banks offer in respect of this part of the complaint  was also fair. 
Lloyds also removed all interest and charges associated  with Mr Gs overdraft,  going  back to 
June 2014  when Lloyds  found out about  Mr Gs financial difficulties. That was done on the 
basis that Mr G would provide updated  information about his interest  and expenditure, so the 
remaining overdrawn balance could be managed appropriately in the future.
Lloyds also accepted that it hadnt always communicated as it said it would  and in 
particular had written  to Mr G instead  of Mrs G. It said though  that at times it had to do this to 
meet its statutory obligations,  but it did offer a payment  of £250 in recognition of the distress  
Mr G had suffered, which it later increased  to £500   and which  it has paid.
Ref: DRN74548862Mrs G said on behalf of Mr G that he didnt agree with the investigators assessment  and so, 
in May 2018  and following  further  consideration, he revised his view. Amongst other things, 
he obtained more  information about Mr Gs mental  health issues  and his income  and 
expenditure. As a result, he said it would be fair for Lloyds to write off both the loan and the 
balance on the credit card account.  The investigator  maintained his view in respect of the 
overdraft and communication issues.
Lloyds response  to the investigators revised view was to say that it appeared not just to be 
based on new information, but that it also represented a different complaint from that which  it 
had considered. The complaint it had considered was, in effect, that it shouldnt have lent 
money to Mr G  in the form of the credit card agreement, the loan and the overdraft. But the 
investigators revised recommendations were largely based on Mr Gs subsequent  difficulties  
in making payments.
Lloyds indicated that it was willing to consider what Mr G was now saying about  his ability  to 
repay the money that hed borrowed, but that it couldnt realistically do so in the context of 
his existing complaint.  And for practical purposes, Mr G would need to contact  a different 
part of the bank (not the complaints department) and request concessions.  A specialist area 
would be able to discuss what  arrangements  could  be agreed and would be better placed to 
manage any such arrangement in the future.
Lloyds did later agree to write off the overdraft, but the issue of the credit  card account and 
the loan remained  unresolved. It said it could  consider these aspects further,  but not through  
the existing complaint and only if and when Mr G requested a formal  review of the situation.  
The case  was then passed to me to consider. I did that and issued a provisional decision. I 
set out below the key part of my provisional findings:  
Im conscious of course that there may have  been developments in recent months that this 
service hasnt been made aware of. If so, I would invite both parties  in their responses to 
this provisional decision   to provide details of any changes  in the position. In that way, I 
shall be able, if necessary, to take any such changes  into account when I issue a final 
decision. But for the purposes of this decision I shall assume that Lloyds has offered to 
refund or write off interest and charges on the credit card account  and the loan, but that the 
issue of repayment  of the balance remains unresolved.
Mr Gs primary complaint  is that the credit card and loan should not have  been  agreed at all. 
But I agree  with the investigators conclusions on this point. I dont believe that Lloyds either  
knew or ought to have  known about  his mental  health condition at the time, or that it was 
such that it can properly  be said Mr G lacked  capacity to manage  his affairs.  
I also agree  with the investigator that Lloyds should have asked rather more questions  when 
it was told that Mr G was earning nearly  £5,000 a month, only a few months after agreeing  a 
credit card based on a significantly lower  income of £17,000 a year. It doesnt necessarily 
follow, however, that the bank should have declined the loan application, still less that  
once it had been agreed  the loan should  now be written off in its entirety.
Lloyds has said that the original complaint was about the various  lending  decisions that were 
made  and in particular  in respect  of the credit  card and the loan. The investigator should  
not have reached  his revised conclusions (in May 2018) on the basis  of Mr Gs then 
circumstances. That was, it said, a different complaint and one that ought  to be dealt with 
within a specialist area of the bank.
Ref: DRN74548863I can understand the banks argument  here. Mr Gs argument was that he shouldnt have 
been lent money, not that his circumstances  had changed such that Lloyds should agree 
some other repayment arrangement. On the other hand, a payment arrangement or even a 
write-off of debt can in some circumstances  be an appropriate  remedy for either of those 
situations.
Lloyds says though that any discussions about  this should be carried out separately from Mr 
Gs complaint. It says too that Mr G needs to request a review of his position, so it can 
properly consider, for example,  full details of his income and expenditure and medical  
condition. That doesnt seem unreasonable, if his situation is to be resolved fairly and 
effectively. Unless the debts are written  off entirely,  he and the bank will no doubt need  to 
keep things under review  in any event. And I would expect Lloyds to work with Mr G or his 
representative to ensure  that matters are progressed.
If necessary,  of course,  this service can decide  whether any proposals from either side are
reasonable in all the circumstances. I do however take the view that it would be beneficial  for
them to explore options more fully before taking that step.  And I would expect the bank to be
provided with details of Mr Gs income and expenditure and any other relevant information
(in particular  financial  and medical) so that it can either make or agree to realistic proposals
for managing any outstanding debt.
As Ive indicated, my current  view is based  on the assumption that no further proposals have 
been made or agreed and that Mr G hasnt already provided this information. And on that 
assumption, my view is, provisionally,  that Lloyds has done enough to resolve things. I 
stress however that my view could change once  I receive updated information. 
In response to my provisional findings,  Lloyds  said that it hadnt  received any further 
proposals from Mr or Mrs G. Mrs G said however that she and her husband were receiving 
assistance from Citizens Advice, who had been in touch with the bank.  
Mrs G also said that the bank had been aware of Mr Gs mental health issues since around 
2010  that is, some  three years  before  the agreements which  gave rise to this complaint. 
She said the bank  should have known that Mr G couldnt  have  understood the obligations he 
was undertaking.  Mrs G didnt accept  my provisional conclusions, and so Ive reviewed the 
case again.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As Ive indicated, Lloyds  has already made some concessions in this case.  And I agreed 
with it that the complaint had to some extent developed into a complaint  about what  Lloyds 
should do now and in the future to address Mr Gs financial difficulties, rather than a 
complaint about  the original lending decisions.  Im pleased to see that Mr and Mrs G are 
receiving help and advice about this. And it may be that this service can consider  that aspect 
as the situation develops   although, for reasons Ive explained,  not in the context of this 
complaint.
I should however  address Mrs Gs statement that Lloyds knew  about  Mr Gs mental health 
condition as early  as 2010. She says that in 2010 or 2011 Lloyds considered  that his 
condition meant that it would be far too risky to lend him further money. The banks records  
Ref: DRN74548864dont however reflect that, and its said that to take such a decision on the basis  of 
someones mental health might be seen as discriminatory. 
I think though  its important to note what the credit card lending  and loan were  used for and 
how they were arranged. The loan was used  in part to repay a loan in Mrs Gs name and in 
part to repay  a joint overdraft. Payments to it were made from a joint account. So, even 
though the loan itself was in Mr Gs name, it was for the benefit of both him and Mrs G and 
mostly used  to pay existing liabilities.  To that extent, the bank wasnt simply lending  Mr G 
further money. Its worth noting too that, even if Mr G was having  mental  health  difficulties  at 
the time,  the financial  arrangements  Ive described show  that he was receiving help from Mrs 
G.   
Similarly, the credit card account was used for a significant balance transfer from an account  
with a different  provider.  Again, it was refinancing  existing debt, not increasing  Mr and Mrs 
Gs overall liabilities. In the circumstances, I dont believe  it would be fair to conclude  that 
Lloyds shouldnt have  acted in the way it did or that it should now write off the debts. 
For these reasons, I havent changed my overall  conclusions about how this matter should  
be addressed from those set out in my provisional  decision.  
My final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G (through Mrs 
G) to accept or reject my decision  before 8 May  2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7454886