K821x#15complaint
Mr E and Miss B complain that First Response Finance  Ltd (FRF) mis-sold  them  the 
following in conjunction  with a hire purchase  (HP) agreement to buy a car:
a single premium payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy;  and
a single premium guaranteed asset  protection (GAP) insurance policy
background
I recently issued my provisional  decision on this complaint, which  included  the following:
Mr E and Miss B entered into a HP agreement when they bought a car in 2008. FRF also 
sold them  a PPI policy and a GAP policy.
The cost of each  policy was added to the amount Mr E and Miss B were  borrowing and 
interest was charged  on it. The PPI covered  Mr E in the event he wasnt  working  due to 
accident, sickness or unemployment  and it would have provided a monthly benefit equal  to 
their loan repayments following a successful claim.
The GAP  policy covered Mr E and Miss B for any shortfall between their motor  insurers  
settlement and the outstanding balance on their HP agreement if their car was written off.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the PPI mis-sale  complaint. But they thought  
the GAP policy  had been mis-sold. The parties didnt agree with the adjudicators findings so 
the complaint  was passed to me to review  afresh.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
PPI sale
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr E and Miss Bs case. Having done so, Ive 
provisionally decided  the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr E and Miss B say they were led to believe they had to take the PPI if they wanted the car. 
I havent been able to listen  to a recording of the sales  call between Mr E and Miss B and the 
FRF adviser as one isnt available. But, from the sales script information  provided, Im 
satisfied that the adviser likely explained that Mr E and Miss B had a choice about 
purchasing the PPI. I think the adviser  was prompted to ask Mr E and Miss B if they were  
happy to proceed  with PPI and that they chose to take it.
The HP agreement  Mr E and Miss B signed following the call also refers to the optional 
nature of the PPI  its referred  to as Optional  Payment Protection  Insurance.  On this 
agreement a ticks been placed  next to the option  for PPI and Mr E and Miss B signed 
separately to agree  to take it out. 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that FRF gave Mr E and Miss B a choice 
about purchasing  PPI and that they agreed to buy it.
Ref: DRN78213772The parties agree that FRF recommended  the PPI to Mr E and Miss B. So it had to check  
that the PPI was right for them.  Based  on what Ive seen  of Mr Es circumstances in 
particular at the time, I think  that it was right for them because,  for example:
 
He was eligible  for the cover.  And he wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to, or 
limits on, the PPI. 
He seems to have had a need  for the cover   he had no other work benefits or other 
means that he could  have  relied  on if he wasnt working due to accident, sickness  or 
unemployment. On the other hand, the PPI benefits were  considerable and would 
have paid out for a significant  period of time if needed.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the PPI was unaffordable for Mr E and Miss B. Although 
Mr E and Miss B would have got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium  if they 
cancelled the loan early, I havent  seen anything to suggest  they intended to repay 
the loan before the end of the term. So I dont think this meant  the policy wasnt  right 
for them.
FRF also had to ensure it gave Mr E and Miss B clear information  about the PPI to allow 
them to make an informed  decision about whether to take it. As Ive said, I think  that Mr E 
and Miss B chose to take it out  so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And it seems 
like it would have provided useful and affordable protection for them if something went 
wrong. So I dont  think better information  about the PPI would have put them off taking out 
the cover. 
Which means FRF doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr E and Miss B. 
But FRF will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr E and Miss B because: 
FRF got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium)  so it should have told Mr E and Miss B about  that. Because  FRF didnt tell 
Mr E and Miss B, that was unfair. 
To put that right, FRFs basically  offered  to pay back the amount of commission and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium  and I think  that offers  fair in this 
case.
GAP sale
Mr E and Miss B havent given a detailed explanation as to why they believe this policy was 
mis-sold. Nevertheless, Ive considered  all of the evidence surrounding the sale.
Having done so, I dont believe the GAP insurance was mis-sold. I say that because, for 
instance, it seems FRF identified that Mr E and Miss B had a need  for protection  against 
there being a shortfall between any settlement in the event of the car being  written off and 
the amount theyd  have owed under the finance  agreement. The GAP policy appears to 
have met that need.
I dont know for sure what details FRF provided about the cost of the GAP insurance during 
the call but, as with the PPI policy, Im satisfied  it told Mr E and Miss B how much  the 
premium for the policy was, the interest  payable, the total theyd pay for the insurance with 
interest over the term of the HP agreement, and the monthly instalments in the statement of 
Ref: DRN78213773price document it sent them afterwards. And I havent seen anything to indicate theyd have 
done anything  differently  had that information  been given to them at the time of the sale or 
that the insurance was otherwise unsuitable for them.
Mr E and Miss B say the PPI and GAP insurance  covered them  for the same things but, as 
Ive already explained, Im satisfied they provided very different types of protection.
what the business needs  to do regarding  commission and/or profit share
FRF has to pay back to Mr E and Miss B any commission  and profit share it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium if it hasnt already done so. FRF should also pay back to 
Mr E and Miss B any extra interest  they paid because of that.
FRF should pay back to Mr E and Miss B the extra they paid each month  on the loan 
because the commission  and profit share  was more than 50% of the PPI premium  
including any extra Mr E and Miss B paid if the loan was paid off early.  FRF should  also pay 
Mr E and Miss B 8%* simple interest on the extra paid each month. 
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr E and Miss B can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my provisional decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so First Response Finance Ltd doesnt have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr E and Miss B.
But First Response Finance Ltd does have  to pay back  to Mr E and Miss B any commission 
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium  if it hasnt already done 
so.
I asked the parties  to reply with any further  comments or evidence  they might  have before I 
looked into the complaint again.
FRF didnt have anything  further to add other than to restate  its position  that there was no 
mis-sale.
Mr E and Miss B said they didnt agree with my provisional decision.  They  reiterated that 
they were told they needed to take both PPI and GAP insurance or they wouldnt get the 
finance for the car.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I remain of the opinion that the insurance policies in question werent mis-
sold. Ill explain why.
Ive thought carefully about everything Mr E and Miss B have argued, including  that they 
were told they had to have both PPI and GAP  insurance in order  to secure  the finance they 
wanted. Having  said that, I cant know for sure what happened and I havent seen enough 
evidence to support  what theyve  said.  The information I have  suggests  they were  told the 
insurances were optional and that they chose  to go ahead  with them.
Ref: DRN78213774Overall, I dont  believe there are sufficient  grounds  for me to depart from my provisional 
decision. 
my final decision 
For the reasons  given,  Ive decided that the PPI and GAP  insurance policies werent  mis-
sold. But First Response Finance Ltd will have to pay back  any commission  and profit  share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt  already  done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E and Miss B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 July 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7821377