K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2003. Mr T says Bank of Scotland plc (BOS) mis-sold him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy of Mr Ts credit agreement which has a section which  asks applicants  to 
sign  separately to the signature for the card itself  if they want  PPI cover. Mr T has 
signed this part of the form, and I think the way the PPI was presented  to him would 
have made it clear that it was an optional product.
So thinking  carefully about  everything Ive seen,  I think  BOS  made it clear that Mr T 
didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to take it out. But I can understand why 
he might  not remember that now given how long ago the sale took place.
BOS didnt recommend  the PPI to Mr T, so it didnt have  to check  that it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr T got the information he needed  to decide  if it was 
right for him.
Its possible the information BOS gave Mr T about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of cover. Based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was affected by any 
of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  And hes told us he was only entitled to 
statutory sick pay. At most,  if he had been too ill to work  or had an accident. I appreciate  
Mr T has said his family could have helped if needed, but that would depend on their 
own circumstances at the time, so I dont think their help could be guaranteed. With this 
in mind,  I think the PPI wouldve  been useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI wouldve put 
him off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr T has said, but for the reasons explained  above  his points 
dont change my decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So BOS doesnt need to refund everything 
Mr T paid for it. But BOS has already offered to give Mr T back  some of the cost of the PPI. I 
dont think it needs  to do anything more. 
BOS will make arrangements to pay Mr T now Ive issued my final decision,  if it hasnt done 
so already.
Ref: DRN76743312my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 March  2019.
Sophie Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7674331