K820x#14complaint
Mr C is unhappy with the advice he received from Tom French & Associates Limited.  This 
was to switch his Skandia Personal Pension Plan (PPP) into an income drawdown 
arrangement with Winterthur.  Mr Cs representative says Skandia  offered many alternative 
funds which  offered a draw down facility so Mr C didnt need  to transfer and incur a charge 
of £1.207.32.
Mr Cs representative says the disadvantages of using his pension  to repay some of his 
outstanding mortgage instead  of using his existing  savings has not been  clarified  other than 
various reasons.
background
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint. She summarised Mr Cs circumstances 
as follows:
Mr C met with the adviser in May 2009.  At the meeting  a Personal Financial Questionnaire, 
otherwise referred  to as a fact find, was completed. This recorded Mr C and his wife:
Had a joint gross annual income of £29,500
Were both in good health
Had £25,000 outstanding on their variable  repayment mortgage  with £420 a month  
repayments
Had £5,000  in savings
Owned a second property recorded  as a Buy to let. Mr C has since clarified the 
property was left to his wife by her parents which was then given to their daughter.  
So there was no rental income.
Mr C had a Skandia  Life personal pension valued at £60,366 
The circumstances section recorded  that hopefully Mr Cs self-employed  business would 
improve so he could  afford to contribute more  into his pension. 
Mr Cs needs and objectives were recorded  as:
a quotation  for £50,000 of life and critical illness cover  to age 65
Income protection benefit of 50% income
Release capital from personal pension to reduce the amount outstanding on existing  
mortgage
The Summary & Declaration  section  additionally noted that Mr C wished to take maximum 
pension income  and reinvest  in new pension to increase  pension  income in the future  and/or 
new tax free lump sum
Mr C signed this document  to confirm that the information given was correct.
 
The adviser recommended Mr C transfer  his existing  personal pension into an income 
drawdown arrangement  with Winterthur Life. 
Mr C took the tax free cash lump sum of £14,687.28 and started to withdraw £190.52  net 
each month. Mr C paid regular contributions into his Winterthur Life pension.
Ref: DRN75194742The adjudicator did not uphold the complaint. She was satisfied that Mr C wanted to repay  
his mortgage and only wanted  the lump sum from his pension and no income.  But she noted 
Mr C then, according to the suitability  letter,  agreed  to taking an income as well. He was then 
advised to pay regular contributions into his income  drawdown plan in order to build up the 
pension fund which would provide  a further lump sum at a later date. Although she 
acknowledged the advice was perhaps  unusual, she did not think  Mr C had actually suffered 
a financial loss. 
The CMC rejected the adjudicators findings. There was further correspondence. The CMC  
made a number of points  and asked for the case to be referred to an ombudsman. The main 
points were:
Accessing a pension  to repay  a debt is a last resort.
Using the tax-free cash to repay the mortgage  still left a shortfall. Using income  from 
the pension to fund further pension contributions offered no benefit at all.
The primary objective was mortgage  repayment  not retirement planning. The adviser 
did not recommend  a way to deal with the shortfall.
The recommendation triggered the money  purchase annual  allowance.
The regular premium  commitment was unaffordable and not maintained.
The adjudicator explained that:
Using the pension  to repay  Mr Cs mortgage  should have been a last resort, but he 
had limited means to do so.
It wasnt unreasonable for an adviser  to be paid for the advice given.
The advice was not to use the pension to repay the mortgage,  but Mr C wanted to 
keep his savings.
The advice was given  before the introduction of the money purchase annual  
allowance.
Mr C paid premiums  until the pension was transferred to another  provider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator and for broadly the same reasons.
The documentary evidence from the time has a number of inconsistencies. For example, 
Mr C is recorded as having a speculative attitude  to investment risk. But that is inconsistent 
with someone who was keen to repay  debt. 
I am satisfied from the available evidence that Mr Cs priority was to repay his mortgage. The 
option of using the existing pension plan was not available. A transfer to a different plan was 
therefore required. Transferring the pension and taking the tax-free cash  to repay  part of the 
mortgage appears to me to meet Mr Cs objective. Although  options  such  as buying an 
annuity could  have been considered, Mr C was relatively young to buy an annuity.  Investing 
in funds in the drawdown plan was not dissimilar  to his existing  personal  pension.
Ref: DRN75194743The charges  for the advice were set out in the documentation. I agree with the adjudicator 
that it is not unreasonable for the adviser  to be paid for the work. An initial fee was paid and 
an ongoing charge. Whilst I have some concerns about the ongoing  fee, I think  that was 
reasonable for a drawdown policy. This charge would not have been required for an annuity, 
but Mr C did not need  income  and I do not think an annuity was suitable.
It is not clear  why the income was recycled into the new pension plan. This was into the 
same pension without  any additional costs. The tax paid on the income drawn was 
recovered as tax relief  on the new contributions. The premiums  would provide  an additional 
fund from which tax-free cash  could be taken. I do not see that this caused any financial 
loss.
Overall, the advice does  appear unusual and involves a transfer  of Mr Cs personal  pension. 
I agree  with the CMC that accessing pension benefits early is not normally suitable  advice.  
However, in this case, I think  the advice met Mr Cs objective to repay  his mortgage, at least  
in part. And I understand that Mr C used the tax-free  cash  to repay part of his mortgage.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint for the reasons given above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2020.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7519474