K821x#15complaint
Mr E has complained that Everyday Lending  Limited (EDL) lent to him irresponsibly.
background
Mr E was given a loan of £5,050 by EDL in June 2018. The loan was due to be repaid in 36 
monthly instalments  of around £313.  The total amount payable, including  interest was just 
over £11, 291. I understand the loan account was settled early  and is now closed. 
One of our adjudicators has looked into the complaint. She didnt think EDL should have 
provided Mr E with the loan and she asked the lender to put things right. EDL didnt agree 
with her assessment . So as the complaint hasnt been settled informally, it has been passed 
to me to resolve the matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
EDL needed  to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didn't lend to Mr E irresponsibly. The 
lender was required to carry out a borrower  focussed assessment or affordability check.  
The checks  had to be borrower focussed   so EDL had to think  about  whether repaying the 
loan sustainably would cause difficulties or adverse  consequences for Mr E. 
EDL had to carry out reasonable  and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself that Mr E would 
be able repay his loan sustainably. There was no set list of checks that EDL had to do, but it 
could take into account a number of different things such as the loan amount,  the length  of 
the loan term, the repayment amounts, and the borrowers overall financial circumstances.
I think that a reasonable and proportionate  check ought generally  to have been more  
thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any 
loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is 
likely to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended  
period).
There may also be other factors which could influence how detailed  a proportionate check 
shouldve been  for any particular application  including (but not limited  to) any indications  of 
borrower vulnerability and any foreseeable changes in future circumstances. Ive kept all of 
this in mind when thinking about  whether EDL did what it needed to before agreeing to lend 
to Mr E.
EDL asked Mr E for information about  his income and it requested  a bank statement to verify 
his salary. EDL calculated Mr Es monthly expenditure and it carried out some credit  checks.  
The credit report for Mr E showed that he had 1 active  loan and 2 revolving credit accounts. 
But Mr E says that hed recently taken out at least two other loans  and extended his 
Ref: DRN78711202overdraft. Mr E says these other loans were paid into a different bank account from the one 
hed disclosed to EDL. He says that EDL was aware of these other loans, so he thinks it 
shouldve asked to see statements  from that other bank  account.
But new credit commitments  can sometimes  take time to appear on a credit report. From 
what Ive seen, Mr Es other  loans  were taken only a few days  before he took the loan from 
EDL, and they didnt appear  in EDLs credit checks. Mr E says that he told EDL about  his 
other loans  at the time and that he was borrowing from EDL to consolidate this other lending. 
But EDL disagrees and it says that it wasnt aware  of Mr Es other loans, so it didnt query 
whether he had another bank account into which other loans were being paid. 
However, I dont think I need  to make a finding  on whether or not EDL should reasonably  
have known about Mr Es other loans, because I dont think  EDL ultimately  made a fair 
lending decision.
EDL was required to establish  whether Mr E could  sustainably  repay  his loan  not just 
whether the loan payments were  affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. EDL 
calculated that after Mr E had paid his monthly  EDL loan repayment of £313, he would have 
just over £77 per month  left as disposable income. I dont think  this was enough to cover 
unexpected emergencies over the whole loan term.  Mr E had to maintain  substantial loan 
repayments every month for three years. I think EDL should reasonably  have realised from 
its own affordability calculations that given Mr Es financial position, it was unlikely that he 
could sustainably repay his loan over the whole term.  I think in these particular 
circumstances, EDL should reasonably have concluded that it was not appropriate  to lend to 
Mr E. 
Mr E has also complained that EDL has continued to send him marketing communications 
after he asked to be removed from its contact lists and database. I understand why Mr E 
finds this frustrating. I dont have sufficient information for me to make  a finding about  this 
issue, but consumers  are sometimes able to raise this type of concern with the Information  
Commissioners Office,  if it cannot be resolved with the business in question.
Overall, I cant fairly say that EDL has treated Mr E unfairly in some other way. But taking 
everything into account, I dont think it should  have agreed to provide the loan to him. So 
EDL needs  to put things right.
Putting things  right 
I think it is fair and reasonable for Mr E to repay the principal amount that he borrowed, 
because he had the benefit of that lending. But he has paid interest  and charges on a loan 
that shouldnt  have been provided to him. So I think Mr E has lost out and EDL should put 
things right for him.
EDL should:
Remove all interest, fees and charges  on the loan and treat all the payments 
Mr E made as payments towards  the capital. 
If reworking Mr Es loan account results  in him having effectively made payments 
above the original capital  borrowed, then EDL should  refund these  overpayments 
with 8% simple interest calculated  on the overpayments, from the date the 
overpayments would  have arisen, to the date of settlement*. 
Ref: DRN78711203If reworking the account leaves an amount of capital  still to be paid, then EDL 
should try to agree an affordable repayment plan with Mr E, bearing in mind its 
obligation to treat him positively and sympathetically in these discussions.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Es credit  file in relation to the 
loan.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires EDL to deduct tax from this interest. EDL should 
give Mr E a certificate showing how much tax its deducted, if he asks for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Es complaint and direct  Everyday Lending  Limited to 
put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 December  2020.
Sharon Parr
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7871120