K820x#14complaint
Mrs A complains that Capital One (Europe) plc (Capital One) mis-sold her a payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy alongside her credit card in 2006.
background
This policy was taken out over the telephone when Mrs A called to activate her credit card. 
The policy covered Mrs A if she was unable to work  through  an accident, sickness or if she 
lost her job.
It cost £0.79 per £100 of Mrs As outstanding balance on her credit card and would have 
paid 10% of that outstanding balance for up to 12 months per successful claim.
Mrs A says the PPI didnt  provide  value for money or represent any benefit and she didnt 
have a need for it as she had no concerns about  being off work or losing her job. She has 
also told us that she wasnt given the ability to make a fully informed decision to buy the PPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this complaint should be upheld. Mrs A disagreed  with this view 
and asked that her matter  be referred  to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. I will explain why.
The first thing Ive thought  about  is whether Mrs A was given a fair choice about buying  the 
PPI. Capital One hasnt been able to provide me with a copy  of the telephone call recording 
when Mrs A phoned to activate her card and when  she bought  the PPI. But it has provided  
us with the type of sales script  which would  have been used. Taking  into account this and 
looking at what we know about this type of sale from the time, I think it was more likely that 
Mrs A was given a choice  about buying the PPI and she chose it knowing she could refuse  it 
if she didnt want it. I also think the PPI would have appeared on her card statements so if 
she didnt know about it she could have questioned it with Capital One. I havent seen 
evidence that she has done so.
I dont think Capital One recommended the PPI to Mrs A. That meant that it didnt need to 
take reasonable steps to make sure it was suitable for her. But it still needed to give Mrs A 
enough information so she could make  an informed choice about  whether or not to take out 
the policy. That information had to be clear,  fair and non-misleading.
As Capital  One cant provide the call recording,  I cant say all the information  the 
representative gave  to Mrs A was as clear as it could have been. But thats not enough for 
me to uphold this complaint. I next need  to consider whether if Mrs A had more information it 
would have changed her mind  about  buying the PPI. I cant say it would have done.
Ref: DRN77760462I say this because  Mrs A was eligible for the policy. As she was in good  health and was in 
employment she wouldnt have been affected by any of the main  limitations  and conditions  
which might  have made it more difficult to make a claim.
Mrs A says she would  have received six months  sick pay followed by six months half sick 
pay. But this was a non-advised sale so Capital  One didnt need to check  her circumstances. 
Even so thinking  about what Mrs A has told us, this policy would have paid out in addition to 
any sick pay she got through  her job and likely for longer than it lasted  up to 12 months.
It also looks like the PPI was affordable at the time. So I dont think  better information about  
the PPI would have put her off taking  out the cover.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A because: 
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs A about that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mrs 
A, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs A has said. But these points dont change  my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc does not have to pay back all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mrs A.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs A any commission  and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs A to accept 
or reject my decision before 15 November 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7776046