K820x#14complaint
Mrs E and Mrs B, the executrices to their late fathers estate, complain about the service 
they received  from Alliance Trust Savings  Limited  (ATS). 
background
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didnt think it should be upheld.  In 
summary he said:
Hes reviewed the sequence of events throughout 2016 and 2017, and in particular 
the letter of instructions  dated 14 July 2016 and the email dated 19 December 2016 
from ATS.  
From  23 January 2017  ATS was waiting for instructions  from the executrices. As no 
response was received,  ATS chased on 6 February  2017, 28 February 2017, 
6 March 2017 and 28 March 2017. 
On 30 March 2017, ATS received  a call from the executrices, relating to queries 
about completing the documents.  
ATS said it wouldnt send further  reminders but await instructions. 
The inter-account transfer  and two withdrawal forms reached ATS on 1 August 2017.
In a Final Response Letter (FRL), dated 30 November  2017, ATS offered £200 
compensation for inconvenience caused  by the delays in responding. Plus £90 to 
cover the cost of the charges made  to the six accounts. It also offered an additional 
£100 for the inconvenience  to executrices mother.  
The overall offer made by the business as a good will gesture, in the main, was fair 
and reasonable.  
The discretionary award  was broadly  in line with our awards for trouble and upset 
payments in such circumstances, and the executrices should consider accepting the 
offer.   
The executrices disagreed  with the adjudicators conclusions. Mrs E made a number of 
points in response, but in summary she said:
She doesnt accept  ATS acted fairly throughout 2016 and 2017.
The root of the issue lies in the correspondence  of 14 July 2016 which  was factually 
incorrect  regarding  the type and status  of their late fathers  accounts   which  led to 
much confusion  and an obstruction to their duties as executrices.
They were certain  the accounts were in their fathers name and theyre glad they 
challenged this. Unfortunately the business didnt accept this until March 2018, some  
18 months later. 
Mrs E maintains the email of 19 December 2016 was never received by them.  They 
refute that they are to blame for the delays when they couldnt submit  instructions 
through email.   
They were chasing ATS for key information. Whether or not the 19 December 2016 
email existed they never  complained about  the time taken for ATS to respond, even 
though it never specified any timescale. Its disingenuous to blame them.  
ATS made  a discretionary  payment of £200 only, the £90 was a refund of charges it 
should never have  made. And they havent  even  received payment of the additional 
£100. 
They remain dissatisfied  that a number of issues werent dealt with. 
Ref: DRN76564742ATS in response said:
It is the responsibility of the plan holder to set up the bare trust. 
In relation to the account opening  forms, it accepts that it gave incorrect information, 
but has taken  reasonable steps to rectify  this. 
It maintains that the email of 19 December 2016 was sent to Mrs Bs email  address 
and via letter, and its received a response  from them making reference to it. 
If it had been  aware that the additional £100  hadnt been received it would have re-
issued the cheque.  
The executrices continue to disagree  with the adjudicator and the business. Mrs E has 
provided details  of how this matter  has affected  them.  
As no agreement has been reached the matter  has been passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I agree with the adjudicators  conclusions for much the same reasons. Im 
not going to uphold this complaint.  On the face of the evidence,  and on balance, despite  
what the executrices  say Im persuaded that the business offer overall  is fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances.  
But before I explain  why, I think its important for me to note I recognise executrices strength 
of feeling about this matter.
Theyve provided detailed  submissions  to support the complaint, which Ive read and 
considered carefully.  However, I hope  they wont take the fact my findings focus on what  
I consider to be the central issues, and not in as much detail,  as a discourtesy.
The purpose of my decision isnt to address  every  single point raised. My role is to consider 
the evidence presented  by the executrices and ATS, and reach what  I think is an 
independent, fair and reasonable  decision  based on the facts  of the case.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, I must take into account the relevant law, regulation 
and best industry  practice, but Im not bound  by this. Its for me to decide, based  on the 
information Ive been given, whats more  likely  than not to have happened.
ATS must accept it gave out the wrong  information  at an early  stage. The fact that it was 
unaware meant that it continued to disagree with the executrices and their familys 
assertions, and so the situation  wasnt rectified  until much later.  
The situation  could  potentially have been  resolved sooner,  and its likely both parties could 
have done things differently, but especially the business. That said,  I dont think  ATS was 
acting maliciously  or intentionally to frustrate  or prevent the executrices discharging  their 
duties. On balance  Im satisfied that ATS was acting in good faith based on information it 
thought was correct at the time. 
Evidently there is disagreement between the parties  about correspondence being sent and 
replied to and the steps taken to progress  matters. Im not going to rehearse  the points here, 
Ref: DRN76564743except to say I have carefully considered  the executrices final submissions. I dont think 
anything I say is likely to change either  partys  stance  on this issue. However, this doesnt 
prevent me from concluding that the redress is broadly fair and reasonable.   
I think £300 compensation  for the trouble and upset, plus £90 refund for the charges, is fair 
and reasonable.  Im mindful of Mrs Es comments about the additional £100, but ATS has 
agreed to re-issue the cheque, and I note it would have done so sooner if it had been made 
aware.  
In relation to the bare trusts, in this case I dont think it was the businesss responsibility to 
set up and maintain.  Im not persuaded that that is what it was asked to do or had agreed to 
do. So I cant blame the business for not having  done more in relation to this. 
I appreciate the executrices will be unhappy  Ive reached the same conclusion  as the 
adjudicator. Furthermore,  I realise my decision isnt what  they want to hear. Whilst 
I appreciate their frustration, Im not persuaded the business needs  to do anything  more.
On the face of the available evidence, Im unable to uphold this complaint and give them  
what they might want.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, on the face of the evidence  and on balance, I dont uphold  
this complaint.  
Alliance Trust  Savings Limited  has agreed  to pay £390  in total, which  I think is broadly fair 
and reasonable.    
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs E and Mrs B 
to accept or reject my decision before 28 March 2019.
Dara Islam
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7656474