K821x#15complaint
Mr W complains about the advice Pro-Synergy Wealth  & Tax Management Ltd gave him in 
2013 to invest  in a Business Premises Renovation Allowance Scheme (BPRA). 
background
In 2012 Mr W invested  £50,000 in the BRPA scheme and became a member of a Limited  
Liability Partnership  (LLP) on advice from Pro-Synergy. 
In March 2013, after discussion with Pro-Synergy, Mr W signed  an application for existing 
members of the LLP to make a further contribution of £100,000. Shortly  after this, in April 
2013, Pro-Synergy  wrote  to him and explained why it had recommended he invest  further 
monies into the scheme. The letter  confirmed  Mr Ws employment, his salary of around 
£475,000 and his income tax liability of over £216,000. It said that Mr Ws priority was better 
growth potential  than an ordinary bank deposit  account, and in a way that is also Tax-
efficient. 
The letter also explained  that the funds for this plan will be [] in the form of a developer 
funded loan which are repayable on rebate of tax from HMRC. This confirmed the 
discussions Mr W had already had with Pro-Synergy,  that the second round of investment in 
2013 would  work as it did in 2012  namely the developer would provide him an interest free 
loan of £100,000 to invest in the scheme. He would receive tax relief  from HMRC which  
would amount to that contribution, which he would in turn use to repay the developers  loan. 
The letter explained that Mr Ws attitude to risk was balanced, but that the nature of the 
BPRA investment  may be of a higher risk than Mr W would normally take with his other 
investments. However, after discussions, the letter said Mr W was prepared to invest in a 
high risk investment  due to the tax benefits.  
In early 2014 Mr W received a letter from the LLP confirming  that although he had committed 
to investing a further £100,000, that contribution hadnt been  made  yet. 
At around the same time, Pro-Synergy  discovered that the developer would no longer  be 
providing the interest free loans to its customers in order to invest. As a result of this, the 
LLP encountered difficulties in receiving  all the relevant subscriptions from the partners. It 
therefore served a statutory demand  on Mr W (and other partners)  asking him to make good 
on his legal commitment  to pay £100,000 to the LLP. 
Mr W initially paid £20,000 from his own funds  in January 2015. He then borrowed a further  
£80,000 which he invested into the LLP. Unfortunately for Mr W, at around  the same  time, 
HMRC began investigating the partnership,  and whether or not it actually qualified for BPRA.  
Eventually this meant that Mr W was served  with a notice from HRMC to pay back  the tax he 
had initially  claimed  following  the 2012 round  of investment. 
But it also meant that a number  of other  investors  were unable to make good on their 
commitments to invest in 2013. In 2016  the LLP went  into liquidation and the scheme failed. 
Mr W complained  and brought his complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint,  and thought it should be upheld. In short, 
she explained:
Ref: DRN79046712No full fact find was carried out prior to investing, and as a consequence, Pro-
Synergy didnt collect any information about  Mr Ws investment  experience,  or 
investments which he held at the time  nor anything about  his capacity for loss. 
If Pro-Synergy had carried out an adequate  fact find and done what  it was required to 
do to establish  whether  the investment was suitable  for Mr W, it wouldve understood 
that it wasnt. There were a number of risks inherent within  the scheme which  Mr W 
was, on balance, unlikely to want to accept. For example  his holding in the 
investment was illiquid until such time as the investment was sold. The investment 
itself was potentially  contravening HMRC rules because he was investing the 
proceeds of a loan (which he would then pay back with the tax relief). In addition, the 
little information  Pro-Synergy  did have about  his financial circumstances, for instance 
the fact that he had around £100,000 jointly owned with someone else,  didnt  specify 
where this money came from nor whether he had be able to use it to absorb any 
losses in relation to the investment. 
The investigator therefore thought Mr W should be compensated. 
Mr W agreed, but Pro-Synergy didnt agree:
It acknowledged there was little time to complete the fact finding  documents  prior to 
Mr W signing the relevant form in relation to his first investment in the BPRA scheme 
in 2012. However,  this was due to Mr W not wanting  to lose the opportunity and 
therefore was very little time to complete  the relevant paperwork. This didnt mean 
that Pro-Synergy  didnt  consider suitability   and in fact its position was that the 
scheme was suitable for Mr W.
Pro-Synergy didnt consider the loan which was provided to Mr W was a linked loan 
because the loan always had to be repaid. For this reason it didnt consider this was 
the type of situation  which  had been subject  to legal proceedings in a different case 
were such  an arrangement had invalidated  the tax relief that was claimed. 
In any event, Pro-Synergy had sought the advice of the schemes  tax and legal 
advisors who had provided  assurances  that this scheme was different to the one that 
had been the subject  of legal proceedings. 
Mr Ws view that the advice  was unsuitable was based on hindsight  and the fact that 
HMRC changed its interpretation  of the rules in 2013 following  investigations  in 
artificial schemes. Pro-Synergy said that this wasnt an artificial scheme and there  
was no reason to believe  in 2012 or 2013  that the tax relief  would be challenged by 
HMRC or that the partnership would go into administration.  
The reasons  for the failure  of the scheme were still being  investigated  and until such 
time as those reasons had been  fully established, it wasnt  fair to blame Pro-Synergy 
for things it couldnt have foreseen at the time the advice was given. 
Pro-Synergy acknowledged  that there  was a risk that the tax relief  might have to be 
repaid by Mr W, but he was told about that and warned at the outset. In any event,  all 
this meant was that Mr W would end up in the same position as if he had paid the tax 
that was due. He would not have suffered a loss or such a substantial loss. 
The scheme failed  because the LLP went into administration and the hotel was sold.  
Pro-Synergy didnt cause the failure  of the LLP and there were many other factors 
involved. 
Although HMRC were  apparently intending on clawing  back 100% of the tax relief 
available, this didnt  mean they were entitled  to do so and therefore that decision, 
when it is eventually  made, shouldnt necessarily be accepted.  Mr W had a duty to 
Ref: DRN79046713mitigate his losses and therefore should give due consideration  and tax advice if 
necessary as to whether an appeal should be issued  against  any closure notice. 
Pro-Synergy didnt accept 8% interest on the heads of loss was appropriate  given 
that Mr W would never have received such a return had he not invested the money. 
In response to these  points Mr W provided further submissions:
Mr W was a new client to Pro-Synergy and it knew nothing about  his circumstances. 
Given these circumstances, Pro-Synergy shouldnt have advised Mr W to invest.  And 
the only reason  Mr W considered that he didnt want to miss the opportunity  was 
because Pro-Synergy had mis-sold the investment  as an unmissable opportunity and 
put undue  pressure on him to sign up. 
He didnt agree with Pro-Synergys points  in relation to the linked loan. It was clear  
that the principle,  in order to benefit from the tax relief which the BPRA  could deliver, 
was that the investment needed  to come from his own funds. In this case, the funds 
did not  they came  from a loan. And the repayment  of the loan was entirely 
dependent on the relief being  granted by HMRC. 
Mr W maintained  that the scheme was unsuitable for him, and he shouldnt have 
been advised to invest in it. He wasnt told of the relevant risks associated  with the 
investment, nor the even greater risk that HMRC would  see the loan he was being 
provided to invest in the scheme as a reason to clawback the relief it was providing.  
Its unreasonable to suggest that the duty to mitigate losses  meant that Mr W needed  
to challenge HMRCs  decision, given that on the face of it the challenge was valid.  
As agreement couldnt be reached, the case was passed to me to consider. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
investigator and for broadly the same reasons. 
Id like to start by clarifying that this decision  only deals with the advice Mr W received to 
invest in 2013.  Ive issued a separate  decision  about  the advice Mr W received in 2012. 
Ive read the very detailed submissions provided  by Mr W, and I hope he doesnt take it as a 
discourtesy if I dont respond or address every point  that has been raised. Thats  not the 
purpose of my decision. The purpose  of my decision is to set out my findings on the key 
issues in the complaint.  
In this case, the key issue is the suitability  of the advice to invest in the BPRA  scheme in 
2013. Ive considered the evidence which Pro-Synergy has produced  in this regard very 
carefully, as well as the submissions provided  by Mr W. Ive taken particular account of 
Mr Ws witness statement  which I found  compelling, consistent and persuasive.
I should say that I also dont  agree  with Pro-Synergy  that the key question  is to determine 
why the partnership failed nor do I agree  that the complaint is brought with the benefit  of 
hindsight. Its clear  that the failure of the partnership, and the total loss of Mr Ws investment, 
has prompted his complaint.  But, as I go on to explain  below,  there were a number of 
inherent risks in the scheme which Im satisfied ought to have been foreseen at the outset. 
Its one of the factors that meant the scheme  itself carried a high risk of capital loss  in 
Ref: DRN79046714addition to the fact that there  were  a number of reasons why any relief  paid by HMRC might 
need to be repaid by Mr W. 
These risks needed to be explained to Mr W, and Pro-Synergy needed  to ensure that Mr W 
was both willing and able to take those risks when investing. That goes to the heart of the 
issue of suitability in this case.  
But Im also not persuaded that the regulatory  changes Pro-Synergy has referred to werent 
foreseeable by the firm. I say this because rather than changes, it seems to me that HMRC 
was simply clarifying the rules in 2013 as they already existed. And one of the key issues  
was a court case decided  by the Supreme Court  in 2011. I think it wouldve been reasonable 
for a tax specialist firm to have  been aware  of that court  case, and to have at least explored 
what implications it had (if any) on the BPRA schemes it advised on. 
the advice
Its clear to me that there are a number of issues  with the way Mr W was advised in 2013. 
And Im satisfied the process Pro-Synergy followed was inadequate  and led to unsuitable 
advice being provided. 
Mr W had already been advised to invest £50,000  in the same scheme in 2012. In 2013, 
following further discussions with Pro-Synergy,  Mr W was persuaded to invest again. He was 
told that his investment would follow the same  pattern as his investment in 2012   namely 
that he wouldnt be investing any of his own capital.  And he was told, on this occasion, that 
they could carry  back the tax relief  to a previous year. 
Mr W has explained, in his witness statement, that he was again  told that this was a no 
brainer, and Im persuaded by his evidence  of the discussions he had. In fact I think  its 
likely thats  precisely what  he was told, particularly  because by March  2013, what  Pro-
Synergy had said about the developer loan and the tax relief had come to pass for the 2012 
investment. 
So Mr W agreed to increase his contribution and invest a further £100,000  and he received 
the suitability letter after he signed  the relevant application form. 
I can see that in this letter Pro-Synergy had described the investment as an unregulated 
collective investment scheme  (UCIS), and set out some of the risks associated with that. Mr 
W disputes that any of this was discussed  with him, and here too Im not persuaded any of 
this was really explained  to Mr W prior to him signing the application to invest. 
In any event, even  if it was discussed,  theres insufficient information  either in the previous 
limited fact find from 2012, or in the suitability  letter from 2013, to explain why a UCIS was 
suitable for Mr W, when he had limited investment experience and a balanced attitude to 
risk. 
In the case of this BPRA  scheme,  some of the most significant risks included:
The value of the property bought and renovated by the LLP could fluctuate.
Mr W needed to keep  his interest  in the LLP for a minimum of seven years  if not, 
any tax relief received  would be clawed back by HMRC. 
Ref: DRN79046715Interest in the LLP wouldnt be quoted on any stock market  or other recognised  
investment exchange; so it couldve  been  difficult for Mr W to know how much his 
investment would be worth at any given point in time in the future. 
The LLP would still be liable for ongoing  costs of the property if it remained vacant at 
any time, as well as any loans funding the development. If the property remained 
vacant, or the tenant became insolvent,  in order to avoid  the loan being called upon  
the members of the LLP may be required to service  the loan. 
Problems in the development of the property, including  delays or variations to the 
planned layout  of the development could  have an impact on the BPRA  claim being 
made. 
There was no guarantee that all the expenditure incurred by the LLP would be 
accepted as qualifying for BRPA by HMRC  this means that the indications  Mr W 
was given about how much he could receive  in tax relief  was estimated. 
Im not persuaded Mr W was ever intending  to take a high risk with his money. I say this 
because Im not sure he appreciated the possibility that the developer  might  not make the 
contribution on his behalf  and if that happened,  he would be legally obliged  to make that 
contribution himself. I think that if he had been warned that this was a possibility, he wouldnt 
have agreed to invest. 
I say this bearing in mind  that Im also not persuaded  that Pro-Synergy discussed,  in any 
detail, another  significant risk: namely that HMRC  might not consider the LLPs  expenditure 
as qualifying for tax relief,  or that it might view the interest  free loan (which was being 
provided for the sole purpose of investing  in the LLP) as a linked loan, thereby disqualifying 
the initial investment  for tax relief.   Im persuaded that in 2013, as he had been in 2012, 
Mr W was assured that this was a government backed scheme, which  had a low probability 
of causing significant losses. And Im persuaded that the potential  risk of the developer  loan 
invalidating a claim for tax relief wasnt discuss with Mr W in any detail.  
But in addition to the risk of the investment, Im also not persuaded there was sufficient  
analysis of Mr Ws overall financial  circumstances   in particular, theres no indication Mr W 
actually had £100,000 to invest in the LLP. This is likely because, as Pro-Synergy explained 
to Mr W (and confirms  in the letter),  it anticipated the developer  making this contribution on 
his behalf via an interest free loan.  But this meant  that Mr W was being advised to legally  
commit to making a sizeable investment, from funds Pro-Synergy  hadnt established he had, 
and which  its likely  hed find difficult to replenish should the investment fail (or, as it turns  
out, should the developer  not provide the loan). 
Im not persuaded the brief reference to Mr Ws income or his income  tax liability makes  a 
difference here  and Im satisfied that it wasnt suitable for Pro-Synergy to advise Mr W to 
commit to invest a further £100,000 in an unregulated investment which carried with it a high 
risk of capital loss. 
All in all, Im satisfied  Pro-Synergys  advice to Mr W to invest  in the BPRA scheme  in 2013 
was unsuitable  for Mr W. And Im satisfied that but for Pro-Synergys advice, he wouldnt 
have invested.  So I consider Mr W should  be compensated. 
putting things  right
Ive considered very carefully Pro-Synergys and Mr Ws comments on how to put matters 
right for Mr W. Having  done so, Im not persuaded to change  the investigators  
recommendations. I think what Ive outlined below  puts Mr W as far as possible back in the 
position he wouldve  been in but for Pro-Synergys unsuitable advice. The LLP has failed, 
Ref: DRN79046716and Mr Ws investment of £100,000 is lost. Im persuaded Mr W wouldnt have invested this 
amount at the time,  and he has had to borrow and find other ways  to satisfy the LLPs 
statutory demand.  So I consider that Mr W should be refunded  this money.  
In addition, Im persuaded by the evidence Ive seen that Mr W incurred costs  associated 
with the statutory demand  in particular, in understanding his legal options as well as how to 
respond to it. I consider  Mr W wouldnt have incurred these costs had it not been for Pro-
Synergys advice, and he should be refunded that money as well. 
I understand why Pro-Synergy thinks that our award  of 8% interest on these  amounts  is too 
high. I appreciate that deposit rates are significantly lower than this. But it is not meant to 
reflect the return Mr W would have received from a deposit account. It is meant  to 
compensate Mr W for being  deprived  of his money for a period  of time. And Im satisfied 
Mr W wouldnt have  agreed to invest £100,000 in 2013 if he had known this money  would be 
coming from him directly,  and not from the interest  free loan he was promised. 
And its clear  that having to pay back this money  from his own funds has caused Mr W 
financial difficulties, and likely had an impact  on a range of decisions around his spending  
and borrowing at the time. As it isnt really  possible to quantify what this has meant for Mr W, 
our service  uses  the 8% per year simple  rate in the majority of similar cases. Ive considered 
whether a different approach would be fair here,  and Im not persuaded it would be
In order to put things  right for Mr W, Pro-Synergy must:
A.Pay Mr W the £20,000 he paid into the LLP on 5 January 2015.  
B.Pay Mr W the £80,000 he paid into the LLP at a later date (to be confirmed by Mr W). 
C.Pay Mr W the £2,182.69 in legal fees he incurred and had to pay for as a result of the 
statutory demand  served on him by the LLP (as evidence by Mr W). 
D.Pay Mr W £500 compensation for the trouble and upset its unsuitable advice  caused  
him
Pro-Synergy should add 8% per year simple interest  on items A, B and C from the date of 
payment to the date of settlement. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Ws complaint. Pro-Synergy Wealth & Tax Management 
Ltd must  pay the compensation outlined above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019
Alessandro Pulzone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7904671