K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
credit card in 2000. Mr E says Barclays Bank Plc (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him the 
PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Es case.
Having done this, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Mr E says he cant remember  how the policy was sold. Barclaycard says the policy  was sold 
with a postal application for the credit  card and has provided a copy of Mr Es application  
form. Looking at the application  I think it was a postal application as it asks applicant to 
complete the form and return it to Barclaycard. 
Barclaycard shouldve taken reasonable steps to make sure that Mr E knew  the policy  was 
optional. On the application  form it asks applicants to tick a box to say if they want  to take 
PPI. On Mr Es form the box has been  ticked and Mr E has signed  the application form.
So I think Barclaycard  made it clear  that Mr E didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out  although I can understand why he cant remember  this. 
In my experience of how Barclaycard sold these  types of policies, it wouldnt have 
recommended the PPI to Mr E. So it didnt have  to check if it was right for him. But it did 
have to make sure Mr E got the information  he needed to decide if it was right for him.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr E about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the time it doesnt look 
like he was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. Mr E has told us 
he had six months full sick pay benefits  he could  have  used  so he didnt need the PPI 
policy. The policy  would have paid out alongside any sick pay he got, as well as covering 
him if he was made unemployed. Mr E says he didnt have any other  means  such as 
savings - so it would have  been useful for him if something went wrong. 
It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I dont  think better information about the PPI 
would have put him off taking out the cover. Overall, I dont think  Mr E has lost out by 
anything Barclaycard might have  done wrong.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 November 2019.
Ref: DRN79160792Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7916079