K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains about the way that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) dealt with a claim under his 
home insurance policy. 
Reference to AXA also includes  its agents.
background
Mr J took out home insurance with AXA in February 2018. His policy included basic  cover for 
accidental damage  (if caused  by Mr J or his guests) to windows, solar panels, bathroom  
fixtures (e.g. toilet, sink etc.), ceramic hobs or underground service  pipes or cables. 
Mr J didnt take out additional cover. 
Mr J reported an accident at his home in January 2019 when a number of books fell through  
his ceiling. As Mr Js ceiling had artex covering, AXA had to check for asbestos before it 
completed other work.  It did this by drilling two holes in the ceiling, but it didnt fill in the holes 
afterwards.
AXA then declined Mr Js claim, as damage  to his ceiling wasnt covered  by the policy.  Mr J 
wasnt happy about this, so he complained to AXA. 
AXA sent its final response letter (FRL) in March  2019 and said that once  it confirmed there 
was no asbestos,  it asked contractors for an estimate for repairs. But when  it later reviewed 
the claim,  it found  that Mr Js policy didnt cover accidental damage to the ceiling. So, AXA 
wouldnt settle Mr Js claim. But it did uphold Mr Js complaint on the basis  that it hadnt  
identified the policy limitations sooner and had mismanaged his expectations as a result.  
AXA awarded Mr J £100 compensation  for this. 
Mr J wasnt happy with AXAs response, so he complained to our service. 
An investigator looked into Mr Js complaint  and didnt uphold it. They found that AXAs 
decision not to settle the claim based on the policy terms  was fair, as was the £100 AXA 
awarded to Mr J for its delay in telling him that his claim wouldnt be covered. 
Mr J wasnt happy with the investigators response, so the complaint has been passed to be 
to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive considered the terms of Mr Js policy and can see that whilst specific types  of accidental 
damage are covered  if caused by Mr J or his guests, the policy that Mr J has doesnt  include 
accidental damage  to the ceiling. So, that meant that Mr J wasnt covered  when  the box of 
books he put in his loft area fell through. And because of that, I cant  say that AXA acted 
unreasonably by not settling Mr Js claim.  Mr J now appears to accept that his claim wouldnt 
be covered. 
Its a pity that AXA didnt realise  this sooner and before it instructed a contractor to carry out 
asbestos checks. But I cant really say that Mr J is worse off, as I think  its likely that any 
Ref: DRN76702802reputable builder is likely to have done a similar check. So, it could  be argued that AXA 
effectively did some of the work that another builder instructed by Mr J is likely to have done. 
But, I do appreciate  that thats assuming Mr J intended to have his whole ceiling replaced 
and quickly, as opposed to leaving things as they were or having  other  partial repairs done. 
But Mr J told us that he hasnt had his ceiling repaired yet because he cant afford to. And he 
now wants to be compensated for the additional  damage that he says AXA caused. Not least  
because he says hes lost out financially by having  to move his tenant out of the room and 
reduce their rent. 
Ive thought about this, but I cant agree that AXA should compensate Mr J for financial loss 
on the basis hes described. And thats because, Im not persuaded that a tenant would 
move out of a room  purely because of drill holes in a ceiling (which  Mr J has temporarily  
covered up). But, I can appreciate why they might  want to move out because of the more  
extensive damage caused to the ceiling when  the books fell through.  And, as thats not 
covered by Mr Js policy, it wouldnt be fair to ask AXA to compensate Mr J for his loss of 
rental income. 
Ive also thought about the fact that Mr J has been left with drill holes in his ceiling and 
whether AXA should  so anything else about  that. Ive also taken into account  that these 
holes are in a ceiling that has suffered more extensive damage.  And, on balance,  whilst I 
appreciate that the drill holes must be an added inconvenience to Mr J, Im satisfied that 
AXA has already  addressed this in the compensation it offered.
my final decision
I understand that AXA Insurance  UK Plc has offered Mr J £100  to compensate  him for his 
distress and inconvenience. I conclude this is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
So, my final decision is that AXA Insurance UK Plc should pay Mr J £100  if it hasnt already 
done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7670280