K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Yorkshire Building Society  has refused his request  to transfer money  
held in a trust account to his account.
background
Mr W says he is a trustee for his sons  savings account which was opened for his sons  
higher education costs.  He says the terms of the trust do not allow money  to be paid to his 
son and he asked Yorkshire to transfer  money  to his account but it refused. Mr W says 
Yorkshire is in breach  of the terms of the trust and is acting against  his instructions. He says 
he would  accept a cheque payable to him as trustee for his son and wants the money as his 
son has started university.
Yorkshire says it accepts Mr W has the authority to manage the account on behalf of the 
beneficiary. But it says under  the account terms and conditions  the money in the account 
must be paid to or for the beneficiary  and cant be paid to the trustee.
Mr W brought his complaint to us but our investigator didnt uphold it. He thought  Yorkshire 
had acted in line with the account terms and conditions and that it was obliged  to pay the 
money to the beneficiary in these circumstances.  The investigator suggested that Yorkshire 
pay the money to Mr Ws son and he in turn transfer it to Mr W. 
Mr W hasnt responded to that suggestion but doesnt accept the investigators view. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator. I realise Mr W will be disappointed by my decision.
Ive looked at the account terms and conditions Yorkshire has given  me about these sorts of 
accounts. I can see that those terms and conditions make clear  that the trustee is 
responsible for ensuring any transaction or withdrawal is for the benefit of the beneficiary  
and that proof may be required before such an action is approved by Yorkshire. So I dont 
think Yorkshire has made a mistake  here in circumstances where Mr W has asked  it to 
transfer money to his account. I appreciate Mr W says he will make sure the money is used 
as intended. But I dont think Yorkshire has acted  unreasonably by refusing that request  and 
by no doubt concluding that it couldnt be sure the transfer was for Mr Ws sons benefit.
I appreciate Mr W says Yorkshire is in breach of the trust terms and has acted contrary to 
the trust instructions that money cant be paid to his son. But Mr W hasnt  told me if there is 
a separate trust or if hes referring to this account.  If there is a separate  trust thats been set 
up its not clear if a copy of that trust was provided  to Yorkshire  when the account was 
opened and why Mr W says it overrides the Yorkshire account terms and conditions.  Im 
satisfied for the reasons Ive explained that the terms  and conditions  of this account held 
with Yorkshire make  clear  that either the money  is paid to Mr Ws son or that Yorkshire  is 
satisfied that any transaction  is for his benefit.  So I dont accept that Yorkshire has breached  
the terms of the account and can see that when Mr Ws son reaches a certain age then the 
money would  be paid to him directly in any event.
I dont think it makes  any difference  that Yorkshire send Mr W a cheque payable to him as 
trustee as I think Mr Ws intention is to pay the cheque into his account and once paid into 
Ref: DRN74015762the account it would become under Mr Ws control. And in those circumstances Yorkshire 
couldnt reasonably conclude that the money  would be used for the beneficiary.
Im satisfied the investigator  has made  a reasonable suggestion for how matters could be 
resolved. I also can see no reason why the Yorkshire account couldnt  be used for example 
for tuition  fees or other university expenses assuming any payments were  for the benefit of 
Mr Ws son and Yorkshire  received the appropriate evidence.
Overall Im satisfied that Yorkshire has dealt fairly and reasonably with this complaint and so 
I cant fairly order it to pay the money  held in the account to Mr W.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7401576