K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that Everyday Lending Limited as Everyday Loans was irresponsible when it 
provided him with a loan in September 2017. 
background
Mr K took the loan with Everyday Loans  on 12 September 2017. The amount borrowed was 
£4,000 due to be repaid over two years at £345.53  per month. This meant that Mr K was due 
to repay  a total of £8,292.72.
When Mr K complained to Everyday  Loans,  it didnt agree  that it had been irresponsible. So 
he brought his complaint to this Service. One of our adjudicators has looked into Mr Ks 
complaint and recommended that it be upheld  and that Everyday Loans put things right.  It 
doesnt agree and so the complaint has come to me  an ombudsman  for a decision. If 
Mr K accepts my decision it will be binding on the parties.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Everyday Loans  provided the loan in question while it was authorised  and regulated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA).
The FCAs Principles for Business  set out the overarching requirements which all authorised  
firms are required to comply with. These  included  PRIN 2.1.1 R (6) which says: A firm must 
pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly.
The Consumer Credit  sourcebook (CONC)  set out the rules  and guidance which  apply to 
credit providers like Everyday Loans  when providing  loans. CONC 5 sets out a firms 
obligations in relation  to responsible lending.  
Section 5.2.1R of CONC set out what a lender needed to do before agreeing to give a 
borrower a loan saying:
(1) Before making a regulated credit agreement the firm must undertake
an assessment of the creditworthiness of the customer.
And at Section  5.2.1(2):
(a) the potential  for the commitments  under the regulated credit agreement  to 
adversely impact the customers  financial situation, taking into account  the 
information of which the firm is aware at the time the regulated credit agreement  is to 
be made; and
(b) the ability of the customer to make repayments as they fall due over the life of 
the regulated  credit  agreement, or for such an agreement which is an open-end 
agreement, to make repayments within a reasonable  period.
CONC also included guidance about proportionality of assessments. CONC 5.2.4G(2) 
saying:
Ref: DRN78725592A firm should consider  what  is appropriate  in any particular circumstances dependent  
on, for example, the type and amount of credit  being  sought  and the potential  risks to 
the customer. The risk of credit not being  sustainable directly  relates  to the amount  of 
credit granted and the total charge for credit  relative  to the customers  financial 
situation.
CONC 5.3 contained further  guidance on what a lender should bear in mind when thinking 
about affordability. CONC 5.3.1G(1) saying:
In making the creditworthiness assessment  or the assessment required by CONC 
5.2.2R (1), a firm should  take into account  more than assessing the customers ability 
to repay  the credit.
CONC 5.3.1G(2) then added:
The creditworthiness assessment and the assessment required by CONC 5.2.2R (1) 
should include the firm taking reasonable steps  to assess the customers  ability to 
meet repayments under  a regulated credit  agreement  in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences.
CONC 5.3.1G(6) clarified  what is meant  by sustainable:
 
For the purposes of CONC  sustainable means  the repayments under  the regulated 
credit agreement can be made by the customer:
(a) without undue  difficulties, in particular:
(i) the customer should be able to make repayments  on time, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments; and
(ii) without having to borrow  to meet the repayments;
(b) over the life of the agreement, or for such an agreement which  is an open-end 
agreement, within  a reasonable period; and
(c)  out of income and savings without having to realise security or assets; and 
unsustainable has the opposite meaning.
CONC 5.3.1G (4) added that if a firm does take account of income and expenditure in its 
credit worthiness assessment:
(b) it is not generally sufficient for a firm to rely solely for its assessment of the  
customers income and expenditure on a statement of those matters  made  by the 
customer.
(c) its assessment should be based  on what  the firm knows at the time of the 
assessment
Ref: DRN78725593Whilst CONC sets out the regulatory framework that authorised consumer credit providers 
have to adhere to it represents a minimum standard for firms. And - as an ombudsman - Im 
also required  to take into account any other guidance, standards, relevant codes of practice, 
and, where appropriate, what I consider to have  been good  industry  practice.
Taking into account the relevant rules,  guidance,  good industry  practice and law, I think 
there are some overarching  questions  I need  to consider in order  to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Mr Ks complaint: 
Did Everyday Loans complete reasonable and proportionate  checks to satisfy  itself 
that Mr K would be able to repay  his loan in a sustainable way? 
If so, did it make  a fair lending decision? If not, would those checks have  shown that 
Mr K wouldve  been  able to do so?
Did Everyday Loans act unfairly  or unreasonably  in some other way?
Ive outlined above some  of the regulations in place at the time Everyday Loans provided the 
loan to Mr K. It had to carry  out a reasonable and proportionate assessment of whether he 
could afford  to repay it in a sustainable way. 
The checks  Everyday Loans did, had to be proportionate to the specific circumstances of the 
loan.  And  what is proportionate  will depend on a number  of factors  including  things like the 
consumers financial history and current situation as well as things such  as the amount, type, 
cost of the credit being sought.
In light of this, I think that a reasonable and proportionate check ought generally to have  
been more thorough:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet  a 
higher repayment  from a particular  level of income); 
the longer  the term of the loan (reflecting the fact that the total cost of the credit  is likely 
to be greater and the customer is required to make  payments for an extended period); 
Ive carefully considered  what a reasonable and proportionate check  shouldve  looked like 
when Everyday Loans was in the process of approving the loan for Mr K. And Ive thought 
carefully about what Everyday Loans  says it did and how it reached the conclusion that the 
loan was affordable  for Mr K.
I think its important to put the approval  of the loan in question into the broader  context of 
Mr Ks contact  with Everyday Loans over the previous  months. In response  to our 
adjudicators assessment  Everyday Loans said that Mr K had repeatedly tried to get a loan 
from Everyday Loans from the beginning of 2017  for the sum of £10,000 where  he stated he 
earned £3,290  monthly and other calls with the Everyday Loans  Team he also mentioned he 
was in receipt of company bonus. His request was declined twice based  on the amount 
before the loan was finally approved for a reduced sum of £4,000  based on his financial 
circumstance.
Ref: DRN78725594Everyday Loans  has provided two telephone call recordings of conversations  with Mr K in 
May and August 2017. I accept that he began the May call by saying he wanted a loan of 
£10,000. The Everyday  Loans representative  told him that the maximum that could be 
approved was £6,000. Mr K told the Everyday Loans representative that his monthly  income 
was £3,290 and that he needed the loan to consolidate his debts which  were  discussed. The 
rest of the call was about the cost of the £6,000  loan over two or three  years. Mr K said he 
was more inclined  to take a loan over the shorter  period  although slightly more each 
month, it would mean he would repay  less in interest and the loan would be completed in 
less time.  
Despite encouragement  from the Everyday Loans representative to take the loan over the 
longer period whilst  paying off capital sums from his income, Mr K decided not to proceed. 
He explained  that he would try to ride it out as he was due a bonus and could hopefully pay 
off some  of his loans  and then look for a loan with a lower interest rate. So I dont think  its 
fair of Everyday Loans to say that it declined his application: it sounded to me as though he 
was being offered a loan for £6,000  and he opted  not to proceed.   
In August  2017  Mr K rang Everyday Loans  again.  He mentioned that hed called a few 
months before but couldnt really  recall the details discussed. He wanted a rough idea of 
what a loan would cost him. The Everyday  Loans representative explained that the interest 
rate offered  would depend on Mr Ks credit score and took Mr K through the full application 
process. Mr K confirmed more than once that his monthly income was £3,000. When  asked  
about his housing costs he tried to explain how he contributed towards these costs (given 
that his partner had the mortgage) and tried to split it down to outline bills. But the 
Everyday Loans  representative was not interested in anything other than Mr Ks payment for 
board. This was included in Everyday Loans affordability matrix as rent - £500. The 
Everyday Loans  representative didnt ask Mr K about any of his other  outgoings. 
There followed a detailed  discussion  about  Mr Ks credit commitments.  Towards  the end of 
the call the Everyday Loans representative  indicated that the credit  scoring  system  was 
suggesting that around £5,000 was likely  to be the amount of any offered  loan.  He added 
that he needed to send  the application for approval and that he would come  back to Mr K 
within a couple  of hours to make sure that Everyday Loans could approve a loan. Later  that 
day - it seems  - Everyday  Loans told Mr K that he would be approved  for a loan of £4,000. 
He decided not to go ahead as he said he really needed £6,000  in order to clear all his 
debts. He again mentioned that he was due a bonus  in the following month. In September  he 
returned to Everyday Loans and in due course  was approved for the loan in question.
I think there are a few points to take from these earlier discussions. Firstly, between May and 
August 2017,  Mr Ks indebtedness was not improving. He needed a loan to try to clear  his 
debts. And he thought  he needed at least £6,000 to do so. Ill return  to this issue  below.
Im also concerned that Everyday Loans told Mr K in its final response letter that he had 
declared an income of £3,986  as an average over the previous five months. This is the 
figure it used in its affordability matrix. Everyday Loans has shown us a copy of a payslip for 
Mr K from August  2017. This showed  his net income  as being £3,077.37. Its unclear who 
wrote £3,986.03 on this payslip with a tick. But the bank statement obtained from Mr K by 
Everyday Loans  confirmed that his payment to bank on 31 August  was £3,077.37. I accept 
that Mr K may have received occasional additional payments from his employer: and hed 
mentioned potential bonuses. But hed declared  an income of £3,290 in the May call and 
£3,000 in the more  recent, August one. 
Ref: DRN78725595Given that Everyday  Loans was assessing the risk to Mr K of him not being able to afford  the 
loan repayments  sustainably I am not persuaded that it was right to take account of this 
much higher  figure   almost £4,000. I think, as responsible lender, it should really  have 
relied on a lower figure for income   that declared by the borrower himself - in a situation 
where there  was any doubt. What Mr K said, the payslip and the bank statement all indicated 
that net pay was closer  to £3,000 than £4,000. 
Im also concerned that given the length  of time the loan was over and the overall cost to 
Mr K, that Everyday Loans  was not interested  in what he might declare as his outgoings. It 
took a single figure of £500  for housing. I can see that in its affordability matrix Everyday 
Loans used a figure of £1,000 as its calculated living  expenses.  I note that it appears  to 
use a figure  which  is 35% of income.  Min £500 <Max £1000. 
From this I take it that Everyday Loans assessed Mr Ks expenditure to be £1,000  because  
35% of the figure it was using  for his income wouldve been almost  £1,400  but the note on 
the form suggests that the maximum capable of being considered is £1,000. But, even if it 
had used a lower income figure (for example that shown  on the payslip), 35% would still 
have been more than £1,000. I think this raises  some  concerns.
As Everyday  Loans will only consider a figure  for expenditure between £500  of £1,000, is it 
saying that its consumers never have monthly expenditure that exceeds £1,000? This seems 
to me to be setting arbitrary figures  and not ones which  take account of the circumstances of 
the individual customer who is applying for the loan  especially if their income is in excess 
of £2,857  after which the expenditure figure  will always be £1,000.   
So, I'm not satisfied  that the income  and expenditure figures obtained and used  by Everyday 
Loans were satisfactory  for a loan of this size, over this term and at this cost. I think it 
shouldve obtained  a much more thorough understanding  of Mr Ks regular  income and what  
he was spending  that income on. And as Ive said above, I think it shouldve used the lower 
income figure in its assessment. But even on the figures it had (without doing an in-depth 
review) - by using that lower, more  appropriate  income figure, it wouldve been apparent to 
Everyday Loans  that the monthly  repayments  were not going to be affordable  for Mr K. In its 
final response letter it explained to Mr K that it enclosed details of its affordability 
calculations.
The letter said that in the first calculation  no deduction was made for consolidated creditor 
payments because it didnt know how Mr K had intended to distribute the loan funds. It 
assessed his creditor repayments as being just over £1,814.  
This meant that using its higher figure  for income Mr K wouldve been left with around £246  
of disposable  income.  But  according to the second  set of calculations  - if he had repaid 
three of the short term lenders £3,085 from the Everyday Loans advance this would mean  
that going forward he would have around £915  to put towards another credit obligation. 
By my calculations if Everyday Loans  had used the lower, correct  income  figure, the 
disposable amount  after repayment of credit   wouldve been significantly reduced  and not 
sustainable over the whole  loan period. From what I can see there was no margin  for 
unusual, annual or unexpected expenditure; I think its important to note that Everyday 
Loans was aware  that Mr K had a young  baby and that hed previously mentioned  that hed 
got into a cycle of payday borrowing because of the unexpected costs  in renovating his 
house.  
Ref: DRN78725596However, those affordability calculations  aside - as I've mentioned  - Everyday Loans had a 
copy of one months bank  statements for Mr K. And so it was aware of his financial position  
so far as payday  lenders  and other  high cost credit was concerned.  
Firstly Mr K was taking  this loan  in itself relatively expensive credit   to repay other credit.  
But I think its worthy of note that the cost of payday loans and other high-cost short-term 
credit is capped. A borrower cannot be required to repay more than 100% of the amount 
borrowed. This protection was brought  in by the FCA in 2014 in an endeavour to protect 
consumers from the potential harm being  caused by such  credit.  This Everyday  Loans  loan 
was not cost-capped. So there was potential  for Mr K  if he failed  to repay the loan in line 
with the agreement  to repay considerably more than £4,000  in interest and charges. As 
I've mentioned he was already doing  that as the agreed total hed have to repay was over 
£8,292. My point is that he was not only using one loan to repay others, but there was less 
protection for Mr K as regards what he might have to repay overall, with this new loan.
My second  concern lies with the number of transactions relating to other  creditors which  
appeared on the bank statements in Everyday Loans possession. It was aware that Mr K 
had been struggling  and wanting to consolidate his debts  since  at least  May (when he 
first contacted it). But, despite Mr Ks optimism that he might  be able to manage, he hadnt  
actually done  so. He said he needed  £6,000.  I think its likely that Mr K knew how much he 
needed to help him in his endeavour to pay off his loans and so have only one repayment (to 
Everyday Loans). And according to the information  Everyday Loans has provided to us, it 
recorded his overall credit  balances as exceeding  £13,000. 
So I'm not persuaded that £4,000 was actually going to help Mr K to consolidate  his debts 
effectively. He was still going to owe money  on other loans: and I havent  referred  in any 
detail to his very high credit card debts (of which Everyday Loans was aware) or the leasing 
arrangement that was in place. It looks to me that whilst £4,000 may have helped clear some  
credit immediately  that was only going  to be a short-lived  sticking plaster on a debt 
situation which required much fuller and careful treatment.    
Even a very high level glance at Mr Ks bank statements shouldve put Everyday Loans on 
notice that its loan wasnt likely to be sustainable for him. Earlier  in August Mr K received an 
advance into his account from Lender A of £400.  On the date his salary was paid in he also 
received a credit of £1,500 from Lender B. On the next day he received a further advance  of 
£800 from Lender A and repaid a number of creditors, Lenders B, C, D, and E  a total of 
over £3,000. 
On 4 September there were four payments made to Lender F  a provider of high-cost 
instalments loans: this suggests that Mr K had at least four live loans  with that business. I 
accept some of these payments may have cleared loans  but its the overall picture  which 
shouldve caused  concern  to a responsible lender considering the provision  of further credit.  
On top of the loan repayments  there were multiple payments to credit card providers.
So, like our adjudicator,  I'm satisfied that based  on the information available to it, Everyday 
Loans should not have  provided Mr K with the loan in question.  He was already entrenched 
in an unsustainable  cycle of borrowing to repay borrowing and it was evident  that Mr K was 
unlikely to be able to repay  this loan from sustainable means.  It was more likely that this loan 
would simply add to his Mr Ks indebtedness  and cause him more harm. So I'm upholding 
his complaint.
putting things right
Ref: DRN78725597As I'm satisfied that Everyday Loans was not responsible when it approved  Mr Ks loan I 
require it to put things right in the following way:
refund  to Mr K all interest and charges he paid in respect of the loan: and
to each of those sums it must  add 8%* simple interest a year,  from the date he paid 
them to the date the refund is paid to him: and
remove any adverse entries relating to this loan from Mr Ks credit  file.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires Everyday  Loans to take off tax from this interest.  It must  give Mr K a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above I'm upholding Mr Ks complaint and I require Everyday  Lending 
Limited trading  as Everyday Loans  to put things right in the way I've outlined.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 January 2020.
EJ Forbes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7872559