K820x#14complaint
Ms W is concerned that her pension fund is significantly less than her partners, although 
they have made the same  contributions. Ms W believes this has been  caused by Scottish 
Widows Limited  (SW) not collecting and applying State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme 
(SERPS) rebates correctly.
background
In 1989 Ms W decided to contract out of SERPS  and filled in a SW APP1 form to do so, 
which she signed and dated in April 1989. She passed this to SW for it to send off to the 
department of social security (DSS).
In June 1995 Ms W called  SW and queried if any payments  had been received  from the DSS 
and paid into her pension arrangement.
SW said that they had queried this situation  on a number of occasions. But no payments had 
been received  from the DSS between the start of the policy  right up to the end of the tax 
year 1994-1995.
SW was prepared to carry out a calculation and make a payment into Ms Ws pension  in 
compensation. It said, that they were confident this will put you in at least as good a position  
as if the DSS money had been  received.
Ms W then completed a new APP1 form so that she could  contract  out of SERPS from the
tax year 1995-1996  and she sent this back to SW in 1995.
SW subsequently said that a compensation amount of about £3,500 would be allocated  to 
her pension. SW confirmed that the compensation payment was based,  on what  the growth 
of any DSS contributions  would  have been had we received them in each fiscal year.
Ms W then wrote  to SW in July 1996 and she highlighted that her partners
Pension, which  is identical in virtually every respect  remains  (about £3,000)  short.
SW confirmed in 1996 that, no DSS contributions have been  allocated to your policy.  The 
DSS retained the contributions due; we applied a single premium of (about  £3,500) this 
being the growth that would have  been  attained had we received the DSS contributions.
In 2018 Ms W complained  to SW saying  that, because of changes  to the state  pension,  she 
was not now being fairly  compensated by the compensation set out in 1996. This was 
because the additional contributions retained by the DSS from about 1989  to 1995 now had 
very little value to her. So the reduction in her SW pension value brought  about by the lack of 
DSS contributions was not being  compensated for by higher state benefits. 
An adjudicator looked into the complaint  and felt it should not be upheld. He thought that SW 
had offered fair compensation in 1996. 
Ms W did not agree and said that SW were negligent in not administering  the original 
contracting out instructions correctly,  did not manage contributions properly by making sure 
contributions were received from the DSS and the compensation in 1996 had not fully 
addressed her losses.
Ref: DRN76212632The adjudicator wasnt persuaded  to alter his view and so the complaint has been  passed to 
me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 1996 when the issue of the non-receipt of DSS payments was addressed, SW accepted  
that it could not demonstrate that the APP1 form had been sent to the DSS. It therefore  
considered how to put this right.
SW calculated what growth would have  been  achieved on the DSS contributions  had they 
been received  for the period in question.  It then increased Ms Ws pension by that amount. 
The basis  for the compensation was that the DSS had retained the contributions and so Ms 
W would receive a higher  pension from the state  scheme when benefits were  paid in future. 
So it was not that these  contributions or rebates had been lost.  So those benefits combined  
with the sum paid into Ms Ws SW pension would fairly  address  the situation  and 
compensate her for loss at the time.  My view is that this did fairly  address the situation  at the 
time.
What has subsequently happened  is that the recent introduction of the flat rate pension has, 
by Ms Ws calculations,  meant that she receives very little, if any, benefit from the 
contributions retained by the DSS (which  should have been paid to SW). So her situation 
now is different than it would have been  if the contributions had been paid to SW. The value  
of her SW pension would  be higher (as reference to her partner  illustrates),  which  is now no 
longer offset by the additional  pension that it was assumed in 1996 she would get from the 
state.
My view is that the issue was addressed in 1996  and fair compensation was offered and 
accepted which compensated for the loss caused.  What has occurred  some  20 years  later is 
that a third party has made decisions which  have  meant that Ms W has received less benefit  
overall than it was thought she would in 1996  (by changing the nature of state pension 
benefits). That was not foreseeable  in 1996  and I do not believe  that SW should have to 
review the compensation again  because  of actions by that third party that have affected what 
state benefits she will receive.
It is actually the actions taken with respect  to the state pension  that have caused  any loss, 
now, to Ms W. Actions taken by the authorities such as this can benefit or disadvantage  
individuals, I dont believe that Ms Ws situation is different because there is the involvement 
of SW - such that SW should  compensate her further.
I do understand Ms Ws point that in her view this situation has only occurred because of 
SWs earlier error and this is highlighted  by the effect it has had on her pension value as 
compared to her partners. But, for the reasons discussed, I do not believe that the fact the 
situation has recently changed  is the liability of SW or it should revisit the matter.
my final decision   
  
I do not uphold  this complaint or make  any award.
Ref: DRN76212633Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
David Bird
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7621263