K820x#14complaint
Miss L is unhappy with the way Ocaso SA, Compania de Seguros  y Reaseguros  handled a 
claim under her local authoritys buildings insurance  policy and the settlement it offered her.
background
Miss L made  a claim to Ocaso  after a fire damaged her home on 30 October 2018. She said 
she and her adult son had had to move  in with her parents who were  both pensioners with 
medical conditions.
One month later Ocaso offered her £8,687 for repair works or it said its contractor could 
carry out the work. It also offered  her a disturbance allowance of £45 per person a day while 
she and her son were living away from home.  Miss L accepted  the offer of disturbance  
allowance shortly after but said shed have to check whether the settlement amount would 
be enough for her builder  to carry out the repairs. Miss L said she provided her bank details 
for Ocaso  to start paying the disturbance allowance but didnt receive anything despite  
chasing its claims handler on a number  of occasions.
Ocaso asked  Miss L to obtain two quotes for repairs. She did that but didnt hear anything 
back from January  to June 2019.  Then  Ocaso said it would settle on the basis of one of the 
quotes provided by Miss L but it said it needed  to see the quote on headed paper first. It 
also said it would offer £7,500 in respect  of a disturbance  allowance. Miss L asked for a 
breakdown of what period this covered and the daily rate. Ocaso  said it was for the period 
from 1 November  2018 and based on an allowance of £15 per person a day. In mid-July 
Ocaso increased the offer in respect of the disturbance allowance  to £8,190.  
Miss L felt Ocaso should honour its original  offer of £45 per person a day for the 
disturbance allowance. She also said the builder whose  quote  Ocaso  had accepted was no 
longer available because of the delay. So she provided  a third quote for £16,895. Ocaso 
settled the claim for repairs on that basis on 30 August  2019. Miss L says she received  the 
funds on 13 September.
After further discussion  in October 2019  Ocaso doubled its offer in respect of the 
disturbance allowance to £16,380.  It also offered Miss L £1,680 for the trouble  and upset 
caused by the delay  in dealing with her claim.
As Miss L didnt think this was enough,  she complained  to this service. Our investigator 
didnt uphold  the complaint. He thought Ocasos settlement offer was fair.
As Miss L didnt agree, the matter has been referred to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Firstly Ill look at the time Ocaso took to settle this claim. There was a period from January to 
June 2019 when it must have seemed to Miss L that nothing  much was happening with 
regard to it. Shed provided estimates  to Ocaso  and heard nothing  back despite  regularly 
chasing them. During this period Ocaso  was in contact with Miss Ls landlord and also 
making further enquiries regarding a business Miss L ran from the property which  might  
have meant  she wasnt covered under  the policy. An insurer  is entitled to carry out 
Ref: DRN70546362reasonable investigations regarding a claim.  But I think Ocaso failed  Miss L by not doing this 
more promptly and Ill take this into account  when looking at compensation. After the end of 
June Im satisfied that there were no excessive delays on Ocasos part.
Its accepted that Miss Ls home wasnt  fit to live in after the fire. She was entitled under  the 
policy to be provided  with alternative accommodation. But it seems to have been agreed  that 
she and her son would move in with her parents and Ocaso  would pay a daily disturbance  
allowance. Despite its name a disturbance allowance  isnt actually compensation for 
disturbance or inconvenience. It's compensation for the actual extra costs a consumer has 
incurred because of where theyre staying in the course of a claim. Miss L said she had to 
pay her parents for bed, gas, water,  electricity  and food. If she can evidence  how much  extra  
she had to pay while staying with her parents compared with her normal expenditure, Id 
expect Ocaso to consider that.
But the insurance industry recognises  that it can be time-consuming and difficult for people 
to do this. So if a consumer doesnt  have  documentary  evidence to show what their 
reasonable extra expenses were, its standard  practice that the allowance  should  be paid at 
a rate of £10 a day for each adult. As Ocasos revised offer was £15 a day for each adult, I 
think thats a reasonable offer.
Ocaso didnt make it clear  what period it was paying  the disturbance allowance for. I think 
allowing for the four to six weeks the repair works  were estimated to take and the fact that 
the cash settlement  was received by Miss L in mid-September 2019 it would be reasonable 
for Ocaso  to pay the allowance for one year from 1 November  2018. I calculate that at a rate 
of £15 a day for two adults that would  be £10,950.  As the amount actually paid by Ocaso  
exceeds that by a generous margin, I dont  think it was an unreasonable  offer.  
However, news of the reduction in the allowance from £45 per person a day to a third of that 
must have  been  very disappointing for Miss L. Ocaso has explained that it only intended that 
rate to be paid for a relatively short time based  on its estimate that Miss L and her son would 
be living with her parents  for a maximum of two months. However  due to the various checks  
which Ocaso had to make, as mentioned above,  the claim actually took much longer to 
settle. I think Ocaso failed  Miss L in this respect.  It should have told Miss L at a much earlier 
stage that it was having to revise its offer of £45 per person a day. But I dont think it would 
be fair to hold Ocaso to paying  this higher  rate unless Miss L can show that she changed  her 
position based on the original offer and the reduction in the offer left her at a disadvantage.  If 
thats the case, she should provide evidence of this for Ocaso to consider  as mentioned 
above.
Awards of compensation  arent intended  to fine or punish a business  thats  the job of the 
regulator. All insurance claims  come with a level of inconvenience and a degree of trouble 
attached to them. Some more than others. But when this service considers how much 
compensation to award, were looking at what trouble  and upset the insurer  has caused to its 
policy holder above  and beyond that which wed normally expect to see associated  with a 
claim of this type.
Although its hard to say precisely,  I think Ocaso caused a delay of at least  a few months in 
investigating Miss Ls claim. That meant  that she suffered the inconvenience  of staying with 
her parents  for much  longer than would otherwise have been necessary. There  was also the 
fact that she wasnt kept informed  of what was going  on and constantly had to chase for 
updates. I can understand that this would have caused her a lot of unnecessary  stress. On 
Ref: DRN70546363top of this was the disappointment  caused by Ocaso reducing its offer for disturbance 
allowance.
It wouldnt be fair for me not to recognise  that Ocaso has acknowledged  its service should 
have been much better and that it has offered a total of £1,860  on top of the disturbance  
allowance to compensate Miss L for the trouble and upset caused  by its poor service. 
Having taken all the circumstances  into account  I think that compensation of this amount is 
fair and reasonable. I appreciate that this will come as a disappointment to Miss L but Ive 
thought about this services approach to awards  made in similar circumstances and I dont 
think I can fairly award any more. 
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2020.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7054636