K820x#14complaint
Mrs L says that Bank of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  with her mortgage.
background
Mrs L took out a Halifax mortgage in 1993  and it looks  like she was sold PPI around the 
same time.
Our adjudicator didnt  think this was a complaint we should uphold. Mrs L disagrees  with our 
adjudicators view. Mrs L told us that if shed known what PPI was, and that she couldve 
declined it at the time, then she wouldve done  so. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. Based on all the information Ive seen I dont uphold this complaint. 
Halifax couldnt provide any of Mrs Ls paperwork from the sale.  So Ive seen nothing signed  
by Mrs L from then.  But its not surprising, given how long ago this sale happened, that 
documents arent still available. 
And I can completely  understand  why Mrs L mightve forgotten  some of the details from the 
sale. I have to look at everything and decide what I think is most likely. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. 
Mrs Ls home wouldve  been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date  and 
she alone was responsible for paying her mortgage. So, I can see why Mrs L mightve  felt 
PPI was useful to have.  
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mrs L decided she wanted  to have the benefits and 
security that PPI offered her and she chose to buy the policy. 
Halifax looked at her complaint on the basis that it advised her to take out PPI. Given  the 
lack of paperwork showing how Halifax sold Mrs L the PPI, I think  this is the fairest way to 
assess this complaint as it imposes extra obligations  on the lender. If a business makes  a 
recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  information  in a clear  
way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable . 
The actual policy document isnt now available from 1993. But Ive seen the PPI policy  
Halifax sold after Mrs L took out her mortgage.  I think its reasonable to assume that the 
terms and conditions in the policy Mrs L took out are likely to have been broadly the same  in 
all important respects. I find that PPI wouldve been  suitable for her. 
Mrs L was eligible for the PPI. Ive seen no information to make me think  that the policy  
terms wouldve made it difficult  for her to make a claim. And Mrs L wasnt affected by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover. So even if Halifax  had given  her more information 
about the exclusions and limitations  this isnt likely to have put her off buying PPI. Mrs L 
couldve benefitted from everything the policy offered.  
Ref: DRN73429312Ive taken into account that Mrs L says she wouldve been able to rely on getting 6 months  
full sick pay followed by 6 months half pay, and then quarter pay for another  6 months  
before employment  was terminated if she was off work beyond  18 months. 
The policy wouldve paid out in full for up to 12 months per claim in the event of an accident 
or illness that prevented Mrs L from working.  It wouldve paid out on top of sick pay from her 
employer. Bearing  in mind that Mrs L mightve  also had some additional costs if she was too 
unwell to go back to work  or disabled, I think this couldve been  a useful benefit at a difficult 
time. And as well as this, the policy wouldve also paid out for up to 12 months for any one 
claim if Mrs L lost her job and became unexpectedly  unemployed. 
Mrs L couldve made repeated claims on the policy, giving her long term protection for her 
mortgage. Mrs L told us that she didnt have  any savings  or other  means to rely on if she 
wasnt working. So having PPI wouldve meant she could  be sure shed always be able to 
keep up the monthly  repayments in order to protect her home. I think  this wouldve been an 
important consideration at the time  even if shes now forgotten  this.
It appears that Mrs L made a claim on the policy when  she was out of work  so it looks like 
this supports my view that she did have a need  for the policy.  
Its possible  some information Halifax gave Mrs L about the PPI costs wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  wouldve changed  her decision to buy 
PPI for the reasons  Ive explained. I havent seen  anything to suggest  that the policy wasnt  
affordable for Mrs L when  she took it out. 
Looked at overall, given the benefits  PPI offered  her, I think it unlikely Mrs L wouldve made  
a different decision about taking out the policy if better information  had been  provided. On 
balance, I think shed  still have taken it out. 
This means  that it doesnt  look as if Mrs L has lost out as a result of anything Halifax 
mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For these reasons I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7342931