K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that Nationwide  Building Society  (Nationwide) failed to tell him about 
important changes to his payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy terms and conditions. 
He says that had it done so, he wouldve shopped  around and cancelled  the policy  for a 
better one.
Mr C asks for a refund of his PPI premiums.
background
Around 2011 Nationwide changed the terms and conditions of Mr Cs PPI policy. Amongst 
other things,  the insurance provider changed and the ability  for policyholders  to make 
amendments to the cover was removed. Nationwide says it sent a notice to all current  
policyholders, which  highlighted the key changes.
Mr C says he didnt receive notification of these changes  he only found out much later on 
in 2019 when he asked Nationwide to reduce  the level of cover. He says he took out this 
policy because it offered flexibility so that if he wanted to amend the cover he could. He says 
that had he been told about the changes sooner he wouldve looked for a better  policy and 
one that gave him the option  to make changes.
The adjudicator didnt recommend the complaint be upheld. They  said they thought  
Nationwide had likely sent out the policy change notification to Mr C, so he was made aware 
of the changes. But they went on to say that, even if they found Mr C hadnt been  told, they 
werent persuaded that Mr C wouldve cancelled the policy in 2011 as he says.
Mr C disagrees   he maintains that he didnt get notified of the changes and repeated that 
he wouldve sought  cover  elsewhere had he been told.
Because the complaint  couldnt be resolved informally, it comes to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr C. But I agree with the adjudicator and for the same reasons  I 
think theyve reached entirely  the right outcome here and explained things clearly. Theres 
not much  I feel I can usefully add  but I will set out my reasons.
Nationwide isnt able to provide a customer specific record to show  for example the exact 
date it says it sent the correspondence to Mr C about the policy terms and condition  
changes. But it has provided an example of how those policy changes were  communicated.
Im mindful that Nationwide  cant show for certain  that it sent Mr C this correspondence. But I 
think that for this kind of policy  change  including an insurer change   I think  its likely that it 
did inform all its current policyholders of the changes as it says. Mr C hasnt told us about 
any postal issues at his address  and he hasnt complained that he didnt receive  other 
communications from Nationwide including the annual renewal notices sent during the life of 
the policy.
Ref: DRN77329452So overall I think, more likely than not, Nationwide sent and Mr C received the 
correspondence Nationwide sent out detailing the PPI policy  changes.
But as the adjudicator also explained  to Mr C  even if I was to make a finding  that 
Nationwide didnt notify Mr C of the changes  to the policy (which I am not) Ive not seen 
enough evidence  to persuade me that if Mr C had been notified, he wouldve gone ahead 
and cancelled the policy to seek cover elsewhere as he says. It appears for example that Mr 
C sought to amend his cover in 2019 from 24 months benefit  to 12 months to simply reflect 
the remaining  term of his mortgage. I cant see that Mr C had good reasons or a need to 
make any changes in 2011.
Ive thought about everything Mr C has said  including what hes said about  the right to 
cancel and look for a policy which best fitted  his needs and that like car and home insurance 
he shops around  to find the best deal. But these things dont change my decision.  Ive 
already said why I dont  think  Mr C had a need  to make any changes to his policy  in 2011. 
And Im not persuaded by what Mr C says about  shopping around for PPI.
So overall and for the reasons Ive given above,  I dont  uphold Mr Cs complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  above, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Cs complaint and I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 January 2020.
Paul Featherstone
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7732945