K821x#15complaint
Miss H complains that Evergreen  Finance London  Limited (trading as MoneyBoat)  gave her 
loans irresponsibly.
background
This complaint is about three loans MoneyBoat  provided to Miss H between  July and 
September 2018. Heres a table showing these  loans.
Loan Date
TakenDate
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment 
Amount
1 03/07/2018 17/07/2018 6 £500.00 £153.33
2 18/09/2018 24/09/2018 6 £300.00 £83.00
3 28/09/2018 outstanding 6 £1,000.00 £314.20
Miss H complained that she became  stuck  in a cycle  of borrowing to repay other  payday  
loans.
Our adjudicator felt that the complaint should be upheld in part. She didnt  feel that shed 
seen enough to say it was unfair for MoneyBoat  to have  provided loans 1 and 2 to Miss H. 
But she thought  that by loan 3, proportionate checks wouldve shown that Miss H had other 
outstanding short term high cost loans. So MoneyBoat shouldve realised it was unlikely 
Miss H wouldve been  able to repay this borrowing in a sustainable way. 
For these reasons, our adjudicator said MoneyBoat shouldnt have lent Miss H loan 3. 
MoneyBoat disagreed with our adjudicators view. Mainly it said that the checks it did were  
proportionate given that Miss H was a new borrower  with MoneyBoat  and it didnt think 
thered been any significant change in circumstances between the loans.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
MoneyBoat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it shouldve carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Miss H 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable way. 
These checks could take into account  a number of different things, such as how much was 
being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in 
mind, in the early  stages  of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might  be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that MoneyBoat should fairly and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
Ref: DRN71308392the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
MoneyBoat was required to establish  whether  Miss H could  sustainably  repay her loans  
not just whether the loan payments were  affordable  on a strict pounds  and pence 
calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Miss Hs complaint.
I think that, broadly  speaking, the checks MoneyBoat did before agreeing the first two loans 
were proportionate. I think MoneyBoat might reasonably have  wanted  to know  a bit more  
about Miss Hs financial  circumstances when she asked for loan 2 after she repaid loan 1 
early since  she had planned to repay it over 6 months when she took it out just a few weeks 
earlier. I think that potentially indicated then that her finances werent stable and that she 
wasnt managing  debt in a well planned  way. But Ive taken into account  that Miss H didnt 
immediately borrow again  it wasnt until 2 months later that she applied to MoneyBoat  for 
loan 2.  
And the amounts that Miss H needed to repay  looked comfortably affordable compared with 
the disposable income shed declared  (even allowing for the adjustment  MoneyBoat  made to 
the figures shed  said).  So on balance, given the repayment amounts for loans 1 and 2, what  
was apparent about Miss Hs circumstances at the time, and her borrowing history  with the 
lender at that early stage in their relationship I dont think it wouldve been proportionate  for 
MoneyBoat to ask her for the amount of information  that would be needed to show  the 
lending was unsustainable before agreeing  the first two loans. 
For these reasons, Im not upholding Miss Hs complaint  in respect  of loans 1 and 2.
Ref: DRN71308393Just 4 days after paying loan 2, Miss H asked MoneyBoat for her third loan. And this time 
she asked to borrow significantly  more  money  - twice  the amount shed taken out on loan 1 
less than three months earlier. 
So I think MoneyBoat  shouldve now realised that it was no longer reasonable to base  its 
lending decision on the information Miss H was providing. I think it would have been 
proportionate for MoneyBoat to have  taken steps to independently check the true state  of 
Miss Hs finances.
If MoneyBoat had looked in depth  at Miss Hs finances it wouldve been able to see that she 
was facing serious problems managing her money.  It would have seen that Miss H had been 
borrowing regularly from other short term loan providers for some  time  and she had three 
other short term high cost loans outstanding when she asked for loan 3 with MoneyBoat.  
I agree  with our adjudicator that the number  and extent  of her active  debt with other payday 
lenders when she asked MoneyBoat for loan 3 shouldve made MoneyBoat  realise that she 
was having money  problems.  
Bearing in mind Miss Hs declared income and expenditure, and the fact she was living at 
home with her parents, I think it shouldve been  apparent to MoneyBoat  that Miss H probably 
wasnt asking it for a loan just to provide a short term fix for her cash  flow problems or to 
cover an unexpected expense.
Instead, to my mind  the information MoneyBoat had available if it had done proportionate 
checks suggested that Miss H was reliant on taking out expensive credit. So it was unlikely 
that Miss H was going to be able to repay loan 3 in a sustainable way.
And I think its fair to say this is borne out by the fact that Miss H hasnt been able to repay  
this loan  as far as I am aware it is still outstanding. 
So Im upholding  the complaint about  loan 3.
In coming to my decision, Ive taken into account  everything that MoneyBoat has said, 
including its response  to the adjudicators  view.  I appreciate that it may still disagree with this 
outcome. But I hope that setting things out as Ive done helps to explain my reasons.
putting things right  what MoneyBoat needs to do
If MoneyBoat has sold the debt to a third party it should buy this back  so it can carry out 
these directions  or otherwise tell the third party that it needs  to carry out these steps  to put 
things right.
remove any outstanding interest and charges from loan 3 and treat any repayments 
made by Miss H for loan 3 as payments  towards  the capital 
when MoneyBoat works out what it owes Miss H, it can first apply  this towards 
offsetting any outstanding capital balance  she owes on loan 3 
Ref: DRN71308394if there is a surplus, then it should return this to Miss H  and pay her 8% simple  a 
year interest on this surplus  from the date her account wouldve been settled in full (if 
the payments  she made had been applied towards  the capital balance in the first 
place) to the date of settlement
in the event that there is still an outstanding capital balance then I remind  MoneyBoat  
that it should take a sympathetic view when  seeking to agree an affordable 
repayment plan with Miss H
remove any negative information  recorded on Miss Hs credit  file in relation to loan 3 
once it is paid.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires MoneyBoat to take off tax from this interest. MoneyBoat 
must give Miss H a certificate  showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im upholding  Miss Hs complaint about loan 3. Evergreen 
Finance London  Limited (trading as MoneyBoat) should take the steps Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss H to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 February  2020.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7130839