K820x#14complaint
Ms W complains that TM Advances Limited has refused  to waive  interest on her loan and 
hasnt taken into account her personal circumstances when she took out the loan.
background
Ms W made a previous complaint about her TM Advances  loan that was looked  into by us. 
She now raises new complaints about  the loan and says her medical  position  hasnt been 
considered and that she cant  repay  the money  she owes.  Ms W says the interest on the 
loan should be waived due to her circumstances and she cant  make the repayments TM 
Advances has proposed.
TM Advances says when  the loan was taken  out, Ms W had relatively small debts and it 
didnt know about  any health issues. It says it will work with Ms W to try and help her and 
has offered her a short term repayment plan which would reduce the amount she owes.  Its 
also provided her with details of organisations that could help her.
Ms W had referred her complaint to us already  and our investigator  thought  TM Advances 
had dealt fairly with it. He didnt think our role was to negotiate  repayment  plans  with 
consumers and businesses, and didnt think we could fairly order TM Advances  to write off 
the interest.  
Ms W doesnt accept that view and has asked  that it be reviewed. She says TM Advances 
actions are not helping her and says she cant repay the money. Ms W questions why TM 
Advances cant be ordered to waive the interest on the loan.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Ms W will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  she feels about whats  happened. I also make  it 
clear to her that Im only looking at the new complaint points that she has raised.
Businesses should treat cases of financial difficulty positively and sympathetically. That 
doesnt mean that a business  should  necessarily write off a loan or the interest but should 
work with its customers to try and assist and help them. I can see that TM Advances  has 
provided Ms W with a list of organisations that could help her and has offered a short term 
repayment plan which would have resulted in some of the loan being  written off. I can also 
see that TM Advances  has offered to discuss  matters further with Ms W and work with her to 
help and support  her.
So Im satisfied that TM Advances has acted positively and sympathetically. I appreciate Ms 
W would like all of the loan interest  written off or waived. But I cant fairly  order that in 
circumstances where  I dont think TM Advances has made  a mistake or acted unfairly. And I 
can see that those  were matters looked  at in the previous complaint.
I appreciate that Ms W is in a difficult financial position and also has health  problems. I can 
see that TM Advances  has said that it will take those medical difficulties into account which  
is what I would expect  it to do. I dont  think  TM Advances couldve known about those 
problems until Ms W told it about  them. And I think its up to TM Advances to decide how to 
take those matters into account when exercising its commercial judgement.
Ref: DRN71510352The investigator has explained that its not our role to facilitate  or negotiate  repayment  plans 
or agreements in these  sorts of circumstances. I hope Ms W will either  approach TM 
Advances herself or via a third party to discuss any such plan or to discuss  any other way 
TM Advances may be able to help her.
Overall whilst I sympathise with Ms Ws position.  I cant fairly or reasonably order TM 
Advances to do anything  further in the circumstances of this complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 April 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7151035