K820x#14complaint
Miss B complains  about the advice she received from Capital One (Europe) plc 
(Capital One) when  she called to request that an arrangement be put in place for her on her 
credit card account whilst  she recovered from the effects of surgery. She feels the advice 
was not clear and led her into agreeing  an arrangement  she would otherwise have not.
background
The investigators background summary covered all the relevant facts and is known to both 
Miss B and Capital One so I wont repeat it in any great detail. Therefore, if Ive not 
mentioned something  its not because Ive ignored  it, but because  I dont think  its relevant to 
the issues. However in summary it is this; 
Having had surgery in 2018 Miss B called Capital One to tell them she wouldnt be working 
for a short period. The advisor she spoke to told her that they would  place her account on a 
Medical Arrangement for the following 3 months and that she would not be charged  interest  
or fees.  The advisor explained that the minimum payment  would still be generated, meaning 
Miss B would fall behind  on her payments leading to a report being  generated on each 
occasion to the credit  reference agencies that she was in an arrangement. That advice was 
followed up with a letter on the 8 August confirming the arrangement. The arrangement was 
then extended  by agreement and a further  letter of the 20 October  confirmed that. 
Miss B was unable to return  to work within the time-frame she had expected and in February 
2019 she asked  if she could pay £30 per month until the end of that month.  Capital One 
discussed the impact  that would have and offered  alternative arrangement. That 
arrangement was confirmed in writing on the 5 February 2019. Miss B is unhappy that 
having entered into the arrangement she has found that the recording of late payments on 
her credit file has led to her having difficulty in obtaining credit.
Capital One accepted that they had reported the late payments to the credit  reference 
agencies but said they had also added  a flag to show that Miss B was working with them in 
an arrangement. As such they did not consider they had done  anything wrong.
Miss B was unhappy  with Capital Ones response and so the investigator looked  into the 
complaint but didnt  think Capital One had acted  unfairly. As Miss B didnt  agree, the 
complaint has been passed to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  What I need to decide is whether 
Capital One acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings with Miss B. The purpose of my 
decision isnt to address  every single point raised.  My role is to consider the evidence 
presented by Miss B and Capital  One, and reach what I think is an independent,  fair and 
reasonable decision based  on the facts of the case.
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. Miss B took 
the appropriate and prudent course  of action in contacting Capital One to advise them  of her 
anticipated difficulties  in making payments whilst she was off work. I have listened  to the call 
recordings and the advisors were  sympathetic  and helpful. In the call of the 7 August the 
advisor very clearly told Miss B that We have a medical arrangement we can pop you in just 
Ref: DRN72904882for the next 3 months. The detail  of the arrangement was explained and Miss B was clearly  
told that as she would actually be missing payments then Capital One would have to report  
them as missed payments  but, Itll just show you are in an agreement so its nothing  too 
bad. Miss B did ask if it would go down as a medical arrangement  and was told that it would 
go down on her credit file as an arrangement with the further  explanation that it would 
indicate that she had been  willing to work  with Capital One and, it wont necessarily be a 
bad thing just that youve  made the first steps.
I have looked  at the credit report and can see that the arrangement is recorded but not that 
it is a medical arrangement.
The crux of this complaint is whether the advice given to Miss B on the 7 August was 
reasonably clear. Having  listened to the calls I am satisfied that Miss B knew that if she 
entered into the medical arrangement with Capital One it would mean that she would not be 
required to make payments for the duration of that arrangement, and that the payments she 
would otherwise have made would be recorded  as missed. I am also satisfied that the 
advisor told her that the missed payments when recorded would be accompanied by the 
note that there was an arrangement in place, not a medical arrangement.
In my view, I cannot see that recording on Miss Bs credit file an arrangement, as opposed to 
a medical arrangement,  would make any material difference  since  the key issue is that 
payments were not made.  That would be considered by those searching her credit  file, 
alongside other information including  Miss Bs previous payment history. But, in any event I 
think the information given to Miss B was clear and I dont think she can have been under 
any misunderstanding. I appreciate she was told specifically that its nothing  too bad and it 
wont necessarily be a bad thing, but those  comments taken in the context of the overall 
conversation do not in my view lead to a finding that Miss B was misled.  Very clearly the 
advisor was confirming that there  would be a report of some description  to the credit 
reference agency and that the file would  be marked with missed payments, and of course 
that is a negative step. But the imposition of the flag arrangement indicating that Miss B 
was working with Capital One reduces the effect  or impact of the late payments, which  is 
clearly why the advisor made the comments she did. 
I know Miss B will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to the same  conclusion 
as the investigator  and for similar  reasons.  Capital  One reacted positively and 
sympathetically to Miss B when they learned  of her difficulties, and they gave clear and 
appropriate advice  which they followed up in writing.  So I cant  say they have acted unfairly 
and Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Capital One.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 20 February  2020.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7290488