K820x#14complaint
Mr G has complained that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC failed to treat a transaction as 
fraudulent. 
Hes also unhappy with how staff handled  his fraud claim and the complaint that followed.
background
Mr G was at Dubai airport and wanted to buy a bottle of water. He went  to a shop  and was 
told the water could be charged to his flight if he liked.  He was told he needed to present his 
boarding pass  and the credit card he used to book the flight. Mr G decided  to go ahead  and 
handed both over. He entered his PIN when prompted but didnt think a transaction  was 
taking place.
Mr G later checked  his statement and found a charge for £49.52 which he didnt recognise. 
He could see it was for a transaction at Dubai airport but he hadnt made any other  
purchases; the bottle of water had been the only thing hed picked up and had any 
interaction with a cashier for.
Mr G contacted Tesco to raise a fraud claim. It investigated  but said it couldnt help Mr G. It 
said it wouldnt be able to treat the transaction as fraudulent as the transaction  had been  
processed using  the genuine card  referring to the chip embedded in it  and Mr Gs 
associated PIN. Tesco  also said it didnt think a chargeback would  succeed  because chip 
and PIN had been used. It sent him the forms but, given what hed been told by Tesco,  Mr G 
didnt return them.
Unhappy with Tescos  response, Mr G brought his complaint to us. He was unhappy  with 
Tesco for not perusing a fraud  complaint for him. He felt Tescos definition  of fraud was 
incorrect.
One of our investigators  looked into the case. He didnt think Tesco  had acted unfairly and 
thought its answer  was reasonable.  He agreed  that a transaction  authorised  by way of chip 
and PIN wouldnt be considered as fraud.  He also felt a chargeback would  have been  
unsuccessful, even if Mr G had completed the necessary forms.
Mr G remained  unhappy and so the complaint has been referred to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  Mr Gs 
complaint should  be upheld.  Ill explain why. 
Mr G is clearly unhappy with how Tesco have approached his complaint. At the centre  of 
that unhappiness is Mr Gs view on how Tesco has interpreted what  fraud is. So I think itd 
be helpful for me to set out how we look at fraud cases.
Typically, and speaking  quite broadly, we see two types of fraud case.  The first is where  a 
consumer says they didnt take part in a transaction at all, such as where their card has been 
stolen. Wed normally refer to such transactions as being unauthorised. 
Ref: DRN76466832Second is where the consumer acknowledges  at least some involvement but says theyve 
been scammed or duped somehow. The complaints will be approached  in different ways 
depending on what has happened.  
Tesco appears to have largely treated  Mr Gs complaint as if he were  saying the transaction 
were unauthorised.  Theyve looked  at how the transaction was completed and have seen the 
card and PIN have  been used to process  it. Mr G doesnt dispute  that he did use his card 
and PIN. Ive not seen the electronic records to confirm thats what happened  but given 
theres no dispute over this point I dont believe I need to. It doesnt appear that any card 
cloning or anything  of that nature  has taken  place, given theres only one transaction  of fairly 
low value. So it seems unlikely someone has successfully cloned  Mr Gs card as theyve not 
tried to spend any more  money.
Im then satisfied that the transaction cant be treated as unauthorised. Mr G has completed  
the transaction himself by handing  over his card and entering his PIN when prompted.  
I can accept what Mr G has said about being unaware a transaction was taking place and 
that he thought  the purchase he was making  was being charged to his flight. But whats 
important here is that he did give his card over and enter  his PIN.
The rules  on what defines an authorised  or unauthorised transaction are set out in the 
Payment Service Regulations 2009  (those being  relevant given  the transaction in question 
took place in 2017). Broadly speaking, they set out the conditions in which  a transaction may 
be considered  as authorised and that includes  the account holder giving over their card to a 
merchant and then entering their PIN.
I can see how this will be frustrating for Mr G. And his point is that he had no idea a 
transaction was actually  taking place. But I think Tesco has been correct to say that it cant  
refund the transaction as fraudulent given Mr Gs card and PIN were used. The language 
used doesnt appear to have been helpful for Mr G, but I dont find that means  Tescos  
positon isnt fair and reasonable.
The scenario  Mr G has described seems more  similar to a scam. He acknowledges taking 
part in the transaction but says hes been tricked. The scam essentially being  that he was 
told he wouldnt be charged for the water when he in fact was. So the question is then what 
might Tesco do to help him here.
Firstly I dont think Tesco fairly  or reasonably would have had any way of knowing  this wasnt 
a genuine payment. And there doesnt appear to be anything untoward  to suggest Tesco 
needed to intervene at the time. Mr G also didnt  think there was anything  to be concerned  
about. So I dont  think the transaction could have  been prevented by Tesco at the outset. So 
Ive gone on to consider if there  is anything  else Tesco might have done to help.
I can see Tesco did consider the chargeback option and sent Mr G the relevant forms. It also 
told him that his chances of success were very small. And so Mr G understandably  didnt 
send the forms back. Ive then got to consider  whether Tescos actions were correct  here or 
whether it should  have  done more.
Ref: DRN76466833I believe Tesco did the right thing in explaining  the possibility of a chargeback  to Mr G. I also 
think it was right to manage his expectations around its success. I cant see that Tesco  
actually blocked  Mr G from raising  or chargeback  or that it refused to put one forward for him 
on his behalf.  And even  if it had Id then be left to consider the likely success of a 
chargeback, even if set out in Mr Gs own words. If it seems  unlikely a chargeback would  
have succeeded  then I could only conclude Tescos  actions  had still been  fair.
I should explain here that a chargeback isnt an automatic right or a legal  entitlement.  Its an 
agreement between card providers and card schemes and has its own rules.
I consider it more likely  than not an attempt at a chargeback would have failed. I believe it 
would have been successfully defended by the responding parties. And I can assure Mr G 
that Tesco would have had no influence over the response provided by the third parties 
involved. It would have been  shown  that Mr G used his card and PIN to authorise a 
transaction and it seems  unlikely the dispute  would have proceeded beyond  that point. It 
would be further  evidence to suggest that Mr G did in fact authorise a payment for £49.52.
Im not saying here that Mr G hasnt lost out here or that there was no deception  on the part 
of the merchant. But I do find that Tescos  response to Mr Gs complaint has been  fair and 
reasonable. 
Mr G also raised  complaints about all the staff members at Tesco who spoke to him. Ive 
listened to the calls and I think the way the staff spoke to Mr G was professional. They  did 
what they could  to provide him with relevant information  about their processes. Its 
unfortunate that they didnt agree with Mr G that the transaction  was fraudulent  but they 
explained why.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Ben Murray
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7646683