K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains about the way NewDay Ltd (NewDay) handled some refunds to his 
Debenhams card following the cancellation  of some  airline tickets hed bought. In particular 
hes unhappy about the delays NewDay caused and the lack of updates he received,  which  
he says has caused  him a great  deal of distress and inconvenience  to pursue.
background
Mr O cancelled some airline tickets hed bought using his Debenhams card and asked for a 
refund. He accepted there was a cancellation  fee which was taken from his card, but he 
subsequently discovered one of the refunds had been reversed and other payments he 
didnt recognise  were taken from the card. Mr O contacted NewDay as he was concerned  
about fraudulent  activity,  so NewDay cancelled the card and started a chargeback  query.
Over the next two months Mr O says he was asked to provide duplicate information  to prove 
the purchases and that he was due a refund.  He says he didnt receive any updates or 
confirmation of what had happened. In January 2018 he complained  about  the time it had 
taken to resolve the matter and the stress  hed suffered.
NewDay said Mr O had been charged and refunded in line with the airlines  terms and 
conditions which said he was only due a refund of any taxes hed paid for the flights.  It 
confirmed all the other payments had been  taken correctly although it accepted  that it had 
duplicated some  transactions. It offered £100 as compensation for a late payment charge 
and interest that had been incurred as well as the inconvenience Mr O suffered.
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and thought that, while Mr O shouldnt get 
a refund beyond  the terms and conditions of the sale, he should be given £250 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  caused.
Mr O agreed, but NewDay said Mr O should  have been aware of the airlines  terms and 
conditions and said it hadnt acted unfairly.  It also said it had only sent Mr O letters which 
were needed  to process his claim.  As no resolution  could  be found the case  has been 
passed to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Im satisfied that NewDay has now dealt with all the transactions and refunds  correctly and 
that Mr Os statements show his card to be in the position it ought to be in. So I dont think  
Mr O has suffered any financial loss here.  
Mr O said he agrees  with our recommended compensation and now accepts that his card 
statement does accurately reflect the financial position he should be in.  But NewDay  doesnt  
accept the amount of compensation thats been proposed. So Im going to consider what  
amount is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. And I agree with the 
investigator that the sum of £250  is appropriate  for the impact  this matter has had on Mr O 
and Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN73156572From September to December 2017 Mr O received a number of letters from NewDay 
requesting information to pursue his claim.  But Ive seen how Mr O had already provided 
much of that information  and I cant say NewDay kept Mr O updated with its progress during 
that time or explained clearly  why it needed  further information. Mr O has said how he was 
aware that the merchant hadnt  been  contacted by NewDay, so he knew his claim wasnt 
progressing and I can understand how frustrated  he would  have  been  about the delay in 
resolving the matter.
NewDay said that the monthly card statement for September 2017  had 14 separate entries 
which amended  any previous  errors  and corrected  the position  of Mr Os account. It said the 
airline only promised  partial refunds which it did make. But I cant  see that it told Mr O about 
this in its communications. If NewDay had explained  the transactions  shown  on that 
statement to Mr Oor referred him back to the company that owed  him the refund so that he 
could clarify  the payments, I think he might  have understood and accepted the position.  
Instead in December 2017 NewDay continued to tell Mr O it was reviewing his complaint.  
Mr O has lost a significant  amount of money  by cancelling his flights. He has to accept that 
as part of the terms and conditions of the airline. But I can understand the stress he was 
under by not being aware of that for around  five months. NewDay has said Mr O should 
have referred to the airlines terms and conditions  to understand he would  only get partial  
refundsbut that wasnt clear from the statements he received, and his card continued to 
have transactions  taken  from it which caused him to be concerned about fraud. I think,  as 
the expert in this situation, NewDay should have explained about the payments it had 
received from the airline much quicker  than it did. And I think  the delay in not making Mr O 
aware caused him more and more distress. 
Mr O has said that he didnt use his card during this time and also that hed been refused 
credit albeit an unrelated applicationwhich hadnt happened to him before. Theres  no 
evidence to suggest that was caused  by the ongoing  issue with this card but I can see it 
would have added to Mr Os overall distress. 
So for the reasons givenwhile I dont think Mr O has incurred any financial loss from the 
transactions, and NewDay has corrected his account to where I think  it should  beI agree 
with the investigator  regarding  the inconvenience Mr O has suffered here.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Os complaint against  NewDay Ltd in as much as it should pay him £250 for the 
distress and inconvenience caused by this matter.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 February  2019.
Keith Lawrence
Ref: DRN73156573ombudsman
Ref: DRN7315657