K821x#15Complaint
Miss A complains, in summary,  that Bank of Scotland plc did not help her recover all the 
money she paid to a binary options trading platform using her Bank  of Scotland Mastercard 
credit card. 
Background
After seeing a well-known celebrity  advertising a company, T Ltd, offering binary options 
trading, Miss A made a series of payments totalling £13,058.90  to it. She used various  
payment methods linked  to the accounts  she held with Bank of Scotland to do so. One of 
those payment methods was via her VISA debit card  linked to her Bank of Scotland  current 
account. Another was via her Bank  of Scotland Mastercard credit card  and these 
payments alone  are the subject matter  of this complaint:
£209.90 on 8 November 2017 to T via Mastercard credit card
£1,049.50  on 13 November 2017  to T via Mastercard credit card
Miss A was able to see her investments doing well on her platform  until T disappeared and 
she could no longer access the platform. Miss A contacted Bank  of Scotland  to say she had 
been the victim of a scam and asked it to help recover  her funds.
Bank of Scotland successfully processed  chargebacks for the VISA debit card transactions  
linked to Miss As current account. But declined to process chargebacks for the transactions  
linked to Miss As Mastercard. It also stated section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  
didnt apply because  no goods or services were purchased.  
 
Miss A brought her complaint to this service. 
Our investigator asked  Bank of Scotland for further  information on 19 August 2020, with a 
deadline of responding  by 2 September 2020.  Bank  of Scotland did not respond,  so the case 
was passed to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision to both parties on 21 October 2020, with a deadline  of 
responding by 4 November 2020  and Ive included those findings here:
A chargeback  isnt guaranteed  to result  in a refund. There  needs  to be a right to a 
chargeback under  the scheme  rules. And under  those rules  the merchant or 
merchant acquirer can defend a chargeback if it doesnt agree with the request. 
If a chargeback is defended, the card issuer can make a second  presentment of the 
chargeback by providing further  supporting evidence. If it is still defended by the 
merchant, it can ask the card scheme  provider to decide whether a refund should be 
given. This final part of the chargeback  process  is called arbitration.  
We would  consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the 
rights exist and there is some prospect of success. 
The Mastercard chargeback rules  relevant  to the date of Miss As transactions state 
that; chargebacks  are available to the card issuer for transactions  in which  any value 
is purchased for gambling, investment or similar  purposes.  However,  issuers  have  no 
chargeback rights related to the use of these chips or value,  unspent chips, or 
Ref: DRN74461692withdrawal of such value,  or on any winnings, gains or losses resulting  from the use 
of such chips or value. 
Im satisfied that chargeback rights are limited through the Mastercard scheme rules 
when it comes to claims relating to gambling, investment or similar.  But they arent  
excluded altogether. Having clarified  this point with Mastercard, Im satisfied there  
would be an appropriate  chargeback route if a merchant does not make funds 
transferred to it available  for use in the type of transactions for which it received 
them. 
Miss A claimed that the merchant disappeared and blocked her from accessing her 
account. I think a chargeback would have more than likely succeeded on this basis.  
This is further strengthened  by the successful claim on Miss As debit card linked to 
her current  account. 
I upheld Miss As complaint and provisionally  awarded her the return of all funds deposited 
with T via her Mastercard  credit card along  with applicable interest.    
The deadline  for a response has now passed  and, over six months  after our investigators 
request for further information,  Bank  of Scotland has still failed to respond. 
My Findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my provisional decision 
is unchanged. 
Our statutory rules  provide   at DISP 3.5.8 to 3.5.15 of the Financial Conduct  Authority 
Handbook  that we may give case-management directions and fix or extend deadlines; and 
that we may:
reach a decision  on the basis of what has been supplied  and take account of the 
failure by a party to provide information  requested;
And that.
If a respondent  fails to comply with a time limit, the Ombudsman may:  (1) proceed 
with the consideration of the complaint;  and (2) include provision  for any material 
distress or material inconvenience  caused  by that failure in any award  which he 
decides to make. 
Ive therefore concluded that, in the absence  of a response from Bank of Scotland to my 
provisional decision,  it is fair and reasonable to proceed on the basis  of the evidence  we 
already have and to take account of Bank  of Scotlands failure to reply. 
As Bank  of Scotland  had no comments to make,  my final decision is that I uphold  this 
complaint for the reasons set out above  and before.
Although most of Miss As distress or inconvenience  probably resulted  from the criminal acts 
of the fraudulent  merchant, I think Bank of Scotland could have done more  to protect her 
from the impact of its statutory duty to co-operate with our complaints process (DISP Rule 
1.4.4 of the Financial  Conduct Authority Handbook).  
Ref: DRN74461693I therefore consider £100  compensation  for distress  or inconvenience to be appropriate. Im 
aware that compensation hasnt  previously  been  awarded. But given where  we are in the 
complaint journey,  and the fact compensation for distress and inconvenience  is a matter  of 
discretion, I believe it should  fairly be paid in this case. 
My Final  Decision
For the reasons  I have  explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I direct 
Bank of Scotland plc to pay Miss A:
The money  she lost (totalling £1,259.40) within 28 days of receiving notification of her 
acceptance of my final decision;  plus
Interest (less any tax properly  deductible)  either (i) at the simple  rate of 8% per 
year on the two payments from the date they were paid to the date of settlement; or 
(ii) if the account accrued interest  because the relevant statement balances werent  
paid in full, interest  should be paid at the rate actually charged for those two 
payments from the date Miss A reported the fraud  to the bank; plus
£100 compensation for the distress  and inconvenience caused also within 28 days  of 
receiving notification  of her acceptance  of my final decision, failing which interest will 
thereafter accrue at 8% simple  per year (less  any tax) until payment is made.
Should an outstanding balance be owed on Miss As credit card account relating to 
the payments to T and/or interest on those payments, Bank of Scotland plc is entitled 
to repay  this balance  first from the settlement outlined in the bullets above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 February  2021.
Dolores Njemanze
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7446169