K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
I set out the full background to this complaint in my provisional decision,  which  I issued in 
September 2019. That provisional decision is attached here and forms part of my final 
decision.
I invited both parties to make any further  comments or representations in support of their 
case. In particular, I invited Mr A to provide evidence of his alternative  means at the time of 
sale in 1996 as there had been  some  confusion about these. 
Neither party provided any comments or made  further representations. Mr A didnt provide 
any further evidence.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither party had anything new to add, and Mr A didnt provide  any further evidence I see 
no reason to change  my provisional decision.  
I cant safely say that Mr A lost out as a result of anything Barclays did wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr As complaint, so it follows  that Barclays Bank  UK PLC doesnt have to 
pay any compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 December 2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN71867652Provisional decision
background
Mr A took out a credit card with Barclays in 1987. In 1996 Mr A upgraded  his credit card and at this 
point he bought a PPI policy. The PPI would  have helped  cover his repayments if he couldnt  work 
due to an accident, sickness or unemployment. It also offered life cover for the balance. 
Mr A says that he didnt opt for the PPI. He says he wasnt told about the significant exclusions. And 
he says that he didnt need it.
The adjudicator thought that Mr As complaint should be upheld.  Barclays disagrees, so the case  has 
been passed  to me to make a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account when deciding this case. Having done so, Im not intending to uphold  Mr As complaint. Ill 
explain why Ive reached this provisional decision. 
Mr A explains  that he doesnt recall  signing up for PPI. Barclays confused matters somewhat by 
originally telling Mr A that he had done so during a phone call. Mr A was clear that he didnt,  and 
Barclays has since  apologised for its mistake and provided evidence  that Mr A took the PPI in a paper  
application.
This paper  application was completed by Mr A when he upgraded his credit  card about  nine years 
after he took out the card. He was sent a personalised application form, which he signed  and 
returned. On the application  form there was a separate section for PPI. It offered a clear  choice 
between taking  it and not taking it. The box to accept the PPI has been ticked. The PPI then appeared  
on his statements each month. If Mr A hadnt  agreed to take the PPI I think hed have queried this 
when he saw it.
So, on balance,  I think Mr A bought the PPI knowing he had a choice about  it. 
Barclays didnt give Mr A any personal  advice  about buying  the PPI, so it didnt have to make sure it 
was right for him. But it did have to make sure Mr A got all the information he needed about the PPI 
before he made  his decision  to buy it.
Looking at the information  provided to Mr A on the application form,  I dont think  Barclays did this well 
enough. For example, theres  no information  about how much the policy would cost or what  the exact 
benefits were.  But that doesnt mean I should automatically uphold Mr As complaint. I have  to 
consider what  Mr A would have done if he had been given all the information. 
When the adjudicator  gave their view on Mr As complaint they said they thought  Mr A wouldnt have  
taken the cover if hed fully understood  the cost, because he had enough  cover from other sources to 
meet his repayments  if he couldnt work. However,  the information Mr A has given this service  and 
Barclays throughout his complaint has not been consistent. 
Mr A has said he had three to six months sick pay available to him, but also that he had six months  
sick pay and also six months sick pay followed by a further six months at a third of his pay. Hes also 
said variously that he had no savings and that he had £10,000 in savings; that he had no alternative 
cover and that he had an income protection policy. 
Ref: DRN71867653Due to these  inconsistencies, its not clear what alternative means Mr A had available  to him. So I 
cant safely say that he didnt need the PPI and wouldnt  have  bought it if hed understood the cost 
better. Mr A chose to take out PPI  so it looks  like he wanted this kind of cover.  Based on what  Ive 
seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions  to 
or limits on the PPI cover   so it would have been useful for him if something went  wrong.  And I 
havent seen anything which suggests  the PPI was unaffordable for Mr A. 
So, on the information I have  been able to rely on I cant  safely say that Mr A lost out as a result of 
anything Barclays did wrong.
my provisional  decision
Im not currently intending  to uphold Mr As complaint. However, if Mr A can provide evidence of his 
alternative means at the time of sale in 1996 I will review this further. Evidence which would  be of 
assistance includes proof of his employment, salary, sick pay and redundancy  pay entitlements and 
evidence of any income protection policy  in place at the time. 
I will consider any further representations either party wishes to provide which I receive  before 27 
October 2019 before  I make  my final decision.
Ref: DRN7186765