K820x#14complaint
Mrs P and Mr P complain  that Tesco Underwriting Limited (Tesco)  have  unfairly recorded an 
accident on the Claims and Underwriting Exchange database (CUE).
background
Mrs P has a motor insurance  policy with Tesco and Mr P is a named driver on the policy.
In June 2018 Tesco was contacted by a third party insurer (TPI) to register  a claim against 
Mrs Ps policy. The TPI said that Mrs P had been involved in an accident with its insured 
party and that she was to be held at fault for it.
Tesco wrote  to Mrs P using a templated letter that wasnt  accurate, it said:
Thank you for notifying us of this incident. It also said, We note that you
consider that the other driver was responsible...
Neither of these statements was true, as this was the first time Mrs P had been  made  aware 
that a claim had been registered. Mrs P said this caused her lots of distress  and upset. 
Tesco said that the letter was a standard template that hadnt been  amended  and was sent 
in error  by the claims handler, it apologised to Mrs P for this.
In July the TPI wrote again to Tesco to say that its insured party no longer wished to make a 
claim for the damage caused  in the accident and so it would be closing its file.
Tesco recorded this information on CUE. It recorded  the event as an accident with no costs 
attached and allowed Mrs Ps No Claims  Discount.
Mrs P complained to Tesco that as there was no contact between hers and the third partys 
car, there couldnt  have been  an accident. Because of this she feels Tesco shouldnt be 
allowed to record it on CUE and should remove it.
Tesco contacted  the TPI and asked  for evidence of the accident.  It provided photos to Tesco 
of the cars in situ, showing contact had been made  and that there was damage  to the third 
party car in the area of the contact. It was also able to provide contact details for Mrs P 
which she had exchanged with the third party at the time. Tesco explained this to Mrs P and 
said that because  of this, it wasnt able to remove the record  from CUE. 
Mrs P said that Tesco had told her on a telephone  call that it would remove  the record, 
before confirming that it wouldnt. Tesco apologised for any confusion  that was caused 
during the telephone conversation but stood  by its decision to keep the record  on CUE.
Mrs P was unhappy with this and so she brought her complaint to this service.
The investigator that looked into the complaint didnt agree that Tesco  had acted unfairly. In 
summary they said:
Tesco hadnt acted  unfairly in recording the accident on CUE.
He felt an apology  was appropriate for the letter  that was sent out incorrectly  to 
Mrs P.
Ref: DRN75012912Even if Tesco had said it would remove the record  from CUE  by mistake, he couldnt 
ask it to do so, as it accurately reflected the facts.
Mrs P didnt agree, she felt Tesco was lying about  the letter being a template and feels that 
Tesco caused her and Mr P unnecessary distress. She would still like the record  to be 
removed from CUE,  so the matter has now been passed to me to decide.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks more likely to have happened  in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision. Having done so 
I have to tell Mrs P and Mr P that I think the investigator has reached the right outcome here 
and for broadly the same reasons so Im unsure how much I can usefully add.
CUE is a database of motor, home  and personal injury incidents. Its purpose  is to identify 
misrepresentation and prevent fraud.  Not all insurers are signed up to CUE, but the 
majority, including  Tesco, are. If an insurers signed up to CUE, it has a duty to make  an 
accurate record of any incident  its made  aware of and whether it leads to a claim or not.
Mrs P doesnt deny something happened  but says that the cars never came into contact with 
each other,  so she doesnt  feel there  was an incident or accident,  but I see things differently.
The photos  the TPI provided to Tesco clearly show Mrs Ps car, identifiable  by its number 
plate and the third partys  car. The cars appear  to be stopped and touching and there is a 
further photo showing the damage to the third partys car in the same area where the contact  
seemed to be made. It was also able to show that Mrs P exchanged contact details with the 
third party, so on balance  Im satisfied there was an accident and that Tesco was right to 
fulfil its duty and record it accurately on CUE,  as an accident with no costs  attached.  I have 
seen the record  and can confirm that it correctly reflects  the facts  here.  
I appreciate that Mrs P said receiving the letter  from Tesco  as the first notification  of the 
claim was distressing. But Mrs P ought reasonably to have been aware when she 
exchanged details with the third party there  was a chance they might  make a claim  against  
her insurance policy. So while  I dont think it was ideal that Tesco  sent a templated letter  that 
hadnt been tailored to the situation, I do think an apology was appropriate to put things right.
Mrs P has said she feels Tesco was lying when  it said the letter was a template as not all 
claims will have  the same circumstances,  and so cant  all have  the same letter sent. 
Businesses will often have a suite of template letters for common  circumstances just like the 
ones included in the letter that Tesco  sent to Mrs P. I havent seen anything  to suggest that 
Tesco lied when telling Mrs P the letter it sent in error was a template one.
It follows I dont think Tesco has acted unfairly  in its actions and I wont  be asking it to do 
anything more to put the matter right for Mrs P and Mr P.
 
Ref: DRN75012913My final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 February  2020.
Amber Mortimer
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7501291