K821x#15complaint
Mrs As complaint against Citibank Europe  plc (Citibank) is that it wont  refund  her for a 
disputed transaction  made with her card, as well as various service  issues.
background
Mrs A has three accounts with Citibank; a current account, a US dollars account, and a 
Saver account. In November 2018,  Mrs A travelled through  an overseas airport. In 
December 2018,  she reported that her Citibank debit card had been used at that airport  for 
an unauthorised  duty free spend of $1,722.25. She says this payment was made  the day 
before she visited the airport,  and believed her card had been cloned   explaining that shed 
previously been  a victim of fraud  in that country. She wanted a refund.
She also had a number of service complaints about  Citibank  including  that it didnt follow  
its dispute process properly; blocked her card inconsistently when she was travelling after 
the November  2018 disputed transaction; that an ATM in a particular  location  hadnt been 
working for some time; that her daily withdrawal amount abroad was changed  or wasnt  
honoured; and that she had difficulty speaking to Citibank about her issues.  
She complained to Citibank and it said it had carried out a fraud investigation into the 
disputed payment at the airport, and couldnt  find any evidence  to suggest that this wasnt  a 
genuine use of Mrs As card. It was done  via chip and PIN, along with a number of other 
transactions that were not disputed.  And Mrs A had confirmed that her card was always  with 
her and her PIN wasnt written down. So it wouldnt refund her.
On the other service  issues,  it provided explanations, apologies where necessary, and 
offered £50 compensation.
Mrs A remained unhappy.  She still wanted  a refund of the disputed  transaction, and more 
compensation for what she saw were multiple  failures by Citibank, as well as for it to change 
some of its processes. So she brought her complaint to our service.
Our Investigator  looked  into matters, and concluded  that Citibank hadnt treated Mrs A 
unfairly. So she said she couldnt uphold it on the disputed transaction. On the service 
issues, she felt Citibank  should pay compensation of £100.
Mrs A remained very unhappy. She didnt feel her concerns had been properly understood 
and addressed. She asked for an ombudsmans  decision. She was given  the opportunity to 
provide me with any further information shed like me to take into account, but nothings 
been received.  So Im basing my decision on the evidence  available.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im in agreement with our Investigator that Citibank hasnt treated Mrs A 
poorly by declining her fraud claim. And in respect  of the service complaints, I think  the £100  
compensation recommended  is sufficient to resolve  matters.
Ref: DRN71675202I know Mrs A will be disappointed with my decision.  Its clear  how strongly she feels about 
this complaint. But my role is to assess all the evidence, and reach an outcome which I think  
is fair to both parties. So Id like to explain how I reached it.
Disputed transaction
The Payment Services Regulations 2017 apply here, and they say generally that a customer  
is liable  for all payments  that are authorised, and the bank  is liable for those  that are 
unauthorised.
Mrs A says that the payment  in question wasnt authorised, but other than her own testimony  
shes been unable  to provide any evidence to convince me that this is more  likely than not. 
We know that the genuine card and PIN were used to make this payment  at the airport. We 
also know that while magnetic strips on card can be copied, an encrypted chip cant, so I 
dont believe  the card was cloned,  as she suggests. And neither  am I persuaded that 
because she was a victim of fraud in that same country some years before, that this proves 
its happened again here. 
Mrs A has said she always had her card with her, and nobody  else knew  her PIN, which 
wasnt written  down.  So theres no point of compromise  for an unknown  third party  to take 
and use her card. We also know that she used the card the day before for expenses, 
although we dont have any more detail  than that. Finally, we know  Mrs A did visit the airport  
within 24 hours of the disputed  transaction being made  where she made authorised 
transactions.
I can see why its frustrating to Mrs A that the banking records  show that the disputed 
transaction took place the day before she was at the airport, and that Citibank  cant explain 
this any further. But this anomaly on its own isnt enough to convince me that she wasnt  
involved in, or knew  nothing about, the transaction.
On this basis, I think Citibank is entitled to hold Mrs A liable for it. 
Service issues
Mrs A had raised a number of service issues. Im not going  to go into the detail of them here.  
This isnt because I havent listened  and taken them into consideration. I have. But I dont 
think I need to address  each individual point to reach  what I thinks the right outcome here.  
The informal  nature  of our service  as a free alternative to the courts  allows me to do this. 
Ultimately, Mrs As clearly unhappy  with the level of service Citibanks provided her. Some of 
the complaints  are in respect of its processes  such as how much  she can take out of an 
overseas ATM within a 24-hour period  and that her cards  been blocked when shes been 
trying to make genuine payments. Were not Citibanks regulator, so we cant tell it how to 
run its business, and how to manage  particular processes like these. These  would be 
matters for the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA). And ultimately,  Mrs A has the power of 
choice  to take her banking business  elsewhere  if shes unhappy with how Citibank does 
things. I know Mrs A wont be happy  to hear this, but our role is to ensure that shes been 
treated fairly, and not whether a banking  process  works or should be changed.
Ref: DRN71675203In respect of the level of service sometimes falling beneath what Mrs A was entitled  to 
expect  such as Citibank not actioning  her dispute form; the length  of time waiting on the 
phone, etc  I think the £100 already recommended is fair and sufficient for this. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. To resolve matters, Im asking 
Citibank Europe  to pay £100  compensation to Mrs A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 June  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7167520