K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains Santander UK Plc (Santander)  didnt proceed  with a chargeback claim he 
sought to raise against a car dealer.
background
Mr W asked Santander to raise a chargeback claim for a refund of debit  card payments hed 
made to a car dealer   who Ill call the merchant - for a car he later believed  to be 
defective. Santander told him the dispute  wasnt  covered and rejected his chargeback  
request.
Although Santander hadnt received a complaint from Mr W they were happy  for this service  
to investigate his concerns.  Santander said the chargeback request had been rejected as 
certain criteria  - which they as the card issuer  and Mr W as the cardholder had to fulfil before 
the indemnity  could  proceed - hadnt been  met. They said under the particular reason code 
53  defective  goods  the rules said an indemnity cannot be raised  if the merchant has 
repaired or offered  a solution to the issue. And in this case the evidence  Mr W had sent them  
with the signed chargeback indemnity form showed  both that hed correctly returned the car 
but also categorically confirmed upon  receipt  of the car the merchant had repaired the fault. 
Santander thought their advisor had correctly  advised Mr W in the call of 19 May 2018 - both 
of the process  in raising a dispute  and about  the disclaimer process. And they thought Mr W 
hadnt  as required by the chargeback  scheme  rules  allowed the merchant the first 
opportunity to respond to his claim of the car being  defective. Instead hed taken it to a 
manufacturers dealer.  So Santander  didnt think the complaint should be upheld. 
Our investigator didnt  agree with Santander  that this claim wasnt  covered by the 
chargeback rules or that Mr W had breached one of the conditions for a chargeback.  But he 
didnt uphold  the complaint as he wasnt persuaded Santander wouldve been  able to raise a 
successful chargeback because the issue giving rise to the chargeback had been remedied. 
So while he thought Santander shouldve give clearer reasons  why the chargeback  wouldnt 
have been successful, he didnt think they now needed to raise  a chargeback as the problem 
had now been  fixed.
Mr W didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to review the case.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im currently not minded 
to say Santander has to refund the payments  Mr W made towards the car. Ill explain why.
Where facts have been in dispute, incomplete  or inconclusive and I cant  know exactly  
whats happened, Ive decided whats more  likely  to have happened,  at the time, on a 
balance of probabilities. 
Mr W has raised several points in his submissions  to this service.  Ive understood and 
looked into all of those  but Ive only commented on what I thinks vital in my conclusions.  
And it seems to me there are two main aspects.
what obligations does  Santander have to Mr W in this situation?
Ref: DRN78665852Its clear from everything Mr Ws told us has hes not satisfied with the car he paid for using 
his Santander  debit card. Hes pointed out that hes entitled to reject the car within 30 days 
of purchase. I accept  the Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA) gives  a consumer rights 
against a seller. But Santander  isnt obliged to help Mr W enforce his rights under the CRA in 
the same  way a court might. The only way Santander can help Mr W is through the 
chargeback process.  Its important to note that what the CRA  requires  and what is required 
under the chargeback process are two different things. My role is to look at whether 
Santander has done anything wrong  in the way that it handled the chargeback.
the chargeback  request and how Santander  dealt with it
The chargeback scheme  is a voluntary  one. Its a process by which  payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants,  under the relevant card scheme  
rules. What this means here is that Santander can in some circumstances ask for a 
transaction to be reversed  if theres a problem  with the goods  or services supplied  by the 
merchant Mr W paid. But the chargeback process  doesnt give consumers legal rights  and it 
isnt guaranteed to result  in a refund. It all depends on what the merchant says in response 
to the request the bank  submits.  There first has to be a right to apply for a chargeback  under 
the card scheme  rules. And Id consider  it to be good practice for Santander to raise  a 
chargeback if it would have a good chance  of being successful. 
Its important to note that chargebacks are decided  based on the card schemes rules, not 
the relative merits of a cardholder/merchant dispute. So its not for Santander  or me  to 
decide whether  Mr W should be allowed to reject  the car and have his money back. 
Santanders role is to raise the appropriate  chargeback, and consider whether any filed 
defence complies  with the relevant chargeback rules. But from what  Ive seen the claim  
didnt get this far. Santander didnt process  the claim as they felt Mr Ws particular dispute 
was covered by the dispute resolution process under the chargeback  scheme. 
Santander initially proposed raising  a chargeback under reason code 53 - goods not as 
described or defective.  But the supporting documents Mr W submitted with his signed 
indemnity included evidence from the merchant clearly disagreeing with that. On the basis of 
this evidence Santander decided not to proceed  with the chargeback.
I understand thats frustrating for Mr W and why he came to this service. And that our 
investigator thought  his claim was covered by the chargeback  rules.  Im not entirely sure 
thats right but I dont  think it impacts on my final decision here. Thats because,  even if 
Santander were wrong to say the claim wasnt covered under the by the dispute resolution 
process, I dont think it wouldve made  any difference to the outcome here. Whilst I cant 
know exactly what wouldve happened if Santander  had proceeded the chargeback, on 
balance, I dont think its very  likely that Santanders  chargeback  attempt would have gone 
unchallenged. The merchant had already said the car was repaired, ready for collection and 
refused to refund Mr W. So, I think, on balance, its more likely than not, the claim wouldve 
been defended by the merchant producing this same evidence. And at that point I think  its 
likely Santander wouldnt have proceeded with the chargeback. 
Where the merchant challenges a chargeback, a bank doesnt have to carry out a detailed 
investigation into what actually happened to decide  which party deserves the money.  In fact, 
most banks,  as card issuers, wont take a chargeback any further if its defended. So, 
although I can understand why Mr W was unhappy when Santander didnt proceed with the 
chargeback I think the overall outcome is the same.
Ref: DRN78665853For the reasons  Ive explained above, I dont think the chargeback wouldve succeeded if 
Santander had acted differently. And in the circumstances,  I dont think it would be fair or 
reasonable for me to require Santander  to refund  any money to Mr Ws account. Santanders 
failure was not giving clearer  reasons to Mr W as to why the chargeback  wouldnt have been  
successful. 
Despite the fact that I think it Santander could have given clearer reasons to Mr W for their 
decision I wont be making an award or asking it to apologise. I think Santander did try to 
help Mr W and had some sympathy for his situation  as do I. And I hope Ive been  able to 
explain to him why Ive come to the decision I have.
Given how strongly Mr W feels about what  happened he may want to pursue the matter 
further through other routes  I can see hes considered legal action. But my decision brings 
to an end what we  in trying  to resolve his dispute  with Santander informally  can do for 
him. Im sorry if this disappoints Mr W.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7866585