K822xcomplaint
Miss N complains that 1st Stop Personal Loans Limited kept contacting  her about a debt she 
couldnt afford to pay.
Background 
Miss N owes a debt to 1st Stop. Shes been  contacted repeatedly with requests for payment 
which has caused her distress.
Miss N provided information  to 1st Stop to show that she was unemployed, on medication 
and had been in a psychiatric unit. But 1st Stop continued to contact her with requests for 
payment.
Miss N complained to this service. Our investigator asked 1st Stop to provide  its file of 
information on several occasions but received no response.  On the basis of the evidence  
provided by Miss N our investigator upheld the complaint and recommended that the debt be 
written off.
1st Stop didnt  respond to the investigators  view so Ive been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When a consumer gets into financial difficulties or suffers  from vulnerability, a business  
should treat them in a positive and sympathetic way, in line with relevant guidance.
This service has asked 1st Stop to provide information relating to Miss Ns complaint and to 
explain how it treated  Miss N when she was unable to make payments.
Unfortunately, and despite  several  requests by this service, 1st Stop hasnt responded. So 
Ive made  my decision based on the available information.
Based on that information, I dont think 1st Stop has acted fairly or in line with the relevant 
guidance. Its been made aware of Miss Ns circumstances but its continued to send her 
demands for payments, which have caused her distress. I dont think it was reasonable for 
1st Stop to respond in this way.
Because of this Im upholding the complaint.  
Ref: DRN70601812my final decision
1st Stop Personal Loans Limited should:
Write  off the debt
Pay compensation of £150 to Miss N for distress
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 26 August 2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7060181