K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains about the charges  Highway Insurance Company Limited made for his motor  
insurance policy and the information  it gave him about riding his unregistered motorbike. 
background
Mr B took out a policy with Highway for his newly imported bike through  a broker. Highway 
later found  that he hadnt told it about a previous  theft of a bike where the claim was 
declined. So it increased his premium. Mr B had to take his unregistered bike to a test centre 
to have it registered. Highway told him that it wouldnt provide cover for road use. There  
were delays in getting the bike registered.  Highway then cancelled  the policy and applied 
charges.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She thought  Mr B 
hadnt disclosed the previous unsuccessful claim as he should  have. She thought Highway 
had correctly increased the premium for this according to the policy terms and conditions. 
She thought  Highway had reasonably provided cover for non-road  use whilst  the bike was 
unregistered. She thought Highway had initially told Mr B incorrectly  that it was illegal to ride 
his unregistered  bike to a test centre.  But this had been corrected  soon after. And it was for 
Highway to decide what risks it would cover. She also thought  Highway had given Mr B fair 
warning of the cancellation and correctly applied the charges and refund for this.
Mr B was unhappy with this, and so his complaint has come to me for a final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B was concerned about the additional  charge that Highway applied  for the undisclosed  
theft claim.  Where a complaint arises from non-disclosure of information important to an 
insurer, we take into account the relevant legislation. We look to see that it asked a clear 
question when the policy was taken out. We check that the information given would affect  
whether a policy was offered. And we check whether the informant has acted carelessly or 
deliberately in making the non-disclosure.
In this case, I can see that Highway asked a clear  question about previous claims when the 
policy was sold. I think this was answered incorrectly. Highway would still have offered cover  
if the correct answer  had been given, albeit for an increased premium. So it applied an 
additional premium  and a charge for this. I think this is clearly set out in the policy terms and 
conditions. I think the amounts  charged are correct.  So I cant say that Highway made  a 
mistake in this.
Highway provided  the policy for the unregistered bike on its chassis number with the proviso  
that it was registered within 30 days. Mr B repeatedly asked  Highway if it would cover  him to 
ride his unregistered bike to the test centre. But it said it wouldnt cover  road use and Mr B 
would have to tow his bike. 
Ref: DRN71617472I can see that theres been  some confusion between whats  illegal and what risks Highway 
wont cover.  Mr B was told at one stage, incorrectly, that it was illegal to ride the bike on the 
road. But Highway  corrected this shortly  after.  Our service provided guidance from DVLA 
that it wasnt illegal to do this so long as the bike was insured  for road use. But Highway has 
provided an extract from its underwriting  guidelines that it wont cover this risk. This is 
Highways decision, and not something that this service would normally  interfere with. So I 
cant say that Highway made a mistake here. 
Mr B said he wouldnt  have bought the policy if hed known this. But I think thats a concern 
that he needs to raise  with his broker, and I can see he has done  this. 
Highway cancelled the policy after giving Mr B three months of extensions to get the bike 
tested. I think  Highway  acted very reasonably in allowing  the extensions. It gave Mr B a final 
extension and told him the policy  would  cancel in 30 days  if the bike wasnt registered.  This 
wasnt done. So I think Highway fairly  cancelled the policy, provided the refund due for time 
on cover  and deducted its cancellation  charge as set out in the policy  terms and conditions.  
So I cant say that Highway made  a mistake in this.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7161747