K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a store card payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy.  Mrs V says 
AXA France  IARD (AXA) mis-sold her the PPI. 
background and summary to complaint
Briefly:
In 2001 Mrs V took out a PPI policy sometime after taking out a high street store  card. She 
applied for the store  card in-store  and the PPI policy over the phone.
The policy provided  protection for Mrs V's store card payments in the event she 
couldn't work  because of accident,  sickness or unemployment. The policy  would pay out 
15% of the outstanding account balance each month and it cost no more than £1.00 for 
every £100  Mrs V owed  on the card.
At the time of the sale Mrs V has told us she was a self-employed sales  executive. She 
didnt have any sick pay or redundancy entitlement because of her employment status  but 
she said she had more  than three  months of income in savings  she could've  used to make 
her repayments in the event she was unable to work. Mrs V said she was in good health  at 
the time of the sale.
The adjudicator didn't  recommend the complaint should be upheld. They said they thought 
the available  evidence showed that Mrs V chose to take out the cover.  And there was 
nothing to indicate it was fundamentally wrong or inappropriate  for her.
Because Mrs V, through her representative disagrees the complaint comes to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken into account all that is relevant in deciding Mrs V's case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Vs complaint and my reasons  are set out 
below.
did Mrs V have a choice about PPI? 
did she agree to take it out?
AXA had to make  it clear that PPI was optional. Mrs V has said she was led to believe the 
insurance was compulsory.
Ref: DRN78908582This was a sale by phone. AXA hasnt got a recording of the phone  call, which  isnt 
surprising given the passage of time. But it has provided us with some example call scripts, 
which it says are typical of what wouldve likely  been discussed with Mrs V during her phone 
call. And these show that a consumer would reasonably have understood they had a choice 
about PPI and they wouldve had to agree to it being added  to their account.
In Mrs Vs case  Im mindful too that shed already opened her store  card account around 
three months prior to taking out PPI and its likely shed already been using her store card. 
So it seems  unlikely to me that she wouldve been under the impression (or been given the 
impression by the AXA representative) that she had to have PPI.
So taking everything into account, and in the absence of persuasive evidence  that 
something very different happened during the phone call with Mrs V, I think  its more likely 
that she knew the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out without undue  pressure.  
the information   
Both AXA and Mrs V agree that no advice was given. And Ive not seen anything  to suggest 
that it did. So AXA didn't have to ensure  the cover was right or suitable for Mrs V. But it did 
have to give her enough  clear  and timely  information  about the policy,  so she could make an 
informed decision about it.
Given the available evidence, I accept its possible the information AXA gave  Mrs V about  
the PPI wasn't  as clear as it shouldve been.  For example I think its unlikely the true cost of 
the cover  was clearly  explained and the fact the premiums could attract  interest or that they 
would continue to be paid during a claim, or that the significant exclusions and limitations  of 
cover were  clearly brought to her attention.   
But as I found  above, Mrs V chose to take it out - so it looks like she wanted  this type of 
cover. And based on her circumstances  at the time it doesn't appear that it was 
fundamentally wrong or inappropriate for her - for example  she was eligible for the cover; 
she wasn't affected by the significant exclusions on or limits  to the cover such as those 
relating to existing  medical conditions or unusual employment circumstances (the fact Mrs V 
was self-employed  wasnt problematic in terms of her being  able to claim on the policy);  and 
given her existing  means it seems  like it would  have been useful for her if something went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put Mrs V off taking out the cover. 
conclusion
While AXA might not have  done everything it should  fairly  and reasonably have done when it 
sold Mrs V PPI, in light of her circumstances at the time and for the reasons Ive set out 
above I think she'd  have  still gone ahead and taken  out PPI had AXA done anything more.
This means  I dont  think Mrs V has lost out as a result of having PPI, so AXA doesn't  have to 
pay back to Mrs V what she paid for PPI.
Ref: DRN78908583Mrs Vs representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint 
points, which  it says applies to all PPI complaints.  These  general  points include: a claim that 
we are not correctly  applying the regulators rules and guidance for handling PPI complaints; 
these policies represented poor value  because of the number of significant exclusions and 
limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty of utmost  good faith 
meant AXA should have disclosed the poor value and explained  the significance  of the 
limitations and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the chances of making a claim.
But Mrs Vs representative has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mrs Vs individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mrs Vs particular case. But 
these points doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what  is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint - for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold 
this complaint. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 July 2021.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7890858