K820x#14complaint
Mr J is complaining that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited (LV) has declined a 
claim he made on his caravan insurance  policy. 
background
The facts  of this complaint  are well known to all parties. So I wont  set them  out in detail. In 
summary, in April 2017 Mr J made  a claim on his caravan insurance policy  for the theft of his 
motorhome. LV arranged for a claims investigator to investigate  the claim and  in particular 
 interview Mr J.
Following this investigation, LV had a number  of concerns which meant  that it said it wasnt  
willing to settle  the claim.  It raised  the following issues:
Mr J hadnt registered the motorhome for over five years since he says he bought it.
Mr J couldnt provide clear details  about  what happened after the theft was allegedly 
discovered.
Mr J says that hed gone to visit his partners cousin  Mr O  to show him the 
motorhome. But the investigator contacted the person at the address Mr J said hed 
visited Mr O at, who said Mr O wasnt living at that address any longer and she said he 
wasnt living there at the date of loss.
Mr J said hed only ever owned one motorhome, but it thought  there was evidence to 
suggest otherwise.
Mr J was only able to provide invoices for alleged repair works in 2012  but he mentioned 
in the interview  that the roof was rotten, which could  be seen from Google earth, but hed 
provided no evidence  of repairs for it.
Having owned  the motorhome for such a period of time,  Mr J was unable to provide  any 
other photos of the motorhome, especially including the interior  of it.
Mr J was unable to provide a clear account of when he bought  the motorhome, how he 
paid for it and who he bought it from.
The investigator questioned Mr J about the circumstances of the loss. Mr J said when 
discovered the theft he left Mr Os house,  but he couldn't remember where  he went. He 
also said he couldn't remember how he left Mr Os house. Mr J said that he must have 
got a lift but didn't know who it was with whether  it was Mr O or his wife. LV said Mr J 
then added that when he left Mr Os house  he went out in a car, but it said he again 
couldn't remember what car or whose car it was.
Mr J didnt think LV had acted fairly and he maintained that hed provided everything  he 
could, but he said its not unreasonable he couldnt  provide some of the information as hed 
had the motorhome for around five years. So he asked this service  to step in.
One of our investigators  reviewed the complaint  and she thought  it was fair for LV to have 
the concerns it had raised based  on the evidence it had at the time. Following this Mr J 
provided some further information  in particular  the following:
Photographs  which he says was of the motorhome
Invoices for the parts which he says were  to carry out rectification work to the 
motorhome
A written invoice for the motorhome
Evidence of the motorhomes MOT history
Ref: DRN70524492The investigator said Mr J would need to refer this evidence  to LV first. But LV still didnt 
think hed provided  enough to support the claim.  So Mr J asked this service  to step in again.
The investigator reviewed  the complaint again,  but she still didnt think LV had acted unfairly.  
And she said that there were still a number of discrepancies that needed addressing which  
she said were as follows:
Mr J had previously said that he was unable to provide  photographs  of the motorhome, 
copies of repair invoices  and purchase receipt  as he thought they were lost. She said 
with the interviews  and information seeking  exercises done by LV, she thought  Mr J 
would have remembered something like this sooner. And she didnt find Mr Js 
explanations of why he had since found them plausible. 
She said many of the invoices and receipts Mr J had provided were for parts that could 
be fitted to any vehicle. So she didnt think it was unfair for LV to have concerns whether 
they were actually fitted to the motorhome. 
She said that LV had said it had spoken to one of the companies  who Mr J says he 
bought parts from who said that all their invoices would  have had an invoice  number 
printed, whereas the invoices Mr J had provided  dont have invoice numbers. LV also 
said the company  confirmed they dont put the registration number on their invoices, 
which some  of the receipts  Mr J provided  do. And finally  it said there are invoices for 
parts that they do not supply.
She thought  Mr J has been  consistent with the timing and who he went to see with his 
campervan. But she said his version of events  after the theft were  vague and 
inconsistent. 
She said she found it hard to believe that Mr J would have forgotten where  he was when 
he spoke with the police regarding the theft.  She also said she didnt  understand why he 
didnt follow up with the police after filing his report.
Mr J couldnt remember where he went after he left Mr Os house. She said,  Mr J had 
said he remembered looking for the motorhome, but he didnt remember what order or 
where he went. In particular she said Mr J couldnt remember how he left Mr Os house 
he said he would have  got a lift, but he couldnt remember to where or who he was with.  
Mr J disagreed with the investigator and reiterated  that the claim was fair. He provided an 
extensive response to the investigators opinion.  But, in summary, he says he has been  
consistent all the way though and LV hasnt given anything to show  that this claim wasnt 
genuine. He says he explained to the investigator and LV that he had the receipt for the 
motorhome. But he couldnt find it. And he maintained that all receipts  and invoices he gave  
were genuine.  He thinks LV and its investigator  were heavy handed with him and he doesnt 
think they treated  him fairly.
As Mr J didnt  agree with the investigator, the complaints been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive decided to not uphold  this complaint  and Ill now explain why.
Mr J has raised  a number of points about  why he thinks LV have  acted unfairly. Ive 
considered everything  hes provided.  Ive not commented on every  point hes raised. Instead 
Ref: DRN70524493Ive focussed  on what I think are the key points. No discourtesy is meant by this but simply 
reflects the informal nature of this service.
I should first state that its not this services role to assess whether the theft was genuine or 
not, but we look at whether LV has acted fairly  and reasonably  in its handling of the claim. 
Having taken everything into account, I think it was fair that it said there were some 
discrepancies in this matter primarily for the following reasons.
I agree  with LV and the investigator that Mr Js version of events about what happened 
werent persuasive. Mr J told the investigator that he didnt remember where  he went after 
the theft, how he got home after the theft and where  he was when reported  the incident  to 
the policy. I dont  dispute that it wouldnt be fair and reasonable  to be required to remember  
every single thing  that happened after a theft, but I dont think it was unreasonable for LV to 
say that it would have expected Mr J to remember key details such  as where he went after 
the theft and how he got home.  Im not persuaded that Mr J has given a fair explanation for 
why he doesnt  remember key details about what happened.
I also think LV has provided  evidence  that suggests  Mr O wasnt  living  at the house  where  
Mr J says the theft took place. I think this casts doubt on Mr Js version  of events and I think  
LV was entitled  to have concerns in respect  to this.
Im satisfied that Mr J did purchase and own the motorhome. And I dont think  LV disputes 
this. But he says he paid £6,500 for the motorhome  which  was the full dealer value for the 
motorhome in good condition. But hes said that he bought the motorhome from a friend  and 
that it needed a lot of work  doing to restore it. And he says it took him a number of years to 
restore it. So its clear the motorhome was not in a good condition  when he bought it. I think  
this is also supported by a statement  the investigator took from someone who worked  in a 
nearby yard to Mr Js who said he only recalled there ever being  one motorhome in Mr Js 
yard. And he said this was broken for parts by Mr J, but he hadnt seen it there for some 
time. I find it unlikely that he would  have paid the amount he says he paid for it given its 
condition. And Im not persuaded  that Mr J has provided sufficient evidence to substantiate 
what he paid for it.
I also agree  with the investigator that I find it surprising Mr J wasnt able to provide  photos of 
the motorhome  and receipts for its purchase and repairs for around  15 months. I note Mr J 
says he cant be expected to know where everything  is kept  especially  given  he bought the 
camper van around five years before he bought it. But, given the concerns LV had 
highlighted, I would  have thought Mr H have gone  to greater lengths to find this information 
sooner than he did.
Finally I think  LV has demonstrated  some fair concerns in respect  to the veracity  of the 
invoices he has provided, as the investigator  set out.
I acknowledge Mr J says hes always been consistent with his version of events and he 
doesnt think its relevant  to the claim that he cant remember exactly  what  happened  after 
the claim.  Ive also taken  into account  the extensive  comments Mr J provided in response to 
the investigators view.  But Im not persuaded hes given a fair explanation  for the concerns  
LV has highlighted. 
Taking everything into account,  I think LV has provided enough to support its concerns in 
respect to this claim.  So Im not going to interfere  with LVs decision to decline the claim.
Ref: DRN70524494my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  its my final decision that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2020.
Guy Mitchell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7052449