K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about how much he was charged for his home  insurance policy by 
Tesco Personal Finance PLC.
background
In 2015 Mr C contacted Tesco because he was unhappy  with its renewal quote. Hed been 
quoted £893.50 to renew his policy compared  with £682.27 for the previous year.  
When Mr C told Tesco he was going  to shop around for other quotes, it offered to reduce the 
premium to £674.81. Mr C said he later obtained a quote of £312.49 from another insurer  
which he accepted.
Mr C complained to Tesco that:
There was no good reason for the huge  increase in his renewal quote compared  with the 
previous years premium;
It should have offered him the discounted  price  as the renewal quote;
Both of Tescos  quotes were much  higher  than other quotes  he obtained;
He feels Tesco should have treated him better as a loyal customer.
Tesco said it had quoted him the best price on renewal based on his information. It couldnt  
comment on how other insurers calculate their premiums. It didnt agree to refund any of the 
premiums paid by Mr C. It also said each year it had sent him renewal documents a few 
weeks before the policy was due to renew. That would  have given  Mr C the opportunity  to 
review the premium and contact it if he wished to discuss  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its important  to understand that this service  doesnt  have a remit to assess pricing 
methodology generally, such  as considering whether products represent good value for 
money. So we generally accept  that insurers can charge what they like for insurance so long 
as they act fairly. In simple terms, that means that they should apply their chosen  pricing  
model consistently provided the consumer has flexibility to shop around and change insurer  
if they wish. Im satisfied  thats the case here. 
I can understand why Mr C might think that Tesco has overcharged  him for the policies he 
took out for the years leading up to 2015   it must  have been very disappointing to find that 
if he hadnt contacted it, he could have  paid about £200 more than he needed to in 2015  
and also that he could get a similar policy for about  half of the discounted price offered by 
Tesco. But its for Tesco to decide  how much it wants to charge Mr C for his home 
insurance, based in part on the risk it thinks there is of him needing to make  a claim and its 
wider commercial requirements. Its not under any obligation to offer loyalty discounts   
these are discretionary.
Tesco has explained  to this service why the price of Mr Cs policy went up in the way it did. 
That information is commercially sensitive so Im unable  to share it with Mr C. But Id like to 
reassure him that Ive checked the information  that Tesco has provided very carefully.  And, 
Ref: DRN78647372having done so, Im happy that Tesco  has treated applied its pricing criteria fairly and 
consistently in the same way it would to any of its other customers with similar 
circumstances. Ive seen  no evidence that Mr C was singled out in any way. 
Tesco isnt obliged to explain to its customers how its priced its policies. But it does have a 
duty to ensure they are sent renewal offers a reasonable amount of time before the policy 
renews so they have  the chance  to shop around or discuss the price with Tesco if theyre 
unhappy. Its for consumers to decide  whether they want to pay for the cover theyre offered 
at the price theyre  offered.  I can see that the price offered to Mr C by Tesco was 
unacceptable to him so he shopped  around for other quotes and took his business 
elsewhere. 
The fact that Mr C was able to obtain a discount from Tesco  and also cover at a cheaper 
price from another  insurer doesnt  make the price offered by Tesco unfair. Its for individual 
insurers to assess how much they want to charge in order to take a risk on. Tesco  didnt 
make any claims  to offer the cheapest insurance  available to Mr C. It also didnt offer to 
match competitors prices.  So I dont  think Tesco  has treated him unfairly.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.
Elizabeth Grant
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7864737