K820x#14complaint
Mr Ss complaint is that National Westminster Bank Plc (Natwest) hasnt treated him fairly  in 
terms of the Equality Act 2010, and has failed to pay him sufficient compensation.
background
Mr S holds a number of accounts with Natwest.  This complaint concerns the fact that 
Natwest is aware of Mr Ss disability, and his specific accessibility needs, but has failed to 
accommodate these   causing him distress and inconvenience. 
Due to Mr Ss disability, he asked Natwest not to send him letters,  and to correspond  
electronically instead. But he continued  to receive  some further  post. 
He was also unhappy when Natwest queried  a payment from his account, and didnt give 
him an automated  call so he could  confirm it. He received a manual  call instead, but doesnt 
want this.
He complained to Natwest, and over the course of correspondence it apologised,  explained  
its position, and paid him cumulative compensation of £225, and a refund of charges of 
£114.
Mr S didnt think this was enough  for what hed been  through. He said Natwest  was 
harassing him, and making his life difficult.  He was also unhappy it had suggested that if 
their banking relationship  didnt  improve, he might  wish to move his account to another bank.
Mr S complained to our service, and our Investigator looked at all the evidence. He 
concluded that although there had been genuine issues  in Mr Ss complaint to Natwest, the 
action Natwest had taken  to resolve matters was fair and reasonable. It was required to 
make reasonable adjustments, and he thought  it had. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr S wasnt  happy with this. He believed our service worked in collusion with businesses,  
and that we werent impartial. He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im satisfied that our Investigators  reached the correct outcome  which is 
that Natwest had already  done enough  to resolve  this complaint.
I appreciate my decision will come as a great disappointment to Mr S. I dont doubt his 
genuine strength  of feeling about the way he thinks hes been  treated. But I hope  I can 
explain why I think this is a correct, proportionate and fair outcome for both parties. 
Mr S was unhappy with Natwests treatment  of him, in particular given  his accessibility 
needs. He complained, and Natwest listened to him. Over  the course of correspondence  it 
agreed that it hadnt at times  provided the service Mr S was entitled  to expect. It also 
explained what its position was on reasonable adjustments, and what  Mr S could perhaps do 
in the future. 
Ref: DRN79338602It apologised  for continuing to send him letters. But explained that although it had marked  on 
his account to not send post,  it couldnt  guarantee hed never receive anything  due to its 
own legal  and regulatory requirements. 
On the matter of the account block on automated calls, it explained that this was something 
that could be removed, if Mr S no longer wanted  it, and that he could visit branch to discuss  
this. 
Overall, it paid him £339. 
I know Mr S doesnt think this enough to reflect what hes been through, and is seeking an 
award in line with the Equality Act. But thats  not something Im able to direct. 
Our service is an informal alternative to the courts. Our awards  tend to me more modest 
than judges would award, and are not calculated in the same  way.
Ive looked at whats happened in this case,  and Im satisfied that Natwest  dealt with Mr Ss 
complaints fairly, courteously,  and in a timely fashion. I think its done  its best to resolve  his 
concerns, and alleviate any practical difficulties by making the necessary reasonable 
adjustments. And I think  its been clear  in what it can and cant do. 
Mr S is offended that its suggested he may wish to consider  banking  elsewhere, and sees  
this as threatening. But I dont agree. The relationship between  the parties clearly  isnt good. 
And as its a consensual  commercial relationship, neither partys  bound to stay in it if its no 
longer working  for them. This goes both ways. I think Natwest  genuinely does want to draw  a 
line under  this dispute, and move forward in a positive  way. But it recognises Mr Ss 
unhappiness, and that what its able to offer in the future might not be satisfactory  to him.
Overall, I think the steps Natwests taken  to resolve this complaint are fair and reasonable. 
And I think the £339 its already paid Mr S is a fair reflection of whats happened.  Its perhaps 
even more generous  that an award this service might have made.  
For all these reasons, I wont be asking Natwest to increase compensation. 
Ref: DRN79338603my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Ashley L B More
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7933860