K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  attached to a credit card 
taken out in 2005. Mrs J says Bank  of Scotland  plc (trading as Halifax)  mis-sold her PPI. 
background
The policy and credit card were taken out during a meeting at a bank branch.
Our adjudicator did not uphold this complaint.
On Mrs Js behalf, her representative  disagreed with these findings. It has stated that there  
was no meaningful way for Mrs J to assess the likely cost of PPI, and that it was also not 
made clear that premiums would be payable in the event of a successful claim. 
Consequently the representative  has suggested that Mrs J could not make an informed 
choice about whether  she should take out the policy.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Js case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
 In my view it is more  likely  than not that Halifax made  it clear  that Mrs J didnt have to 
take out the PPI and she chose to take it out. I have carefully  considered Mrs Js 
comments that it was not made  clear that the policy  was an optional  product. However,  I 
am mindful that the sale occurred a number of years  ago, in my opinion making it more 
difficult to recall  in detail.
The copy  of the credit card application  form that Bank of Scotland  has provided  is not 
particularly easy to read due to its quality. However, based on my understanding of the 
details normally shown  on a Halifax credit card application at this time, and from what I 
can see on the form Mrs J signed, my view is that the box to select  PPI was ticked.  It 
also appears that Mrs J signed  separately  requesting that the policy  be taken out.
I cannot be sure exactly what was discussed between Mrs J and the adviser at this time. 
However, on the balance of probabilities,  taking  into account that the PPI was selected 
on the form, it seems likely to me that a discussion did take place about this insurance 
cover. As the form required the PPI box to be marked in order for the policy to be 
arranged, I consider this indicated that PPI was an optional  product. With the PPI box 
having a tick in it, on the weight of evidence provided, my conclusion is that Mrs J then 
agreed to take PPI out.
 Halifax recommended the PPI to Mrs J so it had to check  that it was right for her  and 
based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it was. For example 
she wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.
Ref: DRN76293192 Taking into account her circumstances  when sold the policy,  I consider that Mrs J 
would have found the cover  useful for meeting  her card repayments in the event that 
she was not working.  
 I acknowledge the representatives comments that the cost of the policy  was not made  
clear to Mrs J. Its also possible the other  information Halifax gave Mrs J about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it should have been. But she chose to take it out - so it looks like she 
wanted this type of cover.  It also looks like it was affordable.  On balance I dont think 
better information about the PPI would  have put Mrs J off taking out the cover. 
 Although I appreciate that Mrs J will be disappointed with my findings,  my conclusion  is 
that the policy was not mis-sold  to her.
Therefore Bank of Scotland  doesnt need to refund everything Mrs J paid for the PPI. But 
Bank of Scotland has already offered to give Mrs J back some  of the cost of the PPI. I dont 
think it needs to do anything more. 
I understand Bank of Scotland has already paid this to Mrs J.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
John Swain
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7629319