K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Positive Solutions (Financial Services) Limited (Positive 
Solutions) didnt process his pension transfer quickly  enough and hes lost out as a result.
background
The full background is set out in my provisional  decision, which  is attached and forms part of 
this final decision.
In short,  Mr W complained that his cash equivalent transfer value (CETV)  dropped whilst 
one of Positive Solutions advisers (the adviser)  was looking into the transfer of his 
pension. Mr W thought  the adviser  took too long and should have been held responsible for 
some of his losses.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the complaint. They didnt think Positive  Solutions  could  
be held responsible for the fall in the CETV, but did think it caused  some delays and should 
have communicated  with Mr W in a clearer way. So our adjudicator recommended Positive  
Solutions pay Mr W £300.
As Positive  Solutions didnt agree, the complaint was passed  to me for a decision. I issued a 
provisional decision saying that I agreed with the adjudicator that it wouldnt be fair to hold 
Positive Solutions responsible for the fall in the CETV. But I disagreed  that Positive Solutions 
was responsible for delays or needed to pay compensation.
Positive Solutions responded to my provisional  decision  to say it had nothing further to add.
Mr W responded to say he disagreed with my provisional  decision.  He felt I had been  biased 
in favour  of Positive  Solutions and I had placed  weight on information from Positive Solutions 
that had been fabricated.
Mr W said that the adviser took too long preparing  a letter of authority (LOA) to send to his 
pension provider following their first meeting. He has said the pension provider sent a copy 
of his CETV  on 12 June  2017 to the adviser but this wasnt  dealt  with promptly, so he thinks 
there were delays from that point onwards. And Mr W said that he had to chase  up Positive 
Solutions on several occasions.
Mr W has also said he wasnt told by Positive  Solutions adviser  that there was a concern the 
funds would have  been used too quickly. And, apart from when the adviser said he would 
have to get someone else from Positive  Solutions  to sign off any advice, the adviser never  
said he wasnt able to give advice  on a pension transfer. 
Finally, Mr W disagreed  that he moved to another adviser before any formal  advice was 
given, as he says there  was a meeting in July 2017  where the adviser showed Mr W how the 
transfer would proceed.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN76634012Having done so, Ive come  to the same  conclusion as my provisional  decision  for the same  
reasons (a copy of my provisional decision is attached below). But I will set out my thoughts  
about what Mr W said in response.
Id like to assure Mr W that Ive thought carefully  about everything hes said. Ive taken into 
account his memories and the documents hes been able to send in. And Ive also looked at 
everything Positive Solutions has sent in to decide  what I think  was most likely to have 
happened.
Ive thought about Mr Ws concerns that Positive Solutions (or its adviser) might have 
fabricated evidence  to make it look like it hadnt  done anything wrong. There arent a lot of 
notes detailing what was discussed between Mr W and Positive Solutions and, as I 
explained in my provisional decision,  I thought this was because no formal advice was given. 
But I think the evidence  Positive Solutions has provided fits with the timeline of what  Mr W 
said happened and is consistent with the facts that arent in dispute.  Based  on what Ive 
seen, Ive no reason  to think  Positive  Solutions  has fabricated  any evidence.
Mr W has pointed  out that he first met with the adviser on 23 May 2017, but it took until 12 
June 2017 for the adviser to draw up and send the LOA for the CETV to be released. Ive 
seen an email the adviser sent Mr W the day after the first meeting  (24 May 2017) about 
getting a copy  of the CETV. It reads:
Hi [Mr W],
Further to our conversation I have  managed  to speak  to a chap called [AC] and he 
has said this should be possible if we write  to them and provide a letter of authority 
from you, however  it will take up to 6 weeks to provide the copy.
Regards
Its not clear why it took almost another three weeks for the LOA to be prepared,  but I note it 
included Mr Ws full pension account  number which is something he would have needed  to 
supply to the adviser  I cant see when this was done. And I cant see that Mr W chased the 
adviser between  23 May and 12 June 2017.  But in any event, Ive seen that in April 2017 
Mr W told the adviser he intended to retire  at the end of the financial year which  was twelve  
months away, so I cant see hed indicated there was any need  to get the CETV quickly.
As I set out in my provisional  decision, I saw that Mr W asked about the advice on one 
occasion  on 5 July 2017  and the adviser emailed back  the next day saying the CETV 
had been received. Ive seen an email from Mr Ws pension provider that said it posted a 
copy of the CETV to Positive Solutions on 12 June 2017  the same  day a copy was asked 
for. So I think its likely the CETV  was received  shortly after the 12 June 2017, but before the 
6 July 2017. I can understand why Mr W is now concerned there was a delay. But in 2017  I 
dont think Mr W was concerned with getting  the advice quickly or, if he was, that hed told 
this to the adviser. And his CETV  had already fallen substantially by 9 June 2017,  so I cant  
see that hed have been in a better position if the adviser had told him earlier that the CETV 
had been received.
Mr W said he wasnt told by the adviser there  was a concern the funds would have been 
used too quickly,  so Ive thought about that. In my provisional decision I set out why I thought 
Mr W had been told the adviser would need  to get another adviser in the Positive Solutions 
Ref: DRN76634013network to look into any transfer  advice.  When  Mr W first brought his complaint he said this 
wasnt made clear to him, but in response  to my provisional decision he said:
[the adviser] did not at any time inform me he was not capable of carrying  out the 
task he took on other than when he told me I would  have  to go to Positive Solutions 
in Newcastle to have the case signed off by an officer who held a relevant 
qualification
So I think Mr Ws recollections now reflect the findings I made  in my provisional  decision  
that the adviser did tell Mr W that someone  else would need to look at the advice. I 
appreciate Mr W says the adviser  didnt discuss his concerns the funds would be used  too 
quickly. As there is no note of the meeting in July 2017 its difficult to say for certain was 
said. However, I think the meeting in June was set up to discuss Mr Ws plans for his 
pension. So I think its likely the adviser would have talked about his thoughts about those 
plans at the meeting, albeit that no formal advice was given. So on balance I think  its likely 
the adviser did say he was concerned  the funds could be used too quickly. 
Finally, Mr W disagreed  that he moved to another adviser before any formal  advice was 
given, as he says there  was a meeting in July 2017  where the adviser showed Mr W how the 
transfer would proceed.  I accept that the adviser may have discussed the possible ways  
forward in the meeting  in July 2017  he had with Mr W. But I dont think  any formal  advice  
was given to Mr W from any Positive Solutions  adviser before he moved  to another  adviser.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ws complaint against Positive Solutions 
(Financial Services) Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 February  2019.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76634014provisional decision
complaint
Mr W has complained that Positive Solutions (Financial  Services)  Limited didnt process his pension 
transfer quickly enough and hes lost out as a result.
background
A cash equivalent transfer value  (CETV) was prepared for Mr W by his pension provider on 9 March 
2017. The CETV was £140,776  and was guaranteed  to stay at that level for three months. This 
valuation was addressed to a financial  advisor  at a different firm to Positive Solutions.  Due to the 
quoted fees and charges, Mr W chose not to progress  any transfer with that business.
Mr W called  Positive Solutions on 26 April 2017 to book an appointment and he met with one of its 
advisers (the adviser) on 23 May 2017. He didnt  have a copy of his CETV at this meeting, so the 
adviser contacted Mr Ws pension provider  to get it. The adviser was told he would need  a letter of 
authority (LOA)  from the customer and it would  take up to six weeks to obtain a copy of the existing 
CETV.
Mr W signed the LOA on 12 June 2017 and the adviser sent this to the pension  provider on the same 
day. He said a copy  of the CETV was received  via post a few weeks later.  Following this, 
conversations took place between Mr W and the adviser. But the adviser said he couldnt  advise Mr 
W about  his pension as Mr Ws plans  meant the funds would be used up too quickly.  Mr W told the 
adviser, via text on 9 August  2017, that he would  be using a different financial adviser. After this Mr W 
found out that his CETV had fallen to £105,259.
One of our adjudicators  investigated the complaint. He thought Positive Solutions  should have let Mr 
W know  it wouldnt be advising him sooner than it did. 
At the time Mr W had his first meeting  with the adviser, the CETV was two and a half months old. The 
adjudicator thought it was reasonable to assume the transfer couldnt have  been completed using the 
existing CETV,  so they didnt think  Positive Solutions needed to compensate Mr W for the fall in the 
CETV. 
But the adjudicator thought the adviser  should  have  requested  a new CETV earlier to progress the 
transfer. And as it failed to do that, it delayed the transfer for Mr W. The adjudicator also thought  
Positive Solutions didnt communicate in a clear way with Mr W. Because of this, Positive  Solutions 
was recommended to pay Mr W £300.
Mr W agreed with the adjudicators view, but Positive Solutions disagreed, so the complaint has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
Ive first thought about whether or not Positive Solutions could be held responsible  for the fall in Mr 
Ws CETV. At present,  I dont think  it would be fair to hold it responsible.
When Mr W first approached Positive Solutions his existing CETV was around a month and a half old 
and by the time of the meeting with the adviser, the guarantee  was due to expire around two weeks 
later. I cant see that Mr W made  the adviser  aware  if this, so I dont think it was their fault that a 
transfer wasnt arranged by 9 June 2017 when the guarantee ended. And even if the adviser had 
Ref: DRN76634015been made aware of the expiry of the guarantee, I dont think its likely that a transfer  could have been 
arranged that quickly.
Our adjudicator thought that Positive Solutions should have requested a new CETV  at around the 
time of the meeting between Mr W and the adviser on 23 May 2017.  He said this because he thought  
it was clear that the existing CETV was likely to be out of date and a new one would be needed for a 
transfer. And because of this Mr W was delayed  in being  able to transfer the pension. I disagree.
Ive seen notes of the initial  phone call Mr W had with the adviser on 26 April 2017.  I can see that Mr 
W said he had a transfer value of around £140,000 and that he was in a final salary scheme. But at 
that stage  I dont think the question  for the adviser  was where should Mr W transfer his pension  to 
and how quickly could it be done. Rather, I think the question the adviser  first had to think about was 
whether or not Mr W should  transfer his pension  at all. 
Unfortunately there  isnt a note of what was said in the meeting that took place  on 23 May 2017.  I 
think that was because no advice was actually  given at this meeting. But the adviser has told us that 
at this meeting he explained  to Mr W that he couldnt  advise him on transferring the pension. But he 
would be able to get another adviser  in the Positive  Solutions network  to advise on this issue and 
Positive Solutions compliance department would sign off on any advice. Mr W says this wasnt 
discussed.
Its difficult to know what, or wasnt, talked about at this meeting. But I think its most  likely the adviser 
did say he wasnt able to advise on the transfer. I say this because Mr W emailed the adviser  on 5 
July 2017 asking if there was any movement yet  I take this to mean Mr W was asking the adviser 
where they had got to on his case. In response the adviser wrote, on 6 July 2017:
Please find attached a copy of the document we requested, the transfer value is £140,776. 
I am just waiting to get some feedback on the feasibility  of the case
I think  this fits with what Positive Solutions said happened  that the adviser was going  to ask 
someone else about whether or not it was advisable for Mr W to transfer his pension. So I think its 
likely that this would have been told to Mr W at the first meeting in May.
Before the adviser was able to start to consider  any advice to transfer, they needed to find out more 
about Mr Ws pension. A lot of the information they needed was contained  in the CETV document  
already prepared  by the pension provider.  I cant see there would  have been any need to get an 
updated CETV at this stage. It would have cost Mr W a fee to get a new CETV  and it would only have 
been guaranteed for a set period of time. I dont think this would have been a reasonable expense  to 
incur when, at that stage,  the adviser hadnt even come to a firm view whether or not Mr W should 
have transferred his pension.  So I think  the most  sensible thing to do was get a copy of the 
information prepared  two months earlier.
The adviser  said,  that after speaking with someone else at Positive  Solutions, it was his belief that Mr 
Ws plans for his pension  would  have  used up all of the funds  quickly. So I think  thats why there was 
a second meeting in July 2017  to discuss Mr Ws plans to see if any transfer could be advised. But 
before any formal advice was given, I see that Mr W went to a different financial adviser.
 
Up until that point,  I dont think the adviser  had enough information to make a recommendation  about  
Mr Ws pension transfer. And I think it was fair when considering whether  any advice was suitable  to 
use the CETV that had been prepared  only a few months  earlier. If the recommendation was likely to 
be that a transfer  was in Mr Ws best interests,  a second CETV  could have been applied for at that 
stage. But as that wasnt  the case, I dont think the adviser was at fault for not requesting a new 
CETV.
Ive also thought  about  the overall time taken by the adviser before Mr W went elsewhere. Advising on 
the transfer out of a defined benefit scheme can be difficult  and I would expect it to take some time,  
Ref: DRN76634016taking into account the benefits Mr W had under  his original scheme, the benefits he could get by 
transferring and what income  he could get in retirement. And I think Mr W was made aware that the 
adviser would need to speak  to someone else during  the advice process. Apart from the email sent on 
5 July 2017, I cant  see that Mr W asked about the time it took to get any advice.  So I cant see that 
he was concerned with getting the advice  quickly  or, if he was, that he told Positive  Solutions about 
this. I note that there was around a month between Mr Ws first contact with Positive  Solutions and 
the first meeting with the adviser. I think if he had been concerned with getting advice quickly, he 
would have gone to a different adviser. 
I think  the time taken between May and August 2017 is reasonable in all the circumstances. Mr W 
didnt sign the LOA until 12 June 2017 and I dont think the adviser  would  have got the CETV  until 
later that month   I dont  think the adviser could have really started  to consider looking at whether  
they could give advice until that was received. And I cant see that there was anything  to suggest to 
the adviser that Mr Ws CETV would  have dropped in value in the way that it did. I accept the 
explanation that the adviser spoke to someone else at Positive  Solutions to discuss Mr Ws plans and 
I dont think the adviser took too long after they received the CETV. It follows I dont think  Positive  
Solutions has done anything wrong or needs to compensate  Mr W.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  set out above, I currently dont intend to uphold Mr Ws complaint  against Positive 
Solutions (Financial Services) Limited.
Mr W and Positive Solutions  (Financial Services) Limited should now let me have anything  else theyd  
like me to think about before  I issue a final decision.
Mark Hutchings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7663401