K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that Canada Square  Operations  Limited (Canada  Square), previously 
known as Egg, mis-sold her a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms B took out a PPI policy  in connection with a credit card with Canada Square in 2003 
through an internet application. The cost of the policy  was 74p per £100 of the monthly 
outstanding balance. The benefit  was 10% of the monthly outstanding balance  for up to a 
maximum of 12 months per claim for accident,  sickness and unemployment  - the policy also 
covered Ms B for serious illness and death.
Our adjudicator upheld  Ms Bs complaint.
Canada Square  disagreed with the adjudicator so the complaint has been passed to me to 
consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Bs case.
Having done that, Ive decided to uphold Ms Bs complaint.
Canada Square  say they didnt advise Ms B to take the policy out and so didnt have to take 
adequate steps to ensure  the policy was suitable for her. From the screen  shots provided of 
the internet sale, it doesnt look like advice was given to Ms B and there  doesnt  appear to be 
involvement from a representative.   So I dont think Canada Square advised Ms B to take out 
the policy.  But they were  still under a duty to give Ms B information in a way which was 
clear, fair and not misleading so that she could make a proper  choice as to whether or not 
she wanted to take the policy.
I dont think Canada Square gave Ms B clear information about the true costs and benefit  of 
the policy at the point  at which she wouldve selected PPI. The online screen shot provided  
briefly refers to the cost of the policy.  It says the policy  cost is 74p per £100.  But it doesnt 
mention the policys  benefit. Ms B wouldve had to click onto benefits of taking out 
repayment protection and legal information to see more details.  
I dont know if Ms B did click on these links or even read the information.  But there  was no 
requirement on her to do so before agreeing to the PPI.  So I dont think the information was 
made clear enough.
Besides, even if she had read the information, it didnt explain other things relating to the 
cost and benefit of the policy. For example, that premiums would need to continue being 
paid during a claim - or that interest  would be added to the monthly  premiums  if the balance  
wasnt cleared in full. 
Im satisfied if Ms B had been given  better  information, she wouldnt have taken the policy  
out. Ms B has told us that she would have been  entitled to between 3-6 months  of pay from 
Ref: DRN75640452her employer if she was off work sick. She also says she would have been entitled to 
redundancy pay. Given Ms Bs role and the fact that she had been with her employer for a 
number of years at the time of the sale, I dont have  reason to doubt that she would have 
been entitled to these  benefits. In addition to this, Ms B also had two other policies which  
would pay out if she was unable to work because of ill-health. These  appear  to have been 
stand-alone policies, not linked to other products. In relation to at least  one of the policies, I 
note that it would continue to pay out until she returned to work or the policy expired. 
Looking at her existing means  at the time of the sale, if Ms B was made aware  of the true 
costs and benefits of the policy as she ought  to have been, I dont think she wouldve 
thought the policy was of good value for money  for her.
So, I uphold  Ms Bs complaint.
I appreciate that the adjudicator also relied on another point when recommending  the 
complaint be upheld and this was questioned  by Canada  Square. He explained to Canada  
Square that the income received from PPI would be factored  in to Ms Bs gross income  (as 
defined in one of Ms Bs existing policies)  and that this could potentially lead to a reduction in 
benefit from that existing policy.  For the sake of clarity, I have not relied on this point when 
deciding to uphold  this complaint. As already mentioned, I have decided  to uphold  this 
complaint because I think Ms B had other sufficient existing means of repayment  at the time 
of the sale.
fair compensation
Canada Square  should put Ms B in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt taken 
out PPI.
A.Canada Square should find out how much  Ms B would have  owed when she closed her 
credit card account if the policy  hadnt been added.
So, they should remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest  charged on 
those premiums. They should also remove any charges that were  caused by the mis-
sale of the PPI  as well as any interest  added to those charges. 
Canada Square  should then refund the difference between  what Ms B owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms B made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Canada Square can take off what  
she got for the claim from the amount they owe her.
B.Canada Square should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Ms B would 
have owed when she closed  her account from when she closed it until she gets the 
refund. The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  Canada  Square work out what Ms B would have owed each month  without 
PPI  Ms B paid more than enough to clear her balance,  Canada Square  should also 
pay simple interest  on the extra Ms B paid.  And they should carry on paying  interest  
until the point  when  Ms B wouldve owed Canada Square  something on her credit card. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
D.Canada Square should tell Ms B what theyve done to work out A, B and C.
Ref: DRN75640453 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Canada Square  to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint and require Canada Square 
Operations Limited, previously known as Egg, to pay Ms B fair compensation, as outlined  
above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 June 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7564045