K822xcomplaint
Mr W complains Santander UK Plc will not refund money taken  from his account without his 
authority.
background 
In the middle of June 2016,  a large  number of transactions left Mr Ws account in favour of 
an online  betting company  B.  In total,  there were nine transactions  amounting  to £25,000.
Mr W told Santander that he had neither made  nor authorised  these transactions.  He told 
Santander that he had been at a street party and that he had lost a number of items 
including his computer.  
According to Santanders fraud notes, a few days later he told them  that the items had been 
taken from his home address.  At the same time,  he told Santander that he was not a regular 
user of betting sites.   He subsequently refused to tell them  which computer device he had 
actually lost. 
When Santander made enquiries into the account  held with B, it was told that this account 
had been opened at the start of June 2016.   It could also see that on 7th June, a transaction  
of just over £7000 was made from B into Mr Ws account.  Mr  W had not queried this 
transaction at the time. 
So, Santander refused to refund the money  to Mr W.  It said it was satisfied that he had 
made the transactions himself.
Mr W then pursued  Santander through the courts  however, it appears  that this claim was 
struck out at an early  stage and was pursued  no further.
He then bought the complaint to our service  and asked  that we look into matters for him.  He  
told us that he had not made nor authorised these transactions - and he also wanted  to be 
compensated for Santander closing his account  and removing his overdraft facility and for 
the incorrect recording with the credit reference agencies  both in relation to the account 
showing as still being open with a £5 balance and also with regard the late payment markers 
recorded.
Our adjudicator looked at whether Santander  had done anything  wrong here in rejecting Mr 
Ws complaint.  He (the adjudicator) thought that the disputed  transactions should not be 
refunded as the evidence showed  Mr W had either made or authorised them.   With regards 
to Santander not updating  Mr Ws credit  file to show the account was closed, our adjudicator 
upheld this part of the complaint and awarded  compensation  of £100.  The complaint in 
relation to the late payment markers was also rejected.
Mr W was not happy with this response.  He  made  further submissions  and asked for an 
ombudsman to review  his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78610522disputed transactions
Generally speaking, Santander  is required to refund  any unauthorised transactions.   The  
Payment Services Regulations 2017(relevant  regulations) make that clear.  However, if the 
evidence suggests  that its more likely than not that Mr W made  or authorised these 
transactions himself,  then he can be held liable for them.
Based on the evidence  I have seen from Santander,  its clear  that Mr Ws card details were 
used to make these transactions  but this isnt enough to hold him liable.  The  relevant  
regulations say that he has to also consent to the payments being made.
So, with these principles  in mind, I need  to decide  whether  it is fair and reasonable for 
Santander to have concluded that he authorised these  transactions   and I think that it is.  I 
say that for the following reasons:
-Less than a week before these  transactions, a relatively large  payment  from B was 
made into Mr Ws account.   He did not query this at the time  or in his lengthy 
submissions since.  I think it is fair to say that this showed an existing relationship  
with B.
-Mr W had logged onto online banking since that payment had been made but had not 
alerted Santander  to it.
-When Santander contacted B it was told that an account in Mr Ws name  with his 
correct date of birth and address had been provided.  More  importantly, the IP 
address used when  opening the account  with B was the same  address used by Mr W 
in the past when  logging onto online banking and when carrying  out transactions 
which he was not disputing.
-Mr W would not be specific as to which device was taken/stolen from his house 
during the street party   but the device  used to make the disputed transactions  was 
the same  device Mr W had used previously.
-There is no benefit in a fraudster making  these transactions to B because  any 
winnings would go back into Mr Ws account.
-Mr Ws account to our adjudicator  that the transactions were not necessarily 
gambling transactions but made by someone  he knew as a prank/in  revenge lacks 
any real credibility.
late payment markers
Mr W submits that his overdraft was removed and the debt (caused he says by a transaction 
made to P) meant that his account was placed with the recovery team and until paid off, 
resulted in late payment markers on his credit file.  
I have seen a court order in favour  of Mr W and against P.  Unfortunately, I have no way of 
knowing why judgement was entered in Mr Ws favour and what, if any, findings were made 
by the judge.  I also take into account  that it wasnt just the payment to P which took Mr W 
into his overdraft  but also one of the disputed transactions which is the subject of this 
complaint.
Generally speaking, Santander  is able to withdraw  such  a facility  from its customer  if it 
chooses to do so.  And so Mr Ws account was always going to be overdrawn in any event.
Santander has an obligation to record accurate information with regards a customers  credit 
file and I can see that it accepts that the recordings were not correct  for a few months  
Ref: DRN78610523despite its instructions.   For this, it offered Mr W £50 and I agree that its response to this 
part of Mr Ws complaint  is fair and reasonable.
incorrect recording of account status
Santander accepted the adjudicators view that the late correction of the account status on 
Mr Ws credit file warranted a compensatory award  of £100.  I think this is a fair and 
reasonable outcome to this part of the complaint.
I know Mr W has made much of the successful court proceedings against P throughout the 
lifetime of this complaint.   I have noted  his comments but those proceedings play no part in 
my decision  making as they are not part of the complaint  against  Santander and more  
importantly, I have  seen  nothing from those submissions which  would assist  me in making 
my decision.
So, taking everything  into account, I think it is more likely  than not that Mr W authorised 
these disputed transaction  and that Santander has dealt  with his complaint in a fair and 
reasonable way.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. For the late correction of his account 
status, Santander UK Plc should pay Mr W £100 in full and final settlement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W  to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 December 2019.
Shazia Ahmed
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7861052