K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Barclays Bank UK Plc closed his accounts  without  explaining to him 
why it had done so. 
background
Mr S had a number of accounts with Barclays, and had been  a customer for many years.  But 
in November 2018 the bank decided that it wanted  to close  his accounts. It didnt however 
write to him at that time to tell him that, although  it intended to. When in January  2019 it 
realised that, it agreed to keep Mr Ss accounts open for a further 62 days   until the end of 
March 2019. It wrote  to Mr S to tell him that. 
Because Mr Ss accounts had initially been scheduled to close at the end of January 2019,  
Mr S was unable to use his debit  card or online  banking after that date  although other 
services remained available until closure. Barclays offered Mr S £400  in recognition of the 
inconvenience that would have caused, but it stood  by its decision to close the accounts. 
Mr S remained unhappy  and complained to this service, where one of our investigators  
considered what  he and Barclays had said. He concluded however that the bank was within 
its rights  to close  Mr Ss accounts  and that its offer of £400 was fair. Mr S thought he should 
receive far more and that the bank should refund all the charges hed paid over many years. 
He asked that an ombudsman review the case.     
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, however, Ive reached 
the same  overall  conclusions as the investigator  did, and for similar reasons. 
As the investigator  explained, its generally for a bank  to decide whether or not to provide  
or to continue to provide  banking  services to a customer. As long as a decision to close an 
account or accounts is legitimately made,  we wont generally interfere with it. And in this 
case, Barclays account terms allowed it close an account by giving 60 days notice. Initially,  
it marked Mr Ss accounts as due to close, but it didnt tell him that. The result  was that some 
facilities werent available to him during  the notice period. So, Barclays  didnt get things quite  
right in the way it closed  Mr Ss accounts. It did however  apologise for that and offered him 
£400.
Our investigator indicated  that this service cant  challenge a banks commercial decision to 
close an account and that our role is to see if a bank  has followed its procedures  and acted  
fairly. In fact, we can challenge such a decision,  although  we wont generally  do so as long 
its been made legitimately. And my role in determining this complaint is to decide  on the 
basis of what I consider to be fair and reasonable  what  the outcome should be. In deciding  
that, I must of course have regard  to what a banks procedures are and how its acted in 
relation to them. But I do wish to stress that Ive considered  more  than whether Barclays 
followed its own procedures here. 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that Barclayss decision to close  Mr Ss account  was taken for 
reasons that werent legitimate and am satisfied that Barclays was within its rights to take 
that decision. It acknowledged  that it didnt follow its procedures as it intended to, but it took 
steps to rectify that. I believe that was fair. I note as well that it didnt seek  repayment of 
Mr Ss overdraft  when it closed his accounts. 
Ref: DRN74997392Mr S says he should have  his bank charges refunded. However,  bank charges of the type 
Mr S has paid or incurred  over the years  are, in effect, part of the price of using a range of 
services provided with a bank account.  I cant see that theres any basis  on which Mr S could 
fairly challenge them.      
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Barclays Bank UK Plc to do anything  further  to 
resolve Mr Ss complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required 
to ask Mr S to accept  or reject my decision before 16 November 2019.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7499739