K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains about the service and treatment  she received from HSBC UK Bank Plc 
following instances of fraudulent activity  on her bank account.
background 
Mrs W held a bank account  with HSBC and was contacted on 27 July 2018 by their fraud  
department. They reported that her debit card details  had been  compromised, so they 
cancelled and replaced her card. 
Mrs W later received another call from somebody  (whom Ill refer to as the fraudster) on 
15 August 2018  purporting  to be from HSBCs  fraud department again, who asked whether 
she had tried to complete  a transaction for £382.  Mrs W said she hadnt, so the fraudster 
said they would cancel her card and issue a new one, but said shed need to confirm two 
digits of her telephone banking  code  for them to do so. 
Mrs W contacted  HSBC  on 21 August 2018  as no replacement card had arrived, but they 
explained that they had no record of any call being  made to her on 15 August 2018. 
Following this, there were  three separate instances  of fraudulent activity on her account: 
25 August 2018: £950 debited
30 November 2018: £900 debited
17 December 2018: £2530 debited.
HSBC refunded these  amounts to Mrs Ws account, but she complained about the way she 
was treated when  she reported each instance  of fraudulent activity.  This includes, but is not 
strictly limited  to:
The HSBC representative  Mr W spoke to on 15 August 2018  did not seem concerned 
about the suspicious call she received,  and their lack of action led to the fraudster 
being able to transfer funds from her account.  
Further fraudulent  transactions  were able to be made from her account despite 
having changed her personal  security details.
Mr W had to contact  HSBC a number of times as they did not call her back when 
they said they would.
When reporting the fraudulent activity to the other agents,  they were  generally 
unhelpful and made her feel like she was being  treated like a criminal.
She had to take time off work  to make  calls, send emails  and go to branch  to sort out 
her security profile.
HSBC apologised  for the poor service Mrs W had experienced  and paid £20 compensation 
by way of an apology. But Mrs W felt this wasnt enough and brought  her complaint to our 
service. Following this, HSBC offered an additional  £100 in recognition of the distress and 
inconvenience caused, which our investigator  felt was fair. Mrs W didnt agree, as she felt 
further compensation was due as well as an apology. As no agreement  could be met, the 
matter has been  passed to me.
Ref: DRN79234912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I consider the 
compensation offered in Mrs Ws case to be fair in the circumstances.
Mrs W doesnt feel that the £100 offered  is commensurate to the experience shes  had with 
HSBC, and argues  that she should receive  further  compensation. Ive considered  the service 
Mrs W received  and have listened  to the phone calls between her and the bank, and its 
clear that shes been left frustrated and inconvenienced by the way shes  been dealt with.
I can see, for example, that she has had to take time off work to call HSBC  and visit her local 
branch to try and arrange access and sort out the security on her account. And having 
listened to the calls,  I do think HSBC  could have been more  sympathetic and sensitive  to the 
distressing situation  she found herself in, having  recently fallen victim to fraud. But I have to 
consider whether, in the circumstances, the £100 compensation offered by HSBC (as well as 
the £20 theyve already paid)  is proportionate  to the distress and inconvenience suffered.
The power to make  such an award  is provided for in DISP Rule 3.7.2 of the Financial 
Conduct Authority  Handbook, which sets out that I can award  fair compensation for distress 
or inconvenience experienced by a customer. But such an award  must be a proportionate 
reflection of the impact that a businesss actions (or inactions) have had. And in order  to 
award further compensation to Mrs W, I would have to be satisfied that the wrongful actions 
of HSBC have  had a greater impact  than just moderate inconvenience or upset, which I cant 
say it has in these  circumstances.
I appreciate the experience wouldve been  entirely frustrating and distressing for Mrs W 
given that she had fallen victim  to a crime. But I dont consider the actions of HSBC to 
warrant any further compensation at a higher level because, although they are responsible  
for some of the distress and inconvenience Mrs W experienced in terms of their service,  it 
isnt possible to say how the fraudster was able to gain access to her account, or how 
Mrs Ws details  were compromised. And it appears  that much  of the distress and 
inconvenience Mrs W has suffered was ultimately caused by the actions  of the fraudsters  
gaining access to her account, and there is not enough evidence to suggest this was a direct 
result of any actions or inactions of HSBC. And I can see that HSBC have mitigated the 
impact of this by fully refunding the amounts taken. But for the times when their service did 
fall below standard, I consider the £100 offered (as well as the £20 initially paid by HSBC) to 
be fair compensation in the circumstances.
Mrs W says she wants  an apology from HSBC, but I can see in their initial letter  of 
2 October 2018 that the did apologise when they said Please accept my sincere apologies 
for the inconvenience  you have suffered and I would also like to apologise  as you had to 
contact the bank a number  of times.  HSBC  provided a further apology in their letter of 
18 December 2018, when they said I would  like to apologise on behalf of the Telephone 
Banking and Online Chat representatives  you spoke  with when confirming fraud on your 
account. So given  that theyve apologised a number of times already, I dont think  its 
necessary for them to do this again.
Ref: DRN79234913my final decision
HSBC UK Bank Plc have  made an offer to pay £100. I conclude  that such  an offer is fair 
compensation in all the circumstances. My decision is that HSBC should pay Mrs W within 
28 days of receiving her acceptance  of this decision, failing which interest  will start to accrue  
at the simple rate of 8% per year until settlement (less any tax properly deductible).  
Mrs W should note that if she accepts my decision,  it will be legally binding on all parties and 
she probably then wouldnt be able to take legal action over this matter for additional 
compensation. If, however, she rejects the decision, although her legal rights will remain 
intact, itll be purely a matter between Mrs W and HSBC  as to whether the £100 offer still 
remains open for acceptance.  Strictly speaking, an offer is not binding on the offeror  after 
rejection of it has been communicated.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Jack Ferris
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7923491