K821x#15complaint
Mrs T complains that Decidebloom  Limited  who were trading at the time as Stoneacre mis-
sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy in 2009.  For simplicity I will refer to 
the business as Decidebloom.
background
This complaint is about a single premium  PPI policy taken out in 2009 alongside a loan for a 
car. 
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld. Decidebloom didnt agree with our 
adjudicator and so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
I issued my provisional decision in respect of this complaint on 4 June 2019, a copy  of which 
is repeated below, and so it forms part of this final decision. In my provisional decision I set 
out the reasons why I was minded not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. 
I asked the parties  to the complaint to let me have any further representations that they 
wished me to consider by 4 July 2019. Neither  Mrs T nor Decidebloom have acknowledged 
that they received the provisional decision. Neither  party has responded, but I think it most 
likely that both sides received the decision as we sent the provisional  decision by email and 
post to their recognised addresses. I consider that both parties have had sufficient time to 
make a response had they wished to. So I am proceeding  to my final decision.
my findings
Ive considered again all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ms case.
In my provisional decision I explained  that,
Ive decided  not to uphold Mrs Ts complaint. I explain why below.
I have seen the Demands and Needs document from the time of the sale.  It says,  Payment  
protection is optional. It also offers various  types of cover and there  are ticks in only two of 
the boxes, Life and Accident & Sickness covers. Mrs T signed this document  that suggests 
she agreed with its contents.  The loan agreement  required Mrs T to tick another box if she 
wanted the PPI and to place her signature for it as well. This was separate  to the signature 
for the credit. The box for the PPI is ticked on the loan agreement  form and Mrs T signed for 
it too. So, I think its more  likely that PPI was presented  as optional and Mrs T chose to take 
it and thats how it came to be applied to her loan account. But I understand why she might 
not remember this, given these events happened  over 10 years  ago.
Decidebloom says the policy was sold without a formal recommendation. Ive been shown 
no documentary evidence  that suggests  that the policy  was sold on an advised  basis.  So, 
Decidebloom had to give Mrs T clear  enough information about the policy so she could 
decide if she wanted to buy them. 
Ref: DRN71475292Its possible the information Decidebloom  gave Mrs T about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been.  But I dont think better  information  would have stopped her from buying  it. I 
explain why I say that below. 
 
Mrs T was eligible  for the policy.  And there are things that sometimes arent covered by a 
policy like this, or for which the benefit might be more difficult  to get than may have been 
expected, but it seems  that Mr D wouldnt have been affected by those. I say that whilst 
noting that Mrs T told us she had a pre-existing medical condition, But I must have regard for 
all the submissions made to me in a case  and in this case  I note that Mrs T told us about  this 
condition. Mrs T told us that at the time of the sale she wasnt  seeing  any doctor for the 
issue. She hadnt mentioned it at the time of the sale as the condition was under control. 
Mrs T also told us that whilst she took paracetamol as and when she needed to but that the 
condition did not affect her day to day life and the condition  had never caused her to be off 
work as a result of it. So having considered this carefully, it seems most  likely to me that 
better information about the exclusion wouldnt have put Mrs T off the policy. 
And I think that Mrs T had, most  likely, a need for the cover. I say that as Mrs T told us she 
would not have been eligible to any sick pay if ill health  kept her off work for a prolonged 
period. And Mrs T also told us that she had no other  means she could have relied on in that 
event. But this policy could have paid out for the duration of the loan if Mrs T was too ill to 
work through  sickness or accident. So, having  considered this, on balance, I think that Mrs T 
would have found the policy useful.
The policy appears  to have been flexible  in that Mrs T may have got back  a pro rata refund 
of the PPI premium  if she cancelled a policy early. But even it hadnt  been I have seen no 
evidence that Mrs T thought it likely  she would repay her loan early. And indeed the loan 
continued to its expected  conclusion. 
And whilst I could understand  it if Mrs T thought now that the policy  was expensive, I think  
the costs were set out clearly on the agreement and I havent  seen anything to make  me 
think the policy was unaffordable to Mrs T or that she had a need to keep  costs  down. And 
given how long the policy could have paid out for, most likely, if Mrs T made a successful 
claim, she could have got back  quite a bit more  than she paid for it. 
So for the reasons given above,  having considered everything thats been submitted in this case,  I 
dont think better information  about  the PPI would have  put Mrs T off taking out the cover.
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  from the outset in order  to decide what  
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In the absence of any further 
points for me to consider,  I find no reason  to depart from my original findings as set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and within my provisional decision, my final decision is that I 
think the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold   so I do not uphold Mrs Ts complaint against 
Decidebloom Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs T either to 
accept or to reject my conclusions, in writing,  before  9 August 2019.
Ref: DRN71475293Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7147529