K820x#14Complaint
Mr F complains that Lloyds Bank PLC authorised a payment to an on-line retailer  without his 
knowledge and caused him distress following a data breach of his information.  
Background
Mr F had a credit card with Lloyds and in February  2019 he noticed  a small pending 
payment had been debited for an on-line  retailer. Mr F knew  that he hadnt made any 
transactions to the retailer for over a year, so he contacted Lloyds thinking it was a 
fraudulent transaction.
Lloyds wrote to Mr F a couple  of days later to explain that the payment wasnt fraudulent and 
that they thought this was a test transaction from the retailer  to check  Mr Fs payment details 
were correct. They also confirmed the payment hadnt left his account.
Mr F didnt  receive this letter, so he contacted Lloyds again  to ask for an update. Lloyds said 
a letter  had been sent to Mr F previously, so they arranged for a further  copy to be sent. 
When a third copy of the letter wasnt received by Mr F, he contacted the postal service and 
it was identified that Lloyds incorrectly had Mr Fs previous  address as his correspondence 
address. So, Mr F made a complaint. 
Lloyds upheld Mr Fs complaint in part. They didnt  agree theyd made an error  in allowing 
the small pending payment to show on his account.  They said Mr F had completed previous 
transactions with the retailer, so he would have given them  permission to debit his account. 
They said the payment was pending and hadnt debited  Mr Fs account and if it didnt do so 
within seven days it would  drop off the account. However, they did agree they hadnt 
updated Mr Fs address  when they should have done, so they paid him £250 compensation 
for the trouble and upset  the error had caused. 
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. She said Lloyds had confirmed 
the payment hadnt debited Mr Fs account and that it hadnt been actioned  by fraudsters. 
She also said she didnt  think  Lloyds were at fault for the retailer test. She also said that 
although Lloyds  had made  a mistake in not updating Mr Fs address, theyd confirmed the 
three letters had been returned  to them unopened. So, she felt the £250  compensation 
theyd paid Mr F for trouble and upset  was fair. 
Mr F didnt  agree. He felt the compensation offered wasnt enough to cover the distress hed 
been caused and the time hed spent trying to resolve the complaint. So, he asked for his 
complaint to be looked at by an ombudsman
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold it. Ill explain why. 
 
I recognise Mr F said he was distressed when he saw a payment appearing on his credit  
card that he hadnt  authorised. And I understand he was concerned that this was a 
fraudulent payment and frustrated when he felt Lloyds werent taking any action to protect 
his account. However,  Lloyds told us that when  Mr F contacted them  initially,  the transaction 
was showing as pending and because the payment hadnt debited his account at that time, 
they couldnt take further action. 
Ref: DRN79834372Looking at the first response letter sent by Lloyds, I can see they explained that because
Mr F had made previous transactions to the retailer, he would have  given them consent to 
debit his account. They also explained  that if the payment didnt leave his account within 
seven days from the point it was requested, it would drop off his account  but if he remained 
concerned, he could contact the retailer to check theyd made the transaction.  Ive looked at 
Mr Fs credit card statement, and I havent  seen  any evidence which shows the payment 
was taken. So, I cant reasonably say Lloyds  did anything wrong here. I think if Mr F had 
received this information it would have put his mind at ease that the transaction was unlikely 
to be fraudulent. 
Theres no dispute that Lloyds made a mistake when it didnt update Mr Fs address 
correctly, and I recognise Mr F said hes suffered distress because  of this. I think  Mr Fs 
concerns about  the fraudulent payment combined with what  he felt was an unsatisfactory 
response from Lloyds until hed spoken to the postal service, has added to his frustration. 
However, Lloyds have said that the three letters have  been returned unopened, so it doesnt 
appear they have  been accessed  by a third party. I understand Mr F doesnt  agree as he 
feels theres no proof of this. But, whilst  I appreciate his concerns, Ive looked  at Lloyds 
system records  which show a tracking number  for each item of post which had been  sent to 
Mr F, and a corresponding note which says they were returned  unopened.  And Ive no 
reason to doubt this is the case.  
Whilst I do understand Mr Fs position due to the issues hes experienced. Its not for me to 
fine or punish Lloyds  for making a mistake. Nor can I award compensation as a means  of 
punishing a business for a consumer bringing their complaint to this service.  Mr Fs address 
has now been updated, hes been given a copy of the final response letter, and Lloyds have 
apologised for what  happened. So, taking in-to account all the circumstances of the 
complaint I think Lloyds have done  enough  to put things right. 
I recognise this has been a stressful  time for Mr F, and Id like to reassure him that Ive 
carefully read all the information hes provided.  I understand  why Mr F feels  strongly  about  
what happened and I realise this wont be the outcome he was hoping for, but I think  the 
£250 compensation Mr F has been  paid is a fair amount. So, I wont  be asking  them to do 
anything more.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Jenny Lomax
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7983437