K820x#14complaint
Ms K says Santander  UK Plc mis-sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Ms K bought the policy  in 1996 sometime after taking out a mortgage with a different lender. 
She applied  for the PPI policy in branch. 
Santander doesnt have any paperwork from the time of the sale, but the policy could have 
provided cover for Ms K for accident, sickness, and unemployment or just accident and 
sickness, depending  upon the choice  Ms K made  upon application   subject to its exclusions 
and limitations. For the purpose of this decision I have assumed Ms K chose the highest 
level of cover. The benefit amount  of the policy is unknown, but it would have offered to 
repay a fixed amount  a month towards  Ms Ks mortgage balance in the event of a successful 
claim. Santander has been able to tell us that at the time, it cost £9.70 a month.  
At the time,  Ms K was employed  in a finance/accountant  role. She has told us she was 
entitled to up to three months pay if she too ill to work. She would have received the same if 
she was made redundant. Ms K told us she didnt have any other means she could have 
relied upon, such as savings  or an insurance  policy if she wasnt able to work.  Ms K has told 
us she was in good health at the time of the sale but did let us know  shed  had a 
tonsillectomy during  her childhood.   
It appears the mortgage Ms K had with a different lender at the time the policy was taken out 
ended when she re-mortgaged to Santander  and this mortgage started in 2002. Santander 
has sent us screenshots to show Ms K took out a further advance in 2006.  
Ms Ks representative has made lengthy  and substantial  representations on her behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Ms Ks representative says:
Santander failed  to meet the sales standards which applied at the time.  In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Ms K wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Ms Ks 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means Santander should 
have told Ms K about the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Santander should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Ms K and the 
impact they would have had on her chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN73985582The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Ms K received was misleading.  These policies were promoted  as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Ms K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion for 
several reasons.  
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Ms Ks. I dont intend  to set that out in 
much detail here, but Ive taken this into account in deciding Ms Ks complaint.
This sale took place  in 1996 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
As Ive explained above it appears the policy started when a mortgage with another  lender 
was already in place  and it looks like that mortgage  ended in 2002 when Ms K re-mortgaged 
to Santander.  And Ms K arranged a further  advance  on their mortgage after mortgage  
lending became regulated in October 2004   this led to the whole mortgage becoming an 
FCA regulated mortgage. That means the unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A  of 
the Consumer  Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin about s.140A of that Act 
and the rules and guidance made  by the FCA about  the handling of complaints about the 
non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment, arent applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
Ref: DRN73985583The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Santander at the time. So, Im satisfied I should take the ABI Code and 
these other  publications into account when deciding, what  is in my opinion,  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of Ms Ks case. 
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so 
Santander was required to take into account the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were 
guidance when  considering Ms Ks complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If Santander gave  advice, whether it advised Ms K with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether Santander gave Ms K sufficient,  appropriate and timely information to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take out the policy,  
including drawing  to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way  the main  provisions  of the policy and significant limitations and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN73985584-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Ms K, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Ms K suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Ms K and 
Santander, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ks complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Ms K know she had a choice?
Santander had to make it clear that the PPI policy was optional.  
Ms K already had her mortgage with another lender when she applied for the policy,  so she 
was aware the policy was a stand-alone application and it wasnt  a requirement to have a 
PPI policy  to protect her mortgage repayments.  Taking  everything  into account, I think  its 
more likely that Ms K knew the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out without 
undue pressure. 
did Santander provide advice?
Ms K hasnt given us any recollection about whether she was given advice about the policy.  
But Santander has told us that advice was provided during this sale, so as Ms K hasnt told 
us anything to the contrary, I think this is most likely  the case.
 
This means Santander had to advise Ms K with reasonable care and skill, in particular 
whether the policy  was appropriate or suitable  given her needs and circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps Santander took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Ms K. It seems Ms K cant remember  clearly  what  happened  and there  
is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. This is unsurprising  in 
respect of a sale during a meeting. The adviser  likely had some limited information  about  
Ms Ks financial circumstances, but there  is no specific evidence  to show the adviser took 
steps to establish whether Ms K would have  been  caught by the significant exclusions and 
limitations which might have meant the policy did not fully meet her needs. For example, 
there is nothing to suggest  Santander  considered whether Ms K had any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded Santander did all it should have 
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Ms K given her circumstances. So, Im 
not persuaded Santander advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded Santander did all it should  have done  to make sure the policy was 
suitable for Ms K, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately suitable for 
her. In reaching  that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Ms K met the eligibility  criteria  for the policy.
-Ms K had a need for the policy  it seems  likely  that Ms Ks ability  to continue  to meet 
her mortgage repayments would have  been put under strain if Ms K was not working 
Ref: DRN73985585for an extended period of time  even allowing for employee redundancy and sick 
pay benefits she says she would have been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Ms K.
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Ms K. There was 
nothing about  Ms Ks employment or occupation which  would have made it difficult 
for her to claim.  And she hasnt told us about  any pre-existing medical conditions that 
could affect her ability to claim. There were also no additional restrictions  on cover for 
mental health or back problems.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 12 or 24 months  (because  
of the time since the sale, Santander hasnt  been able to tell us whether Ms K opted 
for benefits to be paid for 12 months  or 24 months) for each claim for disability or 
unemployment, it still provided useful cover  given Ms Ks circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy,  the requirement that Ms K 
be disabled or unemployed for between  four and 12 weeks  (Ms K would have made  
a choice about this) before she could  make a claim and the fact the policy  would only 
pay benefits for a maximum  of 12 or 24 months  for each  claim), the policy still 
provided valuable  cover given:
Ms Ks circumstances, including her employers sickness and redundancy 
provisions (which  she might expect to provide an income during the policys 
four to 12 week qualification period) and the limits to those provisions, which 
mean the policy could  play an important role after those provisions  were  
exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to her home  
and the potential consequences  should  Ms K be unable  to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against her house.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  Santander  gave Ms K sufficient 
information about the cover provided by the policy to enable her to understand what  
Santander was recommending to her and make  an informed decision about whether to 
follow that advice  and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Ms K was given a broad description  of what  the 
policy was intended  to cover (that is that the policy would protect her payments if Ms K was 
unable to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment) and of the approximate costs.  I 
have reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely Ms K would have taken out the 
policy without any sense  of what the policy was for and of how much  the premium  might be.
I say this because  even though Santander  hasnt been able to give us a copy  of Ms Ks PPI 
application form, it has been able to give us a copy of a sample application that it says would 
have been used at the time of the sale. I dont have  any reason to doubt that Ms K would 
have completed this form or similar. The sample application shows  that as well as personal 
details about Ms K needing to be recorded, theres a further two sections  the first one is 
entitled Benefit  details  and the other Cover required. 
Ref: DRN73985586Under the Benefit details section it asks for details of how much the policy  was to cover for 
the monthly mortgage payment and any endowment  or life premiums  that may need 
covering as well as the cost of home insurance.  Ms K could also have chosen to include up 
to an additional  25% of her household bills if she wished. There  was a further box in that 
section showing the Monthly Paymentcare premium where I think its possible the monthly 
cost of the policy would have been added. But the premium box also says for calculation 
see back page so I cant fairly say the cost was made clear.
The Cover  required section made clear that Ms K had a choice about what type of cover 
she wanted. Ms K could  choose whether she wanted accident and sickness and/or  
unemployment. She also had a choice  of the length  of the cover  12 or 24 months  and 
whether she wanted  a four or 12 week excess period. But the sample evidence from the time 
of sale doesnt  tell us whether Santander gave sufficient  information about the exclusions or 
limitations before Ms K agreed to take out the policy. 
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Ms K, Im not persuaded Santander 
did enough to present  information about  the policy it was recommending in a way that was 
fair and reasonable to her. Im not persuaded Santander gave Ms K all of the information  she 
needed about the policy to make an informed decision  about  whether to follow the 
recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Ms Ks representative has raised  a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Ms Ks. Ive considered 
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Ms Ks representative considers to be poor  
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Ms K about the limitations and exclusions,  it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Ms Ks representatives  views  on this. The duty of utmost  good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Ms K has suggested.  And taking  into account the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that Santander ought to have done  either.  
what effect did Santanders shortcomings  have on Ms K? To what extent  did Ms K 
suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ref: DRN73985587Ive found that Santander  didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Ms K. 
So I have  gone  on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude Ms K 
suffered loss and damage as a result. To answer  this, I must decide  whether or not Ms K 
would have still taken  out the policy, had Santander  done things  properly. 
While Im not persuaded Santander took the steps  it should have done to establish  whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Ms K, I have  found that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for her.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Ms K has suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if Santander had explained things 
properly, Ms K would  have acted differently, or whether she would have taken out the policy  
in any event.
Ms K says she wouldnt  have taken  it out and believes I should  presume this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Ms K had some interest in taking out payment 
protection insurance. By this I mean  when Santander advised her that there was a suitable  
product she could buy that would protect  her mortgage payments in the event she was 
unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, she concluded  she 
wanted that product. But she made  that decision based on incomplete  information, meaning 
what she thought  she was getting is not exactly what  she got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Ms Ks circumstances  at the 
time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her.
As Ive also already explained, although  I cant know  for sure,  the sample application form 
does show that there  was the potential that the information Ms K was given about  the 
approximate cost was made clear  as was the benefit as Ms K would have had to have made 
a choice. But the information about other  aspects  of the policy,  such as the limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Possibly the most significant differences between what Ms K thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Ms K knew about  or 
ought to have known about  before the start date of the policy;  
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Ms K 
wasnt a permanent employee;
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Ms K pause for thought  and may well have caused her to conclude  the policy  wasnt as 
good as she thought, and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations on the 
Ref: DRN73985588cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Ms K from taking out the policy. 
But, the evidence  about Ms Ks circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. Ms K was eligible for its benefits and it 
provided cover that, despite its limitations  and exclusions, couldve proved  valuable to her 
should the insured risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence to suggest 
Ms K wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Ms K didnt have any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Ms K would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Ms K would still have taken out the policy. The policy  was suitable for her, was 
sufficiently close to what its likely she thought she was getting  and provided benefits that 
would help her manage  the consequences  if Ms K was made  redundant, or unable to work  
through accident or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely than not Ms K 
would have taken  out the policy  in any event notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Ms Ks representatives say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Ms K would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Ms Ks 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Ms K 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Ms K believes the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales  process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Ref: DRN73985589Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Ms K in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So, Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude Santander  should  pay Ms K compensation, as that would put her 
in a better position  than she would have been in if everything had happened as it should  
have done. 
Im also aware that Ms K thinks  Santander misrepresented  the terms of the policy in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Santanders statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason  why 
Santander failed  to act fairly and reasonably was not because  of what it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information Santander gave Ms K, in 
the way it did, was insufficient  to meet the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to 
expect it to have  met in 1996 when providing information about  an insurance policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Ms Ks representative says a court  might  take if it were  
to find Santander  negligently misrepresented the contract  to Ms K and about the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that Santander  had been in breach of its duty of utmost  
good faith. But this doesnt persuade  me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   including  what I think is fair 
compensation in the circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to put Ms K in a better  position  than if everything had 
happened as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 December  2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7398558