K820x#14complaint
Mr D is unhappy that AXA Insurance UK Plc turned down part of the claim he made  on his 
travel insurance policy. 
background
On 6 September 2018 Mr B was travelling back to the UK from Italy.  Whilst at the airport he 
says his mobile phone went  missing.  He thought he mightve left it at the security  gates but 
when he returned,  the phone wasnt there.
Mr D says, by that point, he only had a short  amount of time before he had to catch his flight. 
He did report his mobile phone as missing  to the police  at the airport  before he flew home.
Upon his return to the UK he also noticed  that a designer pen had gone  missing which was 
inside his jacket pocket,  and his designer sunglasses  had been  broken. He reported this to 
AXA and said hed also lost around 150-200 euros  in cash which had been inside his mobile 
phone case. He subsequently  made  a claim  on his travel insurance policy. 
AXA requested information from Mr D in support of his claim. It also asked him to provide 
evidence that he owned the designer pen, and to send the broken sunglasses for review.  
AXA says although  it received an envelope from Mr D, it didnt receive  the sunglasses as the 
envelope had been opened  by the time it arrived at its office.
AXA declined Mr Ds claim at the end of September 2018. Mr D wasnt  happy with that 
outcome. After further communications,  AXA did agree to pay Mr D a sum of money to 
replace the mobile phone and phone case. 
Mr D says AXA should also cover  the cost of the designer pen, broken sunglasses which 
went missing,  and the cash that was inside the mobile phone  case. Hes also unhappy with 
the general service  he received from AXA including having to send  in information a number 
of times as well as delays  in dealing with his claim. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint; he didnt think AXA had to do anything 
more. Mr D disagrees and has raised  a number of points in reply.  His complaint has now 
been passed to me to look at everything  afresh and make a decision. 
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  it. Ill 
explain why.
The policy can cover  lost or stolen money, valuables and baggage  (which includes things 
like personal effects  that someone might carry on themselves).
But when making a claim it is for Mr D to substantiate his loss. The policy  says receipts  for 
items lost, stolen or damaged must  be retained as these will help Mr D substantiate  his 
claim.
Ref: DRN76858092Mr D told AXA that he didnt have  a receipt for the designer pen that went  missing as it had 
been a gift from an ex-girlfriend a number of years before.  He said he had a number similarly 
branded pens and he sent a number of photos  to AXA showing a keyring and belt with the 
same brand as the pen and a wallet box with the same branding. However,  Mr D didnt send 
AXA the pen box, which it had requested, or anything else that purported to show that hed 
owned the pen that he says was lost. So I dont  think AXA has unfairly turned down that 
aspect of his claim. 
The policy also says Mr D must  retain any property which  is damaged, and, if requested,  
send it to AXA at his own expense. So, relying  on this term, I dont  think AXA acted unfairly 
by requesting Mr D send in his broken  sunglasses  for review. Ive seen photos  of the 
envelope that was said to contain the sunglasses  which were taken by a representative  at 
AXA after the envelope had arrived at their offices.  AXA says that envelope arrived like this 
and the sunglasses werent inside.  
Mr D says the sunglasses  mustve gone  missing after theyd arrived at AXAs offices. This is, 
of course, possible. But its just as likely  that the sunglasses  fell out of the envelope at some 
point between Mr D posting the envelope  and arriving at AXAs office, whilst it was being  
transported. So, whilst  I do understand Mr Ds frustration, I cant say its more  likely than not 
that the sunglasses arrived at AXAs office and it was responsible for losing them. And as 
AXA didnt see the damage to the sunglasses, I dont think its unreasonably declined to 
cover the cost of replacing them  as its for Mr D to substantiate this aspect  of his claim. 
The policy also says that Mr D must report to the local Police  within 24 hours of discovery or 
as soon as possible  after that and obtain a written report  of the loss, theft or attempted theft 
of all personal money. Although he did report the missing mobile  phone  to the policy  at the 
airport before he returned  to the UK, it doesnt look like he reported the cash as missing; it 
isnt included in the police  report.   
Mr D says when he reported  the missing phone and cash  to AXA the following day, he 
wasnt told to report the cash as missing. He says AXAs representative shouldve told him 
this  and had they done so, he wouldve reported  this to the police also.  But Im not 
persuaded that AXA did have to proactively tell Mr D to report the missing cash  to the police. 
And besides, even  if Mr D had reported  the missing  cash to the police shortly  after the call 
with AXA,  it doesnt  detract from Mr D not reporting  the cash  as missing at the same time as 
reporting his phone as missing. Further, I note Mr D has told AXA that he wasnt able to 
substantiate the amount of cash he says was in his phone cash. He doesnt have any 
evidence of any money being  withdrawn  or exchanged  into a different currency  for example; 
he says the cash  had been  given  to him by family  members. 
So, all in all, Im satisfied  that AXA hasnt unfairly declined this aspect of Mr Ds claim.
Mr D also says that AXA put forward different reasons why it was declining aspects of his 
claim. However, its not unusual for an insurer  to have  more than one reason to decline a 
claim (or parts of it).
Mr D is also unhappy with the delays to his claim.  Mr D made a claim on his policy in early  
September 2018 and hed received AXAs decision to decline the claim by the end of that 
month. I dont think thats an unreasonable timeframe and I can see that AXA were  actively  
considering his claim during that time and requesting  further information from Mr D.  
Although AXA did, ultimately, agree to pay the claim for the phone and phone  case in early 
Ref: DRN76858093November 2018,  this was due to Mr D originally  declaring the wrong  model of phone  having 
gone missing and it wasnt unreasonable in the circumstances  for AXA to further  investigate  
this anomaly. And overall  I dont  think  the information AXA requested  from Mr D was 
unreasonable.
my final decision
I dont uphold Mr Ds complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mr D to accept or reject  my decision before 9 November 2019.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7685809