K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr S says Yorkshire Building  Society, trading at the time as Norwich & Peterborough  
Building Society mis-sold him the PPI. Ill refer to the business as YBS  in my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr S case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr S complaint. I know he feels  strongly  about  it, and Ill explain 
why. 
Mr S says it was a condition of the mortgage  that he took out PPI and because of that he 
was never  given an option but to have  it. YBS have  given me a copy  of the mortgage offer. 
And on it I can see it says: 
CONDITION M9 - FIXED RATE MORTGAGE
The gross mortgage  interest rate will, as a concession,  be fixed at 7.200%  for 4 years from 
the date of the advance.  The concession will cease immediately after the expiry  of this 
period and the The concession is subject to compliance by the applicant(s) with all 
obligations under  the Deed of Legal Charge, the Society's Mortgage Conditions  1995, its 
Rules and with the following conditions: -
(a) Buildings and contents insurance  cover (Coverguard for leasehold properties) being  
arranged through  the Society's agency and maintained for the period of the concession;
(b) Accident, sickness and unemployment  cover  being arranged through  the Society's 
agency and maintained for the period  of the concession;
(c) An arrangement fee of £295 being  debited to the account on completion.
So this means  that when  Mr S was sold the PPI, YBS had made it a condition of its 
mortgage that he had to take out PPI. Mr S was getting a special, discounted interest rate 
and taking out PPI was part of the deal. This is clear from what Ive seen on the mortgage  
offer  as above. And I think  Mr S was probably aware of this because it is mentioned in an 
important document   his mortgage  offer  from the time.
So I think he agreed to take out PPI in order to get this particular mortgage  with its 
discounted interest rate, knowing it was a condition.  And ultimately, if Mr S wasnt happy with 
this, he couldve sourced a mortgage  that didnt have PPI as a condition  from another 
provider. 
Given how long ago the sale took place,  Ive had to rely on policy documents that wouldve 
been used both before and after the sale, and Ive considered what  it says on the PPI leaflet 
YBS has given me a copy of for this sale. 
Mr S says YBS recommended  the PPI to him, YBS says it didnt. But even if I accept it did, it 
seems to have been right for Mr S based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time.  
For example he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover  and he 
seems to have had a need for the cover.  
Ref: DRN76039982Its possible the information YBS gave Mr S about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve  
been. But it seems  like it would have been  useful  for him if something went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
him off taking out the cover. 
In saying the above, Ive considered what Mr S has said about his sick pay benefits, savings 
and redundancy  pay. But the PPI gave him cover  for up to 24 months if he was unable to 
work due to an accident or sickness, and it gave  him cover for up to 12 months  if he was out 
of work. It would also have freed up any other  funds for other essential living expenses.  And 
ultimately the mortgage was a big and long term commitment,  secured on Mr Ss home   so 
I still think he wouldve found  it useful.  
Ive thought about everything Mr S has said - including what hes said about what it was like 
buying a financial  product  in 1997  compared  to the information you have  available  today, 
and the practice  of selling  PPI in this conditional  way was standard  practice  of the day. But 
Ive already said what I think about this above. 
So these points dont  change my decision.
what else have I considered 
Ive noted what  Mr S has said about commission.  In 2017, following a Supreme Court 
judgment, the Financial Conduct  Authority  (FCA),  issued some  rules about how businesses 
should deal with complaints about the non-disclosure of commission  where PPI was sold.  
The FCA said that if a business got a high level of commission and profit share  from the PPI 
policy  more than 50% of the PPI premium  and it didnt tell the consumer, then that could 
create an unfair relationship between the parties.  So to put that right, the FCA said that 
businesses should  pay back  the amount of commission and profit share  that was more than 
50% of the PPI premium.
But these  rules and the Supreme Court judgment relate to the unfair relationship  provisions 
in the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. The unfair relationship provisions  which  were  added to 
the Consumer  Credit Act in 2006  came into force on 6 April 2007. The changes  made in 
2006 explained that the unfair relationship  provisions would only apply to credit  agreements 
taken out on or after 6 April 2007, or agreements taken out before then, which were still 
running on 6 April 2008. 
         
YBS has given me information that shows Mr S mortgage was taken out in 1997 and ended  
in 2007. So based on what Ive said above,  I dont think the unfair  relationship provisions in 
the Consumer  Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment, or the rules and guidance made  by 
the FCA in relation to the non-disclosure of commission apply here.
So YBS doesnt  need  to refund any of the commission Mr S paid for the PPI he had with his 
mortgage.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr S complaint.
Ref: DRN76039983Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2019. 
Ketan Nagla
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7603998