K820x#14complaint
Mr P complains Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard)  put a block on his card 
without telling him.
background
Mr P travelled abroad  and when he tried to use his credit card to pay for a hotel on his way 
home it was declined causing him and his wife much embarrassment and inconvenience. Its 
paid him £150  which  he says isnt enough in light of the 30 minutes he had to spend on the 
phone on the night and the embarrassment  caused  which spoilt the end of their holiday..
Barclaycard said it blocked Mr Ps card on 21 December 2018 due to a possible fraudulent  
transaction. It sent him a number of emails to the address  it had on its records to explain the 
situation. It said it wasnt aware this wasnt Mr Ps latest email  address. And it didnt  have a 
mobile phone number for him. It said it gave him the benefit of the doubt when he said hed 
given it a mobile phone number and paid him £150  compensation for the distress  and 
inconvenience this caused. It said itd now updated Mr Ps email address but it couldnt 
update his mobile phone number because he didnt want it to have it.
The adjudicator thought  Barclaycard had dealt  with Mr Ps complaint fairly. Itd blocked  his 
card as a security measure which it was entitled  to do under its terms and conditions.  And 
itd attempted  to contact him.
Mr P wasnt  happy with this. He sent us a copy of an email dated 19 November 2018 he said 
Barclaycard had sent to his new email address. And he said he had texts from Barclaycard 
prior to it cancelling his card. His phone call to Barclays cost £72 so the remaining £78 is not 
sufficient compensation  for the embarrassment caused on the night.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In line with its terms and conditions and its fraud systems Barclaycard was entitled to block 
Mr Ps credit  card due to a possible fraudulent transaction. But the problem is that it tried to 
contact Mr P on an old email address. Mr P says he had an email dated 19 November 2018 
which shows Barclaycard  had his new email address.  And it contacted him previously on his 
mobile phone.   
The email  dated  19 November 2018 is about Barclaycard Secure services. Barclaycard says 
that its part of VISAs online  security but is not linked to his Barclaycard account. And I can 
see from Barclaycards  record that its made  calls to Mr Ps home  phone  number but there 
isnt any record of it contacting him via a mobile phone.
But Barclaycard told us it gave Mr P the benefit of the doubt  when  he said hed previously 
provided it with his mobile number. Its paid him £150 as compensation for the 
inconvenience that its caused.  So I need to decide  if thats  sufficient in all the 
circumstances. To do that I need  to look at the impact on Mr P of Barclaycard sending alerts 
to his old email address  and not contacting him on his mobile phone.
Ref: DRN72745432Mr P had the immediate  stress and embarrassment  at the hotel when his card was declined 
and he had to find another  method to pay for his room. This meant  he had to find a cash  
machine late at night  which he was able to do. And I can appreciate how frustrating  that was. 
But it seems  he managed to sort the immediate problem without too much delay. He then 
had a 30 minute phone call with Barclaycard where it explained what had happened  and told 
him itd sent him replacement cards. So that shouldve reassured him. Hes not told us of any 
other difficulties he had by not being  able to use his Barclaycard. So, although I know Mr P 
wont agree  with me, in all those circumstances I think £150 compensation, including  the 
cost of the phone  call, is fair and reasonable.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 April 2020.
Linda Freestone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7274543