K822xComplaint
Mrs M complains about how AXA Insurance UK Plc have dealt with a claim made for fire 
damage under her buildings and contents insurance  policy.
Mrs M is represented  by her son, Mr W. Ill refer to both of them  in this decision.
All references to AXA include  its appointed agents.
Background 
What follows is intended to be a brief summary  of the events  that led to this complaint. It 
does not therefore include all the points  raised,  nor is it intended to be a timeline  of events.
There was a fire at Mrs Ms property in 2017. AXA dealt with the initial damage and 
rebuilding of the property. Mrs M moved  back  into the property around  April 2018 but there  
were still outstanding issues.
Mr W, on behalf of Mrs M made a complaint to AXA about the progress of the claim and a 
number of issues that remained outstanding. He said some of the work remained 
uncompleted and that other  repairs which had been  done, were of poor quality causing 
further damage to the property. AXA looked into the complaint and offered Mrs M £750  
compensation. AXA at that point said it was for the delays in accommodation  payments 
being made and other issues not being dealt with promptly. Further  work  was then 
undertaken to complete some  of the outstanding issues. Mrs M also had some  private  work  
done at the same time to modernise  the property.
In December 2018, Mr W made a further  complaint to AXA as he remained unhappy with the 
duration of the claim and the progress of it. He also said the amount paid for the contents of 
the property was undervalued.
AXA looked  into the complaint but maintained the value it had paid for the contents, was 
correct. It explained  it had made deductions  for wear and tear, reduced  the value of some 
items as it didnt think the amount claimed  was reasonable and, only paid for items  covered  
under the contents section of the policy.
Mr W brought the complaint to this service. Our investigator looked into it but didnt feel AXA 
needed to do anything more at that stage. Mr W had raised  more  complaint points in the 
meantime and out investigator said AXA needed  to have the opportunity  to respond to these. 
Mr W asked for an ombudsman to review the case and it has been passed to me to decide.
I approached AXA for its agreement to consider all outstanding matters in relation to the 
claim under this complaint reference, which it agreed to. I also proposed that a further visit 
by a surveyor takes place at Mrs Ms property to look into all the outstanding concerns and 
propose a way forward, if appropriate.  Both parties  agreed to this proposal and the resulting  
report was then provided to me.
My provisional findings
I issued my provisional findings on this complaint on 28 June 2021. I said I intended to 
uphold the complaint, for the following reasons:
Ref: DRN79634532This claim  has been ongoing  for many  years now and I understand at times, progress hasnt 
been smooth for either  party. I can reassure both parties that I have looked through  the 
considerable submissions  related to this complaint  and have considered  everything that has 
been said. However, my role is to focus  on the main issues which  I see to be at the heart of 
this complaint. I wont therefore be responding in the same level of detail and will 
concentrate on providing my reasons for my findings:
Ive set out under subheadings below my thoughts.
Missing wheelbarrow  and ladder
The contractor confirmed  it was likely  these  had been used and taken away, but 
replacements would  be organised. Its unclear if this has happened  for either of the items.
I think AXA should establish which items  are still missing and pay Mrs M the equivalent  cost 
of replacing them.
Hole in the roof/leaking roof
The report  prepared after the recent site visit states  the following:
The concern was raised that any lead flashing installed as part of the roof repairs did not 
run into the stonework joints. Unfortunately,  as any lead flashing is now covered with the 
cement fillet the only way to be sure is to remove the cement.
Mr W advised that water was seen entering the dining room, but only during  periods of 
heavy rain and when the wind was from a specific direction.
From our observations it is considered  possible that the lead flashing has not been
dressed correctly as there is a section of cement fillet that seems too narrow to fully cover  
any lead and no lead could be seen protruding above it. Internally there  is evidence  of water  
penetration to the dining room ceiling adjacent to the chimney breast,  while damp was noted 
to the upper  face of the dining room ceiling, in the loft area.
Mr W was concerned that the water penetration since the roof was complete could be 
resulting in the roof timber  getting  wet and rotting.  However, these could not be inspected at 
the time of our visit.
We recommend that the cement fillet is removed, and the lead flashing detail inspected  and 
any issues made good. If no issues are found,  then the water  penetration  must  be coming 
from the open chimney pot only and no internal works due to damp should be considered. 
However, if defects to the flashing are noted  then the roof timber should be inspected for rot 
and treated accordingly, while  the dining room ceiling would need to be stain blocked  and 
painted. 
However, before these  works could be undertaken,  AXA authorised  Mr W to hire someone  to 
fix the internal  leak. This meant work  was done to the roof in the same area and has now 
potentially prejudiced the investigation into the cause of the fault.
Ive asked AXA to let me know if it still believes  it is possible to establish if the flashing was 
incorrectly dressed but it hasnt responded.
Ref: DRN79634533If AXA believes it can still establish  this, then I think it is fair that it does so and if required, 
carries any remedial action as set out in the report cited above.
If it is no longer possible to determine  the cause of the leak,  then I think  the only reasonable 
way this can be settled  is on a 50% basis.  I say this because it has been  identified, it is 
possible that poor workmanship by AXAs contractors might  be responsible, but similarly  the 
issue may be due to the private work Mr W had done at the same time.
AXA should  arrange for an inspection  of the roof timber to take place. It should then 
calculate what it would have cost it to undertake all of the works identified  in the report  cited 
above (taking into account  the condition of the roof timbers and if they need treating for rot), 
and pay 50% of this cost to Mrs M.
Chimney left without an elephants  foot
It was agreed during  the recent site visit that this related to private works that were 
undertaken at the property. As such AXA has no liability  to replace this or rectify any 
associated damage  caused by it being  missing.
Bedroom 4 door
It appears the bedroom door was left without being shaved down so it wouldnt close 
correctly once the carpet was laid.
To put this right, I think AXA should make a cash payment  to Mrs M equivalent to what it 
would have cost it to send someone  out to undertake this work.
Live wires dangling in loft and toilet vent damaged
The report  prepared after the recent site visit states  the following:
Mr W advised that he was concerned that the wiring in the loft was not very neat and 
notches had been cut out of the ceiling joints to run the cable through,  which  may have  
compromised the structural integrity. In addition, the steel vent outlet  from the bathroom has 
been squashed by a section of the timber  flooring and discharges into the loft.
We were also advised  that the light bulb to the dining room  blows  on a regular basis.
Notwithstanding the above there  is a completed  NICEIC certificate  for the electrical system 
on our file dated 3rd March 2018.
We recommend that the electrics are checked  again, and the toilet  vent tube replaced,  
although we do not believe that the notches in the timber are of any structural concern. 
I think it is reasonable to rely on the opinion  of experts and therefore I will accept the opinion  
offered that the notches in the timber arent an issue. 
It is suggested the electrics are tested again,  which I think is reasonable. If any issues are 
found, I would expect AXA to take steps  to put them right unless there are any obvious 
reasons to suggest they are not related to the insured works.
Ref: DRN79634534It is also suggested the toilet vent tube is replaced  which I think AXA should arrange as soon 
as possible.
Slate missing on roof
AXA has now agreed this should be replaced.
Gothic window
Theres mention the Gothic window in the en-suite was missed from the scope of works. And 
also, not all of the windows were able to be replaced due to scaffolding blocking them. 
In the recent site visit Mr W apparently said he didnt want to pursue the matter of the 
window, as he was planning on replacing  some windows in any event.
However, given this matter is related to the insured event, AXA still has a liability  to put 
things right.
To draw matters to a close I intend  to suggest AXA pays Mrs M the amount it would have 
cost it to fix this window.
Fan not working in bathroom
Mr W raised the fact the fan is no longer working in the bathroom. He says it was replaced  
but then stopped working. As the fan worked  for quite some  time after it was fitted, I dont  
think AXA need to do anything more here.
Dirty loft
The report  produced on behalf of AXA says the following:
We were  able to inspect  the loft area and noted evidence  of smoke residue on the gable 
walls and main timber  beams, which we believe arose from the fire but has not been cleaned  
off.
The smoke  residue does  require  removal and Mr W has asked a company to clean off the 
stonework and timber.  The loft is also in need  of a general tidy up.
Given how long this claim has been ongoing, I think the fairest settlement here would be for 
AXA to pay what it has cost Mrs M to have this area cleaned and tidied. With interest  at 8% 
simple per annum from the date any payment was made to the date of settlement. Mr W 
should arrange to provide AXA with an invoice for the work undertaken so it can provide the 
reimbursement.
If for whatever reason  no invoice can be provided, then AXA should  pay reasonable costs  to 
Mrs M for this type of work.
Dirty Chimneys
Following on from above, I think its reasonable to conclude the chimneys  were  also left dirty
Ref: DRN79634535So again,  I think AXA should pay what it has cost Mrs M to have this area cleaned, if not 
already included in the above costs.  With interest at 8% simple per annum from the date any 
payment was made to the date of settlement. Mr W should arrange to provide AXA with an 
invoice for the work undertaken so it can provide the reimbursement.
If for whatever reason  no invoice can be provided, then AXA should  pay reasonable costs  to 
Mrs M for this type of work.
Cash settlement for the fitted wardrobes
I understand from the file a cash settlement was taken as it wasnt possible to reinstate the 
wardrobes in one of the rooms at the time - due to it being made smaller to accommodate  
the bathroom. The wardrobes were also to be relocated.
Mr W has said it cost considerably more than the cash  value to reinstate the wardrobes in 
just one of the bedrooms, therefore he doesnt  think the amount paid is sufficient. I have 
asked Mr W to provide an invoice for the wardrobe and a formal  estimate  of what it would 
cost to reinstate  all the wardrobes, but he has not been able to provide this.
Having reviewed everything I can see its possible that AXA missed  bedroom four off of its 
calculation so it should make sure it has made  the correct payment to Mrs M for all four 
rooms. If there is an outstanding payment,  interest  of 8% simple  per annum should be added 
from the date it initially  made payment to Mrs W, to the date of settlement.
Other than this, I wont be asking  AXA to increase its cash  settlement for the fitted 
wardrobes as Ive not seen persuasive  evidence which leads  me to conclude the amount 
paid is unreasonable.
Induction hob
Mr W raised the fact he asked for an induction hob to be fitted but this didnt happen. While I 
appreciate Mr W was mindful of the safety of Mrs M. As there  wasnt an induction  hob in the 
property before the fire, I cant  say AXA has done anything wrong by not fitting one after it.
Cavities werent cleared  out and gable wall painting inadequate
Mr W says the cavities in the wall werent cleared out after the fire, meaning that there is 
rubble etc still between  them. He also mentioned soot can still be seen under the paintwork. 
During the site visit it was recommended the left-hand gable wall cavity  be inspected  by 
removing some of the external masonry and any debris cleaned out, while noting the 
rendering requires further painting.
I think these recommendations are reasonable and as such AXA should take them forward.
Damp in the bedrooms and ruined carpets
Mr W said that he had to replace the carpets in the bedrooms only a few months after they 
were laid as the walls were still damp and the carpets were  ruined. Mr W puts this down to 
the fact the building  was open to the elements and the water used to extinguish  the fire. He 
doesnt think the walls were properly dry and in addition, the cavities werent cleared out 
before the roof was reinstated.
Ref: DRN79634536The report  from the latest site visit suggests that this was a possibility. Due to the thickness  
of the walls it is possible they werent sufficiently dry before redecoration took place.
I accept the location of the property near to a water  source means that there  will always be a 
certain degree of moisture, indeed  this was mentioned on the drying certificate.  However, 
based on what Mr W has said, the fact the carpets had to be replaced so soon after they 
were fitted  and there hasnt been a reoccurrence  of the same  issue.  Im persuaded by what  
he has suggested was the cause of the damage to the carpets.
If Mr W is able to provide AXA with invoices of what  it cost to have the carpets  replaced,  he 
should provide  these  to AXA, and it should  reimburse the costs.
If no invoices are available, AXA should pay Mrs M what  it would have cost it to replace the 
carpets.
Two smashed cabinets
Mr W wanted to salvage  two cabinets from the property however it was not in a safe 
condition for them to be removed. Due to the unstable nature of the building and the works 
that were being  undertaken  at the time to make the site safe, part of the ceiling collapsed 
smashing the two cabinets in question. I understand the cabinets had sentimental  value,  but 
I dont think AXA did anything wrong  by preventing Mr W from accessing the site. As was 
proven by what happened, the building was unstable, and AXA had a duty to prevent  
unauthorised access  to it.
It is unfortunate the cabinets couldnt be moved  before  they were  damaged.  AXA accounted  
for the cost of the cabinets in the contents payment it made to Mrs M, so I wont  be asking it 
to do anything more  here.
Under insurance
I can see there was some  communications around this matter  between the parties which  
caused some concern  to the late Mr M and Mrs M. Ultimately it was concluded this wasnt  an 
issue as the contents payment was below  the policy limit.
AXA is entitled to undertake investigations  to ensure the property and its contents  have been 
correctly insured. And, I would have expected AXA to set out what  would happen if the 
contents had been found to have been uninsured.
I realise this would have  caused some concern and worry, but I dont think AXA did anything 
wrong here by undertaking the checks it did.
Contents value
Mr W has mentioned  hes unhappy some items on the list he produced werent  paid for and 
others were  reduced in value.
Having looked  at what was paid, I can see deductions were correctly  made for wear and 
tear, reasonable value adjustments were  made  to some items and others  which were not 
covered under the contents were removed from the list.
Ref: DRN79634537I think AXA have acted  reasonably here, so I dont intend to do anything  further.
Letters Addressed to Mr M, after he had passed away
I can see that the final response issued in February 2019 was addressed  to Mr M when AXA
had been notified in October 2018 that he had passed away.  This would understandably 
have been distressing for Mrs M and I think some compensation  is due for this. I have taken 
this into consideration  in my compensation award  set out towards the end of this letter.
Patronising communications
Mr W has raised the fact he thinks he was spoken  to in a patronising  way. Ive seen lots of 
correspondence on this case  with communications that I think  could have been phrased 
better by both parties. Given the long running nature of the claim, I think its understandable 
at times, emotions ran high. However,  Ive not seen anything that specifically leads  me to 
think compensation is due here.
Overall service
I can see Mrs M was given £750 compensation in August  2018  to reflect the fact matters 
hadnt gone smoothly up to this point  which  I think  is reasonable.
However, its clear from the above, quite a few issues remained outstanding on the claim 
and further avoidable distress was caused  to Mrs M. So, I intend to suggest  a further £300 
compensation is paid to reflect that.
Policy renewal
Separately, I understand Mrs Ms policy didnt renew with AXA.  Mrs Ms policy  was set up 
through a broker.  It appears AXA didnt receive  any response from, or on behalf of Mrs M 
and therefore  her policy didnt renew.  I dont think AXA did anything wrong here.
If Mrs M has concerns about  how her renewal was dealt with, she will need to contact  her 
broker and raise this.
Reponses to my provisional decision
Mr M responded saying  he accepted the provisional  decision  and made the following points 
for me to consider:
The wheelbarrow was missing  and ladder damaged so he accepts AXA will pay to 
replace these.
The internal  leak caused by the missing elephants foot has now been  rectified.  It is 
now the external  leak relating to issues with the roof and chimney which AXA need to 
look at. He thinks they should still be able to undertake investigative  work. If 
rectification work is required, he wants AXA to complete this as it is very difficult to 
find the required skilled tradesperson.
He is happy  to take a cash settlement for the gothic window repair.
He was frustrated  that the loft was left in such a state, he says it smells and is a 
constant reminder of the fire. 
My wording  of dirty chimneys should be changed  to reflect  the fact it is more the 
lintel and masonry above - so the fire surround  and adjoining  wall.
Ref: DRN79634538The amount  AXA has paid for the fitted wardrobes isnt like for like. He will arrange 
for a quote to be sent. Having had a discussion with the company that refitted  one of 
the wardrobes, he thought it would cost around  £5,000 for the rest. 
He would want AXA to undertake  the work to clear out the cavities  and repaint the 
gable wall. 
He has provided  an invoice for the carpets.
It is still upsetting the cabinets were smashed and care wasnt taken of them.
Mrs M hasnt received the full payment for the contents settlement.
AXA responded saying it accepted the majority of my provisional decision and made the 
following points for me to take into consideration:
Wheelbarrow / ladder   It will discuss with Mr W and ascertain appropriate costs.  
Hole in the roof / leaking roof  it may well be possible to still investigate  to see if the 
flashing has been dressed correctly. A site visit will be arranged.
Bedroom 4 door  It will make  a payment of £150 to Mrs M for this.
Live wires dangling / toilet vent damaged  this will be progressed.
Slate missing on roof this will be replaced.
Gothic Window  once a site visit has taken  place  to ascertain the value of the 
window, this amount  will be paid to Mrs M.
Dirty loft and Chimney surrounds  it will await the invoices from Mr W and add 
interest at 8%. 
Fitted wardrobes  settlement was based  on the provisional sum allocated   suggest 
that all costs are checked at the site meeting and if an accurate like for like costs  can 
be ascertained the difference  paid plus 8% interest.
Cavities  to be inspected by the contractor  to ascertain if additional  work  to this area 
is required.
Damp in bedrooms and ruined carpets   comments  noted but given  that this is a very 
old building there may well be an inherent damp  issue, and this has been previously 
raised. Suggest further investigation  is required.
Contents  A mandate has been sent to Mr W to enable future payments to be 
issued directly to him.
Ive now reconsidered  the case and all of the comments  that have been made in order  to 
reach my final decision 
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Both parties  agree on most of the points  that have been made in my provisional findings, 
and because of this I dont see any reason to depart from them or address them here again.  
Instead Ill focus on the areas where  additional  comments have been made.
Mr W has said that he would like AXA to undertake any of the work required to the 
chimney/roof and cavities. Given the location of the property and the difficulty  he has had 
previously in getting skilled tradespersons out, I dont think this is an unreasonable request 
and I think it is one that AXA should consider. 
Ref: DRN79634539I note Mr Ws comments  about my reference to dirty chimneys, I did this purely for summary 
purposes and I do recognise that it is the fire surrounds and adjoining  walls  which  may also 
require cleaning. I expect  AXA to act reasonably here in paying what  it costs to have these  
areas cleaned.
 
AXA has suggested the costs for like for like replacement fitted wardrobes can be checked 
at a site meeting and any additional  payment agreed  then. Mr W has also provided an 
outline of what  was there originally, and a provisional estimate  of £5,000  based  on a 
conversation he has had with the company that previously fitted out one of the bedrooms. 
Mr W is also arranging  for a quote for replacements to be obtained. AXAs liability  here 
extends to the cost of providing  a like for like replacement.   I think AXAs suggestion  of a 
possible resolution here is reasonable and I will leave  the parties to sort this out between 
them following  this decision.  
The only issue where settlement has not been reached is regarding  the ruined carpets. Im 
mindful of AXAs comments here about the age of the property and potential inherent damp 
issues, however I did take this into consideration when  making  my provisional decision.  I 
dont think it would be reasonable for further  investigation  to be undertaken here, as I dont 
see what value it will bring at this late stage and will only serve to prolong  the matter  further.  
So, for the same reasons  as set out in my provisional decision, I direct AXA to pay Mrs W 
what it cost her to have the carpets replaced. Mr W has been able to provide an invoice for 
this so AXA should reimburse  this amount plus 8% interest. 
Having considered everything, my decision remains that Mrs Ms complaint should be 
upheld, and AXA need to take action to put things right.
Putting things  right 
To summarise, AXA should  do the following:
Pay Mrs M the equivalent cost of replacing  the wheelbarrow  and ladder
Undertake an investigation into the cause  of the leaking roof and undertake any 
remedial action  as set out in the appropriate  section above  and in the site visit 
report.
Pay Mrs M £150 cash settlement in respect of shaving down  the door to bedroom  4
Check the electrics and take steps to put any issues right unless there are any 
reasonable reasons to suggest  they are not related to the insured works.
Replace the toilet vent tube
Replace the missing  slate  on the roof
Pay Mrs M the amount it would  have cost to fix the gothic window
Pay Mrs W what it has cost her to clean the dirty loft, masonry,  walls and chimney  
surrounds, plus interest at 8% simple per year from the date of payment to the date 
of settlement .  If any of this work remains outstanding it should either arrange for it 
to be completed or pay Mrs M reasonable costs to enable the work to be done. 
Pay reasonable costs for the fitted  wardrobes to be replaced  on a like for like basis  
and indemnify Mrs M in line with the policy terms and conditions. The amount paid 
should be based on an assessment at a site visit and any further  information  Mr W 
can provide.  Any  outstanding payment should  include  interest  at 8% simple per 
annum and should be added from the date it initially made payment to Mrs W, to the 
date of settlement.
Ref: DRN796345310Arrange for the cavity  walls to be inspected by removing some of the external  
masonry and clearing  any debris  out. Repair and make good masonry once the work 
has been completed.
Repaint the rendering where required and as recommended in the site visit report.
Pay Mrs M what it cost her to have the bedroom  carpets replaced including  8% 
interest per year from the date of payment to the date of settlement
Arrange for any outstanding payments for the contents settlement to be paid to 
Mrs M or whoever  she requires on her behalf. 
Pay Mrs M £300 compensation
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mrs Ms complaint against AXA Insurance  UK Plc. I direct it 
to put matters right as I have set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2021.
Alison Gore
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7963453