K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a joint mortgage  held by Mr and Mrs G. Between  January 2015 and 
June 2018, the mortgage was administered by Target Servicing Limited on behalf of the 
lender. Mr and Mrs Gs complaint covers  a range of things, and their submissions  about  
them are comprehensive.  However, our consideration  of the complaint is confined to the 
following four points:
that Target sent Mr and Mrs G two copies of the redemption quotation;
that Target misled  Mr and Mrs G about whether  it had received correspondence  from 
them;
whether anything Target did between taking the mortgage administration  over on 
29 January 2015 and recalculating the monthly payment in August 2017  was the cause 
of the payment being too high; and
that some letters from Target  contained spelling and/or grammatical errors.
background
Our adjudicator wasnt persuaded  Target had caused Mr and Mrs G any detriment in 
connection with the above matters. He gave Mr and Mrs G until 14 January 2019 to respond;  
theyve responded  sooner than that, asking for the complaint  to be reviewed by an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  specifically Mr Gs many 
and varied responses  to the adjudicators view, to decide whats  fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I have looked  at the case previously, when  deciding how much of the complaint we were 
able to consider  under  our rules.  Thats why some of the above  narrative will look familiar to 
Mr and Mrs G and to Target. My decision on that was that we only had jurisdiction to 
consider the bullet points listed in the complaint section above. 
Ive looked very carefully at the comments from Mr G following the adjudicators  view.  The 
greater part of the submission appears  to be a re-arguing of the jurisdiction decision; asking 
why we havent addressed other  matters  and urging us to do so after all. Im satisfied my 
jurisdiction decision was as clear as it could be about what  parts  of the complaint we could, 
and couldnt, consider.  I wont  be revisiting it here, however much Mr and Mrs G would like 
me to. 
This decision is confined  solely  to the four issues detailed above. Having considered afresh  
everything thats been said and provided, Ive some disappointing news for Mr and Mrs G. 
Ive reached broadly the same conclusions as the adjudicator, and for not dissimilar reasons.
Of the four issues we have jurisdiction to consider, three are no more than minor 
administrative errors. Mr and Mrs G clearly  found them irksome, but Im satisfied they 
caused Mr and Mrs G no detriment or financial loss. As to the fourth, the sole question for 
me to consider is whether  Target  did anything between 29 January 2015  and August 2017 
that meant  Mr and Mrs Gs monthly  payment was too high.
Ref: DRN72749032Insofar as Target didnt  do anything at all to change the payment during that period, thats  an 
easier question  to answer than its been  made to look. Whatever the cause of the payment 
being too high may be, by definition it arises from something which happened before Target 
began administering  the mortgage. That being  the case, theres nothing for me to uphold 
against Target in relation to this issue.
my final decision
My final decision, for the reasons given above, is that I dont uphold  this complaint. My final 
decision concludes this services consideration of this complaint, which means Ill not be 
engaging in any further discussion of the merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G 
behalf, to accept or reject my decision before 10 February 2019.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7274903