K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that The Royal London  Mutual Insurance Society Limited wrote to him in 
2015 stating that a family members policy had been  amended and that he was now the 
policyholder. But it recently said this was a computer error  and that the proceeds had been 
paid out to 16 years earlier and to the correct  policyholder.
background 
Mr B also complained that his family had at some point held five polices/accounts with Aviva  
and it was refusing  to provide information about  these including which  ones were still in 
existence and when pay-outs had been  made.
After Mr B complained to this service Aviva  said the 2015 letter  was a mistake and offered 
Mr B £150  in lieu of this error.
An adjudicator at this service  felt the evidence  supported Avivas  explanation and considered  
its offer reasonable. She noted that Mr B had broader concerns about Avivas  actions and 
said that these  needed to be considered via a separate  complaint. These  other matters are 
being considered separately.
Mr B did not accept Avivas offer. He said there  were numerous inconsistencies in Avivas  
account of the familys various policies, their value  and what had happened  to the money.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I recognise that Mr B has a series of inter-related  concerns and that these extend beyond  
the 2015 letter which mistakenly said hed become  the owner of a particular policy;  a policy 
under which  the proceeds had previously been  paid out to his late father.
However, it is necessary  to split his complaint. This is because  while  Mr B has a clear right 
to bring a complaint about how Avivas  actions in 2015 and since have  affected  him, it is far 
from clear whether he has the power to complain about policies set up either by or for the 
benefit of other family members. 
So an ombudsman will have to assess whether we can consider Mr Bs other complaint 
points  i.e. whether he is an eligible  complainant  before potentially looking into these 
matters.
When considering  the single  issue of the mistaken letter I acknowledge that Avivas  actions 
were unacceptable  and that Mr B genuinely believed, from 2015  on, that he was the owner  
of a policy with a monetary value. I have  no doubt  this mistake has caused Mr B trouble and 
upset and that Avivas  response has added to his broader concerns, rightly or wrongly,  about  
its administration of other family members policies. 
In the light of this services published  guidelines about appropriate  payments when a 
businesss errors causes  unnecessary  upset, I feel £250 is a fair and reasonable figure.
Ref: DRN74276882my final decision
I therefore uphold  this complaint and instruct The Royal London  Mutual Insurance  Society  
Limited to pay Mr B £250 in lieu of its error and the likely consequences of this.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7427688