K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains that Legal and General Assurance  Society Limited (L&G) incorrectly  
advised him to contract out of the State Earnings  Related Pension Scheme (SERPS) in tax 
year 1988/89. As a result he says the state  pension  he is now being paid has been  reduced.
 
background
L&G accepts  that the advice it gave  Mr D in 1988 was incorrect. And due to the effect of time 
and charges the value of the contributions  it received  from the DWP has not resulted in any 
pension being  payable to Mr D.
So it has calculated the value of those contributions in terms of the pension  that Mr D would 
have received if he had not contracted out of SERPS. L&G says that pension would amount 
to approximately  £27.04 per annum.  L&G offered Mr D a single payment of £534.64 after 
deduction of tax to reflect  the future  value  of that pension and the pension that would have 
been due since  he retired.
Mr D didnt accept the offer from L&G. He said that the deduction  from his state  pension  was 
equal to £4.70 per week. The deduction had been caused by a total of four years contracted  
out of SERPS.  So he thought that L&G should pay one quarter of that deduction in respect  
of the year contracted  out following the incorrect advice hed been given.
Mr Ds complaint has been assessed by one of our adjudicators. She noted that the 
methodology used  by L&G to calculate  the value of Mr Ds contributions was by necessity 
complex. But she said it had been  designed by an actuary and the assumptions  L&G had 
used, such as Mr Ds date of birth and date of retirement had been accurate. So she didnt 
think that the offer L&G had made to Mr D had been unreasonable.  As a result she didnt 
think the complaint  should be upheld.
Mr D didnt agree with that assessment.  So, as the complaint hasnt  been  resolved 
informally, it has been passed to me, an ombudsman, to decide.  This is the last stage of our 
process.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time.
At the outset I think it is useful to reflect on the role of this service.  This service isnt intended  
to regulate or punish businesses for their conduct  that is the role of the Financial Conduct  
Authority. Instead  this service looks to resolve  individual complaints between a consumer 
and a business. Should we decide  that something  has gone wrong we would ask the 
business to put things  right by placing the consumer,  as far as is possible, in the position 
they would  have been if the problem hadnt  occurred.
L&G has accepted  that the advice it gave to Mr D in 1988 was incorrect. So all that I need to 
do here is determine what compensation it should pay to Mr D.
Ref: DRN72187982I agree  with our adjudicator that the assumptions L&G has used when calculating the 
compensation due to Mr D appear to be correct. So given that the methodology has been 
agreed by its actuary I have no reason  to doubt  that the offer L&G has made is a fair 
assessment of the value of the rebates it received  as a result of Mr D contracting  out of 
SERPS.
But Mr D has argued that I should also consider the actual cost to him of the advice that L&G 
gave, in terms of the reduction he is now facing on his state pension.  I think that is a 
reasonable argument, and it would meet my objective of putting Mr D back into the position 
he would  have been in if the incorrect advice hadnt  been given.
Mr D was contracted out of SERPS  for four years. One year was as a result of the advice he 
received from L&G. But the other three  years  were whilst he was a member  of an 
occupational pension scheme.  L&G bears no responsibility for Mr D being contracted out for 
those three  years.
We have contacted the DWP to understand more about the deduction that has been applied 
to Mr Ds state pension.  The DWP has confirmed that the three years that Mr D was 
contracted out as a member of the occupational scheme are sufficient  to account for the 
entire deduction to Mr Ds state pension. So, although there is a theoretical deduction arising 
from the rebate paid to L&G, that is broadly in line with the calculation  that L&G has 
performed, the deduction that is now being applied to Mr Ds state  pension  would have  been  
unchanged had he not contracted out following L&Gs advice.
So it seems  to me that the offer L&G has made to Mr D is a fair one given the circumstances 
of this complaint.  It follows  that I dont require L&G to do anything  other  than pay the 
compensation it has offered to Mr D if it hasnt already  done  so.
my final decision
My final decision is that the compensation offered by Legal  and General Assurance  Society  
Limited is fair in the circumstances of this complaint. L&G should  pay that compensation to 
Mr D if it hasnt already done so.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
Paul Reilly
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7218798