K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that she wanted to withdraw  £4,000 in cash at a branch  of National
Westminster Bank Plc. She says she was only given £2,000,  but her account  was debited 
with the full amount of £4,000.
background
Mrs B has an account with NatWest in the UK, although she lives abroad.  On a visit to the
UK she went to a branch to withdraw £4,000 in cash, intending to take it back to her
home abroad.
At the branch, Mrs B says she the cashier counted out £4,000 in total  £2,000  in £20 notes
and £2,000 in £50 notes   using a counting  machine. She was then given one envelope,
which she assumed  contained both bundles  of notes. She took the envelope  home and put it 
in her suitcase. However, when she later checked  it, she found out that it contained  only 
£2,000, in £50 notes.
When Mrs B raised the issue  with the bank, it looked  into what had happened. It said
however that Mrs B had been handed  two envelopes of cash, each containing  £2,000. It said
branch staff had checked CCTV which showed  that to be the case.  It noted  as well that its
tills very nearly balanced on the day in question; there was a difference  of just £1.20.
Mrs B referred the matter to this service,  where  one of our investigators considered it. She
wasnt persuaded however that Mrs B had been  given the full £4,000. She noted that, whilst
bank staff had referred to CCTV footage,  it was no longer available and so neither  she nor
Mrs B had been able to see or comment on it. She found Mrs Bs account of events to be
credible and so recommended that Nat West reimburse the £2,000 that Mrs B says she
didnt receive.
NatWest didnt accept  the investigators findings  and asked that an ombudsman  review
them. I did that but reached  a different conclusion from the investigator. I thought  on balance 
that it was more likely than not that Mrs B had been given £4,000,  not £2,000. Mrs B didnt 
accept my provisional findings. As well as repeating some of her earlier  arguments, she 
stressed that she thought the bank  should  have retained CCTV footage.  She also said that 
she hadnt waited  two weeks before checking the money and contacting the bank,  as it had 
said; she had done so within a couple  of days.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As I said in my provisional decision,  Im satisfied that Mrs B is genuine  in her recollection of 
events. That is, she genuinely  believes  she received only £2,000, and I dont believe shes  
being dishonest. But the main issue I have to consider  here is whether in fact she received 
£2,000 or £4,000. 
I also said in my provisional decision that I share  the investigators (and Mrs Bs) view that 
its disappointing that NatWest didnt keep  or share CCTV footage. In this case, I doubt it 
would have shown  how much money was counted  out. It probably would have shown, 
however, whether Mrs B was given  one or two envelopes. Thats important, because the 
Ref: DRN71187072bank says that it counted two bundles of notes,  one in £20 notes and the other in £50 notes 
 and each containing £2,000. It says it put each bundle in a separate  envelope.
However, thats not the only evidence available here. Mrs B says that she saw the cashier
count out two lots of £2,000  one in £20 notes and the other in £50 notes. If, however, she
was only given the £50 notes, a bundle of one hundred £20 notes would have  been  left with
the cashier or on the cashiers  desk.  I think it unlikely that that would have been overlooked
by the cashier  or other branch staff.  
Its significant too that the cash tills balanced (apart from a very small difference). If Mrs Bs
account had been debited  with £4,000  but shed only received £2,000, there  would have
been £2,000 more  in the tills than expected. So the money that had been counted  wasnt
returned to the till.
The bank said that it was two weeks before Mrs B noticed that anything was wrong  and 
raised any concerns.  Mrs B disputes  that, however; she says she checked the money  two 
days after she collected it and contacted  the banks central customer  service  department  by 
telephone. I accept that she did that, although  that initial contact  does not appear on the 
complaint records that the bank has sent to this service. 
Theres no dispute that two bundles of notes were counted; Mrs B says she saw that 
happen. She thought both bundles were  placed in a single  envelope  and handed to her. The 
bank says that two envelopes were used. Had one bundle been returned  to the till, there 
would have been a £2,000 discrepancy  in the amount  of money in the branch. Im satisfied  
there wasnt. That means either that Mrs B is mistaken or that a bundle of 100 notes, 
totalling £2,000, was overlooked in the branch or taken by a staff member.  On balance, I 
think the most likely  explanation  here is that Mrs B did receive  the full amount of £4,000.  It 
wouldnt be fair therefore to make  an award against NatWest.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require National Westminster Bank Plc to do anything further 
to resolve Mrs Bs complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 3 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7118707