K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains The Royal  Bank  of Scotland plc mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out in 2002 with a mortgage. 
The policy provided  Mr W with cover for accident,  sickness and unemployment. 
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.  Mr W disagreed with the adjudicators opinion 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconsistent or contradictory (as some of it is here), I reach my decision on the balance of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened in light of the available 
evidence and the wider surrounding circumstances.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ws case.
From the evidence Ive seen I dont think Royal Bank of Scotland  recommended  the policy to 
Mr W, so the key question I need  to consider  is:
- Did Royal Bank of Scotland give Mr W information that was clear,  fair and not 
misleading in order to put him in a position  where he could make an informed choice 
about the insurance he was buying?
If the answer  to this question is no, then I need  to consider whether Mr W is worse  off as a 
result. That is, would he have done  something different  such  as not taking out the policy  
if there hadnt been any problems with the sale?
I have decided not to uphold Mr Ws complaint. Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr W says he was told he had to take the PPI to get the mortgage  he wanted, and that 
Royal Bank of Scotland didnt give him a proper choice about buying the cover. Ive noted 
everything Mr W has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr W and Royal  
Bank of Scotland when the policy was sold. Im also mindful that these events took place 
many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over time.
Ive also looked  at the PPI application  form that Mr W completed. This was a separate  
document to his mortgage application. I note that in addition  to the sections Mr W completed, 
there were other sections headed  I am considering Payment Protection and I do not 
require Payment Protection. 
Ref: DRN72570422So from what Ive seen,  I think Mr W wouldve realised he had a choice about buying the 
PPI. Overall,  I havent been able to safely conclude that Royal Bank  of Scotland  didnt make 
him aware  that the cover  was optional. 
The policy cost was set out on the application form that Mr W completed.  So I think  Mr W 
wouldve known how much he would  be paying for the policy,  and found  it acceptable.  
The policy was competitively priced  and apparently  affordable. So I think its unlikely Mr W 
would have made a different decision if better information about the cost had been provided.
Mr W satisfied  the eligibility requirements of the policy  when taking it out. And his 
circumstances do not suggest he would have  been caught by any of the conditions  limiting 
the policys main benefits (such as those affecting  self-employed people  or people with pre-
existing medical conditions). 
In summary,  I think Mr W agreed to take out the cover, knowing he didnt have to. And given 
it provided broadly  what I think  he expected when he agreed to it, I dont think  he would have 
made a different decision (and decided against  taking it out) if he had been  better  informed. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Royal Bank of Scotland doesnt  need to 
refund everything  Mr W paid for it. But Royal Bank  of Scotland has already offered to give Mr 
W back some of the cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs to do anything more.  
I understand Royal Bank of Scotland has already paid the amount its offered to Mr W. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 June  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7257042