K822xcomplaint
Mr B complains that following an accident Haven Insurance  Limited  wrote  off his
car, but it was later sold at auction as driveable.  He also complains that they didnt
investigate the circumstances fully before accepting that he was responsible  for the accident.
background 
Mr B was involved  in an accident  in November  2018. He told Haven he was performing a 
U-turn when the accident happened. But he said it was safe for him to do this, as it was 2am 
in the morning and the only other  traffic was a car hed seen in the distance. He also told
Haven that he thought  the other driver  was to blame, as his car was in the middle of the road
and he felt they should have seen and avoided his car. Haven told Mr B he was responsible
for ensuring  it was safe to carry out a U-turn, and hed be found responsible for the accident.
As a result of the accident Haven wrote off Mr Bs car. He asked if he could  keep it but
Haven said this wasnt possible. Later  Mr B found  the car had been sold at auction  as
driveable.
When Mr B raised this with Haven  he was told the car was written  off because the cost of the
repairs was more than the car was worth. And as it had been written  off by their engineers,
they couldnt allow him to keep it. They also told him that once the car had been sold for
salvage they had no control over how it was advertised for sale at auction.
Mr B then complained to Haven because they hadnt let him keep  his car and said he was at
fault for the accident. Haven still didnt  think theyd done anything  wrong.
Mr B then complained to our service. Our investigator considered  the case  and said that Mr
Bs car had been written  off because the cost of the repairs was more than the car was
worth. She said Haven  had made  a business decision not to allow customers to keep cars
that had been written  off, and we wouldnt interfere with this. And she felt given the account
of the accident  Mr B had provided,  Haven  had carried  out a reasonable investigation.
Mr B didnt accept our investigators opinion so the case came  to me for a decision.
I issued my provisional decision on 22 November 2019. In it I said the following: -
To determine this complaint I need to decide two things.
- whether  Haven carried out a reasonable investigation of the accident;  and
- did Haven act reasonably in refusing to allow Mr B to keep his car.
On the first point, its not our role to decide who was responsible for an accident. We can
only consider whether  Haven carried out a fair investigation of the accident  circumstances,
before deciding to settle the other drivers claim.  And Mr Bs policy  allows Haven to take over
a claim and settle it as they see fit.
Haven called Mr B to get more information  about  how the accident happened.  This call could
have been handled better,  and I dont think all the comments made  by the call handler  were
helpful or entirely correct. But Mr B accepts he was carrying out a U-turn  and told Haven that
before he started  his turn, he saw a vehicle approaching  in the distance. He said his car was
there to be seen, the other driver must have been  speeding and could have taken steps  to
Ref: DRN76485302avoid the collision.
By his own account  Mr B was carrying out what would be considered  a potentially unsafe
manoeuvre. Hed seen  the other  driver approaching so it was for him to ensure it was safe to
proceed. And as the collision happened, I think Haven had enough information, based on 
the account Mr B gave  them,  to reach  the conclusion that the claim against him was one 
theyd have to settle.  So, I dont think they did anything wrong in dealing the other  drivers  
claim.
Haven told Mr B his car was written off because  the cost of repairs was more than the car
was worth,  but this wasnt correct. Haven have  acknowledged that this was information
provided by their engineer, which was later found to be incorrect.  And to put things right they
say they continued to treat the car as a total loss and paid him the pre-accident  value, less
his policy  excess.
Although Mr B made  a claim against  his policy for the damage to his car, he told Haven that
he wanted to keep it. We generally think  its fair and reasonable for an insurer to return a car
if the owner wants to keep  it. Although  the car was written off, the salvage  category was S,
so it was repairable.  Haven have told us the estimated cost of repairs was £6549.39. The
total loss value of the car was £11428.  After deduction of his policy excess  of £500 Haven
paid Mr B £10928 for his car.
If Mr B had retained his car Haven would also have  been entitled to deduct the salvage from
the payment he received. Haven have  told us they received £1714.20 for salvage. If
Mr B had kept the car hed have received a payment from Haven of £9213.80. Mr B has told
us that even if salvage was deducted  from the sum hed received, hed still have wanted to
keep his car and arrange the repairs himself.
Mr Bs policy  with Haven provides that in the event of damage to his car, they will:-
At Our option:
a) Repair  the damage;or
b) Settle the claim by monetary payment.
So, by paying  Mr B the pre-accident value of his car theyve fulfilled their obligations under
the policy. But Mr B told Haven he wanted to keep his car. As his car was repairable, this
request appears  to have been reasonable. And as a result  of Havens actions Mr B has lost
the opportunity  to keep a car he was familiar with and have it repaired.  Hes also had to find
and purchase a replacement car. But had he kept the car hed have  had to arrange the
repairs which would have  involved some  inconvenience,  and his car would have been off the
road while the repairs were completed.
But on balance Im persuaded  that by denying Mr B the opportunity to keep his car and
arrange the repairs himself Haven have  caused him trouble and upset. And Ive taken into
account that an initial mistake was made  in categorising  the car as a total loss. To put things
right I require Haven to pay Mr B £300.
So my provisional decision was that I partially  upheld Mr Bs complaint.
Both parties  have responded  to my provisional  decision.
Haven have indicated  that they accept it, but Mr B doesnt.
Ref: DRN76485303He has said:-
The £300 Ive awarded for trouble and upset isnt enough as he paid £3300  to Haven 
for his insurance cover,  and the amount Haven received for the car at auction  isnt 
his responsibility.
Haven have caused him and his family a lot of stress.
Haven have ignored his claim and failed to meet his expectations as a customer.
Hes lost £5000 as he was forced  to hire a car when the cost of his insurance 
increased, and no one was able to offer him insurance.
He believes the recording of a fault claim should be removed from his file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B is required to have valid insurance for his car. Haven have met their obligations under 
the insurance contract by settling the other  drivers claim. Mr B may disagree with Havens 
decision, but I havent seen anything to persuade me that they didnt carry out a reasonable 
investigation of the accident circumstances before agreeing to settle the other  drivers claim.  
As Haven  settled the other drivers claim the accident  was correctly recorded  as a fault claim 
against Mr Bs policy. Its unfortunate for Mr B that this led to an increase in his insurance 
premiums, and difficulties  finding  cover, but I cant hold Haven responsible for this. Theyve 
recorded the accident as theyre required to do, and I wont be asking them to remove the 
fault claim from Mr Bs file.
Its inevitable that any accident is likely to lead to stress and inconvenience for the parties 
involved. But the additional  expenses Mr B has incurred arise from this being a fault claim, 
rather than from Havens  handling of his claim.
But I remain  of the view that on balance by denying Mr B the opportunity to keep his car and 
arrange the repairs himself Haven have  caused him trouble and upset. And to put things
right I require Haven to pay Mr B £300.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, and in my provisional  decision,  my final decision is that I 
partially uphold  Mr Bs complaint against  Haven  Insurance Company Limited.  And to put 
things right I require them  to pay Mr B £300  for the trouble and upset hes experienced.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 January 2020. 
Patricia OLeary
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7648530