K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S say Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy for a mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs S took out a PPI policy with a mortgage in 1994.  Mr and Mrs S paid for the PPI 
with a regular  monthly  premium, which didnt attract interest. It covered Mr S in case  he was 
off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs S disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ss case.  
While I know this will disappoint Mr and Mrs S, I have not found that this policy  was mis-sold 
 Ill explain why.
This sale was well over two decades ago and the account has long since closed, so I think  
its understandable that neither side have the documents  from the time. Indeed, under data 
protection regulations Halifax were required to dispose of Mr and Mrs Ss data rather than 
hold onto it for too long. Mr and Mrs S dont remember buying  PPI, and I think thats also 
understandable either way, given just how long ago the sale was, and since buying 
insurance is not often  memorable. Ive thought carefully about whats most  likely to have 
happened based on the limited information  I have.
It would have been a very serious  failing  for Halifax to have added  the PPI without Mr and 
Mrs Ss permission,  or to have misled them into thinking it was compulsory. But I have no 
evidence which shows thats what Halifax did here. Nor have I seen  any wider problems with 
Halifaxs sales process from the time, or any indications that it was normally  misleading  
customers in these  sales. And this sale was too long ago for me to reasonably expect 
Halifax to be able to produce evidence to defend  itself now. So I dont think I have a fair 
basis on which to conclude that Halifax misled Mr and Mrs S. I think its more likely that it 
followed a fairly normal  sales  process  and gave Mr and Mrs S a choice about whether they 
wanted PPI, and that they chose to take it at the time  though  I can certainly  understand if 
they no longer  remember doing so after so long.
Ref: DRN77061942Its not clear whether  Halifax  recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs S, or not. The 
requirements were stricter on Halifax if it did recommend it, so to be fair to Mr and Mrs S, 
Ive assumed it did. That means Halifax had to check the policy was right for them   and 
based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example Mr S, 
as the person covered,  wasnt affected by any of the policys main exclusions or limitations. 
While he had some  benefits through work,  the PPI wouldve paid out on top of those and 
offered him more  comprehensive cover  especially when his work  benefits reduced to just 
half pay. I also understand  he had other  insurance policies, but those covered different 
things to the PPI and wouldnt  be relevant here.
Mr S mentioned he may have had some  savings or shares, though Ive not got any evidence 
of how much these were,  whether they could easily be accessed, or whether they were  
needed for other purposes. But in any case,  the mortgage was a significant, long-term 
commitment, and there was no guarantee the savings  or shares would  be there in the many 
years to come. And the PPI meant that Mr and Mrs S could effectively protect  their 
investments and use them for other  things, and that they wouldnt have to sacrifice  one asset  
to save another.  Finally,  its worth bearing in mind that if Mr and Mrs S fell behind  on their 
mortgage they couldve lost their home.  Overall, it looks like the PPI couldve been useful for 
them in protecting their home and assets, and in giving some  peace of mind.
Its possible that the information Halifax gave  Mr and Mrs S about  PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  The question, then,  is whether  I think better information was likely to have 
changed their minds. But as I explained above,  Mr S wasnt  affected by any of the main 
things the policy didnt cover, and it couldve been useful in case  something went  wrong. The 
policy was not bad value given how much  it would pay out in a claim, and it was a relatively 
low cost. And the PPI was paid on a rolling monthly basis,  so Mr and Mrs S could cancel it at 
any time without a penalty. Overall, I dont think that better information  was likely to have  put 
them off taking out the cover.
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr and Mrs Ss complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 July 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7706194