K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains esure Insurance  Limited  trading as Sheilas Wheels  (esure)  wont  pay out 
on his claim for a stolen  TV following a break  in.
I sent Mr J and esure Insurance Limited (esure) a provisional decision on 15 May 2019  to 
explain why I didnt  think Mr Js complaint should be upheld. And I said Id consider anything  
else anyone wanted  to give me  as long as I received it by 29 May 2019.  But neither Mr J 
nor esure has sent me anything else to consider, so I still think Mr Js complaint shouldnt  be 
upheld. Ive explained my reasoning again  below.
background
In October  2017, Mr Js home was broken into and his TV stolen as well as other  items.  He 
contacted esure to make a claim on his policy  for the items that were taken. Esure paid the 
claim on all the items Mr J claimed for except for the TV.
The reason  esure said they wouldnt honour Mr Js claim is because  the TV was purchased 
for more than £1,500 and it wasnt listed in his policy  as a specified item. Mr J doesnt think  
the policy wording  is as clear as it could be, and he never intended to mislead esure and 
says hes always been honest and truthful  with the business.
On referral to this service,  our investigator  didnt  think  esure  had acted unfairly in declining 
the claim.  Mr J didnt agree and asked for an ombudsmans decision.
I originally issued a provisional decision disagreeing with the investigators view that esure  
hadnt acted unfairly  in declining  the claim. Although I thought esure had applied  the terms 
about specified items worth over £1,500 correctly, I didnt think  it was fair of esure  to rely on 
such a restrictive term that I didnt think had been  adequately brought  to Mr Js attention.
In response, esure said even though the updated term from when the policy  was originally  
taken out in 2012 wasnt clear, it was detailed on page seven of the 2016 renewal invite.  It 
pointed out that page  one of the documents highlighted the Renewal Update  should be 
read as it tells you about the changes to your cover  that will apply from your policy  renewal 
date.
Esure therefore felt theyd done  enough to draw Mr Js attention to the fact there were 
changes to the cover that should be read under their renewal update.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Looking at the renewal documents sent to Mr J in 2016, the first page of the renewal letter,  
under bullet point  three it says:
Read the renewal update  that tells you about the changes to your cover that will apply from 
your policy renewal date.
Ref: DRN79082772Esure pointed out that while the updated  wording is confirmed on page seven of their 
renewal letter, this is actually the first page  of the Renewal Update that Mr J was directed to 
in the renewal letter.
Esure also highlighted that the Renewal Update applicable to Mr Js 2016 renewal was 
three pages long.  The change to the term How we will settle claims, is the first change  
thats explained on the first page of the renewal update   and not further down the document 
where it might have been difficult  for Mr J to notice.  And on the first page  of the renewal 
update, they also highlight  The following provides  you with the significant  wording changes 
to your policy cover which will be applicable  from your renewal  date.
After considering esures response to my original provision decision, I was persuaded to 
change my mind about upholding Mr Js complaint. This is because I think esures  has done 
enough to draw Mr Js attention to the significant changes  in the policy  by setting  this out 
clearly and prominently in the covering letter. This letter did draw  to Mr Js attention  the fact 
there are changes in the policy and also where he can find those changes.  So in light of 
esures further submissions, Im persuaded esure has done enough to highlight the 
restrictive term to Mr J.
I appreciate Mr J had the policy for a long time, but insurance policies do change, and at 
each renewal year, consumers are expected to check for any changes.  But I think esure has 
done enough to draw  Mr Js attention to the limit that was applicable to specified items  over 
£1,500, particularly as it was a restrictive term.
I think esure have correctly applied this term to Mr Js claim for his stolen TV. Esure  have 
said if the replacement  value of the TV is below the £1,500 limit, theyll  honour the claim 
under the general category. But the evidence Mr J sent to show hed found comparable  TVs 
under £1,500, werent an accurate reflection of the replacement  cost at the time of the claim 
in October 2017.  So I cant  uphold Mr Js complaint based on this evidence.
So taking everything into account Im not uphold the complaint. Because in light of further 
information Im satisfied esures  decision to decline the claim was fair.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mr Js complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 July 2019.
Helen Giles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7908277