K822xComplaint
Mr D complains on Mrs Ds behalf about the information HBOS  Investment Fund  Managers
Limited gave them  when he asked for clarification about what  would happen to Mrs Ds 
investments if HBOS was to become insolvent.
Background
Mrs D has investments held with HBOS Investment Fund Managers and in June 2018 Mr D 
wrote to ask what the situation would be if it became insolvent and what protection there 
would be for Mrs Ds money.
HBOS replied and recommended that they look at the website for the Financial  Services
Compensation Scheme and suggested  they contact  an independent  financial adviser.
On her behalf, Mr D complained as he didnt feel this response had answered his question.
He phoned HBOS about this and was told that maximum  compensation would be £50,000 
per person.  But Mr D said this was incorrect as it only related to money  that was with the 
investment manager  at the time of an insolvency. He said the ownership  of the underlying  
stocks and shares in the unit trusts  or Open Ended Investment  Companies  (OEICs)  wouldnt 
be affected as they were  held in the name  of the trustee or depositary.
HBOS apologised  for the difficulties Mr D had experienced in trying to get this information 
about Mrs Ds investments and acknowledged that its response didnt answer Mr Ds query.
It offered  to pay Mrs D £75 to recognise the inconvenience shed been caused. It said the 
assets in Mrs Ds investments belonged to her and are held by a custodian  it only 
manages them on her behalf. So, if HBOS ceased to trade, its creditors would have no claim 
on Mrs Ds assets. It said that the compensation limit of £50,000 would apply if the custodian  
became insolvent.
Mr D wasnt satisfied with this reply  or the offer. He asked what would actually happen to
Mrs Ds assets;  how it was possible  that a custodian could become insolvent and what  
liability HBOS had in being responsible for the appointment of the custodian.
HBOS gave Mr D the details of the custodian and said it was the custodians responsibility to 
prevent any loss to the unit holders in the event  it became insolvent. It wouldnt provide Mr D 
with a copy of the agreement  between  it and the custodian hed requested as it said this was 
business sensitive  information.
Our investigators opinion
One of our investigators  looked at the complaint and thought the compensation offered to
Mrs D wasnt enough. He said that correspondence between HBOS  and Mr D had carried  on 
after the time the original compensation had been first offered. So he thought the 
compensation level should be increased  to £150.
HBOS didnt agree and asked for the complaint to be reviewed.
Ref: DRN73183322My provisional decision
I issued my provisional decision on this complaint in July 2019. In summary,  I thought the 
level of compensation  HSBC had offered Mrs D was fair. 
I said I could appreciate Mr Ds strength of feeling  and desire to get the right information for 
reassurance of how Mrs Ds money  is protected. I could see that Mr D undertook  research of 
his own to try and understand what would happen if the particular businesses involved with 
Mrs Ds investments became insolvent. 
I said I understood that it will have been frustrating not to have received the right information 
or a full response  to the questions he raised on Mrs Ds behalf.
But, having  taken  all of this into account,  I felt the compensation  HBOS  offered to Mrs D was 
fair and adequately reflected the trouble she and Mr D were put to in needing to go back  for 
further clarification and to question  what they were being told.
This was because I thought it was fair to say that the questions  he raised were somewhat 
complex and were likely  to involve a greater level of detail and knowledge than an everyday  
query would require. Although I thought it may have resolved the matter earlier  if his query 
had been responded  to by a representative with the appropriate level of knowledge, HBOS 
told us that feedback has been provided  to prevent a similar situation and apologised.
I said Mrs D hadnt suffered a financial loss as a result of the way Mr Ds query was first 
answered. I accepted  that they were  concerned about  the response they got and the safety  
of Mrs Ds investments through this time. But I couldn't see that there was an immediate risk 
to her money. Mr D will have needed  to spend time researching the answers he wanted 
when these werent adequately responded to, but I thought the £75 HBOS offered fairly  
compensated for that.
After HBOSs initial response to the complaint Mr D made for Mrs D, there  was further 
correspondence between  him and HBOS.  This seemed  to have been because Mr D wished 
to raise further points  and the time this took was delayed while he was on holiday. I wasnt 
persuaded that this is a fair reason to consider an increased level of compensation for
Mrs D.
The responses
HBOS responded  to say that it accepted my findings  and had nothing  further  to add.
Mrs D didnt accept my provisional findings.  She said she had been  put to considerable 
trouble and had suffered distress and inconvenience. She feels the issue is the way Mr Ds 
request for information was handled  which she thinks was appalling.
Mrs D believes  she had been  caused  a moderate level of trouble, upset, distress and 
inconvenience, which should mean  a level of compensation of up to £500  according to the 
information published on our website.
Mrs D feels that I havent taken into account the time Mr D spent to make sure their 
concerns were understood. She said this had equated to him spending over 20 hours of 
extensive research  to understand the complexities of her investments.
Ref: DRN73183323My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And Ive given careful  consideration to the 
additional points  Mrs D has raised  in response.
As I said in my provisional decision,  I do appreciate Mr and Mrs Ds perspective and 
understand the concerns  they had when Mr D wasnt  satisfied with the responses  he initially  
got from HBOS. And I have taken into account  that Mr D looked into matters  himself to fully 
understand the level of protection Mrs Ds investments and money  had in the event HBOS  
became insolvent,  and that he has then looked to raise this complaint to resolve  matters.
This of course will have taken some  time,  but I wouldnt look award  compensation 
specifically based  upon the units of time it took or the need to provide information in relation 
to this complaint,  which could be reasonably  expected. Instead Ive considered  the overall 
impact of the situation on Mrs D. This has included what  happened  and the steps HBOS 
took afterwards.
And, having done this, my findings  remain that I think  HBOSs  apology and offer of £75 
represent a fair resolution to Mrs Ds complaint.
My final decision
My decision  is that HBOS Investment Fund Managers Limited should pay Mrs D £75, as it 
has already offered to do.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 October  2019.
Cathy Bovan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7318332