K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs W are unhappy that Amtrust  Europe Limited wont  deal with their building  
warranty claim for damage to their propertys external render,  caused  by defective painting.
background
In January 2018 Mr and Mrs W made a claim to Amtrust following large patches of paint and 
render starting to fall away from the front of their home. They  had purchased the property in 
2016. They  had been advised by a paint specialist that the exterior  render was a lime render 
which had been  painted with the wrong sort of paint. Lime  render requires  a particular 
breathable mineral paint, but the render had been coated with an acrylic paint which  allowed  
moisture to get in behind the paint, causing  it to start peeling away  and exposing the render. 
The only way to repair it would be to remove all the paint and repaint it with the appropriate 
paint, repairing the render where  necessary.
Amtrust fully accept that the damage was caused by the wrong type of paint being used. But 
it said the paint  was purely a decorative finish and wasnt  part of the structure or the 
waterproof envelope of the house.  So it said the claim wasnt  covered under the warranty.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator said that Amtrust should deal with the claim.  He 
said that the paint was covered under the warranty. The paint, he said,  was part of the 
structure of the building as any external finishing surface (including rendering) as set out in 
the warranty/policy.
Amtrust continued to assert that the claim wasnt covered and the matter has been  referred  
to me for consideration 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The policy says that The Housing Unit is insured for a period of up to 10 years  against the 
risk of Major  Damage, ingress of water through the Waterproof Envelope
And Major  Damage is defined as Destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the 
Housing Unit. or a condition requiring immediate remedial action to prevent actual 
destruction of or physical damage to any portion of the Housing Unit..in  either  case 
caused by a defect in the design,  workmanship,  materials or components of the Structure.
Rendering (as Ive set out below) is part of the Housing  Unit. In my view it is in this case  
susceptible to damage by water because if the defective paint. So, I have to decide first of al 
if the paint finish  causing this damage can be said to be part of the Structure.  
So Structure  includes  any external  finishing surface (including rendering)  necessary for 
the watertightness of the external envelope.  I note that Amtrust cant  point to any exclusion 
in the policy  concerning paint finishes. It relies on the fact that it believes the paint to be 
purely aesthetic, a decorative finish and so not necessary for the watertightness of the 
external envelope.  Effectively I think Amtrusts argument is that the render was painted  
purely to look aesthetically pleasing and by extension not necessary to keep the render 
watertight.
Ref: DRN77587212I dont agree with that argument.  First of all the reports/estimates  Mr and Mrs W have 
submitted recommend the application  of  a new paint coating, once the old coating is 
removed. Secondly the render  itself is starting to show signs  of damage where it is exposed. 
Paint has a decorative  function but it also can be necessary  for waterproofing.  I dont think it 
was appropriate  to leave the render bare and unpainted any more  than any external 
woodwork could be left unpainted. There may be alternative types of render which may not 
need painting  but the lime render used on Mr and Mrs Ws property does in my view require 
painting. Amtrust hasnt shown me any evidence that the render could have been left 
unpainted and still have kept the building watertight. So I think that the paint is an external 
finishing surface and that it is necessary for the watertightness of the external envelope.
In my view the claim should  be covered. This is because as Ive found that the paint is part 
of the Structure  then there is clearly a defect in the workmanship and the materials.  And I 
have considered estimates and reports submitted by Mr and Mrs W. Those  reports, together  
with Amtrusts own assessment confirm to me that the paint  is causing  moisture  to get 
trapped behind  it which  requires remedial  action to prevent actual  or physical damage  to the 
render.  I also think it likely that, if left the paint will continue to cause damage to the external 
render. Immediate action  needs to be taken  to remove it and repair any damaged render. 
So I think the claim is covered and Amtrust  should settle it accordingly. Ive set out above the 
work that I think needs doing, namely  the removal of the paint, repair  of any damaged render 
and the repainting with a paint finish suitable  for lime render.
my final decision
I uphold the complaint and require Amtrust Europe  Limited to settle  the claim in accordance 
with the remaining terms and conditions of the policy.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  17 May 2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7758721