K821x#15complaint
Mr Ss complaint is about the handling  of a claim under  his boiler and central heating
insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in September 2019, part of which  is copied  
below: 
Mr S first made  a claim in August 2017 in relation to a water  supply pipe to cold water  tank.
Mr S was told that as it was a lead supply pipe he was not covered by his policy  but says it
isolated the leak. Mr S therefore had to get an independent plumber to repair the leak and
repair some  damage to wallpaper.  British Gas has since  accepted that this was wrong  and it
should have repaired  the leak. I understand it has reimbursed Mr S for the repair costs and
also paid him some  compensation after Mr S complained.
On 25 January 2018, Mr S made a second  claim as there was a leak in the airing  cupboard.
An engineer  attended and apparently told Mr S he would have to call his water supply
company to have  the water turned off, as there  was no internal stop valve so he could not
help. Mr S did this and got his own plumber to assist, as the water supplier told him it would
only come  if there was a plumber there  and so he had to organise an emergency plumber
himself to stop the leak with the water  supplier. British  Gas then came out the next day to
replace a leaking section of pipe but it leaked  again the next day. It was not finally repaired
until 29 January 2018.  British  Gas says it also sent an electrician to check  the electrics.
Mr S is very unhappy with the handling  of this claim. In summary he says:
if British Gas had repaired the leak properly in January 2018,  his property would not
have suffered as much  damage. Instead  the leak continued causing  significant
damage to the ceiling below the leak, which had to be re-plastered.
There was no heating, water or electricity in the property for a few days
If British Gas had done the work  required then only the walls would have needed 
replastering but instead they also needed  to do the ceiling as well.
British Gas said it would replace the broken pipe with a new section of copper  pipe
but they used  plastic  instead on the first and second  occasion.  He is not satisfied this
will last given that the leak happened  again  after the first time.
He says having had the ceiling repaired, there was a further leak in March 2018,
which would not have happened  if British  Gas had fixed the leak properly.
Mr S wants  the costs he incurred in having  the leak fixed and in repairing his property
reimbursed. Mr S has said this was £850 for redecoration work, £43.28 for parts  and £80 for
the initial attendance. Mr S also said he lost two months rent at £1,650pm, as his tenants,
who had young  children,  moved out two months  early due to the recurring  leaks. He also
wants British Gas to come  and inspect  the work its plumbers  have  done  in order  to make
sure it does not leak again.
British Gas doesnt accept that it is responsible for the damage to Mr Ss home.  It says this is
consequential damage as a result  of the first leak and is specifically excluded from cover
under the policy:  we are not responsible for any loss of or damage to, or cleaning of
property, furniture or fixtures as a result of your boiler, appliance or system breaking or
failing unless we caused it. For example, damage  caused by water  leaks.
Ref: DRN70254992One of our investigators  looked into the matter. She recommended  it be upheld  and that
British Gas should pay the costs  of the repair of the damage caused in January 2018  and
March 2018, on production of proof  of the cost from Mr S; reimburse the cost of Mr Ss own
plumber and to send a plumber to ensure  all their works were  carried  out properly in March
2018. The investigator also said British Gas should pay £400 for the avoidable distress and
inconvenience caused.
Mr S said he wants the investigator  to consider  increasing the compensation she
recommended. British Gas didnt  respond  to the investigators assessment.
As the investigator  was unable to resolve the complaint, it has been  referred  to me.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I agree  with the investigator that British Gas should have attended with the water supplier to
switch the water off on 25 January 2018. It didnt do so and so Mr S had to arrange his own
plumber. He held this policy to provide assistance and cover in emergency  situations such
as this one and so he would not have to try and find emergency plumbers himself. The
stress and inconvenience of having to do so was therefore avoidable.
British Gas did then come back to repair the leaking section  of pipe. However, the leak
recurred the following day. British Gass notes suggest this was because a part needed
tightening and then there was further  work done two days  later:
27/1 -Plumbing-Leak (Internal - Uncontrollable): Leak coming through the ceiling causing
damage - Plumbing repair - Tightened poly lock (top one) but as this was ok by engineer
yesterday have booked in to check on Monday and re pipe with two people if necessary as
leak is/was affecting  living room and quite powerful. As said leak stopped but it was ok when
engineer left yesterday also. job from the weekend  needs to men to re run the pipe -Second
visit shows no leak following me tightening  philmac  on Saturday and all satisfactory
29/1 - REPLACED SECTION  OF LEAKING PIPE.
job carried over to 29/1 as the weekend and a 2nd man needed.
This would suggest  that the work was not completed  satisfactorily and therefore that this
inconvenience could  have been  avoided but it is not conclusive,  as the engineers  notes say
that this section was okay  when the engineer left the previous day. It does also appear  that
further water  damage was done as a result of this.
I do therefore consider  that British Gas should  reimburse the costs of Mr Ss own plumber
attending on 25 January 2018. He has provided  an invoice £80. It says stopping the water
leak and material assisting the water team£80.
The invoice does  not state that any work was carried out and the repair  of the leaking
section of pipe was done by British Gas. I am therefore not persuaded currently  that British
Gas should also reimburse the cost of parts purchased  that day, which  include  3m of copper
piping.
Mr S has also provided an invoice for the re-plastering and redecoration  work,  which he says
Ref: DRN70254993was required as a result of British  Gas not repairing the leak properly.
It is extremely difficult for me to be certain how much damage was done  to the ceiling solely
as a result  of the actions/inactions of British Gas. The evidence is not conclusive, as stated
above, but on balance I am satisfied that the further leak on 27 January 2018 could have
been avoided.  However, by that stage water  had already leaked through  the ceiling. Mr S did
tell the investigator  that there  would  have only needed to be repair  work to the walls and not
the ceiling  if this had not occurred. However, I am not satisfied that there  is enough evidence
to say that this redecoration work  was solely the result of anything  British Gas did wrong.
I have also considered the invoice provided for this work. The invoice for the re-plastering
work is handwritten  and dated 22 February 2018.  It says the contractor:
removed wall paper  from ceiling. Prepared ceiling for plasterboard skim ceiling. Plastering
ceiling and painting  decorating. Clean  all the rubbish. Work  guarantee.
The handwriting of this section is different from the handwritten name of the contractor.
There are also no contact  details for the contractor on the invoice. It then says the total cost
of this work  was £850. However,  the 8 in the total figure of £850 has been amended. It
appears to have originally  possibly been  a 5 or even a 1.
On the evidence currently available therefore  I do not consider this invoice would be
sufficient to require  British Gas to pay Mr S £850 for this work,  even  if I were  satisfied the
work was required solely  due to something  it did wrong  which I currently  dont.
Mr S has also said that there  was a further  leak in the same place in March  2018 but no
evidence has been provided to me about this. I cant therefore make  any determination
about this at this time. There is no evidence of where that leak was, the extent of it, whether
it was linked to the previous leaks, works done  to repair  it and so on.
Mr S has also asked  for reimbursement of two months rent. He has provided some
documentation about this, including the original tenancy agreement  and notice  to quit. The
tenant had originally agreed to stay at the property for 12 months  but sent an email  on 19
February 2018 giving two months notice (i.e. to leave 21 April 2018). The email does not
state any reasons  for the decision  to move out. Mr S says it was due to the water  leaks  but
the tenant doesnt state that. In any event the leak would  still have happened in January
2018, this was not due to anything British Gas did or didnt do. I am not persuaded therefore
that I can reasonably  ask British Gas to reimburse the loss of rent, or the costs of
maintaining the bills on an unoccupied house.
I do consider that some  additional compensation is warranted for the fact the leak was not
repaired properly in January and this resulted  in further attendances which could  have been
avoided and also contributed to further  water damage to the property. The investigator
recommended £400  compensation. However,  I consider the sum of £200 to be more
appropriate. To reflect the fact they had to get their own plumber on 25 January 2018 and
the further attendances to properly repair the leak.
I know Mr S will be disappointed with my provisional  decision.  However,  my remit is to
determine what I consider  to be fair and reasonable in all the circumstances and given the
lack of evidence  to support some of the claims, I do not consider  I am able to make the
same award the investigator recommended. If however, Mr S or indeed British Gas are able
to provide further evidence about any of these matters, I will consider it.
Ref: DRN70254994my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint in part and require  British  Gas Insurance  Limited to pay:
reimburse the plumbers costs  of £80; and
pay the sum of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the
handling of this matter.
responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
British Gas asked  for some further time to respond  but despite  having had further time, it has 
not responded to my provisional decision with any additional information. 
Mr S does not accept  my provisional  decision.  He has made  a number  of further 
submissions, which Ive summarised  below: 
the first leak was in June 2017, then the one in January 2018. There  was another  
leak in March 2018 and also in October 2018  while he was on holiday. The letting 
agent dealt with it and sent him the bills to pay. 
He asked British  Gas in January 2018  to do a root review to see why these leaks   
happened but it has failed to do so. If it had done so, the third and fourth leaks could 
have been prevented.  
If the engineer  had stayed on 25 January 2018  until the water supplier had come out, 
it would  have prevented most of the damage to the property. Water was pouring  out 
and it took him a while to find another plumber to come out.
The time taken to fix the leak between 25 and 29 January 2018 was an incredibly 
stressful time for him and his wife. They  had sleepless nights and anxiety; they were 
getting harassing emails from the tenant threatening to leave. This and the delays in 
getting the ceiling replastered, as they had to wait for it to dry out, meant the tenant 
had enough and moved out two months early and they incurred a financial loss as a 
result. 
The handwriting  on the invoice from the decorator was different because he couldnt 
spell his name and asked Mr S to fill it in. 
He was quoted £850 cash for the redecoration work. He paid £500  cash  withdrawn 
from his bank account, and another £200 from cash he had at home on 22 February 
2018 and then paid him £150  by cheque  on 27 February 2018, to keep the trail.    
Mr S has provided a bank statement to show the cash  withdrawal and a letter he 
wrote to the decorator enclosing  the cheque. 
The compensation I proposed is inadequate  to reflect  the rouble this caused him. 
Mr S has also provided copies of emails  from his tenants and some  documentation  from the 
letting agent. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN70254995There was a leak before the one in January 2018. Mr S has said in his response to my 
provisional decision that this was in June 2017  but the papers suggest it was in August 
2017. I dont, however,  think  it makes any difference which month  it was. There is no 
evidence to suggest that the previous leak was related to the leak in January 2018. And 
there is no evidence  that these two leaks happened  due to anything done, or not done,  by 
British Gas. 
Mr S also says British Gas should  have undertaken some investigatory work at this stage to 
see why there had been two leaks. However,  it is only generally required to deal with 
incidents that arise  and which are covered by the policy. It is not generally  required to 
undertake precautionary or maintenance work, unless  it is obvious that a repair will not be 
reasonably long lasting. Mr S has said there  were two further  leaks,  one in March  2018 and 
one in October 2018. However, other than him stating  this, I have no evidence  about these 
leaks, where they occurred, what was done to fix them and whether they were in any way 
related to the previous  leaks. Mr S has provided  confirmation from his letting agent that it 
purchased items from a building  merchants and paid a builder  in October 2018 but as far as 
I can see this was not reported as a claim to British  Gas and there is no evidence that this 
was related to the January 2018 claim. I am not persuaded therefore that British Gas should 
have done anything further  in January  2018, other than fix the leak that was reported to it 
then. If Mr S wants  British Gas to look into the March 2018  and October  2018  incidents, then 
he needs to contact it directly about  that. 
The leak in January 2018 took a few days to fix properly and did recur  a couple of days after 
the first attendance  by British Gas. I concluded  in my provisional decision that the recurrence  
of the leak on 27 January  2018 probably would not have happened but for British Gass  
error. However, there  had already been a considerable water  leak by then, which would 
have caused some of the damage to the ceiling. 
I accept that there was also delay in stopping the leak, as Mr S had to find his own plumber 
to attend with the water supplier. However, overall  I am still of the opinion that there is not 
enough evidence  to establish that the redecoration work was solely  required as a result of 
what British Gas did wrong. In addition,  even if I thought it was, I also remain of the opinion  
that Mr S has not provided reliable evidence of the cost of the work and so I cannot  ask 
British Gas to pay him the £850 he says he paid for this. 
Mr S has said there are two different  sets of handwriting on the invoice because the 
decorator couldnt write Mr Ss name and so asked him to fill in his name  and address on the 
invoice. This is plausible and I have no reason to doubt that in itself. 
Mr S has also provided a copy of a bank statement which shows  he made a cash  withdrawal 
of £590 on 20 February  2018. He says he used £500 of this as part payment to the 
decorator, paid him another £200 cash that he had at home and then sent him a cheque for 
the final payment  of £150, proving that he paid him £850 in total. Mr S has also provided a 
handwritten letter and a photocopy of the cheque  accompanying it, which  refers  to the 
previous cash payments.  
However, this letter  is written by Mr S. There is no receipt for the cash  payments or the 
cheque from the decorator. In addition,  Mr S has not given any explanation as to why the 
total figure on the invoice appears to have been  altered.  
I said in my provisional decision that the 8 in the figure £850 on the invoice had been 
changed and looked like it might have originally  been 5 or even 1. 
Ref: DRN70254996Given that no receipt or other form of confirmation of payment has been provided, overall I 
still consider there is not sufficient evidence to make British Gas pay Mr S the £850  he says 
the repairs cost him. This is partly because  the invoice has not been verified but also 
because I remain of the opinion that I am not satisfied the redecoration  work  was due solely  
because of something done  wrong by British  Gas. 
Mr S has also provided some emails  from his tenants complaining about the leaks.  The 
tenant says they are unable to use the room affected by the leak,  as they are worried  about 
the ceiling  falling down and that it also smells of damp and mould. However, this was 
February 2018. The leak in January 2018 would  have  happened anyway and was not 
caused by British Gas.  I have also concluded  that redecoration work would have been 
necessary as a natural consequence of that leak. So while this will have caused some  
inconvenience for the tenant and might  have been the reason for them  deciding  to leave the 
property early, this is not a result of anything done, or not done, by British Gas. I do not 
therefore consider  it is responsible for any loss of rent. 
Having considered all the evidence again, and the recent submissions from Mr S, I remain of 
the opinion that British  Gas should reimburse  the cost of the plumber he had to call to attend 
with the water supplier  and also pay £200  compensation  for the handling of the claim.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part and require British Gas Insurance  Limited  to pay:
reimburse the plumbers costs  of £80; and
pay the sum of £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience caused  by the
handling of this matter.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019. 
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7025499