K820x#14complaint
Mrs I complains that esure Insurance Limited (esure) hasnt dealt with her claim fairly 
following her being involved  in a car accident.
background
Miss I was involved  in a car accident  where her car was hit by a third party that was trying to 
overtake her. She reported this to esure and told it there was CCTV footage of the accident 
available, as it had been captured on the camera of a bus that was on the road at the same 
time.
Miss I says that esure  made  no attempt  to obtain  the CCTV and that her husband did so and 
sent it to esure. When it reviewed the footage esure mistook  Miss Is car with the third party 
car and told Miss I that the claim would  be settled as a fault claim. Miss I disputed this and 
explained the mix up to esure. It then changed  its stance and said that it would  be able to 
argue for a 50/50 split liability basis. 
There was also one occasion where  it told her that it would be able to pursue the claim as a 
non-fault one, but changed back to saying that split liability would be the best settlement 
outcome it thought it could achieve.
Miss I said that she didnt have any confidence  in how esure  was handling  her claim 
because it kept changing its stance. She also delayed having  any repairs done to her car 
until liability  was settled.  She complained to esure about its handling of the claim, including 
the time it was taking  to settle  the liability issue. It said it agreed that it had made some 
administration errors  when handling  Miss Is claim and offered £100 compensation to 
recognise this, but said that it felt the proposed  split liability settlement of the claim was the 
right one. It said it had put this to the third party insurer and was waiting for a response.
Miss I was unhappy with this and brought her complaint  to this service.  Miss I was also 
concerned that there may be a conflict of interest  as she felt esure may have some 
connection to the third party insurer. She was concerned with the length of time the whole 
settlement was taking  too.
The investigator didnt  uphold Miss Is complaint, in summary he said:
he agreed that esure had made  some  administrative errors he though  the £100 it had 
paid Miss I fairly compensated for this. 
esure had also made a reasonable decision in deciding to propose  a split liability  
settlement to the third party insurer. 
Miss I didnt agree with the investigator, she told the investigator that she believes the third 
party was at fault for the accident and that the compensation esure  offered should  reflect  any 
future increase of premiums she will now have  as a result of the claim.  And so the matter  
has now been passed to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where theres a dispute about  what 
Ref: DRN71409122happened, Ive based my decision on what I thinks most likely to have happened in light of 
the evidence.
Although a number  of issues  have been raised,  this decision only addresses those issues
I consider to be materially relevant to this complaint. However, Ive given careful 
consideration to all of the submissions made before arriving at my decision.
My role here isnt to decide who is at fault for an accident but to decide if esure  acted fairly  in 
how it has proposed  to settle  the claim. I note the policy allows  it to take over and conduct 
the defence or settlement of any claim. This is the same as every  other  motor  insurance 
policy Ive seen and is a standard term in such insurance contracts.
Even so, it still needs to be fair to Miss I in how it chooses to settle the claim. This means 
that the insurer should only settle  a claim when its more likely than not that it wouldnt 
succeed in a claim against the third party in court.  This is because esure wouldnt want  to 
risk all the costs and expenses in defending  a claim  that theyre more likely to lose in court 
than be successful.
I understand that esure made its initial decision on liability without having seen the CCTV 
footage and that, when  it was provided  with the footage,  it mixed  up Miss Is car and the third 
party car. And because  of this Miss I isnt confident  in the decision  esure  has made  about  
liability. Miss I has also said she is concerned that esure has some connection to the third 
party insurer  and this is why there  has been reluctance to defend  the claim and the cause of 
the delay in reaching an agreement. 
I can see esure has put forward a settlement offer, of a 50/50 split, to the third party insurer  
as it thinks will be the most favourable to Miss I. I havent seen any evidence  that the third 
party insurer  has a connection to esure  and so I cant see there is a benefit for esure  to 
settle the claim in a way that isnt favourable  to it or Miss I. It has based its decision on the 
circumstances of the accident,  the CCTV footage and has taken into account  what the 
Highway Code says.  
At the time of this decision the third party insurer hasnt responded to esures settlement 
offer. 
I think its worthwhile explaining here that its common practice for an insurer  to present the 
third party insurer with its costs along  with any proposed settlement and it will normally use 
the costs as leverage to force the discussion about  settlement forward.  
In Miss Is case  the third party isnt intending  to make a claim  for repairs  to their vehicle and 
Miss I hasnt yet had any repairs done to her car. So there  arent any costs attached to claim 
at this time.  As there is no outlay  at the moment for esure to recover from the third party  
insurer it has limited pressure it can apply  to force the settlement decision.  Im satisfied that 
this is the cause of the delay in a settlement  decision being reached by both insurers  and 
esure has no control over when the third party  insurer will respond to this.
Overall Im satisfied that esure has given due consideration to the circumstances of the claim 
before putting  the settlement offer to the third party insurer, and that it isnt able to force the 
third party insurer to enter a discussion with it about  settlement. It follows  I wont  be 
upholding this element of Miss Is complaint.
Ref: DRN71409123Miss I felt the compensation esure offered her for administration  errors should reflect the 
increase in future premiums she potentially could face as a result of the claim. I dont agree, 
and Ill explain why.
The £100  esure offered was for its mistake in not managing Miss Is expectations, when 
discussing with her what it would  be able to do in terms of settlement. Our role here is to put 
people back in the position  they wouldve been  in if a mistake hadnt  happened.  
In Miss Is case, esure  initially said it would be settling the claim as a fault claim, it then said 
it would  be looking to defend the claim and settle it as non-fault. It later decided that the 
50/50 split liability  settlement  was the correct  option. While this isnt great customer  service, I 
dont think this caused any detriment to Miss I and Im satisfied the £100 compensation 
esure offered fairly reflects the mistake it made  when communicating with Miss I about the 
claim. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Amber Mortimer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7140912