K822xcomplaint
Ms F complains that PDL Finance Limited,  trading as Mr Lender, lent to her in an
irresponsible manner.
background 
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 
5 December 2019, an extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I 
wont repeat  that information here.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that Mr Lender shouldnt have given 
Ms F loan four and what I proposed it should  do to put things right.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Both Ms F and Mr Lender said they didnt  have anything further to add. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that neither  Ms F nor Mr Lender have provided me with anything further on the 
complaint, I see no reason to depart from the conclusions I reached in my provisional 
decision. So, for the reasons Ive explained, I dont think  that Mr Lender should have given 
Ms F loan four. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Fs complaint in part. I now direct PDL Finance Limited, 
trading as Mr Lender to:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Ms F in relation to loan four and write off 
any outstanding  interest  and charges  on that loan.
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to any refunded interest and charges 
from the date they were  paid to the date of settlement*.
Deduct from the refund any capital sum still due in relation to loan four and pay any 
balance remaining to Ms F. If there remains an outstanding balance  owed to 
Mr Lender in relation  to loan four, it should agree an affordable repayment plan 
with Ms F.
Remove any adverse  information recorded on Ms Fs credit file in relation to loan 
four.
*HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest. Mr Lender  
must give Ms F a certificate showing how much  tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
Ref: DRN79566032Ms F didnt fully repay loan four. Its not clear to me whether the outstanding  debt has now 
been sold to a third party and I dont know whether Ms F has repaid  any of the debt to the 
third party.
As Ms F still owes some of the capital she borrowed, the refund due to her should first be 
applied to the outstanding capital. If the debt has been sold, Mr Lender must  first take the 
debt back into its own books and reduce  it to reflect just the capital that Ms F borrowed.  
Once it has recovered the capital Ms F borrowed,  any remaining compensation should 
be paid directly to Ms F.
If Mr Lender is unable,  or unwilling, to repurchase the debts within four weeks of Ms F 
accepting my final decision, it must ensure  that all its interest  and charges added  to loan four 
and any other interest and charges  added  by the third party  are refunded to Ms F, so she 
can choose whether  to use the compensation  to settle her debt directly.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.  
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN79566033extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Ms F complains  that PDL Finance Limited, trading  as Mr Lender, lent to her in an irresponsible 
manner.
background
Ms F took out four instalment loans with Mr Lender  between  March 2017 and April 2018. The loans 
were repayable over three, four or 12, monthly repayments.  Ms F repaid loans one, two and three but 
didnt repay  loan four. A summary  of Ms Fs lending  with Mr Lender is as follows:
date £ amount 
borrowedno of monthly 
repayments
at the outsetdate repaid
114 March  2017 200 3 14 July 2017
215 July 2017 400 4 13 September 2017
38 November 2017 200 3 23 March  2018
427 April 2018 1,000 12
Ms F says that she had a flare-up  of a chronic  illness, which affected  her ability to work.  She
struggled to pay her bills and took out short-term loans to do so. Ms F says that if Mr Lender had 
carried out proportionate  checks it would have seen that she couldnt afford to repay  these  loans. 
She wants Mr Lender  to stop all charges and interest and to come to an affordable repayment plan 
for the balance she owes, less the interest and charges shes already paid.
One of our adjudicators assessed Ms Fs complaint.  She said that Mr Lender shouldnt have given 
Ms F loans three and four. The adjudicator  set out what Mr Lender should  do to put matters right.
Mr Lender didnt agree with the adjudicator.  It said, in summary, that the adjudicator hadnt given 
detailed reasons  for her view. Mr Lender said that whilst the amount borrowed  for loan two increased, 
the amount borrowed for loan three decreased which indicates that Ms F wasnt reliant on this sort of 
borrowing. It said that, in addition, loan three was taken  out approximately two months after repaying 
loan two. Mr Lender said that the adjudicator  hadnt taken into account that Ms F hadnt repaid loan 
four.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an 
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general  approach to complaints about  short-
term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice  - on our 
website.
Mr Lender needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt  lend irresponsibly. In practice, 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make sure 
Ms F could repay the loans in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a 
number of different things, such  as how much was being lent, the repayment  amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early stages  of a lending relationship, 
I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Mr Lender should  fairly and reasonably have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable  for the consumer. These factors  include:
Ref: DRN79566034    the lower a customers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
    the higher the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income);
    the greater the number and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time 
during which a customer has been given loans  (reflecting  the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Mr Lender was required  to establish whether Ms F could sustainably repay her loans   not just 
whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds  and pence calculation. Of course  the 
loan payments being  affordable on this basis might  be an indication a consumer  could sustainably 
make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically  follow this is the case. This is because  the 
Consumer Credit  Sourcebook (CONC)  defines sustainable as being without undue difficulties and 
in particular the customer  should be able to make repayments on time while  meeting  other 
reasonable commitments; as well as without  having  to borrow to meet the repayments. And it follows  
that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably  to realise, that a borrower wont be able 
to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely to be able to make their repayments without 
borrowing further.
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information provided  in this context 
and what this all means for Ms Fs complaint.
I dont think that Mr Lender was at fault in giving Ms F loans one, two or three.  Given  the 
repayment amounts, what was apparent about Ms Fs circumstances at the time and her history 
with the lender at those points, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Mr Lender to ask 
Ms F for the amount of information needed to show the lending was unsustainable. There wasnt 
anything in the information  Ms F provided or the information Mr Lender shouldve been aware of, 
which meant it wouldve  been proportionate for it to start verifying what Ms F said about  her 
finances.
I think the position changed  before loan four. When Ms F asked to borrow  a substantially larger  
amount, Mr Lender knew that shed struggled to repay loan three  she paid it two months late, one 
month before she asked  to borrow again. I think that in those circumstances, proportionate checks 
before loan four are likely to have established  a much  fuller  picture of Ms Fs financial position. I 
think proportionate checks here wouldve meant that Mr Lender took steps to verify the information 
Ms F provided about her financial situation.
If Mr Lender had carried out proportionate checks before loan four I think it would likely have seen, 
as I have, that shed recently taken out two loans with other short-term  lenders and that there were 
six other short-term  loans that she hadnt yet repaid. I think that Mr Lender would  have seen that Ms 
F was having  problems  managing her money and concluded that she couldnt afford  to repay further 
borrowing in a sustainable way. So, I dont  think that Mr Lender should  have given Ms F loan four.
Ive also looked at whether  the overall  pattern of Ms Fs borrowing history with Mr Lender meant that 
it should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable  or otherwise  harmful and 
should have realised  that it shouldnt  have provided any further  loans.
Ref: DRN79566035Given the particular circumstances of Ms Fs case,  I dont think that the pattern of lending, in itself, 
showed that Ms F couldnt sustainably  repay what shed  borrowed. The period
between Ms F taking out loan one and loan four was a little over 13 months. Bearing in mind that 
these were instalment  loans,  repayable over several months, I dont think that the number of loans 
Ms F took from Mr Lender, the amounts  they were for or the period of time Ms F was borrowing, in 
itself, should have  shown Mr Lender that Ms F might have been experiencing underlying financial  
difficulty. But, as Ive explained above, I dont think that
Mr Lender should have  given  Ms F loan four, as proportionate checks  would have shown  that 
she couldnt  repay it sustainably.
Loan four is currently  outstanding. Its right to take that into account when looking at what
Mr Lender should do to put matters right.
putting things right  what I intend  to direct Mr Lender to do
To put things right, I intend  to direct PDL Finance Limited, trading  as Mr Lender to:
Refund any interest and charges paid by Ms F in relation  to loan four and write  off any 
outstanding interest and charges on that loan.
Add simple  interest at a rate of 8% per annum to any refunded interest and charges from the 
date they were paid to the date of settlement*.
Deduct  from the refund any capital  sum still due in relation to loan four and pay any balance 
remaining to Ms F. If there remains an outstanding balance owed to Mr Lender in relation to 
loan four, it should  agree  an affordable  repayment  plan with Ms F.
Remove any adverse information recorded on Ms Fs credit file in relation to loan four.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Mr Lender to take off tax from this interest.  Mr Lender must  
give Ms F a certificate showing  how much tax its taken off, if she asks for one.
Ms F didnt fully repay loan four. Its not clear to me whether the outstanding debt has now been  
sold to a third party and I dont know whether Ms F has repaid any of the debt to the third party.
As Ms F still owes some of the capital  she borrowed, the refund due to her should first be applied 
to the outstanding capital.  If the debt has been  sold, Mr Lender must  first take the debt back into 
its own books and reduce it to reflect  just the capital  that Ms F borrowed.  Once it has recovered  
the capital Ms F borrowed,  any remaining  compensation should be paid directly to Ms F.
If Mr Lender is unable, or unwilling, to repurchase the debts within four weeks of Ms F accepting my 
final decision  it must  ensure that all its interest and charges added  to loan four and any other interest 
and charges added by the third party are refunded to Ms F, so she can choose whether to use the 
compensation to settle her debt directly.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my provisional decision is that I intend to uphold Ms Fs complaint 
in part. I intend to direct  PDL Finance Limited, trading as Mr Lender, to take the steps Ive set out 
above.
Ref: DRN7956603