K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Arrow Global Limited wrongly obtained a County Court Judgement 
(CCJ) against him for a debt by using an old address for service which didnt  comply  with 
the Civil Procedure Rules for service (CPR  6.9) 
background
In 2004 Mr B took out a credit card with a bank but unfortunately in 2006 his financial 
circumstances changed and he struggled  to make payments. Mr B entered  into a payment 
plan to pay off the debt at a set monthly  amount. Payments were  made up until 2011.
The debt was sold by the bank to Arrow  Global in November 2013 and an address (Address 
One) was provided by the bank for Mr B. 
Arrow Global  outsources the debt collection for its accounts and did the same with Mr Bs 
debt. Between  2013 and 2017  it instructed  a total five different debt collecting companies  at 
different times to make  contact with and collect the outstanding  amount  from Mr B. Each of 
these five companies was unable to make contact with Mr B. 
In 2014 a phone call was received from someone living at Address One who reported  that 
Mr B didnt live there. Despite a manual trace no new address  could  be found at that time 
and the account was handed back to Arrow Global.
In 2015 another debt collecting company established that Mr B had other credit accounts  still 
linked to Address  One but despite attempts to make contact with Mr B received no response 
from him.
The third debt collecting company was unable  to contact Mr B but the fourth found another 
address linked to Mr B (Address  Two) but again  no contact was made with Mr B.
The fifth collecting company found  another  address  linked to Mr B (Address  Three).  This 
company attempted contact at this address but again received no response from Mr B. This 
address was used  to serve the County  Court papers.
In October  2017 Arrow Global obtained a CCJ against Mr B for the outstanding debt. Mr B 
says he wasnt aware  of this action  until 2019  as the address used to obtain the judgement 
was one he hadnt used for several years. He says Arrow Global would have been aware of 
that and could have reasonably traced him to his current address.
Mr B complained to Arrow Global that it had intentionally used an address that it knew was 
old. He said that Rule 6.9 of the Civil Procedure  Rules sets out how claim forms are to be 
served where the defendant (in this case Mr B) doesnt give an address. This rule says the 
papers must be served on the usual or last known residence. So this meant the claim form 
should have been served on Address One.
Mr B said looking at a previous decision made  by this service his complaint should  be upheld  
and Arrow  Global should apply for the judgement to be set aside and all the legal  costs  
applied to the account should be removed. He also said he should  be compensated for the 
unnecessary distress and inconvenience caused  to him.
Arrow Global  didnt uphold his complaint. It confirmed the bank had passed  it Address One 
when it had sold the debt but that the other  addresses had been established by the 
Ref: DRN78209152companies seeking to recover  the debt on its behalf. It said the CCJ had been correctly  
obtained.
Mr B disagreed with the view of Arrow Global and complained to this service.  Our 
investigator didnt  recommend his complaint should be upheld.
Our investigator said that Mr B, although concerned  about the legal status  of the debt,  had 
asked this service to look at Arrow Globals actions in obtaining the CCJ and so that was 
what she had done. Our investigator said this services remit was limited  in regards to the 
judgement itself as it couldnt overrule a courts  decision.
Our investigator said she appreciated Mr Bs view was that Arrow  Global should have used 
Address One for service  as this would have  been in line with CPR 6.9 on service. Mr B had 
also said that as this address belonged  to a relative he would have had an opportunity  to 
have become aware of the proceedings if the documents had been sent there as they could 
have been passed on to him. 
Our investigator said looking at the notes provided by Arrow Global that in both 2014 and 
2017 phone  calls had been received from someone  living at Address One stating Mr B didnt 
live there.  She said there was no evidence that Arrow Global had known this address 
belonged to a relative  of Mr B. She said she thought it was reasonable that, although this 
address would have been  in accordance with CPR 6.9, that Arrow Global hadnt used it to 
serve the claim form.
Our investigator said since around  2014 five different  companies  had sought  to collect  the 
debt from Mr B and none had been able to make contact with him. Other addresses had 
been found that were linked to him and although  the claim could have been served on 
Address Two she thought  it was unlikely that, if that address had been used, Mr B would 
have been aware  of the proceedings and subsequent CCJ.
Our investigator said she thought there  had been sufficient attempts to make contact with 
Mr B over the years.  She said it was reasonable to say that Mr B would have been aware 
that the bank had sold the debt to a third party and that third party  would have had an 
interest in having  the debt paid.
Our investigator said that some responsibility fell on Mr B to keep his address details up to 
date to receive documents.
Our investigator said she had seen  the previous decision issued by an ombudsman 
concerning a CCJ and an old address being  used  for service  but each complaint was 
considered on its own merits.  She said she didnt think  Arrow Global had acted unfairly.
Mr B disagreed with our investigators  view.  He said that his complaint was that Arrow Global 
had not complied with CPR 6.9 and not whether Arrow Global had acted fairly  or not. He 
said that Address  One was his last known address as passed  to Arrow Global by the bank 
and this was the address that should  have been  used for service.
Mr B said he believed  the debt was statute barred and that Arrow Global had contrived to get 
a CCJ by using  an old address that he no longer had any contact with. Mr B said it would  
have been reasonable  for Arrow Global to have  made other enquiries and if it had his current  
address would have been  found.
As the parties couldnt  agree the complaint  has been passed to me.
Ref: DRN78209153my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B has said that although  he believes the debt was statute barred he is only asking me to 
look at the CPR 6.9 point. He says as the rule on service wasnt complied with then his 
complaint against  Arrow Global should  be upheld.
I accept that CPR 6.9 is important when looking at whether a court has jurisdiction to deal 
with a claim because  the claim must have been validly served  on the defendant. But I 
disagree that Mr Bs last known address is as straight forward  as saying only Address 1 
couldve been used  by Arrow  Global.  I think there  may be potential legal arguments that 
other addresses may have fitted  this description  but that isnt an issue  for me to decide. 
In my role as ombudsman,  while I have to take into account what the law says,  Im not 
bound by it in reaching what I feel is a fair and reasonable decision in all the circumstances  
when looking at complaints. I am not a court of law but part of an alternative dispute 
resolution service. And here, although  Mr B says it isnt relevant whether Arrow  Global 
acted fairly  or not, I think for me to fulfil my role I need to take account of the actions of 
both of the parties in respect of this outstanding account.
Mr Bs has confirmed that he has had several  different addresses over the years.  He says 
it was in 2009 that he had lived at Address Three before later moving to Address Two. 
From 2013  onwards Mr B has provided  other  addresses where  he said he has lived and in 
addition says he has on occasions used Address One for post.
While I appreciate Mr B says there was a connection to Address One as it was a relatives 
home I cant reasonably  say that Arrow Global would have been aware of that fact. 
Looking at the evidence, what I can say is that Arrow Global knew  that on two separate 
occasions, once  in 2014 and again in 2017  that when Address One was used to make  
contact with Mr B someone  at that address said he didnt live there  and hadnt lived there 
for some years.
Ive seen that the five different companies  used by Arrow Global to collect the debt were  
unable to make contact with Mr B despite  using a variety of addresses  including Address 
One. As Mr B says he has had a continuing connection with Address One I think its more  
likely than not that Mr B would have been  aware that this debt was being  pursued by 
Arrow Global. 
However, I havent seen  any evidence that Mr B attempted to make contact with either  the 
bank or Arrow Global  in an attempt to resolve the outstanding debt or to provide an up to 
date address. I also think its reasonable to say that Mr B would have been expecting  a 
CCJ to be issued at some point for this debt. 
I think over the years  that Arrow  Global  has made  reasonable efforts  to locate Mr B. And I 
note this has not been successful in eliciting a response from him so I think it was 
reasonable to move  to seeking  a CCJ against him. Ive seen that Arrow Global was 
supplied with three different addresses for Mr B, one of which it was positively told wasnt 
his (Address One).  So I think  in these circumstances that Arrow Global acted reasonably  in 
using Address Three for the service of the claim.  
Ref: DRN78209154I appreciate Mr B has pointed out a different outcome reached by an ombudsman on a 
case involving the use of an old address.  However, as explained by our investigator each 
complaint is looked  at on its own merits  and I think there are clear differences  in the facts 
of that other case with the facts of Mr Bs complaint. I dont think my approach to his 
complaint has been inconsistent  with the approach taken in that other complaint.
So for the reasons given above  Im not intending to uphold Mr Bs complaint. I dont think 
Arrow Global  has acted unfairly in the way it has handled Mr Bs account.
my final decision
As set out above Im not upholding Mr Bs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 May 2020.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7820915