K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G say HSBC  UK Bank  plc mis-sold  them a payment protection insurance (PPI) 
policy.
background
This complaint is about a mortgage PPI policy. It was taken out in 2003  in a meeting at the 
same time as Mr and Mrs G applied for a mortgage. It provided Mr and Mrs G with protection 
against accident, sickness and unemployment.  They  paid a monthly  amount for it.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs G disagreed so the complaint was 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is contradictory  or 
incomplete, I have based my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on 
what I consider is most likely given the available evidence and what we know  about how 
HSBC sold PPI at the time.
Our general  approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI is on our website  and Ive followed 
it here. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Ill explain why.
Mr and Mrs G told us they definitely wouldnt have taken out PPI willingly.  But I havent 
found anything  to suggest the bank told Mr and Mrs G it was compulsory. HSBC has 
sent in the records of their personal  financial planning meeting. These show Mr and     
Mrs G agreed  to take out PPI. They rejected other  products and services  the bank 
offered during their planning  review,  so I think they wouldve understood they had a 
choice. Ive thought carefully  about Mr and Mrs Gs comments, but on balance I think  its 
most likely HSBC  made it clear the PPI was optional  and they chose to take it out. I can 
understand they might not remember this given how long ago it was. 
HSBC recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs G so it had to check it was right for them.  It 
seems to have been suitable based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.  
They were both entitled to less than three  months sick pay. The PPI wouldve paid their 
monthly mortgage costs  for up to 12 months  for each successful accident and sickness  
claim giving them long term protection. It also gave up to 12 months  redundancy cover. 
Mr and Mrs G say they had a standalone redundancy  policy  which paid out after 90 days  
for up to 12 months. They told us they took this out in July 2003 at the time their 
mortgage started.  But they havent  been able to provide a policy  document or a 
certificate of insurance so I cant know exactly when they took out this cover.  Based on 
the available  evidence, it seems most likely they didnt have this cover at the time of their 
financial planning review  in May 2003 when HSBC recommended PPI. I say this as from 
the notes Ive seen it wasnt  mentioned during their financial  planning review.  And as the 
interview notes show  HSBC made it clear PPI included accident,  sickness  and 
redundancy cover I would have expected Mr and Mrs G to have said if they already had 
Ref: DRN71578152redundancy cover in place. So I cant fairly  conclude  the banks recommendation was 
unsuitable on that basis.
Mr and Mrs G said their parents wouldve helped but thats not suitable alternative 
protection  its not guaranteed and peoples  circumstances can change.  Theyve told us 
they both had a death-in-service  benefit but that offers a different kind of cover and 
wouldnt help with monthly mortgage  repayments  in the same way as PPI. 
Overall I think  the PPI wouldve been useful for Mr and Mrs G if they were sick or lost 
their job(s).
Its possible HSBC didnt  give Mr and Mrs G all the information it shouldve  before they 
made their decision. I dont know it made  clear  the cost of the policy  but it was 
competitively priced and apparently affordable. I dont know that HSBC pointed  out the 
main things the policy didnt cover. But Mr and Mrs G dont  appear  to have been affected 
by any of those  things. So I dont think better information about the policy  wouldve 
changed their mind about buying it.
Overall, I dont  think theyve lost out because of any of the problems with the sale.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Gs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 April 2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7157815