K822xcomplaint
Mrs W complains about the way Ageas Insurance Limited has handled a claim under a 
home insurance policy. 
background 
I issued a provisional decision on 6 August 2019 setting out why I was minded to uphold 
Mrs Ws complaint  and what  Ageas  should do to put things right.  I detailed  the background 
to the complaint and my provisional findings  as follows;
Mrs W made a claim in July 2014  for flooding inside her property. Initially Ageas rejected the 
claim as it thought the damage pre-existed the policy  being  taken out. Following this there  
was much communication between Mrs W, Ageas and their agents. And Mrs W was 
particularly upset and stressed when Ageas refused to offer cover  for her house. Ageas did 
though later agree to deal with claim and offered £1,000 compensation. Mrs W didnt think  
this was sufficient  to reflect the totality of what had happened
One of our investigators  looked into the complaint  and explained her view that it should be 
upheld. She explained that if the claim had been  correctly accepted  then Mrs W would have  
been saved years of suffering. She considered it fair to require Ageas to pay £3,000  
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  suffered  in the claim not being  dealt  with 
and the conditions Mrs W had to live in, and refund the cost of an expert report Mrs W had 
paid for.
Ageas agreed  to refund the expert report fee and also offered Mrs W insurance cover  in 
March 2018. Ageas didnt think it should  pay the level of compensation  the investigator 
recommended and didnt believe the damage  was caused by a storm.
Mrs W didnt think the compensation sufficiently reflected the distress shes  been caused 
during the period in which she had to fight to get her claim dealt with. The complaint has 
been referred to an ombudsman  for a final decision in the absence  of the parties agreeing.
my provisional findings
Industry rules require Ageas to handle claims promptly and fairly. These terms arent defined 
in the rules so I think it helpful to say that broadly speaking  promptly will depend on the 
circumstances of each  claim. But avoidable  or unnecessary  delay would seem  contrary to 
promptness. And I think fairly implies impartiality, the absence of bias or prejudice, even-
handedness and objectivity.
Mrs W originally  complained about Ageas handling of the claim and its decision in July 
2016. One of my ombudsman colleagues  issued a decision on that complaint in January 
2017. She explained that the complaint  had been  brought to us outside of the six months 
that a complaint must  be brought  by, unless exceptional circumstances existed that 
prevented the complaint from being  brought. But no such circumstances applied.
This complaint is ostensibly about the same thing except that since that time Mrs W has 
provided new information to Ageas and Ageas has accepted the claim as an insured event. 
But the issue Mrs W is unhappy about is the way the claim was handled and the condition of 
the home.
Ref: DRN75472722Given that the original  complaint was brought out of time I think  its fair to look at what 
happened since the initial final response in September  2015. Mrs W was told that if she 
provided further evidence from a named  third party about a water  leak Ageas would review  
its decision. In July 2017 Mrs W had a report compiled by a structural  engineer. This report  
explained how the insured  event occurred and the apparent liability  of a named third party.  It 
was sent to Ageas in September 2017.  On the back of this report Ageas  instructed its own 
agent to review the matter and shortly after accepted  the claim. 
I appreciate that the overall situation was stressful but in this case  I am satisfied £1,000 is a 
fair amount of compensation. While Im not looking at the original decision,  as it fell within 
the period of time that my colleague  has already  decided we cant look at, Ageas  gave  
Mrs W clear information  about the next steps  she could take and the circumstances under 
which it would review  her claim.  Mrs W used lawyers through  a legal  expenses  policy  and it 
was during this that a new report came about  which was sent to Ageas and ultimately  
changed the outcome. Once  that report was received it was reviewed and acted upon 
relatively promptly. The claim was accepted  around late November 2017.
I think it is right that Ageas should pay for the report and it has agreed to pay £420.  And it 
offered £1,000 for not assisting more regarding the previous insurers  policy, which Mrs W 
has rejected. Ageas  did set out its position  clearly and instructed suitably qualified agents to 
review the claim. It reached a decision and gave  Mrs W the next steps she could take.  I 
appreciate Mrs W has dealt with lawyers in the pursuit of a fair outcome but once Ageas got 
the information it had outlined to Mrs W it accepted the claim. As such  I am satisfied the offer 
of £1,000 in all the circumstances is a fair one.
replies to my provisional  decision
Ageas told us that it had paid £420  to Mrs W towards the end of 2018, although it appeared 
that the cost was also funded by her legal expenses insurer. Ageas was going  to liaise with 
the legal  expenses solicitors to avoid  duplication  of this cost.
Mrs W has provided a comprehensive reply which Ive read in detail. In summary, much of 
what Mrs W says is information  that weve already been provided with. The crux of what  
Mrs W says is that there was a catalogue  of errors by Ageas  over many years. In June 2015 
Ageas refused to provide insurance cover  due to the state of her house. In the autumn of 
2017 Ageas  carried  out some insured works to her home but she remained uninsured and in 
March 2018 a stable burned to the ground. Mrs W says she suffered stress at this time as 
she was uninsured. After  this, and contact with an insurance trade body, she asked Ageas to 
cover her and it did. 
Mrs W also says that she thinks Ageas has paid her £420 for one report but there is another 
report that cost much  more and hasnt been  refunded. Mrs W didnt provide any further  
information or evidence of this report or its cost although we have given her more than three 
weeks to get any further  information.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mrs W has found her situation upsetting  and stressful  and that it has been  going 
on for some time. And although  Mrs W wants me to look at the entire  history  in this decision,  
Ref: DRN75472723I explained why I couldnt. My ombudsman colleague considered a complaint  Mrs W brought 
to us but found shed brought it later than six months after a final response  and that there 
were no exceptional  circumstances  that prevented her from bringing that complaint. So, I 
said Id only look at issues after the date of that complaint, from September 2015 onwards. 
Ageas had told Mrs W if she provided  evidence to support her claim it would  reconsider  the 
matter. Her home was in a state of disrepair with ongoing  problems  and in that knowledge, 
Ageas said it wouldnt  provide  insurance cover. Thats a discretion  Ageas was entitled to use 
in the circumstances. But Ageas kept its promise and when in 2017 further evidence came  in 
from Mrs W, Ageas looked at the matter and carried some works. And Im satisfied that was 
a reasonable course of action for Ageas to take.
It doesnt of course  go far enough for Mrs W, but an insurance company is not compelled  to 
cover every home and every claim.  Ageas made its position clear and there was no 
confusion about  whether  Mrs W was insured or not. Im not aware of the extent of the 
measures Mrs W took to find specialist insurance, notwithstanding it would have probably 
been expensive.  But I am satisfied Ageas was entitled to refuse cover at the time given all 
the circumstances, and that that decision was fair.
Im required  to decide what, in my opinion, is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
Im satisfied that Ageas offer of £1,000 compensation for not assisting more regarding  the 
previous insurers  policy  is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. 
The final thing to address is that of the report fees.  If Mrs W paid £420 for a report, then 
Ageas must refund that. Ageas says it has done  so already and indeed that the report  cost 
was also covered by a legal expenses insurer. Mrs W doesnt dispute this and so it would in 
my view be unjust  and disproportionate if I compelled Ageas to pay this amount again. Im 
satisfied that the £420 has been  paid by Ageas and so I make no award for this part.
There is the issue of a second and more expensive report, but I have no information  about 
that report. And seemingly Ageas doesnt  either. Ageas has said it will liaise  with the lawyers 
involved and if that report falls for Ageas  to pay then thats  what  Ageas must do.
my final decision
I uphold Mrs Ws complaint  and require Ageas Insurance Limited to do the following;
Im satisfied  the offer of £1,000 compensation is a fair amount  and so Ageas must 
pay that to Mrs W.
Ageas  must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Mrs W accepts  my final decision.  If it pays later than this, it must also pay interest on 
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% a 
year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 November 2019.
Sean Hamilton
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7547272