K820x#14Complaint
Miss B and Mr L complain  about a car supplied to them under a conditional sale agreement 
with Moneybarn No. 1 Limited.
background
In January 2018 Miss B took out a conditional  sale agreement with Moneybarn to finance  the 
purchase of a used  car. The car was seven years old, had travelled more than 76,600 miles, 
and cost £5,400. She gave Mr L authority to help with her complaint,  and he called and 
messaged Moneybarn  many times during the complaint.
Miss B said she noticed faults with the car from March 2018. She said the car struggled to 
start, and the engine  often cut out. She said warning  lights  often showed up on the 
dashboard. She said she had to call out a breakdown company on several occasions. On 
one occasion  it  reconnected the battery  terminal. She said she reported this to Moneybarn, 
and the dealer who supplied the car, but she said they didnt seem interested.
She said the cars performance started to be affected. She said it juddered, and there was 
black smoke coming from the exhaust.  She said it would  go into LIMP  mode.  She said this 
and the electrical  faults made  the car feel extremely dangerous.
She said she raised this with Moneybarn. She said they agreed she should  take it to a 
garage for inspection. She said when this garage  refused to inspect the car, Moneybarn 
agreed to arrange  for it to be taken to the original dealer. She said it took many weeks  for 
this to happen.
She said the original  dealer was unable  to replicate the faults. Miss B and Mr L work  in the 
motor trade.  She said she told Moneybarn,  and the dealer,  that the faults were likely to be 
related to the DPF, or an injector fault,  or both.
She said Moneybarn  then told her that the car had been remapped  and this was the cause 
of the faults. She said they told her they wouldnt be able to do anything.  She said she did 
not remap the car.
She said after several months of arguing with Moneybarn,  they arranged  to have an 
independent report  done. She said she was shocked by the report, because it said the DPF 
had faulted again because the car had possibly been remapped, and because  the car only 
did short  journeys.
She said none of these  were true, and that the independent report  was influenced  by 
Moneybarn and the dealer. And she said the engineer didnt even look for the electrical 
faults.
She said this has taken too long to resolve,  and feels the issues werent properly 
investigated. She also said that Moneybarn have issued defaults  because she stopped  
making the monthly payments.
Moneybarn said they tried to arrange  an inspection at a dealer local to Miss B. For many  
reasons this didnt  happen, so they arranged for the car to be taken  to the supplying dealer. 
They said he cleaned and refitted  the throttle position sensor and replaced the DPF sensor.
Moneybarn said in September 2018 they instructed an independent engineer to inspect the 
car because  Miss B complained that the issues hadnt been  fixed.  They said the engineer 
Ref: DRN74464842reported the DPF needed replacing, and that the car should be checked  for signs  of 
remapping as this could have contributed towards the problems Miss B was having  with the 
car. He also reported  that the problems  could have been caused by Miss B only making 
short journeys. He said these were maintenance issues and werent the responsibility of the 
supplying dealer.
Moneybarn said they were aware  of the electrical  problems Miss B had reported,  but the 
dealer and the independent engineer hadnt  been  able to replicate them.  They said they 
were also aware of the problems with the electric windows, and the air conditioning system. 
They said these were  also maintenance issues and not faults present when the car was 
supplied.
They acknowledged  they hadnt provided Miss B with the service  theyd  expect to, and 
credited more than £200 towards  the outstanding arrears  on the agreement.
Our investigator didnt  think Moneybarn  were liable for the repair.  He didnt think the faults  
were likely to have  been present or developing  at the point of supply.  This was because Miss 
B had done  7,000 miles before it was inspected and he felt this was significant usage in a 
relatively short period  of time. He didnt  think the car could have covered this distance if it 
was faulty at the point of supply.
In July 2019 Moneybarn informed our investigator that theyd  been  told the supplying dealer  
had gone into liquidation. They said theyd been  advised that the car had been  sold at 
auction by the administrators,  without their knowledge. Although this wasnt  part of Miss Bs 
complaint, our investigator  included this in his investigation. He said that because Miss B 
had left the car at the supplying dealers premises, Moneybarn hadnt  done anything wrong 
in these circumstances.
He felt that Moneybarn were  fair in recognising they could've  provided a better service. He 
felt that the amount they awarded Miss B was fair, and in line with what he would've 
suggested had it not already been done.
Miss B disagreed with his view and asked for an ombudsman decision.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Moneybarn supplied Miss B with the car under the conditional sale agreement  they had with 
her. Theres  a term implied in the agreement  that the car would be of satisfactory quality. 
What is satisfactory is determined by what a reasonable  person would consider satisfactory  
given the price, description and other  relevant circumstances. In this case  this would include 
things such as the age and mileage  of the car. 
Miss Bs car was seven years old and had travelled more  than 76,600 miles when she got it. 
So, a reasonable person might expect  to have to repair  or replace some parts  of the car over 
time.
Miss B wanted to reject  the car as she said it was faulty. This is a right given under the 
relevant legislation, the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (CRA). The CRA  says, amongst other 
Ref: DRN74464843things, that the car shouldve been of a satisfactory  quality  when  supplied.  And if it wasnt,  as 
the supplier of goods, Moneybarn are responsible.
The CRA also says that, where a fault is identified within the first six months,  its assumed 
the fault was present when the car was supplied. So, if I thought the car was faulty when 
Miss B took possession  of it, and this made  the car not of a satisfactory quality,  itd be fair 
and reasonable to ask Moneybarn to put this right.
I dont think the faults were present  at the point of sale. I agree with our investigator  I think 
its more likely than not that the issues can be expected to have been caused  by wear and 
tear.
The dealer  who supplied the car arranged for the car to be inspected. It replaced  the DPF 
sensor. It continued to road test the vehicle, and when the engine light came back on it 
realised the DPF itself need replacing.  I think its reasonable for the dealer and Moneybarn 
to say this is a wear  and tear issue.  DPFs can be expected  to last up to 100,000 miles, but 
can need replacing before then. I also think its unlikely that Miss B would have  been  able to 
travel 7,000  miles if the DPF was faulty  at the time of supply. 
This is supported by the report provided  by the independent engineer in September  2018. 
He found the pressure  reading in the DPF was high and this indicated  the DPF need  
replacing. He also said he didnt think the fault wouldnt have been present when the car was 
supplied to Miss B.
Im also satisfied that it was reasonable for Moneybarn to rely on the dealer and the experts 
statements that they couldnt replicate the electrical  problems Miss B complained about. The 
dealer told Moneybarn they kept the car for an extra week to do further road testing. This 
identified the DPF failure,  but it didnt show up the problems Miss B complained about. And 
the independent engineer didnt report any electrical  faults,  or the injector faults Miss B had 
suggested.
In June 2018 Moneybarn told Miss B the faults couldnt be replicated, and this was likely to 
be because they were intermittent. They invited her to submit video or other evidence  when  
the faults occurred,  but this was never done. I think its reasonable for Moneybarn  to rely on 
the fact that two separate investigations by mechanics failed to find the electrical faults she 
complained about.  So Im satisfied there  were  no other faults present at the time of supply.
Miss B questions the integrity of the independent  expert.  The report makes  clear that the 
engineers duty is that of an expert to help the court. So, regardless of who instructed the 
engineer, and who paid for the inspection,  the engineer is independent  of Moneybarn, the 
supplying dealer, and Miss B. Because of this, its reasonable for Moneybarn to rely on the 
contents of this report, regardless of the outcome.
So Im satisfied the car was of a satisfactory quality when supplied to Miss B, and that 
Moneybarn doesnt  need to do anything  more.
I agree  with our investigator that Moneybarns handling of this complaint couldve been 
better. There was a lot of toing and froing  between both parties  throughout June and July 
2018 whilst  they tried to agree who and where the car should be inspected.  This was 
because Miss B lived some distance  from the supplying  dealer. Moneybarn agreed it 
couldve done more  to progress matters. I agree with our investigator their award  of more 
than £200 is fair. So Moneybarn  need  to do no more.
Ref: DRN74464844For completeness Ill also address the issue of the car being sold by the administrator, 
leaving Miss B with no car. It must  have  been  distressing for Miss B to hear this news. 
Moneybarn advised  Miss B in their final response letter issued in December 2018 they were 
not upholding her complaint. Miss B left the car at the dealer,  so I cant  hold Moneybarn  
responsible for actions  that happened  after this time.  
I know she was extremely unhappy  and upset by the whole  situation,  but I would have 
expected her to look after the car and to continue to make payments during this dispute. Her 
agreement with Moneybarn required  her not to abandon the goods and to keep the goods in 
her possession. 
If Miss B is in financial  difficulty, I expect Moneybarn to treat her positively and 
sympathetically and do what they can to help Miss B pay what  she owes.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above I dont uphold Miss Bs complaint against  Moneybarn No. 1 
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 12 March 2021.
Gordon Ramsay
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7446484