K821x#15complaint
Mrs K has complained about the way Assurant  General Insurance Limited  (Assurant) dealt 
with a claim on her mobile phone  insurance. My references to Assurant in this decision 
include their agents.
background
Mrs K registered a claim with Assurant  for accidental damage to her mobile phone in
February 2019. She sent the phone to Assurant and it was repaired and returned to her. In
March 2019 Mrs K contacted Assurant and said the phone  wasnt  working properly.
Assurant told her to return the phone  to them and they would repair it under the warranty  
from the first repair. They told Mrs K to ensure that the device was securely packaged 
because if it was damaged in transit  the warranty would be void.  When Assurant received 
the phone  in April 2019 it was damaged. They contacted Mrs K and said because  the phone  
was damaged, she would have to register a new accidental damage  claim and a new excess  
would apply.
Mrs K was unhappy with this decision. She said when she returned the phone it was in 
perfect condition. Shed  securely wrapped the phone and sent it off in the envelope that had 
been provided. Assurant didnt  agree, they said the damage to the phone was consistent  
with being dropped onto a hard surface. They also said they were  unable to determine  if the 
faults Mrs K had reported were there prior to the damage being caused  or after.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019.  In my provisional decision I said:
Mrs K has told us the phone was in perfect condition  when she sent it back. The photos
Assurant have provided show the phone  was damaged when they received it. Mrs K has told 
us if the phone was repaired properly initially then she wouldnt have had to send it back.
Assurant have said because the phone was damaged then the warranty  is void.  Ive 
considered the terms of the warranty provided to Mrs K following the repair. They  say only 
mechanical and electrical  failures as result of any manufacturing faults or defects are 
covered. The warranty  will not be valid if the defect is caused  by damage, misuse,  neglect or 
tampering
Assurant have said the damage  to the phone means  they cant determine if the faults  
reported by Mrs K were  due to the original  repair. Assurant have made reference to a 
previous ombudsman decision and other cases this service has considered.  I have reviewed 
the cases Assurant  have referred  to and considered the points theyve made. When we look 
at complaints, we look at them on an individual  basis and each complaint is decided  on its 
own merits.
In my opinion the warranty doesnt say that because there  is damage  to the phone the 
warranty isnt valid. There can be damage to a phone and the warranty will still be valid if the 
defect is caused  by a fault resulting from anything other than damage, misuse or neglect. 
However if the damage has been  caused  the defect then the warranty isnt valid.  In this 
specific case, the phone hasnt been  inspected so Im not persuaded Assurant have done 
enough to show  the warranty is invalid.
Ref: DRN77728442In my opinion Assurant needs  to inspect Mrs Ks phone to fairly determine what  has caused 
the fault. They can then make  a decision as to whether or not they can consider a claim 
under the repair  warranty or if a new accidental damage claim needs to be registered.
Mrs K responded and accepted my provisional  findings. Assurant didnt agree with my 
findings. In summary,  they said:
There was no evidence to support  Mrs Ks statement that the phone was in perfect  
condition when  it was returned to them.
The photos theyd  provided showed the phone was heavily scratched which  in their 
opinion wouldnt have  occurred  during transit. Especially considering  that Mrs K said 
the phone  was securely packaged. They believed this reasonably brought into 
question the validity  of Mrs K's comments in relation to the phone  being in 'perfect' 
condition when  she returned it. 
They thought  if the phone was inspected,  they couldnt determine  whether the issue  
was due to a mechanical / electrical fault,  because it had suffered a heavy impact,  
which often causes  such issues to those reported by Mrs K. On this basis the results 
of any inspection would be inconclusive, and they would consider the matter  on the 
balance of probability.
They thought  on balance it was fair to say the device was either damaged prior to 
being packaged, or insufficiently packaged  before  transit,  both of which would result 
in the warranty  provided being void.
They appreciated my comments in relation  to not all damage voiding the warranty 
provided; however  it was reasonable  to say that if the damage, such  as impact  
damage, frequently resulted in issues consistent with the reported  fault,  the warranty 
would be void under those circumstances, and they thought  this was not 
unreasonable.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so Ive reached the same  conclusion I set out in my provisional decision. Ive 
thought about the comments made  by Assurant. However, Im not satisfied they can make  a 
judgement on whether  or not any inspection would be inconclusive  without actually 
inspecting the phone.
It could be the case  that the inspection is inconclusive but it could also show that the fault 
has or hasnt been caused by the damage. Without  inspecting the phone,  Im not satisfied 
Assurant cant fairly  say what has caused the fault.
Im not persuaded that the warranty would be void if the phone  was damaged prior to being 
packaged or during transit if it was insufficiently packaged. As Assurant have said, impact  
damage may frequently  result in issues consistent  with the reported  fault.  This doesnt 
mean that impact damage will always result in issues consistent  with the reported fault. The 
only way to fairly determine  what has caused the fault is to inspect the phone.
Overall, and for the reasons  explained, I still think Assurant needs  to inspect Mrs Ks phone.
Ref: DRN77728443my final decision
Its my final decision that I uphold this complaint. I require Assurant General Insurance 
Limited to arrange  to inspect Mrs Ks phone. They should then reconsider Mrs Ks claim in 
line with the terms  of the repair warranty provided. If Mrs K is unhappy with the outcome of 
the investigation then she can raise a new complaint  with Assurant General Insurance 
Limited
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 November  2019.
Marc Purnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7772844