K822xcomplaint
Mrs B is unhappy with the amount  of compensation U K Insurance  Limited  (UKI) has offered 
for the trouble and upset  it caused her when  handling a claim under her buildings insurance 
policy.
background 
In 2007 Mrs B had a leak in her bathroom which caused water damage  in her property. She 
made a claim under  her buildings insurance with UKI, and made  a subsequent complaint to 
this service about its handling of the claim, which was investigated and resolved by us in 
2014.
Mrs B came back  to this service in 2018.  She said her claim still hadnt been resolved 
because;
the ceiling had only been  painted  over and hadnt been fixed;
there were outstanding snagging issues, such as curtains that needed to be re-fitted 
and TV and stereo equipment that needed  to be installed back  in its original location;
a light fitting  had been damaged by UKIs  contractors which  hadnt  been replaced;
the contractors had also damaged several  other miscellaneous items such  as picture  
frames and ornaments.
The investigator who looked into the case explained to Mrs B that she could  only consider 
UKIs actions from 2014 onwards, as issues prior to that had already  been looked at under 
the previous complaint. 
The investigator spoke  with UKI who agreed the claim  had gone on longer than it should  
have. But it said it was unaware Mrs B still had outstanding issues  until she contacted it 
again in late 2017. But the investigator found that Mrs B had in fact raised these issues, on 
several occasions, to UKIs appointed loss adjuster  before she contacted UKI in 2017.  So 
she upheld the complaint  and to put things right she said UKI should;
arrange for its appointed contractor to visit Mrs Bs property and complete  all 
outstanding repairs  including the ceiling damage and snagging issues;  
pay for the light fitting using the most up to date estimate sent from Mrs B, and the 
fitting of the light should  be completed  by UKIs  contractor;
cover  the cost of any damage by its contractors to miscellaneous items in Mrs Bs 
property where evidence has been provided of such costs.
The investigator was aware that UKI had already  offered Mrs B a total of £400 for the trouble 
and upset caused from 2014   2018. But based  on what  shed seen, she thought this should 
be increased to £1,000.  
UKI agreed  with the investigators conclusion, but Mrs B disagreed  with the amount of 
compensation for trouble  and upset. She said that the matter had been going on for several 
years and so £1,000  compensation wasnt enough.  So the complaint was passed  to me to 
make a final decision.
Ref: DRN77041652In April 2019, one of our investigators tried to contact Mrs B via phone  and email to discuss  
her complaint, and to confirm whether the only issue outstanding was the amount of trouble 
and upset being offered by UKI. I havent seen a response to this, even though these  
attempts were made again in July 2019. At that point, the investigator made Mrs B aware 
that as wed been unable  to reach  her, the case would be considered  at final decision based 
on the information that was already available.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
UKI and Mrs B seem  to have agreed  a way forward to provide compensation for the 
damaged items shes claiming for, and to resolve the outstanding repairs at Mrs Bs 
property. As Ive already explained,  weve been unable  to speak with Mrs B, but UKI has told 
this service that it paid a cash settlement  on the claim  earlier this month and that its now 
closed and resolved.
So based  on the information  available to me, it seems the only issue  still in dispute in this 
case is the amount  of compensation  UKI has offered for trouble and upset.  Mrs B thinks she 
should receive a higher amount than whats been offered because  shes been having  
problems with this claim  since 2007.
Mrs B first made a complaint to this service about UKIs handling of her claim in 2014. And 
an adjudicator  issued his opinion on that complaint in August of that same year. So I wont 
be looking  into any matters that happened before that opinion was issued  as this has already 
been considered under  that complaint,  which is separate to the complaint Im looking at now.
For the avoidance of doubt, what Ive looked  at in this case is the impact of UKIs  actions  on 
Mrs B from when  we closed her initial complaint with this service in 2014  up until she raised 
a new complaint with us in 2018.  From  what Ive seen in this case,  it seems  that during  this 
time theres  been  a failing on UKIs part, which has attributed to a delay in the resolution of 
Mrs Bs claim.
Ive considered the nature of the works at Mrs Bs property that were left outstanding for that 
period of time, and the likely impact  this wouldve had on her. It seems that water wasnt 
actually leaking through her ceiling and into the room below it, but there  was a water  stain.  
This likely caused some  worry to Mrs B that a leak was still ongoing and may have also been  
unsightly. It seems the other issues were predominantly to do with snagging and 
replacement of damaged items. 
UKI has admitted  that these issues shouldve been  resolved much sooner than what  they 
were. But it said it only became aware  of the situation when Mrs B contacted  it in 2017. So 
this is why it didnt  act sooner. 
But from the information Ive seen, Im satisfied Mrs B had made UKIs appointed loss 
adjuster aware  of the problems at her property at earlier stages. And UKI is ultimately 
responsible for the actions this company takes  and the communication  it has with it. The fact 
that there  was a breakdown in this communication seems to have resulted in UKI thinking 
Mrs Bs claim was resolved,  when in fact it wasnt. This isnt Mrs Bs fault,  but shes  been 
inconvenienced because of it. 
Ref: DRN77041653UKI doesnt dispute that Mrs B received  a poor service from it. And after she brought  her 
complaint to this service,  it agreed  to increase  its initial  offer of compensation for the trouble 
and upset caused in this case  from £400  to a total of £1000. And based on the information 
available to me, I think that a total of £1000 compensation is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this case.  So I wont be asking UKI to pay any more  than this amount.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, my final decision is that U K Insurance  Limited should pay 
Mrs B a total of £1,000 compensation for the trouble and upset caused to her in this case  if it 
hasnt done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 October  2019.
Rosie Osuji
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7704165