K821x#15complaint
Mr C has complained about the service he received from Inter Partner Assistance SA when 
he claimed under his Motor Breakdown Policy while in Europe.
background
Mr C was on holiday with his family in Europe in August 2018. Unfortunately  a week  into
their holiday  Mr Cs car broke down and he reported  it to Inter Partner. This happened  on a
Thursday.
On Thursday afternoon  Inter Partner arranged for Mr Cs car to be towed to a garage.  Mr C
asked for a hire car but Inter Partner told him it couldnt arrange one until the garage
provided a report.
Mr C chased for an update several times on Friday through to Tuesday. He arranged  a hire
car from Friday evening to Saturday  evening. After speaking to the garage on Monday
afternoon, Inter Partner arranged a hire car for Mr C. He was collected by taxi on Tuesday
morning to collect the hire car which he used until his car was repaired later that week.
Mr C complained to Inter Partner. He said the service hed received was appalling. He said
he and his family were  left without transport for four days on a rural campsite  where they
were staying. He said Inter Partner  failed to call him back  within 24 hours  as agreed when he
asked to speak  to a manager on Friday. Mr C said hed spent hours on the phone but they
were of no help. He and his family  effectively lost four days  of their holiday.
Inter Partner apologised to Mr C. It said it incorrectly told him he wasnt entitled to a hire car
when he broke down. But he was. So it paid him £50 compensation for the distress and
inconvenience its error caused him. And it reimbursed  Mr C for the costs of the hire car he
arranged from Friday  evening to Saturday evening.
Mr C didnt think this was enough and so he asked  us to look at his complaint. Our
investigator thought  Inter Partner had done enough to put things right.
Mr C didnt agree. He said he would have hired  a car for longer than a day if hed known
Inter Partner would reimburse him. But he didnt due to the high cost. He doesnt feel the 
compensation and reimbursement of the one day hire car costs is enough. Mr C said he 
spent over eight hours on the phone to Inter Partner and its poor service had an impact  on 
their family holiday.
I issued a provisional decision on 6 February 2020.  I thought Inter Partner  should  increase 
the compensation it paid Mr C by a further  £150, bringing the total to £200. 
Both parties  accepted my provisional decision.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As both parties accepted  my provisional 
decision, my final decision  is along the same lines. 
Mr Cs policy  with Inter Partner says in the event  of a breakdown  in Europe where it will take
Ref: DRN70142602more than 24 hours to repair their car, it will arrange and pay for one from a list of options.
The key one for Mr C being:
the cost of hiring another car while your vehicle is being repaired. We will pay up to
£70 a day and £750 in total as long as you are able to meet  the conditions of the hire
car company.
Inter Partner accepts  that it should have provided Mr C with a hire car much sooner.  His car
was towed to a garage at around 2pm on the Thursday. So by Friday  afternoon  I think  it was
reasonable for Inter Partner to have  arranged for Mr C to be in a hire car by the end of
Friday.
But I can see that Mr C spent several  hours on Friday chasing Inter Partner for a report
which it said it needed from the garage before it would agree to a hire car. He asked for a
manager to call him back. Mr C made his own arrangements  for car hire on Friday evening.
The receipt he provided shows he paid for a car for one day just before 7pm.
A manager from Inter Partner  called Mr C back on Sunday  but wasnt  able to speak with
Mr C. Mr C said he got a missed  call but no details were left of who had called him.
After speaking with the garage on Monday afternoon,  Inter Partner agreed Mr C could  have
a hire car. But by the time the arrangements were made, it was too late for Mr C to reach the
car hire company by taxi. So he collected  he hire car on Tuesday morning.
There is nothing in Inter Partners policy that says it requires a report from the garage before
it will agree to provide  a hire car. If there  is an exclusion for the time between the garage
confirming the repairs to beginning repair works, I think  it would be reasonable for Inter
Partner to specify this in its exclusions.  Inter Partner accepts that it wrongly told Mr C he
wasnt entitled to a hire car.
If Inter Partner had correctly followed the terms of the policy,  it would have arranged a hire
car for Mr C on the Friday afternoon. And I dont think Mr C would have spent the time he did
calling Inter Partner chasing for an update  on the garage report. He also wouldnt have been
put to the trouble of making his own arrangements and cost for a hire car on Friday  evening.
Instead he had to collect and drop off a hire car twice in the space of five days.
I think its expected  to experience a degree  of inconvenience when we breakdown.  But in
this case I think Inter Partners  error  caused Mr C and his family inconvenience over and
above what is reasonable. So I dont  think the compensation  it paid of £50 is enough.
The time Mr C was without a hire car was reduced as Mr C tried to mitigate his
circumstances by arranging hire himself for a day.
So I think Inter Partner should increase the compensation it pays Mr C for the distress  and
inconvenience it caused him. I think  a fairer sum is £150 in addition to the £50 its already
paid him. This is in line with similar awards which we give and examples are available  on our
website.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Inter Partner Assistance SA to pay 
Mr C £150 compensation  in addition to the £50 its already paid him for the distress and 
inconvenience it caused.
Ref: DRN70142603Inter Partner Assistance  SA must  pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which
we tell it Mr C accepts  my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on
the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at a simple  rate
of 8% a year.
If Inter Partner Assistance  SA considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to
withhold income tax from that interest,  it should tell Mr C how much  its taken off. It should
also give Mr C a tax deduction certificate if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 March  2020.  
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7014260