K820x#14complaint
Mr R has complained that Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) asked him to repay  his 
overdraft on a student account  and didnt offer him a repayment plan  and instead sold him 
a fee-paying Graduate Additions  account. 
background
Mr R previously held a fee-free Higher  Education account. His account was then upgraded 
to a fee-paying  Graduate Additions account  in June 2010.
Barclays withdrew the Graduate Additions  account, so transferred all account  holders - 
including Mr R - on to a fee-free account with an added  fee-paying  Tech pack,  in January 
2017. Mr R then later removed the Tech  pack from his account in January 2018.
One of our adjudicators assessed  the complaint and didnt think  that Barclays  had mis-sold 
the Graduate Additions account,  or the Tech pack.
Mr R disagreed and asked for an ombudsmans decision on his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  what to do about Mr Rs complaint.
Having considered everything  that has been said and provided, I dont think  Barclays  acted 
unfairly in selling Mr R the Graduate Additions account or in changing his account to a fee-
free account  with a Tech pack added.  I will explain why.
Graduate Additions
Mr R says he graduated in July 2007.  And, at the time,  the Higher Education  account  that he 
had provided an interest-free  overdraft facility of up to £1,500 in the first year after 
graduating and £1,000 in the second year after graduating.  It is my understanding that in the 
third year after the account holder  graduates, the account would usually then change to a 
standard fee-free  current account.
Based on what I know about Mr Rs circumstances, in July 2010 his account was due to 
change to a fee-free current account. Mr R says he was required to repay his overdrawn 
balance. And based  on what I know about the account at the time, if he was unable  to repay 
his overdraft, its likely his account wouldve been  changed to a standard  fee-free account 
anyway. This meant that if he didnt clear  his overdraft and his account had changed to a 
fee-free account,  he wouldve  been charged interest on his overdraft  which I understand 
was approximately  19% EAR at the time.
But instead  of changing the account to a standard fee-free account, Barclays  sold Mr R the 
Graduate Additions account. 
Ref: DRN70935662At the time,  the account cost £7 per month and provided a reducing  interest  free overdraft 
benefit of up to £3,000  in the first year of graduating, followed by £2,000 in the second, 
£1,000 in the third, £500 in the fourth  and then £200  in the following years.  It also provided 
other benefits such as mobile phone insurance, breakdown cover and card holder protection.
At the time,  Mr R was consistently  maintaining his overdraft around £1,000. So I think  it was 
not unreasonable that Barclays suggest he upgrade to the Graduate Additions  account, as 
its likely  that the monthly cost of the account wouldve been less than what  he wouldve had 
to pay in interest and charges, had he not cleared his overdrawn balance and his account 
changed to a standard fee-free account instead.  
I appreciate that since 2010, the monthly  account fee mayve increased and the amount of 
the overdraft that is interest free mayve reduced as well. But I dont think  this means 
Barclays was wrong  to have sold the account  to Mr R, given his circumstances at the time.
Mr R has said that he was suffering financial difficulties at the time and says he told Barclays  
about this. However,  Barclays doesnt appear  to be aware that Mr R was suffering from 
financial difficulties at the time. And unfortunately, as Mr R has complained about what 
happened some  years after it took place, there  is limited evidence  of what  was actually 
discussed at the time. 
Having weighed everything up, on balance,  I dont think Barclays  acted unreasonably 
because it didnt arrange a repayment plan as Mr R is saying it shouldve. 
I say this firstly because its not clear what exactly was discussed.  So although Mr R mayve 
explained his circumstances, its not clear  if Mr R explicitly  told Barclays  that he was in 
financial difficulties and needed particular assistance. 
Secondly, if Mr R did discuss his circumstances with Barclays, its not clear if he chose to 
upgrade to a Graduate Additions account  as that was likely to have been the cheapest 
option available to him without having  to repay his overdraft and that didnt lead to adverse  
information being recorded against him on his credit file  which couldve affected his ability 
to obtain, or increased the cost of, further credit.
Overall, I think its more  likely, given what  Mr R has said, that the focus of the conversation  
in branch was specifically  about Mr Rs overdraft and on how he could avoid having to repay 
it and how he could  reduce the amount hed be charged if he didnt clear it. And I think  that 
suggesting he upgrade to the Graduate Additions  account for the overdraft benefit it 
provided, was not unreasonable in the circumstances. 
Because of this, I dont think the Graduate  Additions account was mis-sold to Mr R.
 
Change to a fee-free account  with Tech pack added
I should start by saying  that Barclays didnt sell Mr R a further packaged account  in January 
2017. It chose  to withdraw the Graduate Additions  account at this stage.  And Barclays was 
entitled to do this because choosing what products it wants  to offer is a legitimate exercise  of 
its commercial  judgement. 
So I cant say that Barclays  was wrong to have withdrawn the Graduate Additions account  or 
that it had to continue providing  it to Mr R.
Ref: DRN70935663When Barclays withdrew the Graduate Additions account, it moved all of its customers  that 
had this account on to a fee-free account with a Tech Pack added.  This was because the 
benefits on the Tech pack most  closely  matched the ones that were on the Graduate 
Additions account. 
As this change wasnt a further sale of a packaged  account, Barclays didnt need  to get 
Mr Rs agreement before making this change.  What  Barclays did have to do was to notify  
Mr R about the upcoming changes  to his account.
Barclays says that on 21 October 2016,  it wrote to Mr R to say the Graduate  Additions 
account was being removed and that Mr Rs account would be changed to a fee-free Higher 
Education account  with a Tech Pack for £9.50 per month. Barclays  says it sent Mr R another 
letter in January 2017 confirming his account had changed.
Barclays has provided a copy of the letters  it sent to Mr R, and the letters have Mr Rs 
correct (current) address  on them. So I think the two letters that Barclays has provided  were 
likely to have been received by Mr R. 
Turning to the contents of the letters, they explained  that Mr Rs account will be changed 
from a packaged  bank account  to a fee-free account with a Tech  Pack added. It explained  
the differences in cover  on the insurance  benefits  between the existing Graduate Additions 
account and the Tech Pack. It also explained  that the monthly  fee will increase to £9.50  a 
month. The letters went on to explain the options available to Mr R, including  doing nothing  if 
he was happy  with the changes and what he should do if he wasnt happy  with the changes 
being made to the account.
Therefore I think Barclays took reasonable steps  to tell Mr R about the changes that were 
due to take place on his account and made it clear to him what his options  were, if he wasnt  
happy with the changes. And I think Barclays gave him enough time to take action before the 
changes were due to take place. 
So overall, I dont  think Barclays was wrong  or acted unfairly to have sold the Graduate 
Additions account to Mr R, or when it changed  his account to a fee-free account with a Tech  
pack added.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 July 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7093566