K820x#14complaint
Mr Ls unhappy that Nationwide Building Society removed his overdraft facility and with 
charges it applied to his current account.
background
Nationwide said in its final response that when  it agreed the overdraft facility it said it was 
repayable on demand and of no fixed duration. Six months later it reviewed the overdraft 
facility and decided  to withdraw it a month  after that. The review and withdrawal of the 
overdraft and application of charges were in line with the accounts  terms and conditions. 
The charges  arent  illegal as suggested and will not be refunded. Even  so it would remove  
the charges due to be applied to the account  on 12 January  2018  as a gesture  of goodwill. 
Our investigator felt this complaint  shouldnt be upheld.  He said:
In 2009 the courts  decided charges couldnt  be challenged on the basis  theyre too 
high or unfair. That means a bank can apply  charges as long as theyre in line with its 
terms and conditions.  In this case all the charges have been  fairly applied to Mr Ls 
account in line with the accounts  terms and conditions. 
The accounts terms and conditions also say the overdraft  facility is repayable on 
demand and can be withdrawn at any time. In this case  no salary was being paid into 
the account and it was often overdrawn over the agreed limit. It was reasonable for 
Nationwide to withdraw Mr Ls overdraft and it wouldve  been  irresponsible  of it to 
have allowed him to keep it as he was struggling financially.
Nationwide has treated Mr L positively and sympathetically. It sent letters  whenever  
he went over the arranged overdraft limit, asked him to contact it and gave him 
information about debt management and financial advice charities. It also offered to 
put in place a repayment plan which would stop all overdraft fees.  Its also now 
agreed to reduce  the overdraft limit by £10 a month rather  than take it away  
completely.
Nationwide hasnt  made a mistake  or acted unfairly.
Mr L doesnt agree and has asked for an ombudsman review. He says the charges are 
illegal.   
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN74210932I agree  with the investigators conclusions for the same reasons.
Mr L says the charges  applied to his account  were illegal. But I dont agree as they were  
applied in line with the accounts  terms and conditions.
Nationwide was also entitled to withdraw  the overdraft facility  at any time and ask for its 
immediate repayment.
I also think Nationwide has treated Mr L positively and sympathetically while hes 
experiencing financial difficulties. Its agreed to refund some charges as a goodwill gesture, 
has communicated and engaged with him and now agreed not to remove  the overdraft  
facility completely but instead reduce it by £10 a month.
Taking everything into account,  although  I recognise  Mr Ls frustration and strength  of 
feeling, I dont  think Nationwide has done anything wrong. And I dont think  I can fairly or 
reasonably ask it to do anything  more or differently including making any further  refunds of 
charges as Mr L would  like.
Overall, I dont  see any compelling reason to change the proposed outcome in this case.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 May 2019.
Stephen Cooper
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7421093