K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Barclays  Bank UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him a payment  protection  
insurance (PPI) policy in 1996.
background
Mr W bought a PPI policy  in a meeting. The policy covered him if he was off work through  an 
accident, sickness or if he lost his job. It cost around  £0.70  per £100 of the outstanding 
balance on his card and would have paid out 10% of Mr Ws credit  card balance for up to 12 
months on a successful claim.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Mr Ws complaint should be upheld  and asked that his matter be 
referred to an ombudsman for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Ill explain why below.
The first thing Ive considered is whether  Mr W was given a fair choice about  buying the PPI. 
Barclays has provided a copy of the completed  credit card agreement  Mr W signed and 
dated at the time.
On it theres a section  headed payment protection plan.  The box to show  Mr W wanted the 
cover has been ticked. The no option has been left blank. And although Mr W has told me 
that he noticed the charges on his monthly statements, he has also said he assumed this 
charge was referring to interest charges.  But I think the charges on his statements were 
likely referred  to as payment protection or something similar  so I think  it was likely Mr W 
would have seen  the charges labelled separately as PPI and could have questioned these if 
he didnt know what they were or hadnt agreed to them. I havent seen evidence  that he has 
done so. Overall, I think Mr W had a choice about taking out the PPI and could have  refused  
it if he didnt want it - although its completely understandable  if hes forgotten that now after 
so many years.
Barclays has told us that the PPI was taken out in a branch and that it recommended  the 
policy to Mr W. This meant that Barclays  had to take reasonable steps to make  sure it was 
suitable. It also had to give Mr W enough  clear information so that he could decide for 
himself whether or not he wanted to take out the PPI.
Looking at Mr Ws circumstances and the terms and conditions  of the policy  I think it was 
suitable for him.
Mr W was eligible for the PPI. And as he was working and in good health I dont think he 
would have been affected by any of the main  limitations and exclusions set out in the policy.
Mr W has told us he would have received statutory sick pay if he couldnt work. So I think 
this policy  was suitable for him as it would  have paid out for longer and over and above any 
Ref: DRN74198222sick pay and any redundancy pay he was entitled  to. So it would have been  useful  for him if 
things went wrong.
Theres nothing to make me think it was unaffordable for Mr W at the time.
Barclays also had to give Mr W clear enough information so he could make  a decision about 
buying the PPI. I accept  its possible  that not all the information was given to Mr W at the 
time. But this isnt enough for me to uphold this complaint. I next need to think if Mr W had 
been given clearer  or better information whether he would have changed his mind  about 
buying the policy. I dont think he would have  done.  I say this as I think he chose  the PPI - so 
it looks like he wanted this type of cover  and for much the same  reasons explained above 
about why I think  the PPI was suitable, I dont  think clearer or better information would have 
put off Mr W from buying it.
Overall I dont think Mr W lost out financially as a result of anything Barclays did wrong and I 
dont uphold this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 August 2019.
Nicola Woolf
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7419822