K820x#14complaint
Mr J complains that he was mis-sold  a payment protection insurance, (PPI), policy.
Its been agreed that Financial Insurance Company Limited, (FICL), should accept
responsibility for the sale. For simplicity Ive referred  to FICL throughout my decision.
background
Mr J took out PPI at the same time as taking out a store card in 1999. The sale took place in 
the store.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr J disagreed 
the matter has been  passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive followed this in making my decision in Mr Js case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  I explain  why below.
Mr J says that the PPI was added without his knowledge. But I think  that Mr J knew that the 
PPI was optional  and that he chose  to take it. I say this because Ive seen his signed store 
card application  form.  This has a section in it dealing with PPI. This says only to sign in the 
section if PPI is required. And I can see that he has signed this section  to request the 
insurance. Because such a long time has passed  I can understand why Mr J no longer 
remembers what happened  during the sale.
FICL didnt  recommend Mr J to take out the PPI. So it was up to him to decide whether he 
wanted it or not, taking into account his circumstances at the time. But FICL did have to give
Mr J clear, fair and not-misleading information about  the policy so that he could make an
informed decision.  Its possible that FICL didnt tell Mr J everything he needed to know about  
the PPI. But, based  on what I know about  Mr Js circumstances and the terms and 
conditions of the policy which, on balance, I think would have applied at the time it was sold,
I find that:
Mr J was eligible for the policy;
Mr J wasnt  caught by any of the policys main  limitations and restrictions  - such as those 
affecting someone who was self-employed or who had a pre-existing medical condition;
The policy cost £1 a month for each £100  outstanding on Mr Js store  card account. And 
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  that these premiums were  unaffordable. In any event, as it 
was paid for monthly, Mr J could  have cancelled the policy at any time without further 
cost if he later found that he couldnt afford it or no longer wanted  it;
Mr J has told us that he was entitled to sick pay from his employer. And that he had 
some savings  or other  insurance  to help him make his monthly store card payments had 
Ref: DRN72607052he been off work. However following a successful claim the PPI would have paid 15% of 
Mr Js store  card balance each month had he been unable  to work because  of accident, 
sickness or involuntary unemployment.  These  payments  would have been  in addition to 
anything he received from his employment  and would have continued until hed paid off 
his balance or until hed returned  to work, if earlier. So I think that the PPI could  have 
been of use to Mr J.
The store card application form set out the cost of the policy.  But it may be that FICL didnt 
give Mr J all the other details about the PPI that it should have done. But from what  Ive set 
out above I dont think  that Mr J would have made a different decision and decided not to 
take the PPI had he been given clearer information. So I find that he hasnt lost out because  
of anything that FICL may have done wrong  during  the sale. Accordingly theres nothing that 
I require FICL to put right.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7260705