K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains about his credit card account with Virgin Money plc. He says Virgin  tried to 
take a direct debit payment for his credit card account too soon  and, when the payment 
didnt go through,  it took away his 0% interest  rate without telling him.
background
Mr A took advantage  of a 0% interest  rate offer Virgin was running,  and transferred a 
balance of more  than £10,000 to his credit card. He expected  to pay no interest on his 
balance until the middle of 2019. He was keen  to pay off the debt,  so he also set up a fixed  
monthly payment  of £250 to be taken  from his bank account by direct debit.
In April 2017, Mr As £250 direct  debit was returned  unpaid. His bank charged him, and so 
did Virgin. Mr A phoned  Virgin, and complained it had tried to take the money  too early. 
Virgin said it would look into the matter.
In early 2019, Mr A checked his credit  card balance, because  he knew the 0% rate was due 
to run out later in the year. He found the balance  was considerably  higher than hed 
expected, and realised Virgin had been charging  him interest since  April 2017. He 
complained.
Virgin said it hadnt done anything wrong,  but it waived interest on the account  for a short 
time so Mr A could  decide what he wanted to do with the balance. It also arranged for him to 
receive paper statements.
Our investigator thought Virgin was entitled to remove the promotional 0% interest  rate when 
the payment didnt  go through  in 2017,  and it had done enough to let Mr A know  it had done 
so.
Mr A didnt accept that conclusion. He felt hed been  treated very unfairly, given  that only 
one payment wasnt made and that wasnt his fault.  He also said he would have moved the 
balance elsewhere  if hed known he was paying  interest on it. His aim had always been  to 
pay off the debt.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr A has been charged around £3,000 in interest  on his credit card balance,  so I can see 
why hes annoyed.  I also recognise that he would have transferred  the balance  to a lower  
rate with another lender if hed realised  Virgin  had removed  the 0% rate. However, I share 
the investigators view that Virgin did enough  to alert him to what  he was being  charged. It 
produced monthly  statements for him, which  he could view online  as it said it would do in 
the credit  agreement Mr A accepted when he took the card out. Those statements included 
details of the interest charged each month and the rate. I find nothing  to indicate that Mr A 
had asked Virgin to send paper statements instead.
Besides that, Ive listened to a recording of a telephone conversation Mr A had with Virgin  in 
April 2017, shortly after the direct debit  payment  due that month didnt go through.  Mr A was 
Ref: DRN72576342clearly unhappy  that both Virgin and his current account provider had charged him for the 
returned payment.  He said Virgin  had tried to take the payment too early.
Virgin said late payment  would affect  Mr As 0% offer, but it would investigate and call Mr A 
in a few days.  Mr A made  a card payment for £250;  he also agreed to wait for Virgins  call 
and phone back if it left him a message.  
Mr A says he never got a call, so Ive examined Virgins  records. Those records  say Virgin 
left voicemail messages  and e-mailed Mr A asking  him to get in touch. But it heard nothing 
further from him until 2019.  I think Virgin did try to contact Mr A. I also think  Mr A might 
reasonably have chased things up if hed heard nothing, and I must bear in mind that Virgin  
had mentioned to him on the phone  that a late payment  would affect his 0% deal.
Ive also listened  to the conversation Mr A had with Virgin  in November 2016, when he set 
up the fixed monthly direct debit  payments.  Payments  were set up to be made  on or around 
the 11th of each month,  and Im satisfied  that that is what was agreed on the call. 
So I dont  think Virgin tried to take a payment too early on 10 April 2017, and Mr As March 
2017 statement  said that was the payment  due date. Ive considered  the bank account 
statements Mr A has provided, but they dont indicate that the payment was returned 
because of anything  Virgin  did wrong. The payments he made into the account to cover the 
direct debit were credited  after 10 April.
Im satisfied that the terms of Virgins credit agreement with Mr A entitled Virgin to remove  
the 0% promotional rate if a payment was received late. That was also set out on Mr As 
monthly statements. In all the circumstances, while I know this isnt the answer Mr A was 
hoping for, I find I cant fairly  require  Virgin to refund any interest or pay compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. I make no order or award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 May 2019.
Janet Millington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7257634