K820x#14complaint
Mr Q complains about Aviva Insurance Limiteds (Aviva) handling of his claim on his home 
insurance policy. 
Reference to Aviva  also includes its agents.
background
Mr Q has home contents insurance  arranged  by his housing association through  a group 
policy. His insurance is provided by Aviva. 
Mr Q noticed smoke  damage to his blinds and internal decoration, so he made  a claim on his 
policy. On his claim form, he said hed noticed  the damage over a period of a few weeks, but 
neither his housing association  or the fire brigade  had been able to identity the cause. 
Avivas claim  notes  say that Mr Q thought the damage might  have been caused by ghosting 
(a build-  up of soot) from his scented candle. Given that, Aviva  thought  the problem was 
likely to have been caused over time and was not as a result  of an unexpected  incident. 
In light of that, it didnt  think  the claim would be covered by the policy. Aviva  then declined  
Mr Qs claim. Mr Q wasnt happy about  that, as he thought the accidental  damage clause 
would apply to his claim. He was particularly unhappy because  he says Aviva  asked him to 
get redecoration quotes first. 
Aviva responded to Mr Qs complaint and said that it couldnt  settle the claim, as there 
wasnt an identified insured event that might have caused the damage.  Aviva thought it was 
damage that was likely to have been caused  over time. And it told Mr Q that it specifically 
relied on the policy exclusion about any gradually  operating cause. Aviva told Mr Q that he 
could complain to our service if he wasnt happy with its response.
Mr Q complained to us. One of our investigators  looked into Mr Qs complaint and found that 
Aviva acted reasonably  in declining the claim. The investigator noted  that Aviva  had relied  
upon the policy exclusion relating to any gradually operating  cause, which was consistent 
with the information that Mr Q gave when he filled in the claim form. 
Mr Q wasnt happy with the investigators  view, so the complaint has been passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Q isnt happy because  he feels that the damage  caused in his home was accidental  and 
should therefore be covered by the terms of his policy. I appreciate his point. 
When Mr Q submitted his claim form, he reported  that there had been a build-up of smoke 
damage in his home for a few weeks. He also said that the fire brigade had been  unsure 
about what caused it. I can see that when  Mr Q later discussed his claim with Aviva,  he said 
that ghosting  from his scented candle might have caused the damage.   
Ref: DRN77765102Aviva considered Mr Qs claim promptly and said that it wasnt covered by the accidental 
damage clause  because the damage  appeared to happen gradually as opposed to 
something that was sudden and unexpected.  So, it declined to settle the claim on that basis. 
Ive thought about whether Avivas  decision seemed  fair given the terms of Mr Qs policy  and 
what Mr Q said.  And, overall, Im satisfied  that the decision does seems fair. Ill explain why. 
Ive seen that Mr Qs policy provides cover for accidental damage,  which  is damage that is 
caused suddenly  and unexpectedly  by an outside force.  But the policy  excludes  cover for 
damage that is thought to have happened over time. 
Given that Mr Q said the damage  had happened  over a period of a few weeks, it seems fair 
for Aviva to say that it didnt fall within  the definition of accidental  damage within  the policy-  
sudden and unexpected. But I dont think it was a question  of Aviva simply relying on what 
Mr Q said-hes unlikely to be an expert in these  matters. So, I think  it was just as important 
for Aviva to also take account  of professional  opinion where  it was available. In Mr Qs case, 
the fire brigade  wasnt sure what caused the damage, or if there had been a fire (which is 
likely to be considered  a sudden and unexpected event). I dont think it was unfair, given  all 
of the information that it had, for Aviva to rely on a policy  exclusion,  which  says that it doesnt  
provide cover for damage that happens  over time.  
Mr Q told us that Aviva asked him to get quotes for redecoration work and then declined his 
claim. And its clear  that he felt inconvenienced  by that. I asked  Aviva  about this and it said 
that Mr Q sent in redecoration quotes  with his claim form of his own accord. 
Where the evidence is incomplete  or contradictory, I need to consider whats  most  likely to 
have happened. Overall,  Im not persuaded that Aviva did ask Mr Q to get quotes. Ill explain 
why. 
Aviva told me that, generally speaking, claim forms are issued by Mr Qs housing 
association, because they form part of a group policy  and that system enables  the housing  
association to keep  track  of claims made.  That seems a reasonable explanation to me. 
So, whilst I understand  that Mr Q has a different recollection of what happened,  on balance, I 
think its more likely  that his local housing association  asked  him to get quotes. I say that in 
particular because until Aviva received  the claim form, it wouldnt necessarily have known 
the detail of the claim and whether it was likely to be covered by the policy. And given that, I 
think it less likely that it would want to see redecoration quotes until it knew  whether the 
claim was likely to be settled. But I can see how a housing association  might think it helpful  
to suggest getting redecoration quotes, not least to help speed  up the settlement of the claim 
(if applicable) once  it was lodged with Aviva. In any event, even if Id been satisfied that 
Aviva had asked Mr Q to get the quotes, Id have been unlikely to say that was 
unreasonable. Thats because whether Aviva was going  to settle the claim or not, 
redecoration quotes were likely to have been needed to assess  the likely  cost of repairing 
the damage. So, I cant say that Mr Q was any worse off by getting them. 
Taking everything into account,  Im satisfied that Aviva handled Mr Qs claim fairly and 
reasonably in line with the terms of his policy. In light of that, I dont uphold Mr Qs complaint. 
I appreciate that Mr Q is likely to be disappointed,  but I hope he understands the reason  for 
my decision.  
my final decision
Ref: DRN77765103For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Amanda Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7776510