K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Skipton Building Society  mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
This complaint is about PPI policies taken  out, or extended, with a mortgage and further 
advances in 1996, 1999 and 2006.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint about  the 2006 policy be upheld, but not the 
complaint about  the 1996 and 1999  PPI sales. Skipton  disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion about  the 2006 sale, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Mr and Mrs C have agreed  with the adjudicators view of the case. So I wont  go into why I 
agree with the adjudicators opinion  about  what happened in 1996 and 1999.
Ive considered what Skipton has said about the 2006 sale, but Ive still decided  to uphold  
Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.  This is because Skipton recommended the policy to 
Mr and Mrs C but I dont  think  it was suitable for them. I say this because  the policy had a 
term which made it difficult  to claim for certain pre-existing medical conditions. And, despite 
what Skipton has said, I dont think its clear that Skipton pointed  this out properly to 
Mr and Mrs C. 
Mrs C had a significant  medical event in 2005,  resulting  in surgery  which was unable  to 
completely clear up the condition. I think it reasonable  she might have been  worried  that a 
recurrence could lead to a significant absence from work.  
I dont think Mr and Mrs C would have bought the policy if Skipton had made it clear it wasnt 
suitable. So I think Mr and Mrs C have lost out because of what the business  did wrong. 
fair compensation
Skipton should  put Mr and Mrs C in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and Skipton should:
Pay Mr and Mrs C the amount they paid each month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year.
If Mr and Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Skipton can take off what 
they got for the claim  from the amount it owes them.  
Ref: DRN74811392 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Skipton Building  Society to take off tax from this interest. 
Skipton must give Mr and Mrs C a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask 
for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. 
I require Skipton Building Society to pay Mr and Mrs C compensation in accordance with the 
calculation of redress set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7481139