K821x#15complaint
Miss M took out a loan with Zippa  Limited and cancelled it within the cooling off period. She 
complains that this has not been  removed from her credit file. She wants the loan removed 
and to be paid compensation  for the inconvenience she has been caused.
background
Miss M entered into a loan with Zippa  in May 2018. She cancelled  this loan within the 
cooling off period and says that under the Consumer  Credit  Act 1974 (CCA) the loan should  
be removed from her credit file.
Zippa says that Miss M applied for a £200  loan on 4 May 2018. She then applied  for a 
further £150 loan on 6 May which was declined as it doesn't issue concurrent loans. It says 
Miss M then asked to settle her original  loan and was told it was within  the 'cooling off 
period and would be cancelled. It says Miss M asked that the loan be removed  from her 
credit file and it said she should contact the credit reference agency and that it would not 
object to the removal of the loan if asked. It says it told her it would  report the loan as settled 
in its next update.
Our adjudicator said that the information recorded  on Miss M's credit file needed to be 
accurate. She noted Miss M's comments about  the CCA saying  that loans cancelled in the 
cooling off period should be removed  from a credit file but said this wasn't an outlined  
approach.
Our adjudicator said that a copy of the credit file had not been  provided but that Zippa had 
said the loan had been recorded as settled. She thought this was a fair reflection  of Miss M's 
credit history  in regard to the loan and so did not uphold this complaint.
Miss M did not accept  our adjudicator's view. She said a similar case  she had was upheld 
and she was told by this service about  the CCA.
my provisional conclusions
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint. I concluded in summary:
Miss M phoned Zippa  on 15 May,  within the 14 day cooling off period, and was told 
the loan could be cancelled;
Miss M paid the loan amount  and I understand it was recorded  as settled on her 
credit file;
Zippa was aware Miss M wanted  to withdraw under the 14 day cooling off period and 
she made the full payment and so I thought  the actions set out in section 66A of the 
CCA were relevant;
section 66A says that where the debtor withdraws from the agreement 'the 
agreement shall be treated as if it had never been entered into'. In order to do this I 
thought it right that the agreement was removed from Miss M's credit file;
I noted that it was the lender that provides the information to the credit reference  
agencies and so it was the lender that was required to make  any requests for the 
Ref: DRN77192152removal of data. So I thought Zippa should request that the entry regarding this loan 
be removed;
I didnt find that the issue  regarding this entry on Miss M's credit file had a material 
impact on her overall credit  position  but I noted  that Zippa asked her to contact the 
credit reference agencies to discuss the removal of the loan. As it was up to Zippa  to 
remove the loan I thought Miss M was caused inconvenience by this advice. 
Because of this I thought Zippa should pay Miss M £50 compensation.
Zippa didnt  accept my provisional decision. It said that where section 66A referred to the 
agreement being  treated  as having  never been  entered into its view was that this meant the 
withdrawal and potential  future obligations  of the parties.  It said it would be inaccurate  to 
suggest the agreement was never entered into. 
Zippa further said that under data protection laws it was required to report  accurate 
information. It said that it reported Miss Ms loan as settled  without  any disadvantage to her. 
It said this was accurate  and it was now being  asked to change accurate information without 
any advice that this didnt constitute  a breach of data rules.  It said that the credit reference 
agencies have data controllers and it was therefore  within the credit reference agencies  
responsibility to determine  what,  if any, changes should be made  to the credit  file.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I accept that Miss M withdrew from her agreement  with Zippa. The outstanding issue relates 
to what actions should have been taken following this. I note Zippas comments  about its 
view of section 66A of the CCA.  However, as I set out in my provisional decision, this section 
states that when  the debtor withdraws from the agreement 'the agreement shall be treated 
as if it had never been entered  into'. In order to do this I think  it can only be fair that the 
agreement is removed  from Miss M's credit file.
Zippa is correct that accurate information is required to be recorded with the credit  reference 
agencies. I appreciate its concerns about  removing  the agreement rather than recording it as 
settled. However, as I set out above  I cannot  see that it is a fair to have this remain  on the 
credit file if the relevant section of the CCA says it should be as if it wasnt entered into.  
I have not seen a copy  of Miss Ms credit  file but it is possible that a search is recorded in 
regard to this loan. If this is the case I do not think this needs to be removed as this shows  
an action that was undertaken, that is treating  the loan as not having happened  doesnt 
affect the initial search.
Zippa has said that the credit reference agencies  have data controllers and so can decide if 
data needs to be changed. However,  as the lender is responsible  for the data that is 
provided, it is Zippa which should  contact the credit  reference agency to request the removal 
of the loan.
Overall, while  I understand the concerns raised  by Zippa, I think  the fair resolution to this 
complaint is that the agreement is removed from Miss Ms credit  file and that she is paid £50 
compensation for the trouble and inconvenience caused.
Ref: DRN77192153my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Zippa Limited  should  remove  the loan from 
Miss Ms credit file and pay her £50 compensation for the trouble and inconvenience she has 
been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 June  2019.
Jane Archer
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7719215