complaint
Mr P complains ReAssure Limited  has failed to provide him with accurate pension 
statements. They also carried out a transfer request and then asked his new provider  to 
return some  of the funds as they had been transferred in error.  He wants compensation that 
reflects the distress and inconvenience this has caused.
background 
I set out the background  to Mr Ps complaint in my provisional decision.  In it, I also explained  
why I was intending to partially  uphold Mr Ps complaint. Ill summarise what  I said about  these  
points in my provisional  decision, so that the relevant information is in this one document.
Mr P held a personal pension plan with Reassure. The plan was made up of Government 
contributions as Mr P had contracted out of the Second State  Pension.  A proportion of Mr 
Ps National Insurance contributions were  paid into the plan.
In 2011, ReAssure received a pension  sharing  order awarding Mrs P 100% of the plan 
proceeds on 25 July 2011. Whilst the arrangements to transfer the full fund value, in 
accordance with the order, ReAssure received instructions from Mr P confirming he wished 
to retain the policy and for his contracted-out  contributions to continue.
On 2 July 2012, a contribution of £2434.00  was received from the Government in respect  of 
tax year 2011/12  and on 4 September 2012, a contribution of £2027.39 was received in 
respect of 2009/10  tax year. In accordance with the pension sharing order,  some of these 
contributions should  have  been transferred to Mr Ps ex-wife but as they were  received later,  
they remained in the pension plan.  This resulted in pension plan statements showing values 
that were  higher than Mr P was actually entitled  to.
In January 2018, Mr P decided to transfer his pension to another provider. ReAssure 
completed the transfer request but then realised they had transferred the whole fund,  part of 
which was due to Mr Ps ex-wife under the pension sharing  order. ReAssure asked the new 
pension provider to return £5251.07, but didnt inform Mr P of this request. This left a fund 
value of £2444.98.
The new pension provider informed Mr P of this request and explained they would  need  to 
comply with it. Mr P was very upset  at receiving  this news as he had relied on the statement 
values for his financial planning. He also felt ReAssure should have informed him directly and 
so he complained.
Ref: DRN7357814He asked Reassure  to explain why they hadnt noticed this earlier  and to provide him with a 
calculation of how they had reached the amount  they wanted  to recall from his fund. He said 
the pension sharing order was a 50:50 split and on this basis,  it looked  as though his ex-wife 
was receiving more than her entitlement.
ReAssure responded and explained they would  provide a calculation and they apologised for 
the distress and inconvenience  this matter had caused Mr P and they offered him £250 in 
recognition if this.
Mr P was unhappy  with this outcome and so he brought his complaint to this service.  
Our investigator looked into things  for Mr P and thought the business  hadnt acted fairly.
They were  still to provide  a calculation and he thought they should have informed Mr P 
before they asked  the new provider to refund the contributions.  He acknowledged the offer 
made by ReAssure but he didnt think it went far enough. He thought  £350  more fairly 
reflected the upset  this had caused Mr P.
ReAssure accepted our investigators findings  and agreed to increase the compensation 
offered to £350.
Mr P remained unhappy with the level of compensation. He didnt think  it fairly reflected the 
distress and inconvenience this matter has caused.  He has also suffered some serious 
health issues and the delays in providing the calculations have added to an already stressful 
situation. He asked for an ombudsman review.
In my provisional decision,  I considered  all the available  evidence and arguments to decide  
whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. I looked at all the 
information afresh and asked  ReAssure to provide further information to ascertain how it 
calculated the deduction it made from Mr Ps pension. 
I found no dispute that mistakes and administrative errors were made. ReAssure have 
already acknowledged they could and should have provided Mr P with a better service. The 
issues under  dispute remain  with the calculation ReAssure have reached with regard to the 
amount due under the pension sharing  order and the level of compensation that should  be 
awarded as redress  for the distress and inconvenience this has caused Mr P.
Mr P said he understood the pension sharing order was based  on a 50:50  division and that 
there were multiple pension sharing  orders for multiple pensions. Ive no reason to doubt  this 
but I carefully  reviewed  the pension sharing order attached to this pension plan. It was 
granted on 25 July 2011.and 100% of the fund value was to be transferred under the order. 
This would mean the contribution of £2027.39 for tax year 2009/10  should  have been 
transferred in full and part of the £2444.98  for the period 6 April 2011 to 25 July 2011.  
ReAssure failed to apportion the contributions as they had already finalised the pensions 
sharing order and the contributions were  paid after the event in July 2012 and September
2012 respectively.  This is why ReAssure didnt  immediately  identify they were  in respect of 
earlier tax years and so some part should have  been included within the pension sharing
Ref: DRN7357814Order arrangements. The contributions then wrongly  remained within  Mr Ps pension  
plan achieving investment growth until Mr P decided  to transfer his pension in January 
2018.
I said ReAssure arent  responsible for when the Government made the contributions in 
respect of earlier tax years but they have accepted they should have identified  the error 
earlier and informed Mr P directly as well as the new pension provider.
ReAssure said £5251.07 needed  to be returned  to them to comply  with the pension 
sharing order and their actuaries carried out the calculation of this element and the 
remaining amount  to be retained within Mr Ps pension. Mr P has repeatedly asked 
ReAssure to provide  him with this calculation  but they have declined to do so. They  said 
the information was business  sensitive and they couldnt provide  this to him. After  an 
intervention from this service, they agreed  to provide a basic  calculation  statement, which  
read:
ReAssure said this showed how they reached  the amount  Mr P was due from the total 
pension value of £7,696 that was transferred to Aviva.
Mr P is understandably unhappy with this situation.  He has had to wait for some  time to 
obtain a calculation that doesnt  really tell him exactly what  he wanted to know.  But, 
ReAssure are unable  to provide any information  in relation to the other party  and they 
have said some of the information within the calculation  is business sensitive and some 
is pertinent to the third party,  which  they are unable  to provide.
This service approached  the third party,  Mr Ps ex-wife, to see if she would  be willing to 
allow him to see the element  of the calculation that pertained  to her information. This would 
allow for the whole detail being  made  available for assessment.
Whilst Im most grateful permission was given  and this allowed  me for a full assessment 
of all the information Im also mindful  the confidentiality of that information, and so Im not 
able to share the information within this decision. I asked ReAssure to provide a detailed 
breakdown of how the calculations were arrived at including information, which amounts 
to an annual statement, showing  the funds, the unit values and any growth  on a year-by-
year basis.  I dont intend  to include this information within the body of this decision but it 
will be provided separately to Mr P for his consideration.
I have looked carefully at the detail of the actuarial calculation and methodology use to 
reach the outcome. Having done  so Im satisfied,  ReAssure  have carried out the 
calculation correctly in line with the pension  sharing  order and reached a fair and equitable 
distribution of the growth  the funds achieved during the period from 25 July 2011 to the 
realisation of their error in January 2018.
Ref: DRN73578144As Ive already  said, ReAssure received  the government contributions after the pensions 
sharing order was finalised and then only realised  they had not apportioned the received 
funds in line with that order after Mr P transferred his benefits to another  provider. They  
had no control over the late contributions  to the fund and have already accepted they 
should have noticed and taken action much earlier than they did.
They have confirmed  they backdated the growth  to the date the pension sharing order  
was granted and not to the date,  the contributions were made.
I said I could understand  what an enormous  shock it must have been for Mr P to have 
realised the greater part of what he thought  was his pension pot, was still payable under 
the pension sharing order, especially when  he must  have thought his financial position  had 
been settled. Mr P has also had some  serious  health issues  to deal with and the delay in 
resolving this matter has no doubt  not made things any easier for him. This service has 
also found the extraction of relevant  information from ReAssure, laborious and time 
consuming. The delays  appear unnecessary and without reasonable explanation. Im 
persuaded ReAssure could  and should have acted  far more promptly  in responding to 
requests for reasonable information  and had they done so, this could probably  have  
resolved matters much earlier for Mr P.
I said I could understand the frustration  Mr P has experienced in attempting  to resolve this 
matter to his satisfaction. I appreciate ReAssure have  already acknowledged they havent 
provided Mr P with the service they would expect, they should have informed him when 
they realised their error and that they intended to recover  the money from Aviva after he 
transferred his pension.  They have agreed  to pay £350 in recognition  of this. I agree, but 
Im further persuaded ReAssure could and should  have acted much  more promptly  in 
responding to requests for reasonable information and had they done so this could  
probably have  resolved  matters much  earlier for Mr P. In failing to do so, said I was 
persuaded they added to the distress and inconvenience  they had already caused  and so I 
intend to increase the award to reflect this.
I said I intended to uphold Mr Ps complaint and ask ReAssure to pay
£500 for the trouble and upset  this matter has caused.
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision.
Both ReAssure and Mr P accepted my provisional findings.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Both parties have accepted my 
provisional decision and Ive not received any further information or comments to consider. 
As such,  it follows; I intend  to partially uphold  Mr Ps complaint for the reasons set out in full 
in my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN73578145my final decision
For the reasons  given  in my provisional decision,  Im partially upholding this complaint. I 
direct ReAssure Limited to
Pay Mr P £500 for the trouble and upset this matter has caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 August 2019.
Wendy Steele
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7357814