K821x#15complaint
Mr M says Elevate Credit  International Limited, trading as Sunny (Sunny)  irresponsibly lent 
to him. Mr M says that if Sunny had carried out sufficient checks  about his financial 
circumstances it would  have seen he was in severe  financial  distress. He has told us that the 
borrowing caused him considerable suffering. 
background
This complaint is about 12 short-term loans Sunny provided to Mr M between  May 2017 and 
March 2018. Mr Ms borrowing history is as follows:
Loan Date  Taken Date Repaid Instalments Amount
1 20/05/2017 28/06/2017 Instalment £100.00
2 31/05/2017 09/06/2017 Instalment £100.00
3 19/07/2017 04/08/2017 Instalment £400.00
4 16/08/2017 25/08/2017 Instalment £50.00
5 08/09/2017 14/10/2017 Instalment £250.00
6 11/10/2017 14/10/2017 Instalment £150.00
7 06/12/2017 29/12/2017 Instalment £250.00
8 12/01/2018 13/02/2018 Instalment £300.00
9 07/02/2018 13/02/2018 Instalment £200.00
10 16/02/2018 28/02/2018 Instalment £100.00
11 19/02/2018 09/05/2019 Instalment £150.00
12 15/03/2018Loan Still 
OutstandingInstalment £250.00
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Ms complaint in part and thought the loans from loans six 
onwards shouldnt have been  given. 
Sunny disagreed but as a gesture  of goodwill offered to write off the outstanding  balance on 
his final loan. Mr M didnt agree and asked for his complaint to be decided  by an 
ombudsman. In the meantime, while Sunny maintained its opinion that the complaint  
shouldnt be upheld, as a further gesture of goodwill  it offered redress from loan six onwards 
but without the added interest which is what we expect to see. We put the offer to Mr M who 
again rejected  it. 
Another adjudicator  reconsidered the complaint. They agreed that it should be upheld from 
loan six onwards but that only adverse information  about loan six should  be removed from 
Mr Ms credit file. From loan seven  all information about the borrowing was adverse so for 
loans seven to 12 all information should  be removed. Both parties have been made aware of 
this slight change in putting matters right. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me to decide in my role as 
ombudsman. 
Ref: DRN78420912my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Mr M could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers  income  (reflecting that it could be more  difficult to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult  to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater the number  and frequency of loans,  and the longer the period of time during 
which a customer  has been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing  
may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Mr M could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether the loan payments were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course,  the loan payments being  affordable on this basis might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Mr M didnt  comment  on the adjudicators opinion that loans one to five shouldnt  be upheld.  
Because of this, I dont think there  is any ongoing  disagreement about  these  loans. So, I 
wont be making a decision about  this lending.  But the loans were  part of the borrowing 
relationship Mr M had with Sunny. So, it is something I will take into account when 
considering the other loans he took. 
Ref: DRN78420913Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Mr Ms complaint. Having done so Ive decided  to 
partially uphold  the complaint. Ill explain why. 
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan six would most likely have 
shown that Mr M was struggling  with his finances.  I say this because  when loan six was 
applied for it would be Mr Ms sixth loan in five months and as explained above, the longer a 
borrowing relationship  continues we would expect  more  checks  to be made by the business. 
This could  help build up a better picture of the consumers financial circumstances. It can be 
done by carrying  out further  verification of the consumers income  and expenditure which 
can be evidenced by bank statements, salary slips and copies of bills and the like. 
If Sunny had done so it would have seen  that Mr M already  have five outstanding loans with 
another short-term  credit  provider. This was a clear indication that Mr M wasnt managing 
well and was juggling  his money to make  ends meet. So, I dont  think  the lending from loan 
six should have  been given. 
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Mr M, with a view to 
seeing if there was a point at which Sunny should reasonably  have seen that further lending 
was unsustainable,  or otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it 
shouldnt have provided any further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Ms case,  I think that this point was reached  by loan 
seven. I say this because:
At this point Sunny  ought to have realised Mr M was not managing  to repay  his loans 
sustainably. Mr M had taken out seven  loans within seven months.  So Sunny ought to 
have realised  it was more likely than not Mr M was having to borrow  further to cover  the 
hole repaying  his previous loan (and his other  short-term loans)  was leaving in his 
finances and that Mr Ms indebtedness was increasing  unsustainably.
Mr Ms first loan was for £100  and loan seven was for £250.  At this point Sunny ought  
to have known  that Mr M was not likely borrowing to meet a temporary shortfall  in his 
income but to meet an ongoing need.  
Mr M was often provided  with a new loan within days or weeks of settling  a previous 
one. And I note he was repaying his loans well before  the agreed term. While this would  
have saved  him interest charges, I would question why someone  would repay  one loan 
only to return  and take out further borrowing. I would suggest  this was an indication that 
Mr M was in financial  distress which is one of his complaint points. 
Mr M wasnt  making any real inroads to the amount he owed Sunny. Loan 12 was taken 
out ten months  after Mr Ms first. And it was for a larger  amount. Mr M had paid large 
amounts of interest  to, in effect, service a debt to Sunny over an extended period.
I think that Mr M lost out because Sunny continued to provide borrowing  from loan seven  
onwards because:
these loans  had the effect of unfairly  prolonging Mr Ms indebtedness by allowing him to 
take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended period of time.
Ref: DRN78420914the number of loans  which Mr M borrowed  was likely to have had negative implications 
on Mr Ms ability to access mainstream  credit and so kept him in the market for these 
high-cost loans.
So, like the adjudicator Im also upholding the complaint about loans six to 12 and Sunny 
should put things right.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
If the outstanding balance  due on Mr Ms loan 12 has been transferred to a third party 
Sunny should  buy the loan back if it can. If Sunny  cant buy the loan back, then it needs to 
work with the third party to make sure the following is achieved: 
A)Add together the total of the repayments  made by Mr M towards interest,  fees and 
charges on all upheld  loans without an outstanding balance.
B)Calculate  8% simple  interest* on the individual  payments made  by Mr M which were 
considered as part of A, calculated from the date Mr M originally made the payments,  
to the date the complaint  is settled.
C)Remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance on any upheld outstanding 
loans, and treat any repayments made  by Mr M as though they had been repayments  of 
the principal on outstanding  loan 12. 
If this results  in Mr M having made overpayments then Sunny should refund these 
overpayments with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would  have arisen,  to the date the complaint is settled. 
Sunny should  then refund the amounts calculated in A and B and move  to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding  balance then the amounts calculated in A and B should 
be used to repay any balance remaining on the outstanding loan. If this results in a 
surplus, then the surplus should be paid to Mr M. However,  if there is still an outstanding  
balance then Sunny  should try to agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mr M. 
E)Remove any adverse  information recorded  on Mr Ms credit  file in relation to loan six.
The number of loans  taken from seven onwards means any information recorded about  
them is adverse.  So, all entries about  loans  seven to 12 should be removed from Mr Ms 
credit file. Sunny does  not have to remove loan 12 from Mr Ms credit file until this has been 
repaid, but any adverse information  recorded about this loan should  still be removed.
                                                                                                                                 
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr M a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if he asks for one.
If after doing the above Mr M still has an outstanding balance  due, then Sunny should try 
and work  together to come  to a mutually  agreeable repayment plan with Mr M in order to 
repay what is owed. But Id remind Sunny of its obligation to treat Mr M fairly. 
Ref: DRN78420915my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Mr Ms complaint. Elevate Credit 
International Limited should put things right as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 May 2020.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7842091