K820x#14complaint
Mrs Gs complaint is about Ageas Insurance Limiteds refusal to fund the costs sought  by her 
solicitor on a personal injury claim made under a legal expenses insurance policy.
Mrs G is represented by Mr W but for ease Ill refer to Mrs G throughout.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this matter in February 2019, part of which is copied 
below:
This complaint follows a decision I made in December 2015 which concerned  Ageas 
decision to turn down  cover on a legal expenses insurance claim against a bank. In that 
decision I directed Ageas  to consider Mrs Gs claim as a matter of priority by referring the 
further information she wanted to put to the barrister originally instructed to consider the 
merits of her claim.
I also said that if the barrister advised the claim had prospects of success but was now time 
barred, Ageas should obtain medical evidence and a further barristers view on that evidence  
to find out the amount Mrs G would likely have achieved at trial, had the claim been brought  
within limitation. I directed  that Ageas should  then pay Mrs G this amount. In the alternative I 
said that Ageas should consider the claim in accordance  with the remaining  policy  terms if it 
had reasonable prospects of success and wasnt time barred. 
Since that decision a number  of things have happened which I have summarised  below:
Ageas  appointed a panel firm to instruct a barrister to consider  the merits of Mrs Gs 
claim;
The barrister provided her advice in two opinions.  They  said;  the harassment  claim had 
60-65% prospects  of success and wasnt time barred. Expert  evidence  was required to 
prove the value  of the claim. If harassment was proved but causation couldnt  be 
established the award of damages for distress/anxiety  would be modest and in the 
region of £6,000. The claim in negligence had prospects of under 60% and was time 
barred. The value  of that claim would depend on the same  expert  evidence  needed for 
the harassment claim.
Mrs G was unhappy that the barrister wasnt provided with a copy of my decision dated 
December 2015 and the fact that she didnt comment on the merits of the negligence 
claim. 
The barristers chambers lost the instructions that were sent to them by the panel firm 
together with supporting documents;
Mrs G complained about this to the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO) and 
subsequently the Bar Standards Board and the Legal Ombudsman.
The panel firm and the barrister said they werent prepared  to act for Mrs G any longer.
Mrs G found  her own firm of solicitors and asked Ageas to fund their costs  in carrying out 
the steps I directed in December 2015; assess the claim and pay the value of the part 
that is now time barred  (the negligence claim) and fund the costs  of the claim that isnt 
time barred but has prospects of success (the harassment claim).
Ageas  say the costs Mrs Gs own firm wish to charge are unreasonable and have 
declined to cover this.
Our investigator considered Mrs Gs complaint and concluded that it should be upheld. He 
Ref: DRN75100882said the hourly rate Mrs Gs solicitor was seeking to apply was reasonable and that Ageas 
should pay this as well as reading  in time.  Ageas dont agree so the matter has been passed 
to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  Mrs Gs 
complaint. Ill explain  why.
The complaint concerns  Ageas actions  since I made my decision in December 2015. I cant 
determine whether  Ageas  failed to comply with my decision. Thats not a matter for me but 
an issue of enforcement in the courts. And I wont be addressing Mrs Gs concerns about 
information being lost by the barrister. That concerns the barristers conduct so is not a 
matter for this Service to address. All Im looking at here is whether Ageas should pay the 
hourly rates sought by Mrs Gs own solicitor as well as reading  in fees and ongoing costs.
Its correct that the fees attached to assessing the negligence claim and determining  the 
value of it arent subject  to the policy terms because that direction arises out of a final 
decision by this service. But that doesnt  mean  wed expect an insurer to cover anything  
other than reasonable costs. In this case the harassment and negligence claims are 
interlinked; they both arise from the same  set of facts and have been considered in tandem 
by the various  legal professionals  instructed for Mrs G. For that reason Id expect these 
issues to continue to be considered together  by any future solicitors or barrister  funded  by 
Ageas.
The policy requires a conditional fee arrangement (CFA) to be entered  into for the type of 
claim Mrs G wishes to bring and will only cover  reasonable and proportionate costs. Ageas 
have relaxed the requirement for a CFA to be in place  when considering  the harassment 
claim in order  to help Mrs G resolve  her claims. Theyve also offered to pay Mrs Gs own 
solicitor an hourly rate of £217 per hour which is the top end of the county court  guidelines 
for the area in which Mrs Gs solicitor is based.  Theyve agreed  to this fee being applied  to 
the assessment  of both claims, despite  the value of those claims being  unknown- meaning 
that they made this decision not knowing whether the costs  would  be proportionate. I think 
this is more than reasonable in the circumstances and I dont think  Ageas need to offer any 
more than this.
I know that Mrs G has now incurred some  costs with her own solicitor. I dont think Ageas 
are liable for those. Mrs G has a duty to mitigate  her loss which in this case  includes 
protecting her position on the harassment  claim to ensure its not time barred. If Mrs G 
wishes to continue instructing her own solicitor then thats a matter for her. But I wouldnt 
expect Ageas to pay any more than its currently offered towards those costs and in 
accordance with the remaining policy terms on the issue of the harassment claim.  
Ive also thought carefully about Mrs Gs solicitors reading in costs. Its evident  that there 
was a breakdown  in relations between  Mrs G and the panel  firm as well as the barrister 
originally instructed by Ageas. I dont think it matters  much why this was. Thats  because  we 
wouldnt usually expect  an insurer to pay reading in costs where  theres a change  of solicitor,  
unless the insurer  did something wrong.  Ive looked  at what the investigator said about there 
being delays on the part of the panel  firm that Ageas  ought to have identified  earlier  but I 
dont agree. The volume of correspondence and documents from Mrs G to all the parties 
involved in the underlying  case  far exceeds  what I consider to be reasonable. Given the 
Ref: DRN75100883detail, content  and frequency of those  communications, I think it wouldve been difficult  for 
Ageas to identify that the panel firm had caused delays in this matter,  such  that it would 
justify their paying reading in costs. And those costs will be significant given the volume of 
correspondence from Mrs G. So I dont think Ageas should be responsible  for this.
developments
In my provisional decision I made clear that the only issue I was considering was what  
Ageas should  pay towards Mrs Gs solicitors costs. And I asked  both parties to bear that in 
mind when responding to it. Based on that I asked them to provide me with any comments or 
information they wanted me to consider in response.
Ageas have responded. Theyve  confirmed they have nothing  further  to add. Mrs W has also 
responded. Shes made considerable submissions  on a number of matters  that concern  both 
her dispute  with Ageas and others.  I dont intend to list or address all of those submissions 
because I dont think they are relevant to my findings about  what  Ageas should pay towards 
Mrs Gs solicitors costs.  I have however  summarised a few points below, some of which fall 
into that category  simply to provide some clarity  for Mrs G.
Mrs G has said:
I was wrong to say Ageas appointed a panel  firm to instruct  a barrister to consider the 
merits of her claim following  my decision of December 2015. Rather Ageas appointed 
their claims handlers to instruct the barrister. There was a conflict  of interest  in Ageas 
doing this.
Mrs Gs harassment claim and negligence claim arent interlinked  because they dont 
arise out of the same set of facts. 
Ageas  are responsible for a number of failings  which means they should fund Mrs Gs 
solicitors costs  as claimed and pay their reading in fees. In particular those failings are:
oAgeas appointed claims handlers  rather than an independent panel firm who 
caused Mrs Gs documents to be lost. 
oAgeas claims handlers  didnt  ensure  my previous decision was sent to the 
barrister they instructed.
oAgeas  didnt copy Mrs Gs documents or retain  them to avoid problems in the 
event that information  was lost.
oAgeas  didnt provide authority for Mrs G to obtain medical  evidence  within  a 
reasonable time frame.
The investigator reached the view that Ageas caused a number of delays  so Ageas 
should pay the costs Mrs G is claiming for.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I remain  of the view that 
Mrs Gs claim shouldnt be upheld. 
Im grateful  to Mrs G for pointing out some factual inaccuracies in the background to my 
provisional decision. In that decision I said that Ageas appointed their panel  firm to instruct  
the barrister, but that wasnt the case.  I apologise  for that. But I dont think  it makes much  
difference to my findings.  Thats because the issue arises directly  out of a final decision I 
made in December 2015. And as I said in my provisional decision,  I cant determine whether 
Ref: DRN75100884Ageas failed to comply  with my previous decision because thats an issue  of enforcement  for 
the courts.
I appreciate Mrs G says that Ageas claims handlers  lost Mrs Gs documents  but that doesnt  
form part of this complaint  and isnt something Im considering. All Im looking at is what 
Ageas should  pay towards Mrs Gs own solicitors costs. And I havent seen anything  to 
suggest that the hourly rate Ageas have agreed to pay is unreasonable in the 
circumstances. Thats because the rate theyve agreed to fund is at the top end of the county 
court guidelines  for the area in which Mrs Gs solicitor is based. I wouldnt expect them to do 
any more than this.
I understand that Mrs G feels strongly  that Ageas  actions meant that she had no option but 
to instruct her own solicitor and so it follows that they should  pay her reading  in costs. But I 
dont agree. By the time Mrs G instructed her own solicitor, both the barrister and the panel  
firm had said they werent prepared to act for her any longer. I cant  see that Ageas  was to 
blame for this so I dont think they should pick up the reading in costs.  Those  costs  are likely 
to be disproportionately  high given the level of correspondence and documents  generated by 
Mrs G. For clarity I dont  think this has occurred because of any failing by Ageas  as asserted 
by Mrs G. The volume of emails, letters and documents she has generated arent in my view 
proportionate to any of the issues shes complained  about. And I dont agree with the 
investigator that any delay  by Ageas  in expediting Mrs Gs claims means  that Ageas should 
pay her solicitors reading in costs.  There is simply no correlation between  the two. 
Finally Mrs G says her negligence  and harassment claims  dont arise out of the same set of 
facts. I dont agree and I dont believe this issue is a matter of law. Mrs Gs claims for both 
courses of action arise  out of the actions of a Bank  for which  she is claiming  injury.  Whether  
or not the incidents that led to those claims were  distinct and separated by specific  events  in 
time are academic. They  are and have always  been considered together by Ageas.  So I 
remain of the view that both claims should  be considered by the same set of solicitors 
instructed by Mrs G. What recommendations are then made  about  those  claims are a matter 
for those  solicitors, Mrs G and Ageas to discuss and agree following my decision dated 
December 2015.  If they cant  agree, then its up to Mrs G how she proceeds but this service  
wont comment on whether Ageas has failed to comply with that decision.
 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint against Ageas Insurance  
Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
Lle Hussein-Venn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7510088