K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that it took far too long for his car to be repaired when  he made a claim on 
his motor insurance policy with AXA Insurance UK Plc. 
background
Mr As car was damaged in a hit and run incident  on 6 May 2018. AXAs  approved repairer 
couldnt book  it in until 19 June 2018.  The garage  ordered parts  for the repair three  weeks 
before that date.  But the repairs didnt start until 21 June 2018  when most of the parts  had 
arrived. For some reason, one of the parts wasnt delivered until 23 July 2018, and the 
repairs werent completed until 15 August 2018.
In response to Mr As complaint, AXA said the supply  of parts  was outside its control. But it 
accepted that the garage could have kept him better informed of progress. It offered Mr A 
£100 compensation for that. Mr A thinks he should get £20,000 compensation.
Our investigator didnt  think AXA was to blame for the delay with the repairs.  She noted that 
it had compensated  Mr A for the lack of updates. Mr A didnt accept the investigators view,  
but he didnt comment  further. The complaint was then passed  to me for review.
AXAs garage cant control the waiting time for parts. But in this case  I didnt think  AXA had 
shown that the length  of time Mr A had to wait for his car to be repaired was necessary. 
We asked AXA to give us details of what happened between the dates the parts  were 
ordered and the dates  they arrived. We asked whether the garage had chased the orders.  In 
particular, we asked  if the garage had queried the delay with the part that didnt arrive until 
23 July 2018.  We also asked AXA why it took the garage a further  three weeks after that part 
arrived to complete the work that had been started  over a month earlier.  AXA didnt provide 
the details we asked for, despite  reminders.
The repair estimate  says Mr As car wasnt roadworthy after the accident. Under the policy,  
he was only entitled  to a courtesy car for two weeks. We asked AXA to say how long he had 
a replacement car. It didnt respond to the query,  and Mr A hasnt  told us what happened. I 
thought it was possible he was without a vehicle from 8 May 2018 to 15 August 2018, bar 
two weeks. But I said I couldnt be sure unless AXA or Mr A provided  further  details.
I thought the five-week delay in booking the car in for repair may not have been within  the 
garages control, and that there was bound to be a delay whilst it waited for parts to arrive.  
But I didnt think it was clear whether the garage  could  have  done  more to ensure  the repairs  
were finished earlier.  Based  on the limited details  I had, I didnt  know whether the garage 
had chased the parts it had ordered.  I said Id have expected it to do that, especially the part 
that didnt arrive until late July 2018,  given how long Mr A had already  been waiting. 
I said I wasnt sure it was reasonable  for the garage to take a further three weeks  to finish 
the repairs after the final part arrived. It had begun the repairs on 21 June 2018. The 
damage to the vehicle  was described by the garage as moderate. The total cost of repairs  
was around £5,000. So I thought the work  needed on the car seemed to have been relatively 
limited. I thought AXA may be able to explain why the garage needed the extra time to work  
on the car after 23 July 2018. But I thought  that without any comment from it on the issue, it 
didnt seem justifiable.  
Ref: DRN77998702I thought Mr A was seriously inconvenienced by having to wait so long for his car to be 
repaired. I said AXA is responsible for the actions  of its approved repairers,  but it hadnt fully 
explained the delay. I didnt think it had given us anything to show that its approved repairer  
tried to limit Mr As inconvenience. So I thought  it would be fair for AXA to pay Mr A 
compensation for part of the time it took to get his car back to him. 
I didnt think it was possible to say what the optimal  time for the repairs would have been, 
assuming the parts  were  chased and the work  on the car was then prioritised. But taking 
everything into account, I thought it would be fair for AXA to pay Mr A £300 compensation in 
addition to the £100 it offered him for the garages lack of updates. I thought  Mr A may also 
be entitled to a payment for the loss of use of his car. But I said I couldnt consider that as I 
had no details about whether he was without a vehicle, and if so, for how long.
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings, but neither AXA nor Mr A did so.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mr A nor AXA commented on my provisional findings, I see no reason to depart  
from them.  For the reasons set out in my provisional view, I think AXA should  pay Mr A 
£300 more in compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr A 
£300 more compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7799870