K821x#15complaint
Mr H complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
Mr Hs borrowing history with Lending Stream is as follows: 
Loan 
numberDate 
takenDate 
repaidPlanned 
number  of 
instalmentsPrincipal Largest 
monthly 
repayment
1 17/12/2012 15/02/2013 4 £135.00 £74.25
2 03/01/2018 13/03/2018 6 £1,250.00 £530.00
3 08/01/2019 6 £900.00 £284.04
It appears there is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 3. 
I issued a provisional decision in this matter  in which I said that I thought  the complaint 
should be upheld  in respect  of loan 3 only. That document  is attached, and it forms part of 
my final decision. 
Lending Stream responded  to say it agreed  with my provisional view and it offered to settle 
the complaint  in line with it. 
Mr H did not agree. He said that what Id said about loans 1 and 3 was correct. However, he 
thought the matter should have been upheld in respect of loan 2 as well. He said that when 
he took loan 2 out, he was struggling  greatly with debt. He provided his bank statements to 
demonstrate his financial difficulties at the time. He said if a simple  credit search had been 
conducted, Lending Stream would never have allowed him to borrow  loan 2. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
The parties are both in agreement  with what I said about loans 1 and 3. So I have not 
considered that borrowing further. 
Turning to loan 2 and the further evidence Mr H provided, I would agree with him that he 
appeared to have some financial difficulties when he applied for this borrowing. However, as 
I explained in my provisional decision,  as loan 2 was the first loan Mr H had applied  for in 
over five years, it should be treated effectively as a new lending  relationship.  
Ref: DRN74956182On that basis, as this was the first loan in five years, it was reasonable for Lending Stream to 
rely on the information he provided to it. The evidence Ive seen doesnt suggest  that Mr H 
made Lending Stream aware of his financial difficulties. And at this stage, it wouldnt have 
been proportionate to undertake a credit check or seek verification of income.  Looking  at the 
information that was provided  at the time Mr H applied for loan 2 and for the reasons set out 
in my provisional decision,  I dont uphold the complaint about loan 2. 
Nevertheless, as the parties agree that loan 3 should be upheld, for the reasons also set out 
in my provisional decision,  I uphold the complaint in respect of that borrowing only. 
putting things right  what Lending Stream must do
As I said above, it appears there  is an outstanding balance in respect of loan 3. If that is the 
case and Lending  Stream sold the outstanding debt to a third party, it must buy it back if it 
can and then follow the steps  set out below.  If  it cannot buy the debt back,  it must  liaise  
with the new debt owner to achieve the results outlined below.
a)Lending Stream must remove all interest, fees and charges from the balance  of loan 
3, and treat any repayments made  by Mr H as though they had been repayments of 
the principal on this loan. If this results in Mr H having made overpayments  then 
Lending Stream must refund these overpayments with 8% simple interest* 
calculated and paid on the overpayments, from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
b)However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Lending Stream  should try to 
agree an affordable  repayment plan with Mr H. It must  not pursue outstanding 
balances made up of principal it has already written-off. 
c)Lending Stream must remove any adverse information recorded on Mr Hs credit  file 
in relation to loan 3.  
* HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending  Stream to take off tax from this interest. 
Lending Stream must give Mr H a certificate  showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks 
for one.
If Lending Stream and Mr H do agree a repayment plan, Id remind  Lending Stream of its 
obligation to treat Mr H fairly. 
my final decision
I partly  uphold  the complaint. Gain Credit LLC must comply with the above putting things 
right section. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2020.  
Ref: DRN74956183Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
COPY OF MY PROVISIONAL  DECISION
complaint
Mr H complains that Gain Credit LLC (trading as Lending Stream) irresponsibly lent to him. 
background
Mr H took out three  loans  with Lending Stream between 2012 and 2019.  His borrowing history is as 
follows: 
Loan 
numberDate taken Date repaid Planned 
number of 
instalmentsPrincipal Largest 
monthly 
repayment
Ref: DRN749561841 17/12/2012 15/02/2013 4 £135.00 £74.25
2 03/01/2018 13/03/2018 6 £1,250.00 £530.00
3 08/01/2019 6 £900.00 £284.04
In November 2018, Mr H emailed Lending Stream to complain that it had irresponsibly lent to him. He 
set out how his income was different to that which had been considered  when he borrowed loans 1 
and 2. In January 2019, he applied  for and was granted further borrowing. 
Mr H complained to this service about Lending  Stream later in January 2019. In that complaint, he 
said that he was in a debt spiral when he took the loans  out and Lending Stream did not undertake 
proper affordability checks. 
Our adjudicator didnt think the complaint should be upheld.  Given the period that had elapsed 
between the loans, she didnt think they formed part of a chain of borrowing.  She also thought that the 
checks that Lending Stream carried out were proportionate. She didnt think  the complaint should  be 
upheld. 
Mr H disagreed with that view and so the matter has been passed to me to decide. 
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  
lending - including all of the relevant rules,  guidance and good  industry practice  - on our website.  
Mr H needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice this 
means that it should have carried out proportionate checks to make  sure Mr H could repay the loans  
in a sustainable manner. These checks could  take into account  a number of different things,  such as 
how much  was being lent, the repayment amounts and the consumers  income  and expenditure. With 
this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending relationship, I think less thorough checks might be 
reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Lending  Stream should fairly  and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors include:
the lower a consumers income  (reflecting  that it could be more difficult  to make any loan 
repayments to a given loan amount  from a lower level of income);
the higher the amount  due to be repaid  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to meet a 
higher repayment from a particular  level of income); 
the greater the number and frequency of loans, and the longer the period  of time during 
which a customer has been given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated refinancing may 
signal that the borrowing  had become,  or was becoming, unsustainable).
There may even come a point  where  the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN74956185I think  that it is important  for me to start by saying that Lending Stream  was required to establish  
whether Mr H could sustainably repay his loans  not just whether  the loan payments were  affordable 
on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course, the loan payments being affordable on this basis  might be an indication a consumer could 
sustainably make  their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is the case. This is 
because the relevant regulations  define sustainable as being  without undue  difficulties and in 
particular the customer should be able to make repayments on time,  while meeting other reasonable 
commitments; as well as without having to borrow  to meet the repayments.  And it follows that a lender 
should realise,  or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise,  that a borrower  wont be able to make their 
repayments sustainably  if theyre unlikely  to be able to make their repayments without borrowing 
further. 
Ive carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this context and 
what this all means for Mr Hs complaint.
I agree with our adjudicator to the extent that the three loans do not constitute a chain of lending.  
Over five years had elapsed between the applications for loans 1 and 2. And nine months had passed 
from the time Mr H repaid  loan 2 and applied for loan 3. So Ive dealt with each loan individually. 
Loan 1
This was the first Lending  Stream loan that Mr H had applied for. So, when  it was deciding whether to 
agree Mr Hs application,  Lending Stream  was entitled to rely on the information  he gave it, along with 
any other information it had gathered. At this very early stage  in the lending relationship,  I dont think 
a full review  of his finances was proportionate. 
Ive considered the information Lending  Stream had. The first loan was for £135 with the maximum 
monthly repayment being £74.25. At that time, Mr H told Lending Stream that his income was £1,500 
per month  and his outgoings  were  twelve hundred pounds  per month. Lending stream  also undertook  
a credit check, which showed that he had no accounts in default. He had two active credit accounts  
with a total balance of £400-£500. 
Im satisfied that at this stage, the checks Lending Stream undertook were proportionate.  From the 
information it had, it would have reasonably  appeared that Mr H could sustainably repay this loan. 
Loan 2
This was the first loan Mr H had applied  for in over five years. In such circumstances, it is reasonable 
for Lending Stream  to again rely on the information it was given by Mr H and anything more  it had 
gathered. I cant say at this stage that it would  have been proportionate for Lending Stream to 
undertake a full review  of Mr Hs circumstances.  
When it made its lending decision, Lending Stream considered what  Mr H told it about  his income and 
expenditure. This was proportionate.  It would have been disproportionate for Lending Stream  to 
undertake a full review  at that point. 
Mr H borrowed £1,250. At the time of the application,  Mr H said that his monthly income was £3,000 
and his expenditure was £1,700. So, on the face of it, Mr Hs monthly disposable income  was £1,300.  
The largest  repayment for this loan would  have  been  £530. Even taking account of that repayment, 
his disposable income would have appeared to be over £770. With that in mind, it would have 
appeared to Lending Stream that Mr H could sustainably  afford  to repay loan 2.  
Loan 3
Ref: DRN74956186As set out in the table above, Mr H applied for loan 3 on 8 January  2019.  He borrowed £900  and 
declared his income  to be £3,400 per month. He said his expenditure was £1,702 per month.  On the 
face of it, his disposable monthly income  was £1,698 and so the loan appeared  affordable for him. 
However, as I said above, Mr H had emailed Lending Stream on 12 November  2018 to complain  that 
Loans 1 and 2 had been unaffordable. He sent Lending Stream a further email on 26 November 2018 
to say that he had to take out other borrowing  to repay loans 1 and 2 because the repayments took up 
so much of his wages. He also said that he was in a debt spiral because of payday loans. 
Further in his email of 26 November 2018, Mr H said his monthly income  was £1,550 per month in 
2018. Moreover, he said his monthly expenditure  was between  £2,115 and £2,215.   In summary, Mr 
H said that his expenditure exceeded his income by £600-£700 per month.  These figures  were  
substantially different to that which had been declared  when Mr H applied earlier that year for loan 2. 
So by the time Mr H applied for loan 3, he had told Lending Stream that he was in a spiral of short-
term lending debt. And the accuracy of the figures that had been considered  by Lending Stream when  
it made its lending decision was now questionable.  I can see that when he applied  for loan 3, Mr H 
declared that his expenditure  was £1,702 per month. This figure was virtually the same as when  he 
applied for loan 2 and substantially different  to that which  he stated in November 2018. His declared 
income for loan 3 was more than double  that which he mentioned  just a few weeks earlier. 
Given that Mr H had told Lending Stream only a few weeks  before he applied for this loan that he was 
struggling financially  and the inconsistencies as to his income and expenditure, I think it should  have 
done more than just rely on the information Mr H gave it in respect of loan 3. I think it would have 
been proportionate to undertake a full review  of his financial circumstances at that time.  
Had Lending  Stream undertaken  that proportionate check, I think it would  have seen that 
Mr H had several credit commitments that would  have taken up a substantial  part of his income  each 
month. Ive considered the documentary evidence he provided. It appears to me that each  month,  he 
was paying over £1,500 towards  high cost short-term  lending commitments, credit cards and other 
unsecured borrowing alone. So I dont think that the figure that was used to assess  Mr Hs 
expenditure for loan 3 was accurate.   
I think  the figures as to expenditure  that Mr H provided in his email of 26 November  2018 probably  
more likely  reflect  his outgoings in terms of his rent, utility  bills, food and transport costs are probably 
more accurate. I say this because  they are generally in line with what  I would  expect. His total 
expenditure on these items was probably in the region of £1,500. 
With that in mind, even if I accept that Mr Hs monthly income was £3,400 as he declared, his 
outgoings exceeded £3,000. The repayment  to his Lending  Stream loan was £284.04. His disposable  
income following that would have been very limited. And so Im currently  minded to conclude that Mr 
H could not sustainably afford to repay loan 3. 
With all of this in mind,  Im intending to find that the checks Lending Stream  did were proportionate in 
respect of loans 1 and 2. I plan to uphold Mr Hs complaint in relation to loan 3. So, Lending Stream  
will need  to take action to put things right as set out below in respect of that loan. 
putting things  right  what Im intending to tell Lending Stream to do
Im provisionally  satisfied that Lending Stream shouldnt have  given Mr H loan 3. 
As I said above, it appears there is an outstanding balance in respect of this loan. If that is the case, 
if Lending Stream sold the outstanding  debt to a third party, it should buy it back  if it can and then 
follow the steps  set out below.  If  it cannot buy the debt back, it must liaise with the new debt owner 
to achieve the results outlined  below.
Ref: DRN74956187d)Lending Stream must remove  all interest, fees and charges from the balance of loan 3, and 
treat any repayments made by Mr H as though  they had been repayments of the principal on 
this loan. If this results in Mr H having made overpayments then Lending Stream  must refund 
these overpayments  with 8% simple interest* calculated on the overpayments, from the date 
the overpayments would have  arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. 
e)However, if there is still an outstanding balance then Lending Stream should try to agree an 
affordable repayment plan with Mr H. It must not pursue outstanding balances made  up of 
principal it has already written-off.  
f)Lending Stream must remove  any adverse  information recorded on Mr Hs credit file in 
relation to loan 3.  
* HM Revenue & Customs  requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  
Lending Stream must give Mr H a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
If Lending Stream and Mr H do agree a repayment plan, Id remind  Lending Stream  of its obligation to 
treat Mr H fairly.  
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further information I receive  from the parties, I intend to partially  uphold Mr Hs 
complaint and require Gain Credit LLC to put things  right as set out above.  
I now invite  the parties to provide me with any further information they want me to consider by 3 
February 2020 after which  I will issue my final decision. 
Nicola Bowes
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7495618