K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs J complain that AXA Insurance  UK Plc unfairly declined a claim on their home 
contents insurance policy. 
Where I refer to AXA, this includes its agents and claims handlers. 
background
In January 2017, there was an incident  at Mr and Mrs Js property where their son was 
injured when he was stuck by a vehicle. Their son later pursued a claim against  them  for 
damages as a result of the injury.  So Mr and Mrs J made a claim under  the legal liability 
section of their home insurance. 
AXA declined the claim. It says there  isnt cover  for claims arising from motorised vehicles. 
Mr and Mrs J disagree.  And they say the policy term is unclear. So theyve brought their 
complaint to our service.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. He agreed with Mr and Mrs J that the policy term is 
ambiguous. AXA didnt accept this. So the complaint has been passed  to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive decided  to uphold this complaint and 
Ill explain  why.
The issue  I need to decide is whether AXA was entitled to reject Mr and Mrs Js claim, and 
whether thats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this case.
Mr and Mrs Js policy covers their legal  liability  as the occupier of their home.  It will pay up to 
the indemnity  limit for compensation that Mr and Mrs J are legally liable to pay in respect of 
accidental death,  bodily  injury or illness. But like all insurance policies, this cover is subject 
to certain terms, conditions and exclusions.  So its reasonable that AXA considers  all of this 
when considering a claim.
Ill start by saying that when providing  a customer with a policy,  AXA has an obligation to 
make sure any information about  the policy is clear, fair and not misleading. Ive thought  
carefully about whether the term AXA is relying on to decline the claim is clear.
Looking at the policy document, the legal liability cover is section 25 of the contents  
insurance policy. On the following page, it sets out what  is not covered which confirms that 
the exclusions listed apply  to all causes and covers under the contents insurance policy.  
I can see that under the list of exclusions, it says motorised vehicles and crafts. Im 
satisfied the vehicle that was involved in the incident falls within the policy  definition  of a 
motorised vehicle. But the exclusion itself doesnt give an explanation of how this exclusion 
applies. All the other exclusions have a sentence  or two setting out the intention but this one 
does not. 
Ref: DRN77249842Mr and Mrs J say they interpret it to mean the policy doesnt cover the motorised vehicle 
itself. And as their case isnt for damage to the vehicle, they believe the exclusion doesnt 
apply. AXA says its clear  the exclusion is intended  to apply to any claim arising from a 
motorised vehicle. 
And AXA says its not the exclusion on that page  which its relying on. It has referred to 
another exclusion on that page, which says Under cover 24. Legal  Liability Cover  anything  
shown under Liability  what is not covered on page 21. Then on Page 21, AXA says there 
is a further exclusion  for motorised vehicles and crafts. 
Our investigator has pointed out that the liability section is not cover 24  it is 25. And page 
21 of the policy says that the exclusions apply  to Standard Buildings item 19 and Standard  
Contents at your home item 24. As legal  liability  is section 25, these exclusions dont relate 
to that section of the policy. 
AXA say its very obvious  theres an error  with the numbering and its reasonable to expect  a 
customer to make an assumption that the policy should say 25, not 24. Our investigator 
didnt think customers should have to make assumptions due to AXAs mistakes. In any 
event, the further  motorised vehicle exclusion on page 21 is worded  exactly  the same as the 
previous one, so it doesnt make any difference which  one is used. The fact remains that the 
exclusion provides  no explanation of its meaning,  whereas  all the other exclusions do. 
I agree  with the investigator that a customer shouldnt need  to make assumptions  when it 
comes to the cover available under  their policy. Its for AXA to ensure its policy is accurate. 
Even putting aside  the numbering error and looking at the exclusion itself,  I think its unclear 
in any event. I say this because it could mean either that any legal liability  to a motorised 
vehicle isnt covered,  or any legal liability arising from a motorised  vehicle (or both). As the 
policy doesnt explain either way, the term is ambiguous. 
Where a term isnt clear,  I would usually  interpret it in favour of the consumer. For this 
reason, I dont think its fair for the exclusion to be applied to the claim. So I think AXA 
should reconsider Mr and Mrs Js claim in line with the remaining  terms and conditions  of the 
policy.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  and direct  AXA Insurance  UK Plc to 
disregard the motorised vehicles exclusion; and 
reconsider the claim in line with the remaining policy  terms and conditions.
If the claim is successful, AXA should  pay interest  on any cash settlement at the simple  rate 
of 8% per year from the date of the claim to the date of settlement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs J to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 December  2019.
Peter Whiteley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN77249843* If AXA Insurance UK Plc considers that its required  by HM Revenue  & Customs to deduct  income  
tax from that interest, it should tell Mr and Mrs J how much its taken  off. It should also give Mr and 
Mrs J a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate
Ref: DRN7724984