K820x#14complaint
Mrs H says The Co-operative Bank Plc, Britannia Building Society at the time, (Co-op)  
mis-sold her a payment protection insurance  (PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Co-op sold Mrs H the policy in 2001. Mrs H says the sale was at a meeting, Co-op thinks  the 
sale was by post. Mrs Hs application  form says the policy was for a mortgage with a lender 
other than Co-op.  The form also says she was employed at the time as a process worker.
Mrs H has explained she was a quality control inspector and had been there 13 years. Shes  
told us she was entitled to less than 12 but at least six months  full sick pay and didnt have 
any other means, like savings, to pay her mortgage  with if she couldnt  work due to accident 
or sickness. From what shes told us, at the time of the sale Mrs H was in good health and 
hadnt had any health issues.
The policy provided  cover  for Mrs H for accident and sickness, subject to its exclusions and 
limitations. For a successful claim it offered to pay £350 a month for up to 12 months  to help 
with Mrs Hs mortgage related costs.  Co-op  says the policy  cost £12.50 a month at the time.
Mrs Hs representative has made lengthy and substantial representations on her behalf. I will 
not restate  them all here,  but I have read and considered them  all carefully. In summary,  
Mrs Hs representative says:
Co-op failed to meet the sales standards  which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on handling 
PPI complaints under DISP App 3, it should be presumed Mrs H wouldnt have taken  the 
policy and the complaint  should  be upheld. Mrs Hs representatives believe there to be 
no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a successful 
claim meant  the policy was of inherently poor value  as shown by the low claims ratio. 
The common law duty of utmost  good faith means  Co-op  should  have  told Mrs H about 
the poor value;  
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means Co-op should have explained the 
significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mrs H and the impact  they 
would have had on her chances of making a claim;
The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is generally 
someones biggest ever long-term  transaction  cover would stop at the time it would be 
most needed; and
The information Mrs H received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Ref: DRN76807822Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and had a chance to 
give their responses to the adjudicators  opinion.  Mrs H disagreed  with the adjudicators  
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint.
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Hs. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Hs complaint.
This sale took place  in 2001 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not Co-op. That means the unfair 
relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court  
judgment in Plevin  about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance  made by the FCA 
about the handling of complaints  about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at the time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
Co-op, selling  insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for all 
intermediaries (Including Employees of Insurance Companies)  other  than Registered 
Insurance Brokers   The ABI Code.  
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
Ref: DRN76807823The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct Marketing/ 
Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like Co-op  at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take these codes  into account 
when deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mrs Hs 
case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments.
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   the Office of the Banking Ombudsman  in this 
case  might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that 
under the Banking Ombudsmans  terms of reference the Ombudsman was required to 
decide complaints  by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances  and that the Ombudsman was required  to observe any applicable rule of 
law or relevant judicial  authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so Co-p 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Hs complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me the key questions  I need to 
consider in deciding what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of this 
complaint, are:
-If Co-op gave advice, whether it advised Mrs H with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs and 
circumstances. 
-Whether Co-op gave  Mrs H sufficient, appropriate and timely  information to enable  her to 
make an informed choice  about whether to take the policy,  including drawing to her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions 
of the policy  and significant limitations  and exclusions. 
Ref: DRN76807824-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs H, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs H suffered loss or damage  
and what I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs H and 
Co-op, Ive decided  not to uphold  Mrs Hs complaint. Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs H know she had a choice?
Co-op had to make it clear the PPI was optional. To apply  for the PPI there was a separate  
PPI application  form. This offered a choice  of unemployment and disability cover,  either 
separately or combined, and a choice of deferment  and benefit  periods. On Mrs Hs form, 
what was chosen  was disability (accident and sickness) cover with a 30 day deferment 
period and a 12 month benefit period  and Mrs H signed the form to apply for this.
Mrs H has said the adviser pressured  her and hinted that if she took the PPI she would get 
the mortgage. But her policy wasnt taken for a mortgage Co-op,  the policy seller, was giving 
 her mortgage was with a different and separate business. So I dont think  it likely Co-op led 
her to believe taking  the PPI would help her get the mortgage. With this in mind,  Mrs Hs 
recollections arent, on their own, enough to make me think Co-op pressured her either   
and Ive not seen anything else to make me think this. 
Taking everything into account,  I think its more likely Mrs H knew the PPI was optional  and 
agreed to take it without  undue pressure. 
did Co-op provide  advice?
Co-op says it didnt provide advice during this sale. Mrs H disagrees. Aside  from Mrs Hs 
recollections, I havent anything else to make  me think Co-op provided advice during the 
sale. I give her recollections some weight, but I also take into account  she set these out for 
us more than 15 years after the sale,  so it wouldnt be surprising if she didnt  recall  the sale 
vividly. Also, what she recalls refers to a meeting  at which there was a discussion about 
getting her mortgage   and what I have suggests her mortgage was with a different  and 
separate business from the one that sold her the PPI.
With all this in mind, what I have doesnt persuade me Co-op  provided  advice.  I think it more 
likely Co-op  sold the PPI on a non-advised basis. This means Co-op  didnt have to check  if 
the PPI was suitable for Mrs H. Instead, it had to give her sufficient, appropriate and timely  
information to enable her to make an informed choice about  whether to take the policy, 
including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  
the main provisions of the policy and significant  limitations and exclusions.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not Mrs H was given a broad description of what the policy 
was intended  to cover (that is, it would help protect her mortgage and related payments  if 
she were unable to work due to accident  or sickness) and of the approximate costs.
Ive reached this conclusion because I think it unlikely Mrs H wouldve taken the policy 
without any sense of what the policy was for and of how much the premium might be. Also, 
the PPI application form she signed  set out the benefit amount she was requesting  to cover 
Ref: DRN76807825her mortgage payments  and mortgage related expenses. It also set out that the cover was 
for accident and sickness only,  and that the benefit period would be 12 months.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  Co-op  gave sufficient 
information about the actual cost or about the exclusions or limitations before Mrs H agreed  
to the policy. So I dont think Co-op  gave  her sufficient, appropriate and timely information  to 
enable her to make  an informed choice  about whether to take the policy, including  drawing 
to her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading  way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Hs representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Hs. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have explained 
the low claims  ratio  what Mrs Hs representative  considers  to be poor value  and the 
fact much of the premium went to the business rather than the insurer.  
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just told 
Mrs H about the limitations  and exclusions,  it should have gone further and explained  the 
significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Hs representatives  views on this. The duty of utmost good faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find this extended to the insurer having to disclose the claims 
ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations and exclusions  in the way 
Mrs H has suggested. And, taking into account  the law, industry codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude Co-op  ought to have done either. 
what effect did Co-ops  shortcomings have  on Mrs H? To what extent  did she suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found Co-op  didnt  do all it should have done  when it sold this policy to Mrs H. So I have 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  she suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs H wouldve still 
taken the policy,  had Co-op  done things properly.
Mrs H says she wouldnt have taken it and believes  I should  presume  this to be the case  
given the significant failings identified  above.  Ive considered  the representations of both 
sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
As Ive explained above, I think this was a non-advised sale, so Mrs H had to weigh up in her 
own mind the cost of the policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences 
if she didnt insure against  the risk of being  unable to work.  
Ref: DRN76807826As Ive found above, Mrs H chose to take this policy. So I consider it reasonable to conclude 
she had some interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she made this 
decision based on incomplete information.  So what Mrs H thought she was getting is not 
exactly what she got. The extent to which this differed is a relevant consideration when 
determining if Mrs H has suffered any loss or detriment.  
The information Mrs H was given  about the benefit was clear.  Im also satisfied she knew  the 
policy benefit would be paid for a 12 month  period, as this was set out and selected on the 
PPI application  form she signed. But the information  about  other  aspects of the policy,  such  
as the cost, limitations and exclusions,  wasnt as clear  as it should have been.
Although I consider it more likely than not Mrs H knew shed have to pay something for the 
policy, it doesnt appear Co-op  told her the exact premium when she applied. That said, it 
seems she was told the actual cost before  she started to pay it  the policy  confirmation  
letter set out the policy premium and was sent a few weeks before the first premium was due 
to be collected.  If this had been significantly at odds with her expectations  at the sale itself, 
she mightve raised that with Co-op at the time, or reconsidered her decision.  Instead she 
continued with the policy. 
Also, some years later, it appears Mrs H wrote to ask for the policy  to be reinstated  after it 
had been cancelled in error - and sent a cheque for the right amount to cover the missed 
premiums. Overall, with this and all Ive said above  in mind, Im not persuaded Mrs H 
wouldve found the cost unacceptable  if shed been given the exact figure when she agreed  
to the policy.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs H thought she had bought and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded disability claims caused  or contributed  to by any health issue Mrs H 
had needed medical  advice or treatment for in the 12 months before the policy  start, or 
resulting from any health issue of which  she was aware at the policy  start;
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health conditions 
placing more onerous evidential requirements  to support a claim on those  grounds; and
The requirement that, to be eligible for a claim, Mrs H be stopped from doing her own job 
and any similar job her knowledge, training and ability  reasonably qualified her to do.
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations or exclusions above might  well have caused 
Mrs H pause for thought   and may well have  caused her to conclude  the policy wasnt as 
good as she thought and she might have decided not to proceed. The limitations on the 
cover, when  coupled  with the other shortcomings in this sale, might  have  dissuaded some  
consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs H from taking the policy. 
But the evidence  about Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of sale shows  the policy  wasnt 
fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for her. She was eligible for its benefits and it provided 
cover that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proven valuable  to her should  the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she would 
have been caught by any of the significant  exclusions  she didnt  have pre-existing medical 
conditions, for example.  So, I think she still had some good  reasons to take the policy.
If Mrs H had known she could only claim if she were  stopped from doing her own job and 
stopped from doing  any similar  job her knowledge, training and ability  reasonably qualified 
her to do, it mightve  played into her thinking  about what to do. And I accept it may have 
Ref: DRN76807827given her pause for thought  although  its possible she may not have been overly 
concerned given that if she were unable  to carry on her own job, the chances  she would be 
able to take up a similar  occupation would also, in all probability,  be limited.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mrs H might 
reasonably have expected. But its unlikely she would have expected to be able to make a 
disability claim without  having to provide some evidence to support that claim.  And while this 
limitation might have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly different circumstances to Mrs H 
from taking the policy,  Mrs H, in her circumstances, still had some  good reasons to take it.
Mrs H has complained she turned 60 while the policy was in place and became ineligible  to 
claim on it. In fact the policy ended in 2006,  when Mrs H was still in her early fifties.  But Ive 
still thought about her point and the fact that, under the terms in force at the time she bought 
it, once Mrs H retired, reached 60 or reached normal retirement  age at her place of work, 
she wouldnt  have been able to claim on the policy. But Mrs H was in her mid-forties when  
she took the policy, so I think  it more  likely  than not shed have thought shed still get some 
value out of having it - as its likely it wouldve covered her for a reasonable period of time 
before she retired, turned  60 or reached her normal work retirement age.
Having considered all the evidence and arguments in this case,  I consider  it more likely than 
not Mrs H would still have  taken the policy. It was sufficiently  close to what its likely she 
thought she was getting, and it provided benefits that wouldve helped her manage the 
consequences if she were  unable to work due to accident or sickness.  In the circumstances, 
I consider it more likely  than not Mrs H would have taken  the policy in any event, 
notwithstanding the limitations on cover.
Mrs Hs representatives say the rules  about how to handle PPI complaints (DISP App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken PPI, unless there is evidence to outweigh  the presumption. 
They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances. That guidance  is for 
firms, but it is a relevant  consideration, so I take it into account  along with many  other  things 
when I decide  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable.  Considering the purpose of the 
guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended  to be at odds with the approach  I have taken. 
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mrs H would  not have bought the PPI she bought  unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mrs Hs 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs H 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs H believes  the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments.  
Ref: DRN76807828Even if Im ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which I 
dont consider I am), Im only doing  so because I do not consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs H in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  Thats because,  while I accept  its possible she wouldnt have taken 
the policy, Im satisfied, of the two possibilities, its more likely than not she wouldve still 
taken it had she been given clear, fair and not misleading information about the policy she 
was buying. So Im not persuaded  it would be fair and reasonable, in those  circumstances, 
to conclude Co-op should pay Mrs H compensation, as that would put her in a better  position  
than she wouldve been in if everything  had happened  as it should have done.
Im also aware Mrs H thinks Co-op misrepresented the terms of the policy in how it 
described the policy. While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
Co-ops statements  misrepresented  the contract, in my opinion  the reason why Co-op failed  
to act fairly  and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  Co-op gave Mrs H, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
2001 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Hs representative  says a court might take if it were 
to find Co-op negligently  misrepresented the contract to Mrs H and about  the remedy a court 
might award if it were  to find Co-op had been in breach of its duty of utmost good faith. But 
this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions about what is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out, I dont think  it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs H in a better position  than if everything had happened  as it should 
have done. 
my final decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 August 2021.
Richard Sheridan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7680782