K820x#14complaint
Mr O complains that Great Lakes Insurance SE has unfairly refused to pay a claim for
damaged flooring made under his building insurance  policy.
background
In late 2018 Mr O submitted a claim to Great Lakes for water damage  to his hallway and 
lounge flooring. A loss adjuster was sent out to inspect the damage. Mr O told the adjuster 
he believed  the damage was caused  by water  coming in through some cracked roof tiles 
which hed noticed  a few months earlier when he had seen water running down the hallway 
wall. He pointed out to the loss adjuster some tiles on the roof which  had been replaced.  The 
loss adjuster was unable  to see any evidence of water damage on the walls.
Following this visit Great Lakes declined to cover the claim. It said as Mr O had already 
completed the repairs to the roof, there  was insufficient evidence  to show  that water  had 
entered through the roof of the property.  So it couldnt confirm the cause of the damage to 
the floor was as a result of something covered by the policy.
Mr O then told Great Lakes the damage  to the roof occurred when an aerial fell during  windy  
weather in the previous  winter and this damaged the tiles. He said the damage to the tiles 
allowed water  to enter the building which travelled into the hallway, causing  the damage. 
And even  though he had repaired the damage  to the tiles, he said it was clear  from looking 
at the roof which tiles had been  replaced and he still had the aerial which  could be 
inspected. Great Lakes referred to the policy terms that say claims must  be reported within 
30 days and that full repairs must not be completed. It said that, as Mr O had already  
completed the repairs, it was unable to properly investigate the true cause of the damage.
Unhappy with Great Lakes response, Mr O brought  his complaint to this service. Our 
investigator said the policy terms say he should have reported the claim within 30 days of 
the aerial falling   Mr O reported the flooring damage outside of this time period. He also 
said the accidental  damage section of the policy only provided cover for sudden damage 
and, as this damage  was gradual then this wouldnt  be covered.
Mr O disputes the investigators view.  He said the insured event was the aerial falling and 
this is covered by the policy. He said he couldnt report the damage within 30 days  of the 
aerial falling  as the damage didnt become apparent until much later. He asked for the matter 
to be passed to an ombudsman.
I issued my provisional decision on 8 November 2019. I explained that I was thinking of 
coming to the same  outcome  as the investigator  but for different  reasons. In my provisional 
decision I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And having  done so, I dont currently 
intend to uphold this complaint. I appreciate that this may come  as a disappointment  to Mr O 
and Ill explain my reasons for reaching this outcome.
Like most policies on the market, Mr Os policy provides  cover  for damage caused to his 
property by a range  of insured events. For any claim to be successful, its a requirement in 
the first instance for Mr O to show that an insured  event has occurred and that its caused 
Ref: DRN71849302damage to his property.  If he can show that, Great Lakes  is required to settle the claim 
unless the claim isnt covered by a policy exclusion or condition.
Mr O has said the damage  to his flooring was caused by an aerial falling in high winds  and 
hitting the roof, damaging  tiles which allowed water in. I dont doubt  Mr O when he says that 
there was an aerial previously on the roof - he has provided a photo  taken quite  some  years 
before the damage and this does  show aerials  attached to both chimneys. One of the aerials 
is no longer on the roof in the photos taken  by the loss adjuster when he visited the property.
When looking at the policy  terms and conditions I can see there is cover  for loss or damage 
directly caused by television aerials  breaking or collapsing.  For Mr O to make a claim on the 
policy he would need to show that the falling aerial has directly caused the damage to his 
flooring. Unfortunately,  Mr O repaired the damage  to the roof before the loss adjuster visited  
his home.  This means there is no longer  any evidence to show  a direct  link between the 
falling aerial and the damage which he wishes to claim  for. Great  Lakes has also said Mr O 
redecorated before their inspection, which is something that he disputes. Ive thought about 
this point carefully but, if the water was coming in through  the roof, I dont think it would be 
unreasonable to expect  to see some evidence of the water  staining the walls.
Ive also noted  that the loss adjuster commented  in his report that the replaced roof tiles are 
not over the affected area of the building. In response, Mr O said the water must have 
travelled along  a beam before coming down into the hallway and onto the floor.  While I 
accept it is possible for this to happen,  Mr O hasnt been able to show Great Lakes this is 
what happened in his case as he has already completed the repairs.
In the circumstances I dont think Mr O has done enough to show that an insured event 
occurred which caused the damage  he wishes to claim for. Im also aware  that it is a 
condition of Mr Os policy that full repairs shouldnt be completed  without the insurers 
consent  so Im not persuaded Great Lakes has acted unfairly by refusing  to consider his 
claim.
Ive looked at the remaining policy terms and conditions  to see if there is any other  section 
under which Mr O could make a claim. The policy does provide cover for accidental damage 
which would cover events  that happen unintentionally in the home  which arent covered by 
any other section. For a claim to succeed under this section it must  be a sudden  event which  
causes the damage. If the floor was damaged by water coming through a cracked roof tile, 
this is more likely to have  happened gradually  over a period of time  with water coming in 
each time it rained. So I dont think its likely that a sudden event caused the damage. Im 
therefore not satisfied there is enough  to show that Mr O has a valid claim under this section 
of the policy  either.
Great Lakes didnt provide any further  comments following my provisional decision.  But Mr O 
did reply to say he didnt agree with my findings.  He says that he bought  his insurance in 
good faith and that he feels  that there has been neglect in the duty of care for him as a 
customer. He states he is not experienced in these matters and no one has been  able to tell 
him why his wall was damp. He has told us that he asked for the loss adjuster to come to his 
home and check the roof but this didnt happen. Mr O has also provided photographs of the 
internal roof rafters and linings.
Ref: DRN71849303my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments  including  the additional  
comments made - to decide  whats fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. Having done so, Im afraid that Mr Os comments dont persuade  me to change 
the outcome I reached in my provisional  decision.  
Firstly, Mr O has made comment about his broker and its representative, who arent 
employed by Great  Lakes. As this complaint relates  purely to Great Lakes and its agents, I 
cant consider the actions  of anyone else here. 
Mr O says no one can tell him why his wall was damp. But it isnt for Great  Lakes to find the 
cause for the water  ingress. It is for Mr O to show that an insured event has occurred, and 
this has caused  damage to his property. If the water came into the property  through  the roof, 
as Mr O maintains, then he would need  to show a direct link between  the damage  to the 
flooring and the aerial falling from his roof. But the roof repairs had already  taken  place - and 
there wasnt any other evidence to show this was the cause. 
Mr O has sent in photos of his roof space.  As new information, I have  shared  these  pictures 
with Great  Lakes. It has responded  to say these dont alter its view on the complaint.  Great  
Lakes has said its not clear from the photos that there are any water  marks on the rafters. 
And even  if there are marks, it says the pictures  dont confirm  these relate  to the incident  
that was claimed  and could be a more recent problem. Mr O hasnt confirmed when the 
photos were taken but as he has only sent these  now it would suggest they are recent. 
Ive thought about this carefully.  And whilst I thank Mr O for providing the photos, Im not 
persuaded these  show  a direct link between the event that Mr O says occurred and the 
water damage to the floor. This service  generally places more weight on the opinion  of 
experts, and I havent seen anything in these photos  which  lead me to doubt the adjusters 
conclusions. So, I dont  agree that Great Lakes must  do anything further. 
my final decision
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr O but for the reasons  mentioned above, I dont uphold this 
complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Jenny Giles
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7184930