K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about the suitability of the advice given by Midland Financial  Advisers  
Limited (Midland). He says this was to transfer his pension to a small self-administered 
scheme (SSAS), in order facilitate an investment into Storefirst  self-storage  units.
background  
In 2014, Mr R received  advice from Return on Capital (ROC) who were  an unregulated 
intermediary in relation  to the transfer of his pension to a SSAS. One of the requirements of 
the SSAS application was that Mr Rs identity was verified by a regulated  UK intermediary;  
this section was completed by Midland.  
Following the transfer, Mr R invested the majority of the transfer amount into Storefirst self-
storage units.
In 2017, Mr R complained  to Midland as he became concerned about the advice he had 
received, and the future of his investment in Store  First. Midland responded stating that it 
never gave  him any advice, and its only involvement was the verification of his identity.
One of our adjudicators investigated the complaint and felt it should not be upheld.  He noted 
that Midland had been the only regulated party involved in the series  of transactions which 
took place, but that its involvement  was limited to the verification of Mr Rs identity. 
Any advice given  was by ROC who had been recorded as Mr Rs financial adviser on the 
SSAS application form. ROC appeared to have  guided him through  the transfer  and 
investment.  However, ROC was not regulated to provide financial advice and therefore 
could not be considered by this service. 
Mr R was dissatisfied with the outcome. Whilst he now understood the involvement of the 
different parties,  he wanted to satisfy himself  that he had done everything he can to restore 
his pension fund.   
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr R transferred his pension benefits and it appears ROC arranged the transfer. But, the 
SSAS provider  required his identity to be verified.  The SSAS application form asked  for an 
identity verification certificate.  This had to be completed with the name of the regulated  firm 
and the name of the regulator.
Midlands role was limited to verifying Mr Rs identity.  The available evidence  did not indicate 
that any advice  had been given to the client. There is a question about whether any of the 
activities can be considered by this service.  Mr R was transferring his pension from a 
personal pension.  Arranging the transfer  of the pension, or making arrangements with a view 
to the transfer,  would be a regulated activity. And so I think  it is a complaint  that we could 
consider.
Midland told us that one of their advisers verified  the identity of a number of clients  as a 
favour. They say they did not bring  received any payment for doing so. Based on the limited 
Ref: DRN72532692evidence available  I cannot say that the actions of Midland caused any loss suffered by 
Mr R. I say this because  it appears to me that the verification of identity could have been 
completed by another firm. And it appears  it is not necessarily a firm regulated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority. Even if Midland had not completed verification of identity, that 
could easily  have been completed by another firm. So the transfer  would have gone ahead.
my final decision
I do not uphold  the complaint for the reasons given above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 April 2019.
Roy Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7253269