K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out 
in 1999. Mr A says Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold  him the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr A signed  on the credit agreement to show he wanted PPI, separately to where he 
signed to agree  to the credit  card. So I think Bank of Scotland  made it clear that Mr A 
didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to take it out. 
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Mr A so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for him  and based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think that 
it was. For example he wasnt affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits  on the 
PPI cover  and he seems to have  had a need  for the cover. 
Based  upon what we know  about  the policies Bank of Scotland sold, although Mr A was 
self-employed I dont think this wouldnt have made  it harder for him to claim.  For 
example, I dont think he would have had to liquidate his company in order  to make a 
successful claim.  
Its possible  the information Bank  of Scotland gave Mr A about the PPI wasnt  as clear 
as it shouldve been.  But he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems  like it would  have been  useful for him if something went wrong.  It 
also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information about the PPI would 
have put him off taking  out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr A has said including what hes said about  having savings of 
less than three months of his salary,  and an income protection  insurance  policy. But these  
points dont change  my decision.  Mr A doesnt  remember what  cover  was provided by the 
income protection insurance, and I dont  think his savings wouldve been sufficient for him to 
think the PPI wasnt  worthwhile. 
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Bank of Scotland doesnt need to refund 
everything Mr A paid for it. But Bank  of Scotland has offered to give Mr A back some of the 
cost of the PPI. I dont  think it needs  to do anything  more. 
If it hasnt  already done so, Bank  of Scotland will make arrangements  to pay Mr A now that 
Ive issued my final decision. 
Ref: DRN72166702my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Phillip Lai-Fang
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7216670