K820x#14complaint
Company H are unhappy HSBC UK Bank Plc wont refund the money they lost as the result 
of a scam.  
Mr F is bringing  the complaint in his capacity as director of Company H. He is the person 
who made the transfer to the scammer, on behalf of Company H, and so I will be referring  to 
him throughout the decision where  necessary. 
background
Mr F, on behalf  of Company H, found a van he wished to purchase on a well-known buying 
and selling website.  He was redirected  to a website and through email communication 
arranged the purchase and delivery. He paid the first £4,000  by credit card (which  was 
unsuccessful) and was instructed to pay the remaining £4,000 via BACS.  Mr F proceeded to 
make this payment  via online  banking on 20 September 2018. 
Mr F was expecting  delivery of the van on 22 September 2018. However, the delivery  never 
happened. This is when Mr F became suspicious hed been scammed. He reported this to 
HSBC on 23 September  2018. 
HSBC has said it took immediate action following this call and contacted the receiving bank 
to notify it of the scam.  Unfortunately, the beneficiary bank let HSBC  know  on 25 September  
2018, that no funds remained.  
HSBC let Company  H know  that it wasnt able to refund the £4,000  to the account  as it was 
an authorised transaction and it had followed its legal obligations in carrying out the payment  
instruction. It had tried to get the money back for Company H by contacting the receiving 
bank, but unfortunately no funds remained in the receiving account. 
Company H referred  their complaint to this service. Our investigator  didnt uphold the 
complaint. She said HSBC couldnt have been expected to pick up the transaction  as 
unusual or out of character given the usual activity on the account, and as Mr F didnt 
interact with HSBC prior to making  the payment, it couldnt have done anything to prevent 
the scam.  The investigator  also concluded that HSBC had taken steps to try and recover  the 
money in a timely manner and sadly were told by the receiving bank that no funds remained. 
She therefore didnt  recommend HSBC refund Company  H. 
Company H disagreed. They  think  the transaction was out for character for the account and 
as a result, HSBC  shouldve made  contact  to discuss it before allowing it to leave. Company 
H also questions why the recipient bank account  holder  wasnt questioned about the 
payment and what the purpose was for. Mr F was told by a member of staff that this would 
be done, and if the person couldnt  prove  theyd sold a van, the money  would be returned. 
Finally, Company H had concerns that the money  could be used to fund terrorist activity  and 
that this shouldve been looked into.  
Because Company H disagreed, the complaint has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN77888862In deciding whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of a complaint, Im required to 
take into account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules,  guidance  and standards;
codes of practice; and, where appropriate,  what I consider to be good industry practice  at the
time.
Im sorry  to hear of whats happened to Company H, and I can understand entirely why they 
feel so strongly that the money should be returned. But having  thought  very carefully about 
HSBCs actions, I think it did act fairly and reasonably in allowing  the transfer to leave 
Company Hs account. I also dont  think  it could have done any more than it did to try and 
recover the money.
So, having  considered everything, Im not going  to uphold Company  Hs complaint. Ill now 
explain why.
It is common ground that Company H authorised the scam payment of £4,000. Mr F was 
duped by the scammers into transferring  the money  via online banking,  for what  he thought  
was the purchase  of a van. Unfortunately, the van never materialised. 
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
This was an authorised payment even  though  Company  H was the victim of a sophisticated 
scam. Mr F, on behalf  of Company H, used  his security credentials  to request the payment. 
So, although  he did not intend  the money to go to the scammers, under the Payment 
Services Regulations 2017, Company H is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. 
But that is not the end of the story.  Taking into account the law, regulators  rules and 
guidance, relevant  codes  of practice and what I consider to have been good industry 
practice at the time, there are circumstances where  a bank should fairly and reasonably take 
additional steps, or make additional checks,  before processing a payment. Or in some  
cases, decline to make a payment altogether, to help protect  customers  from the possibility 
of financial harm. This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams 
in recent  years, which  banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.  
So, in this case, I need to decide whether HSBC acted fairly and reasonably in its
dealings with Company H. In particular, when Mr F transferred the £4,000 to a fraudster and 
when he reported  the fraud- identifying whether it should have done more than it did.
Did HSBC act fairly  and reasonably in transferring the payment?
Ive first thought about whether the payment Mr F made, on behalf of Company H, was out of 
character and unusual  such  HSBC shouldve flagged and/or questioned it further. There are 
a number of factors  that may make a transaction  unusual.  
Having reviewed Company Hs statements for the six months leading up to the scam, I can 
see Company H hadnt made any payments amounting, or close, to £4,000.   However, Ive 
also taken into account that this was a business  account and businesses  do sometimes  
Ref: DRN77888863make larger one-off payments, there was sufficient money already in the account to cover  
the payment and there was still over £1,000 in there  after the £4,000 had debited.
In the particular circumstances of this case,  I dont  think  there  is enough to say HSBC 
shouldve flagged the transaction for additional checks  in this particular case. It follows that 
there wasnt anything  HSBC couldve reasonably done to prevent Company H making the 
payment to the scammer.  Therefore, it isnt under any obligation to refund them.  
Did HSBC act fairly  and reasonably when Company H reported the fraud?
HSBC reported  the scam  to the receiving bank immediately after Company H had notified it 
on 23 September 2018. Sadly, the receiving bank let HSBC  know  that no funds remained in 
the account to return. Ive confirmed with the receiving bank that the £4,000  was withdrawn 
the same  day it credited.  So, by the time Company H notified HSBC of the scam, the money 
had already been withdrawn. There was nothing further HSBC  could do at that point to help 
Company H recover their money.  
Company H has asked why the beneficiary of the money was not questioned about the 
incoming payment, as he was told this would happen when he reported the scam. I do think 
the advisor Mr F spoke  with when he reported the scam couldve managed  his expectation 
better on this front. The advisor told Mr F that the recipient of the funds would be questioned 
and if they couldnt provide an explanation for the payment, the money would be returned.  
This may be the case  in some circumstances.  However, by that point  it had already been  
three days since Company H made the transfer, and so the advisor shouldve explained that 
the money would  likely only be returned if it was still in the recipients account  when the scam 
report was made. 
Ultimately, the activity on the recipient  account is the responsibility of the receiving bank. So, 
Company Hs concerns  around the beneficiary  being  questioned, and the potential  the 
money could be used for terrorist activity,  are questions for the receiving bank. This is not 
something I can hold HSBC accountable for. 
Im very sorry that Company H has lost out due this scam, and I appreciate  the impact this 
has had on their business. But in the circumstances, I cant fairly say HSBC should  refund 
Company H the money.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Company Hs complaint against HSBC UK Bank Plc. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Company H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 December  2020.
Sarah Brimacombe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7788886