K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2003. Mr M says Barclays  Bank UK PLC mis-sold him the PPI.
The credit card and policy  were originally sold by Egg  but Barclays  has taken  responsibility  
for the sale, and for this complaint. So Ill refer to Barclays  in my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ms case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Barclays has provided information  that shows that Mr M took out his card and policy at 
the same  time. Mr M says that the PPI was added  to his credit  card without his 
knowledge and if hed known about  it, he wouldve said no to the policy. Mr M applied  for 
his card and policy  online  and Barclays has shown  that he wouldve been presented 
with two options - to take PPI or to decline it. Both were  equally prominent and Mr M 
wouldve had to select an option  before he could complete his application.  And I havent 
seen anything to suggest that Barclays did anything differently with Mr M. 
So with this in mind, I think Barclays made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the 
PPI and he chose  to take it out  although  I can understand why he cant  remember this 
as it was so long ago.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if it was right for 
him. But it did have  to make sure Mr M got the information he needed to decide if it was 
right for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was affordable.  So 
I dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have put him off taking out the cover. 
This means Barclays doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr M about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN70755312Ive thought about everything Mr M has said, including what  hes said about Barclays paying 
back PPI on other cards  using the same information.  But each case  is looked at on its own 
merits and circumstances   and for the reasons set out above, I dont think this PPI policy 
was mis-sold. So this point doesnt  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr M any commission  and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 February  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7075531