K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 1999. Mr A says Bank of Scotland Plc, trading as Halifax,  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr As case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Halifax had to make  it clear to Mr A that he had a choice  about  it. But 
Mr A says he doesnt remember being told anything  about the PPI and didnt know it had 
been added  to his account.
Halifax has sent us a copy of Mr As application form for the credit card. This included a box 
to be ticked if Mr A wanted to take out PPI. There is a cross  in the box and Mr A has signed 
the application to say he agrees with it.
Based on what I understand about  Halifaxs sales practices at the time, I think its likely that 
the cross  in the PPI box was the result of a conversation between Mr A and Halifax. And that 
it wouldve  been made clear to Mr A in this conversation, that he had a choice about  the PPI. 
So I think its likely Mr A chose to take the PPI, knowing he didnt have  to.
Mr A has said that he wasnt told about  the cooling-off period for the PPI. And hes said that 
if he had been,  he would  have cancelled the PPI in the cooling-off period, as he did with 
other credit cards he had. I cant see whether Mr A was told about the cooling-off period. But 
if Mr A didnt  want the PPI I think he wouldve either said he didnt want it, and so the PPI 
box wouldnt  have been ticked or, he wouldve not signed the application  rather than 
relying on the cooling-off period. So I dont  think this means he didnt want the PPI or that 
Halifax didnt give him a clear choice  about it.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Mr A, so it had to check  that it was right for him. 
And, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think  that it was. For 
example, he wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. The policy 
couldve paid out for longer than its likely he wouldve been entitled to full sick pay. And for 
longer than hes told us he wouldve received redundancy pay.
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt as clear  as it shouldve  
been. But, for the same reasons I think it was right for him, it seems like the PPI would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.
Mr A has said he wouldve been  able to find other work quickly if he lost his job, so he 
wouldnt have been unemployed for long enough to need the PPI. But circumstances can 
change and I think Mr A could still have found  the protection the PPI offered appealing. And 
so I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put Mr A off taking it out.
Ref: DRN73885942This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr A paid for it. But Halifax has already offered to give Mr A back some of the cost of the 
PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr A now Ive issued my final decision.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7388594