K821x#15complaint
Miss G complains  that Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited unfairly settled a claim on her 
car insurance policy. And as a result, her insurance  premiums are now higher as theres a 
fault claim recorded against her. Shes also unhappy with the poor claim handling  by 
Admiral.
For ease of reading, any reference to Admiral includes its agents. 
background
I issued my provisional decision on Miss Gs complaint  in February  2020.  Heres what  I said:
Miss G was involved in an accident in a car park with another  car. The other driver made a 
claim on Miss Gs policy as a result of the accident. 
Miss G says there were  no signs to suggest that the car park had a one-way system, and no 
signs indicating the flow of traffic. She also said that the road markings showing the way to 
the exit arent actually  visible  at the car park itself,  even though you can see them on the 
online maps.  Miss G says she was pulling into a car park space and the third party was 
travelling at speed.
Admiral instructed an investigator to look into whos responsible for the accident. Their report  
said that the road markings at the car park didnt  suggest that it was a one-way  system, and 
the other driver had been travelling on the side of the road that would usually belong to 
Miss G. 
Admiral referred the claim to its solicitors to look into the dispute about liability further.  The 
solicitors first tried to settle the claim as 50/50 liability.  But when this was rejected by the 
other party, they settled  as fault claim without prejudice. 
The solicitors concluded that the car park was a one-way system  with road markings 
suggesting so, and Miss G was travelling against  this. And that meant that they didnt feel 
Miss G had reasonable prospects of success in being able to defend  the claim in court. 
Admiral agreed this would  likely be enough  to tip the balance in the other partys favour and 
settled the claim on Miss Gs policy.
Admiral later accepted  that it couldve initiated  a more forceful argument for the 50/50 liability  
settlement, based on the investigators report,  and it shouldve addressed  her complaint 
quicker. Admiral offered to pay £100  for the distress and inconvenience  this caused.
One of our investigators  looked into Miss Gs complaint. She explained that its not for us to 
determine liability in an accident, but she didnt think Admiral had handled Miss Gs claim in 
a fair and reasonable way. She felt that given the evidence,  Admiral shouldve done  more to 
pursue the 50/50 liability settlement. So she thought  Admiral should pay a total of £225 in 
compensation for the distress  and inconvenience  it caused. 
Our investigator also said 50/50  liability settlement  would still mean that theres  a fault claim 
recorded against Miss G. And she thought it was likely the impact  on Miss Gs premiums 
would be the same. So she didnt  think Admiral needed to consider compensation for the 
increase in premiums.
Ref: DRN75347172Neither Miss G nor Admiral agreed  with the investigators findings. Miss G says her 
premiums would be lower if the claim had been settled as 50/50 liability, and this would 
mean the third party would also have a fault claim recorded against them. She didnt think  
£225 was sufficient compensation.
Admiral said the decision  on liability was made  in conjunction with a solicitor, as our service 
would expect. So it didnt  think  our investigator  had given enough reason to increase the 
compensation.
As no agreement was reached, the complaint  has been passed to me to decide.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We dont decide  whos to blame for an accident,  as thats the role of the courts. Instead Ive 
looked to see if Admiral has made a fair and reasonable decision, in line with the terms and 
conditions of the policy. 
The terms and conditions  of Miss Gs policy say Admiral can take over and defend  or settle  a 
claim against her policy as it sees fit. This might mean it makes a decision Miss G disagrees 
with, but the policy allows  it to do so. My role is to see that it came to that decision fairly.  
Admiral has accepted it couldve done more  to pursue the 50/50  liability  settlement based on 
the investigators report. But it also had legal advice from solicitors  about the prospect of 
defending the claim   who, Admiral has confirmed, had a copy  of the investigators  report.  
And given  the third partys assertions the car park had a one-way system that Miss G was 
travelling against,  they didnt  think Miss Gs defence would  be successful when the evidence 
was presented to a court.
Overall, Admiral has said that even if it had argued  the 50/50 liability  more aggressively,  its 
unlikely the outcome wouldve been much different.
Ultimately, Admirals solicitors were looking into the reasonable  prospect of defending the 
other partys claim in court. Its also not in Admirals interests to settle a claim it thinks its 
able to defend. As the other party had already rejected the offer to settle  with 50/50 liability, 
the solicitors didnt think Admiral could  defend  Miss Gs claim if it went  to court. Im therefore  
satisfied Admiral acted fairly  and reasonably  by deciding  to accept full liability and settle  the 
claim without  prejudice.
Ive also thought about the poor claim handling Miss G received. I dont think  it was 
particularly helpful  for Admiral to ask Miss G to discuss the liability decision with the solicitors 
 which  is when Miss G said delays happened. I think Admiral shouldve  discussed the 
decision with Miss G. But I dont think this wouldve made a significant difference as Miss G 
already knew what  the decision was.
Admiral has offered a total of £100  in compensation for the distress and inconvenience 
caused. Overall, I think this is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. So 
Im not intending to instruct  Admiral to pay anymore.
Ref: DRN75347173Admiral responded  to say it had no further comments to make. Miss G said she wasnt  
happy with the outcome. She said our investigator agreed that there were no road markings  
or signs at the car park. Miss G also said that my findings didnt mention that although 
Admiral has said her premiums wouldve still gone  up even if the claim  had been  settled with 
50/50 liability, she wasnt happy with the overall fairness of this. This was because by 
settling the claim with 50/50 liability  there wouldve also been an impact to the other party.
Overall, Miss G didnt think it was fair shed now have to declare the full cost of the claim,  
and the impact this will have on her.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate what Miss G has said about our investigators findings. But my role is to reach a 
decision independently  and I explained in my provisional findings what I thought the fair 
outcome was.
I didnt make a finding about any potential difference in the premiums Miss G would now 
have to pay. This was because I didnt think Admiral  had acted  unfairly when settling the 
claim. I know  Miss G is concerned about  her premium, but I dont think Admiral needed to 
consider any potential change in premium  when it was making a decision  how to settle the 
claim.
I can appreciate why Miss G thinks it wouldve been fairer if the other party  also had a fault 
claim recorded against them. But my role is to only consider whats  a fair outcome to the 
dispute between  Miss G and Admiral.  And for the reasons  I explained in my provisional  
decision, I think Admiral acted fairly and reasonably by settling the claim as it did.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained above and in my provisional decision, I think the offer 
Admiral Insurance  Company Limited  has made  is fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of this complaint.
So, my decision is that Admiral Insurance Company Limited should pay Miss G £100  for the 
distress and inconvenience caused, if not already paid.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 6 April 2020.
Renja Anderson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7534717