K822xcomplaint
Mrs G complains Omni Capital Retail Finance Limited wont  refund her for a training course 
she financed with a fixed sum loan agreement. 
background 
In June 2017, Mrs G signed  up for a training course with a supplier, who Ill refer to as J. 
The course was designed to give Mrs G the relevant qualifications so she could change  
career into a new field of work. The course was split into four modules with each  contributing 
towards various qualifications in the field of work  Mrs G wanted to enter  into. J also provided 
a job guarantee with the course.  Mrs G says she understood J would also operate  as a 
recruitment agency to help her gain a job. She says she signed up to Js course because of 
the promise of a job at the end or her money  back.  
Mrs G paid for the course by taking out a fixed sum loan agreement with Omni Capital. She 
paid a £364 deposit and financed the remaining £3,270 with the credit agreement. The total 
amount payable under the agreement  was £4,287.50 (including the £364 deposit),  payable 
over 35 months. Mrs Gs monthly repayments were around £109. 
In July 2018, Mrs G complained to Omni  Capital  about the course  provider and the course. 
She asked  to withdraw from the finance  agreement and stop the course. In summary,  she 
said:
Shed  completed  the first two modules  but the trainer  had given her all of the exam 
question answers, so she didnt learn  anything. 
She says she was guaranteed a work  experience  placement  during the course  but it 
wasnt guaranteed  at all. She says she had to interview for the available positions.  
She later found out these work placements  werent exclusive to people  on Js course. 
The work placement wasnt helpful as there  was very little for her to do. 
J told her she wasnt allowed to mention to prospective employers that she had done 
unpaid work experience. She says she was told to lie about what  her salary  was. 
Only 30% of the students get help finding  a job through Js recruitment  team which  
she wasnt told prior to signing up for the course. She says she was required to carry 
out onerous job searching each day otherwise the job guarantee was forfeited. 
The job guarantee refund only applied once all four modules were completed.  But 
she says J wouldnt allow anyone to complete  the fourth module until a job was 
secured. 
J agreed the quality  of the teaching hadnt  been to the required standard.  It offered  Mrs G 
the opportunity  to redo the learning  materials for the first two modules. Mrs G didnt want this 
and wanted to end the course. J offered to refund  her £926. This was a refund of £251  in 
unused exam vouchers,  a refund  of £100 for travel, £500 as a gesture of goodwill and £75 
as a compensation for the issues with the course. Mrs G accepted  this offer but still asked 
Omni Capital  to end the finance  agreement. 
Omni Capital  didnt agree to end the agreement. It said Mrs G had accepted  a full and final 
settlement from J to resolve her complaint. It thought this offer was reasonable to account for 
the tutor giving her the answers to the exam questions. Omni Capital didnt think there  had 
been any other breach of contract  or misrepresentation by J. 
I sent Mrs G and Omni Capital my provisional  decision on 20 December 2019.  I explained  
why I thought the complaint should be upheld. I said:
Ref: DRN77095322Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (Section 75) sets out that in certain  
circumstances Mrs G can bring  a claim against  Omni Capital  for any breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation by J. Im satisfied those circumstances apply in this case. 
My role isnt to decide Omni Capitals liability  under Section 75. Instead I need to think  about 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  In deciding  that, Ive taken  account  of 
the law (which includes Section 75), any rules and regulations and what  I consider to be 
good industry practice. 
In thinking about whether theres  been a breach of contract,  Ive considered the course 
terms and conditions that Mrs G agreed to. But Ive also thought  about  any implied terms for 
services set out in the Consumer Rights Act 2015.  These say that services  need to be 
carried out with reasonable  skill and care. 
Mrs G says the tutor gave  her the answers to the exams so that she was able to pass  them. 
She says because of this she didnt learn  anything  and was unable to carry out tasks that 
were expected of her when she was on her unpaid  work placement.  J and Omni Capital 
appear to have accepted that Mrs G was given  the answers to the exams.  For this reason, 
I dont think the learning materials were  provided  with reasonable skill and care.  It follows  
that there  was a breach  of contract. 
I understand J initially offered Mrs G the opportunity to revisit the course  learning  materials 
so that she can learn the content. As Mrs G wasnt happy with that, J agreed  to end the 
contract and pay her for some financial loss and compensation as goodwill. This agreement 
appears to have been reached not just because of the issues with the learning experience 
but also because  of Mrs Gs overall  unhappiness  with various parts  of the course and its 
ancillary services. 
Although Mrs G has come to an agreement with J, I dont  think  Omni Capital have treated 
her fairly. I say this because despite her ending the course early as a result of a breach of 
contract, she is still required to pay the full cost of the course to Omni Capital. 
While I accept that ordinarily Mrs G doesnt  have  a right to withdraw from the finance 
agreement other than in specific circumstances, I think it would be fair and reasonable for 
that to happen in this specific case. Mrs G only ever completed two out of the four 
qualifications. So I think it would be unfair  to make  her pay for the two qualifications she 
didnt sit and now cant complete as J has ended  its contract with her.
There isnt a perfect formula for working  out what would  be a fair proportion for Mrs G to pay. 
This is because I cant be sure what proportion of the ancillary services that J provided she 
benefitted from or what the cost would have been.  But as she was approximately  halfway 
through the available learning materials and qualifications, I think a reasonable starting point 
would be to say she should only pay half of the total repayable stated on her finance 
agreement  which is £2,143.75.
Ive also taken into consideration  what shes received  back directly from J, as I dont  think it 
would be fair that she receives more overall  than she should be reasonably  entitled  to. Of 
the £926 J paid her, only £251 was for course  costs. So in calculating what  Omni Capital can 
require Mrs G to repay, I think its fair it offsets the refund of course costs shes  already 
received. This means the total Omni Capital can ask Mrs G to repay is £2,394.75.
Ref: DRN77095323In calculating what Mrs G has already paid, Omni Capital should  include the deposit she 
paid at the outset.  Anything  Mrs G has paid in excess of £2,394.75 should be considered an 
overpayment and refunded to her. Omni Capital should also add 8% simple interest per year 
on any overpayment from the date of payment to the date of settlement. 
Mrs G didnt agree with my provisional decision.  In summary, she said:
While  on paper it might appear  she was around  halfway through  the course she was 
only around a third through it. This is because there was only three modules, not four 
as it appears on the paperwork. The first two parts  (which she had completed) were  
required to be completed together to obtain one qualification. 
By J telling students not to complete the final module until they had secured a job, it 
was a way to prevent them ever having  to pay back the course fees.  
After starting the course she found  out that the first qualification was only valid for 
three years. She wouldnt have signed up if shed known  it was limited in this way. 
She also purchased  a course manual for £50 in order to revise  for the exams.  But 
this wasnt required as she was given the necessary answers to pass. 
She had used very little of the careers support offered by J. She had already 
received her travel costs back in compensation for the job searching  session she 
attended because  J accepted it was poorly run. Her CV had been changed by Js 
careers service  to include errors  so that service hadnt been to a good standard  
either.
Omni Capital said to her in an email it would refund any payments she made  since 
July 2018 if J upheld her complaint.  But when J agreed to cancel the contract 
Omni Capital failed to stick to their agreement. 
A fair starting point for working out what she should pay for the course should be to 
calculate the deposit and number of payment she made until she stopped  accessing  
the course. This would be a total of £1,563. 
Omni Capital  also disagreed and in summary,  said:
The basis of the decision doesnt  pay enough regard to the facts of the complaint and 
the proposed  remedy is disproportionate to the breach  of contract  that occurred. 
All parties agree Mrs G was given the answers  to the exams.  But the purpose of an 
exam is to demonstrate  knowledge and understanding. It isnt the mechanism  by 
which a student  learns. 
The decision doesnt acknowledge that Mrs G had access to online modules, labs 
and technical  webinars.  The fact she didnt have the opportunity to test her learning 
in an exam doesnt mean she didnt have an opportunity to learn the content.  Mrs G 
has therefore had significant benefit from the course  material. 
While  J did act inappropriately in providing  exam answers that doesnt  mean  the 
entire course wasnt provided with reasonable care and skill. 
Its been difficult to fully understand Mrs Gs dissatisfaction with the ancillary  services  
provided by J such as the job guarantee and work placement.  This is because  the 
issues shes raised have  changed  over time. In any event, no evidence  has been 
provided to show J failed to provide the services it promised. 
No evidence has been provided that J prevented Mrs G from completing the fourth  
module until she had secured a job. But Omni Capital  would like the opportunity to 
review any evidence  if available. In any event a decision cant  be based on what 
might have  happened if shed completed  the course. 
Ref: DRN77095324The only point that has been  proven is that J did not allow  Mrs G to take the exams  
autonomously. But J offered Mrs G the opportunity  to complete the course  again  
which is a proportionate remedy to the breach.
Mrs G chose to reject  this reasonable remedy but accepted  in full and final settlement 
with J to end the course early in exchange  for a goodwill payment. It is unfair that she 
has now changed her mind is seeking to withdraw from the credit agreement. 
The provisional decision referenced remedies  available to consumers where there  is 
a breach of contract.  But the provisional  decision  hasnt  taken into consideration 
Section 23 (3) (b) of the CRA which says that a trader shouldnt  be required to repair  
or replace if that remedy is disproportionate in comparison to other  remedies. 
As Mrs G had already  had access to large parts  of the course, directing Omni Capital 
to materially reduce the price  of what she paid based only on being given exam 
answers is disproportionate. 
Regardless of my view of what is fair and reasonable,  the proposed remedy  appears  
to represent Mrs Gs desired outcome and is in Omni Capitals opinion 
disproportionate when  compared  to other options available to remedy  the situation. 
Omni Capital would be surprised if the Ombudsman Service  had license to propose a 
remedy that didnt  have regard at all to the requirements of the Consumer Rights  Act 
2015 (CRA). Omni Capital is applying  the CRA in an attempt to deliver the 
appropriate level of consumer protection. 
It is impossible  to calculate a fair and reasonable financial remedy even if it was 
accepted a more substantial breach had occurred. 
Mrs G has already  received a cash refund  which  Omni Capital believes represents 
appropriate compensation for the breach  that did occur. 
Mrs G does not have  a statutory right to withdraw from the credit agreement and 
Omni Capital has provided a proportionate  solution  which  is still available  to Mrs G. 
Following the responses to my provisional  decision  I wrote  to Omni Capital to explain that:
I agreed Mrs G had accepted a full and final settlement with J and that this might 
mean she no longer  could  bring  a claim under Section 75 against  Omni Capital. But 
the main considerations in my provisional  decision concerned  the overall fairness  of 
Omni Capital continuing to hold her responsible for the loan, not whether there  was a 
liability under  Section  75. 
The contact notes  and copies of emails Ive seen I think demonstrate  that 
Omni Capital led Mrs G to believe it would cancel  the loan agreement with no further 
liability, if J agreed to cancel the course.  There was even a suggestion  Omni  Capital  
would refund some loan repayments  already made  by Mrs G. 
It appeared that Mrs G only accepted the full and final settlement with J on the 
understanding that Omni Capital would  waive  the remainder of the loan, and 
potentially refund some payments shed already made. 
I said I was therefore  minded to say that the information Omni Capital gave to Mrs G 
prompted her to accept a full and final settlement with J when she otherwise might 
not have done. As Mrs G can no longer  complete the course  due to the relationship 
being terminated, its unfair for Omni Capital to continue holding  her responsible for 
repayment. This is because Mrs G is paying  for something she can no longer receive  
and Omni Capitals actions have significantly contributed  to the situation  she now 
finds herself in. 
Ref: DRN77095325Omni Capital  still didnt agree. It said the remedy provided by J was proportionate to the 
breach of contract and the course  remains available to Mrs G. It said in deciding  fairness  it 
would be appropriate  for me to investigate fairly and consider both sides.
Omni Capital  agreed that it had offered to cancel  the agreement if J agreed  to cancel the 
course. And it said it had told Mrs G that the loan balance would be reduced accordingly.  But 
it said the offer from J to settle the dispute didnt include cancelling the course. Therefore it 
would not be fair to now treat it as if it had been  cancelled. 
It isnt right to suggest Mrs G assumed she could cancel the loan by accepting  Js offer as it 
was clear the offer was just a financial remedy and the course remained open for her to 
continue studying.  To now allow her to exit the finance agreement would result  in unfairness 
to Omni Capital. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There appears to be no dispute  that a breach of contract occurred. And I accept Mrs G has 
accepted a full and final settlement offer from J in relation to that breach. What implications 
that might  have for Mrs G in bringing  a successful claim  against Omni Capital under 
Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974  (CCA) would be down to a court  to decide. 
 
I have also taken that offer into consideration when deciding what  would be fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But I dont think  it makes any material 
difference to whether it would be fair to still consider this complaint against  Omni Capital.
This is because I dont think the crux of this dispute is about a claim  under  Section 75 of the 
CCA. Mrs G has already had satisfaction  from her claim against J which is shown by her 
acceptance of their offer in full and final settlement. Instead, Mrs Gs complaint to 
Omni Capital  is that she feels its unfair that she needs to continue  paying for a credit 
agreement she is no longer getting any benefit  from. And she thinks Omni Capital has 
treated her unfairly overall.
Although Omni Capital  has raised points regarding  Section 75 liability and suitable  and 
proportionate remedies under the CRA. I dont think those are relevant considerations in this 
particular case.  And thats because the crux of this complaint is about how Omni Capital has 
administered the loan agreement, not about  a breach of contract by J. 
Her contact  with Omni Capital has always been about her wish to exit the credit agreement. 
This is because of her experience with the course  the credit  agreement was funding.  As I set 
out in my provisional  decision, Mrs G doesnt  have  any statutory or contractual  right to 
withdraw from the credit agreement early. But I still need to consider whether in her specific  
circumstances it would  be fair and reasonable to do so.  
And for the same reasons I gave in my provisional  decision  and my follow up 
correspondence with Omni Capital, I still think its unfair and unreasonable  for Mrs G to have  
to pay the full amount due under the agreement. Ill explain  why.  
Omni Capital  has accepted it told Mrs G it would  cancel the agreement and potentially  
refund some  payments if Mrs G and J agreed to cancel the course first. But it says no such 
Ref: DRN77095326agreement was made between J and Mrs G. Instead, it says J only agreed  to provide 
financial compensation to Mrs G. Omni Capital says the course is still available  for her to 
complete. But I disagree. 
Ive reviewed the settlement offer J put to Mrs G by email in September  2018. It says:
If however you are keen to discontinue the programme, then I will make the 
following payment  to you;
For exams not used  You bought £539 worth  of vouchers and have  used 2 at £144. 
The difference is £251
Payment for trip to [location redacted] including  travel - £100
Payment as a gesture  of goodwill for discontinuing  the programme early - £500
Total payment is £851
The loan is one you would be responsible for.
So it seems  the offer was made on the understanding that Mrs G would discontinue the 
course - in fact the wording suggests the offer was only available to Mrs G if she chose to 
end the course.  However, Mrs G initially rejected  this offer of settlement. It appears J 
contacted Omni Capital  for advice at this stage and it seems  Omni Capital suggested  J 
should increase  the compensation offer. A further  email with the new offer was sent by J to 
Mrs G around  three weeks later. It said:
I had a good conversation with [Omni Capital] on Monday and we discussed  your 
complaintI took [their] advice  on the conversation that it was reasonable to 
compensate you for an additional £75. So thats £851+£75=£926.
I am not looking to change the offer I have given you which is fair and above the 
contractual terms I have  with you.
This follow up offer seems to confirm that the terms of the previous offer remained the same 
except for the compensation amount. So I think J did agree to cancel the course as part of 
its settlement offer. Mrs G accepted  this offer in November 2018. She said:
Following our conversations I can confirm that I want  to finish the course purchased 
from [J] now. You have offered £926  (inclusive of vat) as good will payment.
 
I can confirm that I have no further  claims against [J].
I think these emails are clear that both Mrs G and J considered the full and final settlement 
to include cancellation  of the course. Indeed, the relationship between the two had clearly  
irrevocably broken down at this stage so it seemed highly unlikely that either party would 
wish for the course  contract to continue. J doesnt  appear to have corrected Mrs Gs 
understanding that the offer included discontinuation of the course either. 
So for these reasons Im satisfied Mrs G has now ended the course with J and this formed 
part of her full and final settlement arrangement with J.  
As Ive set out previously,  Omni Capital led Mrs G to believe her loan agreement would be 
cancelled, her liability under it would be capped  and that she might  receive  a further  refund,  
if J agreed to cancel the course. As that is clearly  what Mrs G then arranged  with J, it seems 
entirely unfair for Omni Capital to now not honour  that agreement  with her. 
Ref: DRN77095327Omni Capital  accepts it agreed to do those things if the course  was cancelled by J. And it 
hasnt suggested  this was told to Mrs G in error. So Im unsure why its now unwilling to do 
so. Mrs G made it clear to both Omni  Capital and J that she no longer wished to complete 
the course due to the number of problems and issues shed faced. Regardless of how 
significant those  problems were, or even if they existed at all, Omni Capital agreed to 
administer her loan agreement in a particular  way if J agreed to terminate the course.  Mrs G 
therefore made a very deliberate and specific decision about accepting Js offer within  the 
context of what Omni Capital had promised. 
I dont believe Mrs G would have accepted Js offer in full and final settlement if she knew  
Omni Capital  would continue to seek repayment  of the entire  loan agreement. And thats  
because shed be paying a significant  amount  of money for something she could no longer 
receive. So I think Omni Capitals actions  have caused her to be in a worse position than she 
otherwise would have been in.
As I explained in my provisional decision,  putting things right isnt straightforward. But I do 
think its fair and reasonable the loan agreement is cancelled with nothing  further to pay. 
This is because Mrs G is no longer  able to benefit  from the course the loan was intended to 
fund. Omni  Capital has suggested  its intention was to also reduce the balance accordingly. 
I believe any reduction in the balance would  have been intended to reflect the portion of the 
course Mrs G had yet to receive.  And I think thats  a reasonable approach to take here.  
Im mindful that Mrs G has had some  benefit from the course.  So I do still think she ought  to 
pay something towards it. In my provisional decision I explained why I considered a total of 
£2,394.75 to be fair. Having reconsidered all the arguments and evidence, I still think this is 
the fairest way to put things right. 
Ive thought about what Mrs G has said in relation to what she considers a fairer sum to pay. 
Shes said a better starting point ought to be to limit her liability  only up to the point she 
stopped accessing the course. But I dont think that would be reasonable. 
I say this because  the course was designed  to be completed in the learners own time,  
outside of their normal work commitments. Ive not seen that she was required to complete 
any particular module, exam or qualification within a set timeframe.  So its possible that 
someone could  complete  the entire course  much  sooner  or later  than the rate at which  
they repaid the loan agreement. Therefore it wouldnt be fair or reasonable to base how 
much benefit  Mrs G had from the course  on how far through the loan agreement she was. 
Mrs G has also said she was only a third of the way through the course, not halfway. 
Although I understand the point  she makes about  the first two modules being  one overall 
qualification, Ive not seen  anything  to persuade me that the overall learning needed for the 
entire course  is evenly  split (or close to it) across  the three qualifications. This is because  the 
literature talks about it being in four modules  which would suggest it is the modules, rather  
than the qualifications that are more likely to be of equal  (or similar)  length. 
Further, the work placement  which formed part of the course offering from J which Mrs G did 
receive (albeit she has complained about  various issues  to do with that placement), appears 
to have been linked to that first overall qualification. By this I mean that it was offered on 
completion of the first qualification and it doesnt seem that further work placements would 
be offered on the course beyond that point. So I think a sizeable proportion of the course  
and its associated benefits were delivered or made available to Mrs G. But I accept some of 
this wasnt without problems. 
Ref: DRN77095328Taking all of that into consideration, I think the most  fair and reasonable remedy  is to say 
Mrs G should only be liable for half the cost of the course. But as Mrs G has received  a 
partial refund for course costs already from J, this should be offset from what  I will be 
directing Omni Capital  to write off from the loan (as set out in my provisional decision).  So 
the total amount Omni Capital can charge Mrs G is £2,394.75. If Mrs G has paid more than 
this amount, it should be treated as an overpayment. Omni Capital should refund any 
overpayment to Mrs G, adding  8% simple interest per year from the date of each 
overpayment to the date of settlement.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct 
Omni Capital  Retail Finance Limited  to:
Ensure Mrs G pays no more than a total of £2,394.75 under the finance agreement. 
When this has been paid, it should record the loan as fully satisfied. 
If Mrs G has made any overpayments  these should be refunded to her, adding 8% 
simple interest per year from the date of overpayment to the date of settlement. 
If Omni Capital considers  tax should be deducted from the interest element  of my award  it 
should provide  Mrs G with a certificate  showing how much its taken off, so she can reclaim 
that amount,  if she is eligible to do so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7709532