K820x#14complaint
Ms F complains that Tesco Personal Finance plc (trading as Tesco  Bank)  wont refund the 
cost of faulty goods that she bought using credit provided by Tesco Bank. 
Ms F brings this complaint  under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
background
The background to this complaint and my provisional findings  are set out in my provisional 
decision dated 8 November 2019. A copy of this is attached and it forms part of my final 
decision. In my provisional  decision I explained  what Id decided  about this complaint  and 
what I intended to do  subject to any further submissions from the parties.  
Tesco Bank has not objected to my provisional  conclusions but Ms F does not agree with my 
provisional findings. She says (in summary) 
she had no contact  with the owner  of the jewellery, the invoice was issued by the 
auction house, she paid the auction house, her agreement was a buyer/seller 
agreement with the auction house alone  and there was no mention of any other  
entity;
this was an online auction, the auction  house provided a condition  report  for the 
goods, she relied on that to be accurate and under the Online and Distance Selling 
Regulations buyers must be given clear  information  about goods or services  before 
they buy;
the auction house is 60 miles from her location  so she couldnt attend  in person 
which is why she used  the online option;
no-one can determine when the item was damaged but she didnt order  a damaged  
item and, if it was damaged in transit, the auction house should take that up with the 
courier because it arranged the delivery;  
the auction house made some efforts to resolve this matter  so it must have accepted 
responsibility; and
the auction house did not fulfil the contract  so she is entitled to a refund under the 
CRA and Tesco  Bank  should provide this. 
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I want to assure Ms F that I have considered everything that she has said very carefully. I 
understand shes really  disappointed by my provisional findings. I can see that Ms F feels 
strongly that this was not a public  auction  because she placed  her bid online.  But, I am 
satisfied that prospective purchasers had the opportunity to attend this auction  in person. 
And, regardless of the method used to place a bid, I remain of the view this auction would be 
classed as a public one, under the relevant legislation.  
As I explained in my provisional decision,  Ms F brings this complaint against  Tesco  Bank 
relying on section  75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974. Its not my job to apply section 75 - 
thats a matter for the courts. But, I am obliged to take relevant legislation (amongst other  
things) into account. And I would have to be satisfied that theres been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation by the auction  house in order to reasonably uphold this complaint.   
Ref: DRN73561032For the reasons  Ive set out already, I remain of the view that the D-C-S  link required under 
section 75 is not present  between Ms F and Tesco Bank and the seller. I appreciate this is 
frustrating for Ms F - she says her contract  was with the auction house and no one else was 
involved as far as she was concerned. But, Im satisfied that the relevant terms and 
conditions - which Ms F would  have  had to accept before  she placed her bid - say the 
auction house acted as agent for the seller (referred to as the vendor).  And I am not 
persuaded that I can fairly hold Tesco Bank responsible for any misrepresentation or breach 
of contract  by the seller in this situation.  
Ms F has referred  to the online and distance selling regulations.in her response to my 
provisional decision. By this, I think she probably  means the Consumer Protection (Distance 
Selling) Regulations  2000 (DSR) which were  replaced in 2014  when  the Consumer 
Contracts (Information,  Cancellation and Additional Charges Regulations) 2013 (CCR) came 
into force.  The CCR  apply to agreements entered  into after June 2014 and I accept they 
include various provisions  intended  to protect  consumers who buy goods  at a distance.  
I am not persuaded however that these regulations take matters much  further  here. Some  
parts of the regulations (in respect of cancellation  rights for example) dont apply to public 
auctions. And I am not persuaded that the auction  house was in breach of these regulations 
insofar as they do apply.  I explained in my provisional decision that I accepted Ms F had 
certain rights against the auction  house  itself. But, for the reasons I have given already, I am 
satisfied it wasnt responsible for any mis-description under the relevant terms and 
conditions - and I cant reasonably conclude that the auction house  mis-described or 
misrepresented the goods Ms F purchased.   
I acknowledge the auction house took some steps to try and assist Ms F when she reported  
the damaged  item. In the correspondence I have seen the auction  house told Ms F that the 
goods were in good condition when they were  photographed and inspected  pre-auction. The 
auction house went on to acknowledge the damage might have occurred in transit and it 
offered to contribute towards the cost of repair. But I think this offer sounds more like a 
goodwill gesture than an acceptance  of liability. And I cant fairly  find theres been a breach  
of contract  or misrepresentation by the auction  house because of that. 
I understand Ms F feels the auction house  should  be held responsible if the goods  were 
damaged in transit because she didnt organise  delivery. But, as I explained in my 
provisional findings, shipping seems to have been arranged separately after the auction - 
and I think this probably cost a relatively  modest amount. And I am not persuaded thats 
something I can reasonably hold Tesco  Bank responsible for. 
Taking everything into account,  I remain of the view that I cant fairly hold Tesco  Bank 
responsible for any breach of contract  or misrepresentation  in respect of the sale agreement  
here. And I am unable to find theres  been a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation in 
relation to Ms Fs contract with the auction house.  This means  I cant reasonably  require 
Tesco Bank to provide  a refund or do anything  further. 
I realise this decision  is likely  to come as a disappointment to Ms F. I understand she feels  
she has been treated  very unfairly  and I realise this is not the outcome she hoped  for. But, 
Ms F is not obliged to accept what I have said - in which case it remains open to her to 
pursue the matter by alternative means  should she wish to do so. 
Ref: DRN73561033my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given my decision is I do not uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Claire Jackson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73561034copy provisional decision
complaint
Ms F complains that Tesco Personal Finance  plc (trading  as Tesco Bank) wont refund the cost of 
faulty goods  that she bought  using credit provided  by Tesco  Bank. 
She brings this complaint  under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974.  
background
Ms F bought several items of jewellery online in an auction using her Tesco Bank credit card. When 
the jewellery arrived she found one piece was damaged. She contacted  the auction house the same 
day and sent a photograph  showing the damage - a clasp was not attached  to one piece of jewellery. 
The auction  house said it would refund the cost if Ms F had the item fixed and Ms F paid £65 to get 
the item repaired. When she asked the auction house to reimburse this amount it said the cost was 
too high and offered to pay £30 instead. Ms F wasnt happy so she contacted  Tesco Bank and asked 
for a refund under section 75 of the CCA.  
Tesco Bank  initially  told Ms F that goods have to cost over £100 to bring  a claim  under section 75. As 
this item cost less - and Tesco Bank felt there  was no evidence showing how the damage occurred - it 
wouldnt help. Ms F didnt think that was fair so she referred  her complaint  to our service. 
One of our investigators looked at the evidence. She was satisfied that 
Ms F bought several pieces of jewellery as a single  lot and paid more  than £100 for that on 
her Tesco  Bank  credit  card;
photographs and the description applied to the damaged  item in the auction catalogue  
indicated it was in good  condition  and Ms F relied on that when she decided  to purchase;
looking at the timeline of events, the damage probably occurred before delivery - as Ms F 
contacted the auction house the day she received  the goods  and it agreed to pay for repairs; 
and 
there probably was a breach of contract or misrepresentation.  
Our investigator thought the auction houses offer to reimburse the cost of repairs was fair and the 
price Ms F paid to have the jewellery  repaired sounded reasonable  so Tesco  Bank should refund the 
£65. 
Tesco Bank  disagreed  and asked for an ombudsman  to review the matter. It said (in summary):
the auction house  did not own the jewellery,  it acted as agent for the seller;
the relevant  terms and conditions  make it clear that the auction house is not responsible  for 
the condition of items  sold at auction; 
Tesco  Bank didnt have the opportunity to have the item inspected  so it cant  be certain  how 
the damage occurred;
its not clear  from the invoice supplied what repairs were done exactly; and
the repair  costs are too high and uneconomical, in any event. 
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the evidence and arguments available so far to decide  whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances  of this complaint.  Where the parties disagree about  what  happened I have made 
my provisional  findings on the balance of probabilities - in other words, what I think is most  likely 
based on the evidence  I have  seen  and the wider circumstances.  
Ref: DRN73561035Ms F brings this complaint  to the Financial Ombudsman Service because she paid for the jewellery 
using credit provided by Tesco Bank and section 75 gives consumers an equal  right to claim  against a 
supplier of goods or services or the credit provider - subject to certain conditions.
Ms F bought this jewellery in a public auction  so this purchase wasnt as straightforward as it would 
have been if shed bought  goods on the high street.  Certain terms which  would usually be implied  into 
consumer contracts under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 (in respect of quality and description 
amongst other things) do not apply. In addition, there are more parties  and a number of transactions  
involved in an auction sale which also impacts upon liability under section 75. 
the sale
One of the conditions  that must be satisfied for Ms F to bring a claim under  section 75 against Tesco  
Bank is that there must be an unbroken  Debtor-Creditor-Supplier (D-C-S) chain between the parties  - 
in other words, the credit  provided by Tesco Bank (C) must have been used to finance an agreement 
between Ms F (D) and the supplier  (S). 
Im satisfied that the supplier under the sale agreement here was the third party  who owned and sold 
the jewellery - not the auction  house.  And this means the D-C-S link, between Tesco  Bank,  Ms F and 
the jewellery owner required  under section  75, is not present. I dont think it would  be reasonable to 
hold Tesco Bank responsible for any breach of contract or misrepresentation arising out of the sale in 
this situation. So I cant fairly require Tesco Bank to provide a refund  - or do anything else - in relation 
to that agreement.   
the role of the auction house
I dont think theres any dispute that the jewellery Ms F purchased was described in the auction 
catalogue as being in good condition. I understand Ms F feels  this was incorrect as one of the 
pieces did not have the clasp  attached when  it arrived. I cant  be certain when the clasp might have 
been broken. But I have seen correspondence  between Ms F and the auction  house which suggests it 
detached in transit - after the sale.  
If thats right (and the catalogue pictures Ive seen  are not very clear so I cant tell if the clasp was 
attached pre-auction or not) then it would  be difficult to reasonably conclude that the goods were mis-
described or misrepresented in the catalogue. But, even if I were  to accept  that the catalogue 
description wasnt accurate,  I dont think that helps Ms F - in these particular  circumstances. I have 
checked the auction houses  terms and conditions  and Im satisfied these say (insofar as its 
relevant):-
The Auctioneers act as agents only. Each lot as set out in the catalogue (or as divided or joined at 
the time of sale) is sold with all faults and imperfections  and neither the Vendor nor the Auctioneers 
are responsible for the condition or quality of any lot. All statements given  within catalogue 
descriptions are not to be taken as, or as implying, statements or representations of fact. Purchasers 
are deemed  to have satisfied themselves by personally inspecting or otherwise as to all such  matters 
and as to the physical description  of any lot. Neither  the vendors nor the Auctioneers  nor any person  
in the employment of the Auctioneers have any authority to make or give any representation or 
warranty as to the foregoing.  Any "Condition  Reports" are given as a matter  of personal  opinion only 
and as such  form no part of any representation or warranty.
Catalogue descriptions. If, whilst cataloguing  the Auctioneers notice substantial  and obvious faults, 
the symbol denoting that fault will be included within the catalogue  description i.e. (f) faults, (b) beetle,  
(w) worm or (r) restoration. This must not be construed that any lots not so marked are without faults 
and prospective purchasers must satisfy themselves as to the true condition
Im afraid this means the auction house is not responsible  for any mis-description under the terms and 
conditions of the auction  itself - and I cant reasonably require Tesco Bank  to provide  a refund on that 
basis. 
damage in transit
Ref: DRN73561036Purchasers like Ms F are generally responsible for items sold at public auction as soon as the 
hammer falls - meaning any damage that takes place after that is at their risk and its for the 
purchaser to collect the goods or arrange for delivery.  I dont know if Ms F asked the auction house to 
arrange to ship these items  - I can see its website says this is an option. Even if it did however, I think  
that arrangement was probably  separate to the sale - and its likely  to have cost a relatively modest 
amount. I consider its unlikely to be something that we could hold Tesco Bank liable for here. 
I realise the issues Ive raised above are quite technical points. And I understand its probably really 
frustrating and disappointing for Ms F to be told about these at this stage. But I am obliged to take 
relevant law (amongst  other things) into account when  I make my decision. And, for the reasons  Ive 
explained, Im not presently  persuaded that it would  be fair or reasonable to require Tesco Bank to 
refund the cost of repairs or do anything else in response to this complaint.
I now invite  both parties to let me have any further evidence or additional  comments  by the date set 
out below. After that, I will look at all of the available  evidence and make  my final decision.  
my provisional  decision
Subject to any further submissions that I may receive from the parties  by 22 November  2019,  my 
provisional decision  is I do not intend  to uphold  this complaint. 
Ref: DRN7356103