K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a life and critical illness policy taken out with a loan in 2009.
Mrs S says Black Horse  Limited mis-sold the policy to her. Shes said she didnt want or 
need the policy and that she was effectively self-employed  at the time and so wouldnt have 
been able to claim on the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, and so the complaint has been passed to me.
background
I sent Mrs S and Black Horse a provisional  decision on 22 March 2019 to explain why I 
wasnt intending to uphold the complaint. An extract of my provisional decision is set out 
below:
Black Horse says the loan and the policy were  taken out in branch and its sent us a copy  of 
Mrs Ss loan agreement.  This included a section  on optional protection,  with a space for 
Mrs S to sign if she wanted to take it out. It also set out the cost of the cover. And Mrs S has 
signed in the space.
Based on this, I think Black Horse  made  it clear  to Mrs S that she had a choice about the 
policy. And that she chose to take it out, knowing she didnt have to.
Black Horse  says it recommended the policy to Mrs S, so it had to make sure that it was 
right for her. And, based on what Ive seen of Mrs Ss circumstances at the time of the sale,  I 
think that the policy was right for her.
I havent seen  anything to suggest Mrs S was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits 
on the cover. While Mrs S has said she was self-employed at the time, the policy wouldnt 
have treated her any differently than an employed  person. The policy could still have  been  of 
benefit to her even  if she was self-employed. So I dont  think  her being  self-employed means 
the policy wasnt right for her.
Black Horse  has sent us a demands and needs questionnaire which shows Mrs S told it she 
didnt have enough insurance or employee benefits  to repay the outstanding balance  of the 
loan if she was diagnosed with a critical illness or died.
If Mrs S had been diagnosed with a critical illness, it could have significantly affected her 
financial situation. The types of illness covered by the policy  couldve affected her ability  to 
work, led to her needing to make adjustments to her home or needing additional  support  in 
her day to day life.
The policy would have paid off any outstanding  balance on her loan, which  wouldve  meant  
she could put any other  income or savings she had towards any extra  expenses  that did 
occur. The policy would  also have paid off the outstanding balance  on the loan if Mrs S had 
died, and so the loan debt wouldnt have been passed on and affected the beneficiaries of 
her estate.
So I think its likely the policy was right for Mrs S and she wouldve seen some  value in 
taking it out. This means I dont think the policy was mis-sold.
Ref: DRN79440642So Black Horse doesnt need to refund everything  Mrs S paid for it. But Black Horse has 
offered to give Mrs S back some  of the cost of the policy. I dont think it needs to do anything  
more.
Black Horse  will make arrangements  to pay Mrs S once Ive issued my final decision.
I said Id consider any further information  either Mrs S or Black  Horse  sent me.
Black Horse  hasnt sent in anything further. Mrs Ss representative responded, saying that 
Mrs S wasnt  aware of any offer from Black Horse  and questioning when it either was or 
would be paid.
my final decision
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, including  what Mrs Ss 
representative had said, to decide what is fair and reasonable  in the circumstances of this 
complaint.
I can see that this service wrote to Mrs S in September 2018 to let her know about the offer 
Black Horse  had made. I understood that Black Horse had not yet paid the offer to Mrs S, 
and so I said in my provisional decision that Black Horse would make arrangements  to pay 
Mrs S once Id issued my final decision.
As neither Mrs S nor Black  Horse sent me any further evidence  or arguments about the sale 
of the policy, I still feel the conclusions I set out in my provisional decision are correct  and for 
the same  reasons. So I still dont think the policy was mis-sold.
As I dont think the policy was mis-sold,  I dont  think Black Horse needs  to refund everything 
Mrs S paid for it.
Black Horse  has offered  to give Mrs B back some of the cost of the policy, and I dont think it 
needs to do anything more than this.
Black Horse  should make arrangements to pay this offer to Mrs B now Ive issued my final 
decision, if it hasnt  done already.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs B to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 June  2019. 
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7944064