K821x#15complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2002. Mr and Mrs G say Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
Mr and Mrs G bought  a Total Mortgage Protection Plan (TMPP) alongside  a mortgage TMPP 
can be split into sections   Mortgage  Repayments  Cover (which is a form of PPI), life cover 
and critical illness cover. Mr and Mrs G have complained about the PPI so Ive looked at the 
sale of the PPI cover only. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Gs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold and Ill explain why.
Halifax had to make Mr and Mrs G aware that the PPI was optional  and gain their consent 
before adding it to their mortgage. Mr and Mrs G have told us they were led to believe the 
policy was compulsory. I dont know for certain what was said when the policy was sold, and 
there isnt much paperwork available, but from what we know about how Halifax sold this 
type of policy at the time I think its likely Halifax made Mr and Mrs G aware the PPI was 
optional, and they chose to take it out, although  I can understand why they may not 
remember this.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs G so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them. Mr and Mrs G have told us that Mr G would  have  received some sick at the time they 
took the PPI so they didnt  need the policy. But the PPI would have paid out in addition to 
and for longer than Mr G would have received sick pay. Based on what  Ive seen of Mr and 
Mrs Gs circumstances at the time they werent affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits 
on the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need  for the cover.  So I think  the policy  was 
right for them.  
Its possible the information Halifax gave Mr and Mrs G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But I think  they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs G have said, but these points dont change  my 
decision.
This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So Halifax doesnt need  to refund everything 
Mr and Mrs G paid for it. But Halifax  has already offered to give Mr and Mrs G back some  of 
the cost of the PPI. I dont think it needs to do anything more.  
Halifax will make arrangements  to pay Mr and Mrs G now Ive issued my final decision.
Ref: DRN75428122my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  15 February  2019.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7542812