K821x#15complaint
Mr D complains about eight instalment loans that he took out with Gain  Credit  LLC, trading
as Lending Stream,  (LS). He said, in summary, that LS shouldnt  have given  him the loans
as they were unaffordable.
background
Mr D took out eight instalment loans with LS and these are shown below. The loans were  all
repayable by six monthly instalments. Loans 1 to 4 and Loan 6 were repaid early, but the
other loans  remain  outstanding  and Loans  7 and 8 have been transferred to a third party,
(T).
Loan number
Date of Loan Loan amount
1 18/9/2016 £480
2 25/7/2017 £750
3 16/9/2017 £350
4 27/9/2017 £350
5 29/9/2017 £340
6 2/10/2017 £110
7 31/10/2017 £110
8 8/11/2017 £250
Mr D complained that the loans trapped him in a debt spiral with repayments taking so much
of his wages that he had to borrow again to cover  the following months expenses. Mr D also
said that he was forced  to borrow from multiple  lenders to make ends meet. He suffered
from compulsive  gambling and he said that a responsible lender should have realised this
from the number  of loans borrowed. Mr D also said that his credit reports  would have shown
other debt and repeated borrowing.
LS said that prior to giving the loans, it had asked Mr D for details of his income and
expenditure. It reviewed  the details held by credit reference agencies,  and it said his credit
scores were  deemed acceptable.  It said that Mr Ds disposable income was ample for him to
complete his loan repayments easily. But as there  were loan balances outstanding,  it offered
Mr D a repayment arrangement.
our adjudicators view
The adjudicator said that the checks LS had made  on Loans  1 to 3 were sufficient. But he
thought better checks should have been  done  by LS on Loans 4 to 8. And he thought  that
better checks would  have shown LS that Loans  6 to 8 werent  affordable for Mr D. So he
recommended that LS should:-
- Refund  all interest and charges that Mr D paid on Loans 6 to 8;
- Pay interest of 8% simple a year on all refunds from the date of payment  to the date
  of settlement*;
- Remove any negative information  about Loans 6 to 8 from Mr Ds credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest.  LS must give Mr D a
certificate showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one. If LS intends to apply the
refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Ref: DRN72341192LS responded to say that it accepted the adjudicators recommendations. It also said that the
refund could be deducted from the outstanding balance.  LS also offered Mr D an affordable
payment arrangement and said that if Mr D wished to set this up, he should contact it.
Mr D disagreed and said that the complaint should  be reconsidered taking into account that
he had multiple  loans with other lenders and was using them to pay off each other which
trapped him in a debt spiral. Mr D said that LS would have seen this if it had checked his
credit file. He also had other complaints  with this service which he said should be taken into
consideration when coming  to a decision.
The adjudicator responded to say that it wasnt proportionate for LS to have asked Mr D
about his other payday loans until Loan  4. But he had taken  these into account from Loan 4.
He also said that this service considers complaints on a case  by case basis.
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr D 
and to LS on 10 May 2019.  I summarise my findings:
Id noted that LS had accepted the adjudicators  recommendations regarding Loans 6 to 8. 
But as Loans  7 and 8 hadnt yet been  repaid  and had been sold to a third party, I would also
have expected LS to refund unpaid interest  and charges included in the outstanding 
balances. I noted  that such a refund wasnt included in the adjudicators recommendations 
and LS hadnt offered  to make such a refund. So I said I would consider Loans  7 and 8 
together with Loans 1 to 5.
I also noted that Mr D had asked for his other complaints with this service to be taken into 
account. But I said that we look at each  complaint  on a case  by case basis. So I wouldnt
be taking the other  complaints into account.
I explained that LS was required to lend responsibly. It should have made checks to make 
sure Mr D could  afford to repay each of the loans before it lent to him. Those  checks  needed 
to be proportionate to things such as the amount Mr D was borrowing, the length of the
agreement and his lending history. But there  was no set list of checks LS had to do.
I noted that the Financial Conduct Authority  was the regulator at the time Mr D borrowed 
from LS. Its regulations  require lenders to take reasonable steps to assess  the customers  
ability to meet repayments  under  a regulated  credit  agreement in a sustainable manner 
without the customer  incurring financial difficulties or experiencing significant adverse  
consequences. The regulations define sustainable  as being able to make  repayments 
without undue difficulty, and say that this means borrowers should be able to make their 
repayments on time and out of their income and savings without having to borrow to meet 
these repayments.
So, the fact that the amounts borrowed and the interest paid might  have been low when
compared to Mr Ds declared income, or that he was able to repay some of the loans,
didnt necessarily mean the loans were affordable and that he was able to repay  them in a
sustainable manner.  So, I couldnt assume that because Mr D was able to repay  some  of the
loans, that he was able to do so out of his normal income without having  to borrow  further.
LS told us that before lending to Mr D, it had asked about his normal income  and
Ref: DRN72341193expenditure. And it had carried out a credit check. Wed  not received any details about LSs
credit check  other than its credit  scores which it said were acceptable.
But Id seen Mr Ds credit report. I could see that Mr D had a mortgage  with monthly
repayments of £477.  The report also showed  several payday  and longer term loans which
Mr D had at the same  time as some of his LS loans. The repayments for these totalled
between £236  and £641. I could  see that if Mr Ds other borrowing had been revealed  by 
LSs credit check, this might have suggested to LS that Mr Ds finances were  under 
pressure. But I was also aware that when  a lender carried  out a credit check, the information 
it saw didnt usually  provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit report would 
and it wasnt necessarily  up to date. A lender  might  only have seen a small portion of a 
borrowers credit file, or some data might  be missing or anonymised. I was also aware  that 
not all payday  and short term lenders reported to the same credit  reference agencies. So, it 
was possible that Mr Ds other loans might  not have been identified by LSs credit check. 
And this might have  explained any differences between the information seen by LS in its 
credit check  and Mr Ds actual  situation.
Id also noted  that LS had asked Mr D about his expenditure. It had asked for information  
about his rent/mortgage, utilities, food, other credit commitments and other outgoings. Id 
noted that the expenditure amounts  declared by Mr D before each loan were increased by 
LS in its assessment. LS used statistical national averages for expenditure categories and 
revised Mr Ds stated  outgoings upwards to take account of these. But LS said that the 
adjusted outgoings  amounts still resulted in a viable disposable income for the loans. Id 
referred to the adjusted  outgoings amounts in my assessment.
Id thought about whether  LSs checks were proportionate for the loans.  I noted  that for
Loan 1, Mr D needed to make  six monthly  repayments of varying amounts up to £211.20  to
repay it. I could see that the repayments were  relatively modest compared to the income of
£1,600 and the expenditure of £998 Mr D had declared to LS. I thought this information  was 
enough for LS to rely on at the time of Mr Ds first loan application.  He hadnt borrowed from 
LS before,  and the repayment amounts appeared sustainable in comparison to the amount 
of disposable  income that hed provided  to LS. So I thought it was reasonable for LS to give 
Mr D, Loan 1 without  carrying  out further checks.
I noted that Mr D had repaid Loan 1 early and took out Loan 2 around eight months  after he 
repaid Loan 1. I thought  it was reasonable for LS to have seen this gap as an indication that 
Mr Ds finances had moved on from whatever situation had required his previous loan. 
Loan 2 was for the substantially higher amount of £750 repayable by six monthly 
repayments of varying amounts. The highest repayment was £342. Mr D told LS that his 
monthly income had reduced to £1,500 and his regular expenditure had reduced to £648. So 
he had a disposable income  of £852. I thought that the information LS gathered  before 
Loan 2 suggested that the loan repayments were affordable, and I thought  it was reasonable 
for LS to have relied on the information it had before this loan.  So, I didnt uphold Mr Ds 
complaint about  Loan 2.
Mr D repaid Loan 2 early  and he borrowed Loan  3 less than three weeks after repaying
Loan 2. The loan amount  had reduced  to £350, and the highest  repayment was £154.  As the
repayments were again  relatively modest  compared  to Mr Ds declared disposable income  of
£952, I thought  that LSs checks were sufficient.  And I didnt think  LS had done anything  
wrong in giving Loan 3 to Mr D.
Mr D borrowed  Loan 4 eleven days after hed taken out Loan 3. Loan 4 was again for £350.
Ref: DRN72341194The combined highest repayments  for Loans 3 and 4 were  £308 and the loan was to be
repaid over six months.  Mr Ds declared disposable income  had increased  to £1,002. I 
thought LS ought to have  been concerned as to why a person with an apparently relatively  
high level of disposable income  was coming  back to it for a third loan in just over two 
months. I thought that behaviour might have caused some concerns  to LS. It might  have 
suggested to LS that Mr D was using short term loans as a supplement to his normal  
income, rather than using them to meet a temporary  one-off problem,  and that his finances  
were likely to be under  some pressure.  So, although I thought it was still reasonable for LS 
to have relied on the information Mr D had declared to it, I thought  LS should have 
additionally asked  him some  very specific questions about any other short  term lending  he 
already had outstanding.
Loan 5 was borrowed just two days after Loan 4 was taken out. I considered this to be a sign 
of potential financial difficulties. Mr D had repaid  Loan 3 on the day he took out Loan 5. The 
highest total repayments on Loans 4 and 5 totalled around £303.60. I thought Mr Ds loans 
were by this time being taken sufficiently regularly  to show that Mr D was reliant on them. I 
also thought it should have been  clear to LS that it could no longer rely on the information  
Mr D had provided. It was already adjusting Mr Ds declared outgoings to be consistent with 
statistical national averages. And I thought the amount  and regularity of Mr Ds loan 
applications might  have suggested to LS by the time of Loan  5 that it should look in much 
more depth at Mr Ds true financial situation  to assess the affordability of its lending.
And as LS then received three  further loan applications from Mr D within the next six weeks,
I thought a similar level of checks would have been appropriate for the rest of the loans that
Mr D took from LS. It couldve done this in a number  of ways. It couldve asked for evidence
of Mr Ds income and expenditure such as payslips and bills, or it couldve looked at things
like his bank statements.
Although I didnt think the checks LS did for Loans 4 to 8 were sufficient, that in itself didnt  
mean that Mr Ds complaint about  these should  succeed. I also needed to see whether what  
I considered to be proportionate  checks would have shown LS that Mr D couldnt sustainably
afford the loans.
Loan 4
As Id said above,  I would have expected LS to ask about Mr Ds short  term credit
commitments whilst taking into account Mr Ds declared disposable income of £1,002. Id
reviewed his credit report and bank statements for the month before Loan 4 to see what
better checks would  have shown LS. I could see that Mr D had taken out one other  short 
term loan which would  have required  repayment  at the same time as Loan  4. The repayment 
on the other short term loan appeared to be around  £236. Taking  account  of this, it still 
appeared that Mr D would have been  able to sustainably repay the repayments  on Loan  4. 
So I didnt think that carrying out better checks wouldve uncovered anything that wouldve 
stopped LS from giving  the loan to Mr D. So, I didnt intend to uphold Mr Ds complaint about 
Loan 4.
With regard to Loans 5, 7 and 8, as Id said above, I thought LS should have been
independently checking what Mr D was earning  and spending each month. So Id tried to
do this by looking at Mr Ds bank  statements at the time of these loans, and what hed told 
us about his financial situation,  to see what better  checks would have shown LS. The bank
statements might  not have shown LS everything  it wouldve seen by carrying out
Ref: DRN72341195proportionate checks. But I thought they were  the best indication of Mr Ds ability to afford 
the loans at the time they were approved. So I didnt think  it was unreasonable to have relied  
on these.
Loan 5
Mr D had sent us statements for three of his bank  accounts. One of the accounts  was a joint
account with his wife, but it appeared that most of the funding of the joint account came  from
Mr D. Most of Mr Ds normal  living costs  were paid from the joint account. I noted from the
statements that Mr Ds income was higher than hed declared  to LS, around £1,919.  His
living costs  and regular  financial  commitments appeared to total around £1,290. Mr D also 
had one short term loan.  The monthly  repayments  to be made  at the same  time as Loan  5 
were £236.  And I could  see that Mr D was also gambling heavily. His gambling expenditure 
was around £990  in the month before  Loan 5. I thought that Mr Ds living costs, his regular 
financial commitments  and his spending  on gambling made it clear that any new borrowing 
was unlikely to be repaid  sustainably. So, if LS had carried out what Id considered  to be
proportionate checks before Loan 5, I thought they would  have suggested  that Loan 5 wasnt
sustainable.
Loan 7
If LS had checked  Mr Ds financial  information  before Loan 7, it would have seen that his
income was slightly higher than hed declared  to LS, around £1,672.  But his normal living
costs and regular  financial commitments  appeared to total around £1,260.  And Mr Ds short
term loan repayments  to be made around the same time as Loan 7 were  £594. I could also
see that Mr D continued  to gamble heavily, spending around £1,038 in the month  before
Loan 7. So overall, if LS had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks before
Loan 7, I thought it was likely  that it would have concluded that Loan 7 wasnt sustainable.
Loan 8
If LS had checked  Mr Ds financial  information  before Loan 8, it would have seen that his
income was slightly higher than hed declared  to LS, around £1,672.  But his normal living
costs and regular  financial commitments  appeared to be around  £1,380.  And Mr Ds short
term loan repayments  to be made around the same time as Loan 8 were  £641. I could also
see that Mr D continued  to gamble heavily, spending around £977 in the month before
Loan 8. So overall, if LS had carried out what I considered to be proportionate checks before
Loan 8, I thought it was likely  that it would have concluded that Loan 8 wasnt sustainable.
Subject to any further representations by Mr D or LS my provisional  decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part. I intended  to order  LS to:-
1. Refund all the interest and charges applied to Mr Ds account for Loan 6 and pay 8%
    simple interest* a year on those refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement;
2. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr D has paid on Loan  5 and pay 8% simple
    interest*  a year on those refunds  from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
3. Write  off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 5;
4. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 5 and
Ref: DRN72341196    pay  any balance  to Mr D;
5. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr D has paid on Loans  7 and 8, and pay
    8%  simple interest*  a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement. As the balances on Loans  7 and 8 have been transferred to T, LS should
    also refund any unpaid  interest and charges that are included  in the outstanding
    balances  on Loans 7 and 8 (since T will expect to collect this money from Mr D).
6. As Loans 7 and 8 have  been transferred to T, pay the refunds referred to in 5. above
    to Mr D in full and no deductions should  be made by LS. But, if LS buys  Loans 7 
    and  8 back from T within 21 days of Mr Ds acceptance of my decision,  it might apply the
    refunds referred to in 5. above  to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loans 7 and 8,
    and  pay any balance to Mr D; and
7. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ds credit  file with regard to
    Loans 5 and 6 (and Loans 7 and 8 if LS buys them back). If Loans 7 and 8 have to
    remain with T, then LS is to assist Mr D, so far as it is able,  to correct his credit file
    record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest.  LS must give Mr D a
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If LS intends to apply the
refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Mr D responded to say that he had no more information to add and he was happy to accept 
my provisional decision.
LS responded to say, in summary, that it accepted my provisional decision. It also said that it 
would offer Mr D a repayment  arrangement  if he was suffering financial difficulties. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given that Mr D and LS have accepted  my provisional decision, I see no reason to depart 
from the conclusions  I reached in my provisional decision. It follows  that I uphold  part of the 
complaint and require LS to pay Mr D some compensation as set out below.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Gain Credit LLC, trading as Lending Stream,  to:-
1. Refund all the interest and charges applied to Mr Ds account for Loan 6 and pay 8%
    simple interest* a year on those refunds from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement;
2. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr D has paid on Loan  5 and pay 8% simple
    interest*  a year on those refunds  from the date of payment to the date of settlement;
3. Write  off any unpaid interest and charges from Loan 5;
Ref: DRN723411974. Apply  the refunds referred to above to reduce any capital outstanding on Loan 5 and
    pay  any balance  to Mr D;
5. Refund all the interest and charges that Mr D has paid on Loans  7 and 8, and pay
    8%  simple interest*  a year on the refunds  from the date of payment to the date of
    settlement. As the balances on Loans  7 and 8 have been transferred to T, LS should
    also refund any unpaid  interest and charges that are included  in the outstanding
    balances  on Loans 7 and 8 (since T will expect to collect this money from Mr D).
6. As Loans 7 and 8 have  been transferred to T, pay the refunds referred to in 5. above
    to Mr D in full and no deductions should  be made by LS. But, if LS buys  Loans 7 
    and  8 back from T within 21 days of Mr Ds acceptance of my decision,  it might apply the
    refunds referred to in 5. above  to reduce  any capital outstanding on Loans 7 and 8,
    and  pay any balance to Mr D; and
7. Remove any adverse  information recorded on Mr Ds credit  file with regard to
    Loans 5 and 6 (and Loans 7 and 8 if LS buys them back). If Loans 7 and 8 have to
    remain with T, then LS is to assist Mr D, so far as it is able,  to correct his credit file
    record.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires LS to take off tax from this interest.  LS must give Mr D a
certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. If LS intends to apply the
refund to reduce any outstanding capital balance, it must do so after deducting the tax.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7234119