K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that National  Westminster Bank  Plc have blocked  her from making 
purchases to a specific business on her credit card. 
background
Mrs G explains  that she was a victim of fraud on her Natwest credit card in 2016. Shes 
attempted to make  purchases  on her credit card in 2017 to a business Ill call B but 
although the purchases were initially accepted  the transactions were  then withdrawn and her 
account with B was blocked. 
Mrs G complained to Natwest that she was unable to make  online purchases from B. 
Natwest explained that initially a security marker  was placed on her account following the 
fraudulent activity in 2016 and then subsequently  after a number of high value  transactions  
in late 2017. After Mrs G confirmed these transactions were  genuine  Natwest  removed the 
security markers. Natwest explained that any blocks now present on her account must now 
have come from B. 
Mrs G wasnt  happy with Natwests  response  so complained to our service.  
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs Gs complaint and concluded that Natwest didnt do 
anything wrong   and didnt need  to do anymore. He said Natwest have provided evidence 
to show theyve removed  any security markers  from Mrs Gs account  and arent preventing 
the transactions taking place. 
Mrs G didnt accept our investigators opinion. She explained that Natwest  said theyre  
unable to override  any block  from B. Mrs G said shed been the victim of fraud and was now 
being punished and treated like a criminal and still cant purchase any items from B.
As Mrs G didnt  agree with our investigators  opinion its been passed  to me for a decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive come to the same  
outcome as the investigator for broadly the same  reasons. 
I understand its likely  frustrating for Mrs G not being able to purchase items from B, but I 
need to consider whether  this is Natwests fault.  And I dont think it is  Ill explain why 
below. 
Ive seen evidence  from Natwest that security  markers were  placed on Mrs Gs account in 
2017  following transactions to B  but also removed soon after this time in October  2017.  
Ive also seen evidence  from Natwest that shows there arent  currently any security  markers 
blocking payments  to B on her account. 
Im sorry  that Mrs G is having problems making purchases from B and I understand this will 
be disappointing to her but I dont think thats  because of Natwests  actions. So I wont  be 
asking them to do anymore here.  
Ref: DRN78764802my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Gs complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 September 2019.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7876480