K822xcomplaint
Mr K complains HSBC UK Bank  Plc did not apply a payment to his credit  card account which 
hed sent from his overseas bank account. This resulted  in a missed  payment.
Mr K would like HSBC  to reinstate his account  and remove all the late payment charges.
background 
Mr K says he made an international payment from his overseas bank account  to his HSBC  
credit card in July 2018. The payment  wasnt received by HSBC  and so it applied a late 
payment charge to the account. Mr K questioned the charge insisting hed made the 
payment. 
HSBC investigated  the missing  payment  but was unable to locate the payment on its 
systems so said it was unable to apply the payment to his credit card account.  HSBC asked 
Mr K to trace the payment through his overseas bank and provide more  details before it 
could consider applying the missing payment to his credit card account. 
Mr K agreed to ask his overseas  bank to trace the missing payment and provide further 
information of the transfer to HSBC. But Mr K also told HSBC  he would not be making any 
further payments  towards the credit card until the missing  payment was located. HSBC  
issued Mr K with a default notice and then withdrew the credit facility.  
Mr Ks overseas bank  was only able to provide limited further clarification of the trace for the 
missing payment. HSBC  wasnt  able to use the information to locate the payment but agreed 
as a gesture of goodwill  to credit Mr Ks account with the missing payment  of £55.29 
backdated to the date he said he paid it. 
Our investigator considered the information from HSBC and Mr K  they felt HSBC was right 
in offering to credit  the payment to the credit card account as they thought it was likely the 
payment was made to HSBC and it has gone  missing. They  also felt HSBC  should make a 
payment of £65 for the distress and inconvenience Mr K experienced. However  the 
investigator didnt  recommend HSBC should reinstate the account and felt Mr K should not 
have stopped making further payments on the credit  card whilst waiting for the missing 
payment to be investigated   so they didnt think HSBC did anything wrong in following the 
process for non-payment.  
Mr K disagreed and felt HSBC should  reinstate his account with the same credit  limit. So he 
asked for the case to be reviewed to an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive, I reach my decision on the balance  of 
probabilities  that is, what I consider  is most likely to have happened, in light of the 
evidence that is available  and wider surrounding  circumstances. 
To determine this complaint I need to decide on the following:
Ref: DRN70903152Noting HSBC has offered to treat the disputed payment as having  been received, 
does it need to do anything further?
Was HSBC entitled  to default  Mr Ks account  and then not reinstate his account?
Does HSBC need  to do anything further?
I can see Mr K did make  a payment through his overseas bank account to HSBC. But the 
details Mr K gave to his overseas bank werent the same as those on his credit  card 
statements. So I can see how its possible the payment didnt get to HSBC. The trace  for the 
payment needed  to be made by Mr Ks overseas bank   it said it had some  difficulty  in 
getting a response  from HSBC. But Ive not been told if this was a direct payment to HSBC  
or if it was sent through other intermediary banks.  And so, I cant be sure if the difficulty in 
getting this information was in fact the fault of HSBC. So its not clear  what  happened  to the 
payment made by Mr K but Im not persuaded that HSBC has acted unreasonably in 
requesting a trace of the payment from Mr Ks overseas bank  before  it was prepared to 
apply the missing payment.
HSBC didnt agree it did anything  wrong, but it was prepared  to make the payment of £55.29 
towards Mr Ks account and a distress and inconvenience  payment of £65 to bring the 
matter to a conclusion. In light of what  Ive seen, I dont think  HSBC needs  to do anything  
more on this. 
Was HSBC entitled  to default  the account and then not reinstate it
HSBC also contacted Mr K to tell him that he needed to make at least the minimum 
payments on his account and that it would  continue to investigate  the missing payment. Mr K 
said he did not want to make any further  payments  to the account until his missing payment 
was located. So HSBC informed Mr K of the course of action it may take if he didnt continue 
to make the minimum payments.
The terms and conditions  for the credit  card contain  information about the rights and 
obligations of each party to the contract. I am satisfied they include the borrowers obligation 
to ensure that at least the minimum payment is paid by the due date, and the banks right to 
withdraw the facility  if there is a breach of the agreement.
I have been provided copies  of Mr Ks monthly credit card statements and letters  from HSBC  
advising him of the late/missed payment charges and the default notice. Mr K continued to 
refuse making further payment  despite  HSBCs requests and notices.  Because  he didnt 
make the minimum payments in line with his credit  agreement  HSBC followed its normal  
non-payment default process.  
I am satisfied that HSBC  acted within the terms of the credit  agreement and so it follows  I 
dont think HSBC has to reinstate  Mr Ks account. I note HSBC did offer to consider  
reinstating the account should Mr K be able to help trace the missing  payment but this is not 
something I propose to require it to do. 
Ref: DRN70903153my final decision
For the reasons  mentioned above,  my final decision is HSBC UK Bank  Plc should:
credit  Mr Ks account with the £55.29 payment backdated to when Mr K made the 
payment
pay Mr K £65.00 for distress and inconvenience
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 November  2019.
Jag Dhuphar
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7090315