K821x#15complaint
Mr P has complained about the quality of a car he acquired under  a hire purchase 
agreement with Oodle  Financial Services Limited (trading as Oodle Car Finance).
background
Mr P acquired a used  car under a hire purchase  agreement with Oodle in July 2018. The car 
cost £13,250.  It was six years old and had covered around 45,000 miles at the point of 
supply. It came with a six-month warranty, which had a claims limit of £1,000. Mr P paid a 
£100 deposit and carried over £3,000 negative equity to the deal from a previous finance 
agreement. 
Within the first month  of acquiring the car, Mr P says he had to get a garage to reconnect the 
turbo because the car didnt have much  power. The following  month Mr P says that he 
noticed the car was sluggish so he contacted the supplying dealer. I understand the 
supplying dealer offered to look at the car, but Mr P declined because it wasnt convenient  
for him to do so  he thought the dealership was too far away. The supplying dealer says it 
let Mr P know  that he could take the car to a garage  local to him that was approved  by the 
warranty company.   
Mr P tells us that he decided to ask his uncle,  a mechanic, to have a look at the car at his 
house. Mr Ps uncle says the car had a bad misfire so he carried  out a diagnosis which 
showed it wasnt firing  on cylinder one. He says he removed the spark plug and carried  out a 
compression test. The cylinder  had no compression so he put a camera  into the plug hole 
and he says it looked like one of the exhaust  valves had burnt or broken up. So he 
reattached the plug and told Mr P what hed found. 
Mr P spoke to another garage  and it informed him the repairs  could cost between  £4,000  
and £7,000. It also explained that if the car required a new engine  it could cost between 
£9,000 and £12,000. The garage advised  Mr P to take it to a main dealer, which he did. 
The main  dealer told Mr P that there was an oil leak on one of the cylinders  and that further 
investigation was required. It also said that it was likely a new engine would be required.  
Mr P wasnt  happy with things so complained  to Oodle. 
Oodle didnt uphold  Mr Ps complaint. It said that Mr P didnt take the car to a garage  that 
was approved by the warranty company  he took it to his uncle. It said that Mr P didnt 
attempt to deal with the matter under the warranty and that hed only contacted the warranty  
company to see what was covered. 
Oodle thought that Mr P took the car to a garage  that had stripped the engine  and rebuilt it. It 
says that its impossible to know what the faults may have been when the car was supplied  
to Mr P. It says that the car hadnt  been  made  available for repair and could have been 
compromised by the unauthorised intervention of third parties. It therefore didnt accept 
Mr Ps claim that the car was of unsatisfactory quality. 
Not happy with the response, Mr P brought the complaint to our service. 
Ref: DRN74316862Our investigator looked into things and upheld the complaint. He didnt  think the car was of 
satisfactory quality when it was supplied to Mr P. Our investigator didnt think the engine had 
been stripped  or that Oodles investigation had been prejudiced when Mr P had the car 
inspected. Given  how much it was likely to cost to resolve the issue, our investigator thought 
the fairest thing  to do would be to end the agreement. He recommended  Oodle:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay. 
Mark the agreement  as settled on Mr Ps credit file. 
Collect the car at no cost to Mr P. 
Refund Mr Ps deposit,  and reimburse him £96 for the main dealer inspection  
Refund Mr Ps payments from September 2018 onwards
8% simple interest should be added to the above amounts, at a rate of 8% per year 
simple, from the date the payments were  made,  to the date of settlement.
Pay Mr P £150 compensation. 
Oodle didnt agree. It said Mr P likely  did have  the engine stripped on the car and the 
inspections that were carried out were unauthorised.  It said its impossible to judge what  
condition the car had been in at the point of supply. And it also said Mr P had refused its 
offer to fund an engine  examination. It said Mr P hadnt proved that the car was of 
unsatisfactory quality.  
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the case has been passed to me for a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where evidence  is unclear or in dispute, I 
reach my findings on the balance of probabilities  which  is to say, what I consider most 
likely to have happened based on the evidence available and the surrounding 
circumstances.
Mr P acquired the car under a hire purchase agreement, which  is a regulated consumer 
credit agreement. Our service is able to consider  complaints relating to it. Oodle is the 
supplier of the goods under these  sorts  of agreement, and is responsible for dealing with 
complaints about  their quality. 
The Consumer Rights Act 2015  (CRA)  says that goods will be considered of satisfactory 
quality where they meet  the standard that a reasonable person would consider satisfactory  
taking into account  the description  of the goods, the price paid and other relevant 
circumstances.
Satisfactory quality also covers durability. So with cars, this means that its components  must 
be durable and last a reasonable  amount of time. Exactly how long a reasonable period of 
time is will depend on a number of factors. 
In this case, Mr P bought a used  car that had covered around 45,000 miles. So Id have 
different expectations  of it compared  to a new car. But Mr P paid over £13,000 for the car. 
So I think its fair to say that a reasonable person would have expected the quality to be 
quite high, and that the car wouldnt have had any major problems shortly after acquisition. 
Ref: DRN74316863Mr P tells us that the car was losing power within the first month of owning it. I dont think a 
reasonable person would expect a car that cost over £13,000 and had covered around  
45,000 miles to that sort of issue  within  the first few weeks  of acquiring a car. However, Mr P 
seems to have managed  to get the initial problem resolved relatively  easily by having the 
turbo reattached. 
Mr P tells us the following  month the car was sluggish and so he asked his uncle, a 
mechanic, to inspect  it. Theres contradicting evidence about whether or not the engine was 
stripped down. On the one hand, Mr P wrote in a letter that the warranty  company refused to 
help him because the engine had been stripped. But on the other  hand,  Mr Ps uncle, the 
third party garage,  and the main dealer have all said they didnt strip the engine.  And the 
supplying dealer says that Mr Ps only contact with the warranty company  was to enquire 
about its labour  rate and to request a copy of the terms and conditions. Mr Ps uncle has 
provided quite  a lot of detail about  his inspection. His report setting out what he did and its 
findings seems credible.  Ive thought about the inspection he carried  out, and it seems like 
the correct sort of diagnosis tests to carry out on a car that was misfiring. Taking all this into 
account, on balance,  I think  Mr Ps uncle didnt strip the engine.  I think he removed the spark  
plug, carried out a compression test and used  a camera  to look into the engine.
In Mr Ps case, I think its more likely than not that he asked his uncle to look at the car 
because it was sluggish. He wouldnt have done  this unless there was a problem with it. I 
think it would  be unlikely  his uncles inspection damaged the engine to the extent that it 
would likely  require replacement. I dont think  removing the spark  plug (a serviceable item) is 
likely to have done this. The main dealers diagnosis  seems  to support there being a 
problem linked to cylinder one  it follows the same  lines as Mr Ps uncle. While there is 
further investigation required, it seems  more likely than not that significant work will be 
required. And even  though Mr P covered a lot of miles  in the time he was able to use the car 
 almost 3,000  I also dont think a reasonable person would expect  it to have those sort of 
problems within a couple of months of ownership,  given  the price  paid, age and mileage.
Oodle has questioned why Mr P didnt take the car to a warranty  approved  garage.  I accept  
this might have been helpful. But I dont think it was unreasonable he asked his uncle, a 
mechanic, to have  a look at the car. I think he was trying to find someone to assist him in 
getting his car fixed and to establish how much  it was likely to cost. He knew that his 
warranty only covered  him up to £1,000.  He took it to another garage and then took it to the 
main dealer.  These arent unreasonable  steps to take in my view.  
Ive also reviewed the terms of Mr Ps hire purchase agreement. The agreement  sets out 
Mr Ps obligations in relation to the care of the car. But nowhere  in the agreement does it say 
that Mr P is required to take the car to a warranty approved  garage.  So I dont think  Mr P 
acted unfairly by taking  the car to a garage  that wasnt approved by the warranty  company. I 
dont think his complaint  should be rejected because of this  he hasnt broken the terms of 
the agreement.  
Considering all this, I dont think the car was of satisfactory quality when it was supplied to 
Mr P. I dont think  we need further  inspections to determine this. I dont think that the most 
likely thing to have  happened is that the inspections Mr P arranged  are likely to have  caused  
the damage. I also dont think Mr P acted unfairly  or broke the terms of the agreement  by 
taking it to garages of his choice. So his complaint should be upheld. 
Ref: DRN74316864Generally speaking, after the first 30 days of owning goods, where there has been a breach 
of contract, the supplier should be allowed an opportunity to repair the goods.  But repairs 
should be carried out within a reasonable time and without significant inconvenience to the 
consumer. In this case, the issues Mr P experienced were  within  the first couple of months of 
entering into the agreement. A significant  amount of time has passed since  then. And the 
type of repair seems like it would be significant  quite possibly a new engine. I dont think it 
would be fair for Mr P to now have to accept this repair. I think  the fair and reasonable 
outcome for Mr P would be for him to be able to reject the goods. So I think Oodle should 
end the agreement and recover the car from him. It should cover the cost of the main  dealer 
inspection. And it should  reimburse Mr P the £100 deposit he paid to the supplying 
dealership to reserve the car. 
Mr P was, however, able to use the car for around  3,000 miles. So its fair that he pays  for 
his usage. It seems as though the major  problems  started to occur in September 2018. So, 
like our investigator, I think it fair that Oodle  refund  Mr Ps payments from September 2018 
onwards. 
The matter  has no doubt caused Mr P some  inconvenience too. I think  Oodle could have 
done more to help Mr P get things sorted out sooner. It must have been very disappointing  
having so many significant problems shortly after buying it. Hes had to get it inspected, and 
hasnt been able to use it for the last few months.  Given  everything thats happened, I think  
the £150 recommended by our investigator  is a fair amount of compensation.  
If Mr P chooses to accept  the final decision, its fair that any refund he receives goes  towards 
clearing the negative equity he added to the agreement with Oodle. Anything above this 
should be paid to Mr P direct. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Oodle Financial Services  Limited (trading as 
Oodle Car Finance) should:
1.End the agreement with nothing further  to pay.
2.Remove any adverse  information about the agreement on Mr Ps credit  file. 
3.Collect the car, at no cost to Mr P. 
4.Refund Mr Ps £100 deposit.
5.Refund Mr Ps payments from September 2018 onwards. 
6.Reimburse Mr P £96 for the main dealer inspection. 
7.8% simple interest should be added to the above amounts, at a rate of 8% per year 
simple, from the date the payments were  made,  to the date of settlement*.
8.Pay Mr P £150 compensation. 
Oodle should  use the payments from points 4,5 and 6 to clear the £3,000  negative  equity 
that was added to Mr Ps agreement. Anything above this should  be paid to Mr P direct. 
*If Oodle  considers  that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to withhold income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr P how much  its taken off. It should also provide Mr P with a tax 
deduction certificate if he asks for one so he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN74316865Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 August 2019.
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7431686