K821x#15complaint
Ms M complains about the quality of repairs  carried out under her home insurance policy  
provided by HDI Global Speciality SE (HDI).
background
Ms M holds a home  insurance policy provided  by HDI. A leak in the bathroom caused 
damage to the house. She claimed on her policy and HDIs agents  arranged for repairs  to be 
carried out by its authorised repairers.
Ms M was unhappy about how long it took to complete the repairs and the quality  of them.  
She also said the authorised repairers had damaged  her property.
HDI recognised there had been  a delay  in the repairs starting. It also arranged to inspect 
Ms Ms house again. It concluded there was evidence some  of the repairs hadnt  been 
carried out to an appropriate standard. But it said there was insufficient  evidence to support 
Ms Ms view that other repairs  had been poor. It also said it didnt  think there was sufficient 
evidence the authorised  repairers had caused  the damage claimed  by Ms M.
 
HDI paid Ms M a total of £400 as compensation for the delays and poor quality of the works. 
It had offered £450 but paid £50 less in error. It also said if the cost of rectifying those works 
was more than it had estimated, itd pay her the difference.
Ms M remained  dissatisfied and brought her complaint to this service.  Our investigator 
thought HDI had recognised where there was evidence of poor quality repairs. And there 
wasnt sufficient evidence  of the other poor quality  work alleged  by Ms M or that the damage  
had been caused by HDIs authorised repairers. But she thought HDI should pay an 
additional £100 compensation to recognise  the impact of its delays and poor service.
HDI accepted  this, but Ms M didnt.  She said the cost of putting things right would be much 
more than this. And she said shed  proven  the repairs  were poor and the damage had been  
caused by the authorised repairers.  Shes  asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
HDI has already said there  was an unnecessary  delay to the works starting. And its 
compensation amount took this into account. I can see there was a period of over 5 months  
from the first inspection of the property to the works being started. I know  that some of this 
delay was because  of Ms Ms personal circumstances. 
Ms M says the works themselves took too long. She points to occasions  when  the 
authorised repairers  didnt  attend  and said paint needed several  days to dry. But I think its 
unavoidable that renovating parts of the ceiling  in two rooms and redecorating will take time 
and cause inconvenience. I appreciate this wouldve been frustrating for Ms M, especially 
after the delays  in the works starting. I think the time taken  to put this right was reasonable.
HDI has also recognised  that works to light fittings and some of the coving were  poor.  But its 
compensation to Ms M included costs  to fix these problems. And its said if the costs exceed 
the amounts it paid,  itll reimburse her the additional  costs. I dont think it needs to do 
Ref: DRN75690132anything further  in respect of these issues. Its recognised the quality of that work was 
inadequate and has taken action to put things right.
Ms M wasnt happy with joins between  lengths of coving. This was inspected by HDIs agent 
after the repairs were  completed.  They took the view that the joins were acceptable. The 
photos Ive seen do show a join between the lengths. But I think this is always  going to 
happen when  two lengths are placed next to each other. Based on the evidence available to 
me, Im not persuaded the joins are too big.
Ms M also says the authorised repairers  painted over a large  crack  in the ceiling. Ive seen 
photos and video of this. HDI has said the crack wasnt present when its surveyor  visited Ms 
Ms house  after the work had been  carried out. But the evidence  of the videos is persuasive. 
It isnt disputed that the crack is in the same area that the repairs were done and so it would 
seem to be linked  to the repairs.  I know the repairer  says the crack is the result of thermal 
movement but given that its accepted  the quality of some of the work done  to the ceiling in 
terms of the fitting  of the lights was poor quality, I think its fair to say that the crack is more  
likely than not to be the result  of poor quality  work  by the repairer. So HDI should  take steps 
to rectify this. I know Ms M is unwilling to allow the previous repairer to return  to her house. I 
think this is understandable in the circumstances. So to resolve  this, HDI should appoint 
another repairer with Ms Ms agreement,  or if Ms M prefers, make  a cash  settlement to her 
to fix this.
Ms M said the quality  of the painting done  was poor. And that paint marks had been left on 
the floors  and stairs. I cant say the photos Ms Ms provided prove this. I cant  place them in 
context to show what the original condition of the areas was before  the repairs were carried  
out, or when  they were taken. Ms M also recorded videos of the property after shed  
repainted. So they cant show the condition of the property after the authorised repairers had 
left. I can see she told HDIs agent  about paint marks which  were  on skirting  boards before 
she repainted. She didnt  say it was on the floor or stairs. I dont think HDI had the chance  to 
inspect the quality of the work  shes now complaining  about.  The photos  taken  by HDIs 
inspection agent  do show paint marks to the floor and stairs. But as Ms M had repainted by 
then I cant rule out that the marks were as a result of that. Ms Ms told me she spoke to HDI 
before she started  repainting. But Ive reviewed  the contact HDI has recorded with Ms M and 
cant see she said she was going to repaint, just that shed already done it. HDI said its 
position was prejudiced as it couldnt check the original work  I accept  this. 
Ms M was also unhappy the areas behind radiators werent painted.  But HDI said this wasnt 
included in the schedule of work to be done.  While  Ms M wasnt  told this work wouldnt be 
done initially, Ive seen nothing to show she was led to believe it would be. But she only 
raised it as an issue after the works had been  completed. She was in contact with HDIs 
agents while the painting was being  done about whether woodwork would be covered.  So I 
think she could have  raised it with the agents then. HDI said if she can provide evidence  that 
shes previously had radiators removed and refitted  when  the room  was decorated, itll 
consider these costs.  I think this is a reasonable position.
I dont think its possible to say whether the authorised repairers  caused  the damage  to the 
floor Ms M has complained about.  Ive looked at the photos and accept what HDI have  
argued that discolouration and some  of the marks on the floor were caused by foot traffic 
over time and exposure to sunlight.
Ms M says that other damage  was caused  by the repairers. The repairers  deny moving a 
sofa, damaging  one of its legs. But Ms Ms told us the sofa was under the crack which was 
Ref: DRN75690133repaired. So it seems  reasonable that it would have  needed to be moved by the repairers. 
Shes also said they didnt move  the sofa back when the works  were complete, and the 
damage was discovered when moving  it. So it seems likely the damage was caused either 
when the repairers  moved the sofa.  Or it was caused when Ms M moved the sofa back.  But 
its reasonable to have  expected the repairers  to move the sofa back. So either  way, I think  
its fair to say the repairers should  be considered  responsible  for the damage. As the repairer  
was acting on its behalf, HDI should  cover  the costs  of repairing the sofa.
Ms M also says the repairers caused damage  to a bathtub when they used it to mix plaster. 
The repairers deny  causing the damage  or using the bathtub at all. They  suggest Ms M 
cleans her dog in the bathtub and that this has caused the damage.  When  I put this to Ms M, 
she said this isnt right, and gave evidence which I accept. Ive not seen any evidence,  such 
as photos from the time of the repairs being  carried out, that the builders were using the 
bathtub to mix plaster. And Ms M didnt  tell HDI the bathtub  had been  damaged  for over a 
month after the repairs were completed. In that time shed told HDI about many  other  
aspects of the repairs she was unhappy with, including other damage she said had been 
caused. On balance, I cant be satisfied its more likely  than not that damage to the bathtub 
has been caused by the repairers or that HDI should be liable  for this.
Ms M has also complained about  damage caused to the exterior of the house, which she 
says was caused by the repairers. The repairers deny this. When  HDIs assessor attended  
the address it was noted that the damage was a chip in the render  which was dark in colour. 
The repairers say this is evidence it was an existing  chip which  had darkened over time. I 
havent seen anything to confirm that the damage wasnt  present before the repairers 
attended. But if Ms M can provide such  evidence,  it should be submitted  to HDI for it to 
consider. I dont think I can say its more  likely  than not the damage was caused by the 
repairers.
I think the length of time taken to start the work  was excessive. And Ms M will have to make 
arrangements for additional work  to be done. Shes been inconvenienced due to poor 
service from HDI and its agents. I dont think the compensation  paid to date is sufficient. HDI 
should pay £300 further compensation. This is made up of the outstanding £50 it shouldve  
paid previously and an extra  award  Im making of £250 to Ms M. This is in addition  to the 
£400 its already  paid.  The compensation is to recognise the impact of the delays,  that some 
of the work wasnt carried out to the necessary  standard  and the repairers were liable for the 
damage to the sofa.
the response to my provisional  decision
Ms M and HDI both responded to the provisional  decision. HDI accepted the findings  and 
gave estimated costs  for the repair  to the ceiling and sofa.  
Ms M said shed accept HDI appointing a contractor to make the repairs to the ceiling, but 
didnt want the original repairers  to do this. She also wanted to clarify whether the sofa repair  
would be carried out by a qualified contractor.  She asked how HDI intended to replace the 
bathtub. 
Ms M disputed my provisional decision not to provide cover  for the damage to the flooring. 
She said she believed  a lot of the damage was caused by them not properly  protecting  the 
floor when work was being done  to the ceiling. She said that when she employed a 
decorator previously  theyd removed radiators and painted behind  them.  She also said a 
piece of coving  needed to be replaced, as a top layer hadnt been applied.
Ref: DRN75690134Finally, Ms M said she hadnt  cashed  the cheque for £400 that shed been sent by HDIs 
agents and so asked for this to be reissued.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
I note the points raised by Ms M about  additional things she thinks should be repaired by 
HDI but havent seen any additional evidence to suggest I should change  my decision about 
the additional damage I think  they should  be liable  for. I note in particular her comments  
regarding the coving. HDI said from the outset  that elements of the coving should be 
replaced, and the £400 it had previously said it would pay included the costs for that. 
Ive also noted  Ms Ms comments  regarding  her bathtub. For the sake  of clarity, Ill repeat  
that I dont  think HDI should  be liable for the bathtub  and Im not asking it to do anything 
about this.
I understand Ms Ms reluctance to allow the previous repairers  to return  to her home. Its 
clear from the correspondence  between her and HDI that the relationship with the repairers 
has broken down. So I dont think it would be sensible for HDI to appoint  the same repairers 
to carry out the further work.  
HDIs previous £400 payment in was in part for the costs of work it accepted needed  
rectifying, but it also said itd look at additional  costs if the repairs cost more  than this. Id 
suggest a similar approach could be taken here. This would mean that HDI makes a cash  
settlement to Ms M for the ceiling and sofa repairs, based on its estimates  but agrees to 
cover additional  costs if the repairs  cost more than it estimated. This would mean  Ms M 
would be able to appoint her own contractors.
HDI should also reissue its original £400  payment to Ms M. This amount was compensation 
for the delays and poor service  and an estimate of the further repairs  it had said it would  
cover.
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold the complaint in part. To put things right,  HDI Global Specialty 
SE should:
Cover a further repair to the ceiling under this claim.
Cover the cost of repairing the sofa.
Pay an additional  £300 compensation, making £700 payable in total, to Ms M in 
recognition of the delays to the repairs, poor quality of work and damage caused.
HDI must  pay the compensation within 28 days from when we tell it Ms M accepts my final 
decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay interest at 8% simple a year on the 
compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 March 2020
Ref: DRN75690135Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7569013