K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains about how Admiral Insurance  Company Limited dealt with a claim against
his motor insurance policy.
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision of 21 May 2020,  an 
extract of which is attached and forms part of this final decision, so I wont repeat that 
information here. Essentially, Mr K says that he sold his car to a motor  trader,  Mr F, before 
the incident which led to the other  drivers claim. So, he doesnt  think  that Admiral treated 
him fairly in dealing  with the other drivers claim.  
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I explained  why I thought that Admiral  had made sufficient 
enquires to see if it was possible to redirect the other drivers claim. I said that I didnt intend  
to uphold Mr Ks complaint.  
responses to my provisional  decision
Mr K provided an e-mail dated 19 June 2020  between Mr F and his insurer,  which Ill refer to 
as T. In that e-mail,  T said that the vehicle would  have  been covered under your Motor  
Trade policy at the time of the accident  25/07//18. T said that Mr F had provided evidence of 
a sales receipt which  shows the sale between Mr K and the motor trader. T said that the 
motor trade  policy  in force at the time of the accident covered any vehicle in possession of 
the motor trader and its designated drivers  to drive for motor trade use. It said it would deal 
with a third partys claim,  but if any claim was redirected to it, it would strongly  deny liability  
based on evidence  from a witness. 
Mr K said that Admiral hadnt  done enough  to redirect  the claim.  He says that he didnt 
authorise Mr F to drive  his car under his policy and, due to an oversight, he didnt update 
Admiral immediately on the sale of the vehicle. Mr K says that the other  driver  should  have 
obtained insurance details from Mr F at the time of the accident. He says that Admiral  
treated him unfairly and its actions  have caused an increase  in premium.  
Admiral said that it relies on the earlier email of 2 August 2018, in which T said that it didnt 
insure the car at the time of the incident.  It said that it hadnt  seen a copy  of a sales receipt  
showing a clear transfer of interest  between Mr K and the motor  trader.  Admiral  queried why 
T said in August  2018 that it didnt insure  the car on the date of the incident  and wondered  
whether the sales  receipt was provided  later. It also queried whether the sales receipt T had 
seen was the same as the one provided  to this service, which  wasnt on the motor traders  
headed paper, didnt  show  the registration  number  and which Id commented on in my 
provisional decision. 
Admiral said that the motor trader had 14 days to give vehicle information to T and Admirals  
searches of the motor insurance database  revealed that it didnt  do that. Admiral said that as 
it was the insurer  at the time of the incident,  it had to deal with the claim. The motor  trader  
had refused to provide it with the details of its insurance when it contacted it direct. 
   
Ref: DRN75717002my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The e-mail of 19 June 2020  from T to the motor trader  contradicts Ts previous e-mail  to 
Admiral of 2 August 2018, when it said that it didnt insure the car on the date of the incident.  
I havent seen  the evidence  of sale T refers to in the recent e-mail. So, I dont know if its the 
same evidence of sale Mr K provided  to this service,  which  doesnt  show the cars 
registration, or the price paid.   
I dont know why T has changed its position, but its new position  isnt consistent with its 
previous e-mail to Admiral in August 2018,  or Admirals searches of the motor insurance 
database.      
Considering everything, I prefer to rely on Ts earlier email to Admiral of 2 August 2018, as 
that was in answer to Admirals specific question about whether it insured the car on the date 
of the incident and is consistent with Admirals  searches carried out around that time and 
later. 
In any event, its not for me to determine  which insurer insured the car at the time of the 
incident. What  Im looking at is whether Admiral made sufficient enquires before dealing  with 
the claim.  For the reasons  Ive set out in my provisional decision, I think  that it did. So, I 
remain of the view that it didnt treat Mr K unfairly  in dealing with the claim.  
my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 August 2020.
Louise Povey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN75717003extract of provisional  decision
complaint
Mr K complains about  how Admiral Insurance Company Limited dealt with a claim against his motor  
insurance policy.
background
On 25 July 2018, Admiral  received notification of a claim  arising out of an accident on that date 
involving the car it insured for Mr K. I understand that the allegation  was that a Mr F, a motor trader,  
driving the car Admiral insured for Mr K, hit another drivers stationary car in the rear. Mr F wasnt 
insured under Mr Ks policy.
Admiral contacted  Mr K and he told it that on the day of the accident - before the accident happened 
- hed sold the car to Mr F. Admiral made enquires, including contacting Mr F and an insurer for Mr 
Fs business,  but couldnt  establish that Mr F had valid insurance in place. So, it proceeded  to deal 
with the claim against Mr K.
Mr K says that, as the accident happened  after hed sold his car to Mr F, Admiral was wrong to deal 
with the claim.  He says that the driver who made a claim  is insured with Admiral,  so he doesnt think 
it has investigated  matters properly. Mr K says that his premium has increased because  of this claim.
One of our investigators looked at what had happened. He said that Admiral hadnt done enough to 
redirect the claim. The investigator said that Admiral  should redirect the claim and ensure that it isnt 
recorded against Mr K on any internal  or external  databases and provide Mr K with a letter of 
confirmation that it had done  that. The investigator said that he hadnt seen that Mr Ks premium had 
been affected  by the claim.
Admiral didnt agree  with the investigator. It said that its unable to remove the claim, as it was the 
insurer at the time of the accident  and theres nowhere to redirect the claim.
As there was no agreement between the parties, the complaint was passed to me, an
ombudsman, to decide.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The starting  point is the terms and conditions of the policy,  which say:
 Keeping your policy up to date
[]
2. Please tell us immediately
[]
    if you sell your car
We are entitled to:
    conduct the defence or settlement of any claim on your behalf
    []
    Admit negligence  for any accident or claim on your behalf.
I dont think that Admiral acted unfairly  in dealing  with the other drivers claim.  Ill explain why.
Ref: DRN75717004Mr K hadnt told Admiral that hed sold the car. So, when  Admiral received the claim,  it told Mr K 
about it. Mr K said that hed sold the car before the accident and that he would send Admiral 
evidence of the sale. But he didnt do so.
Admiral made several follow-up calls to Mr K and contacted  Mr F and the insurer  for Mr Fs business. 
It also made several enquires over a number  of months to the Motor  Insurance Database, which is 
the central database of motor insurance  policy information  for all insured vehicles in the UK. That 
database didnt reveal that there was other motor insurance in place on the date of the accident.
I think that Admiral  made sufficient enquiries  to see if it was possible to redirect the other drivers 
claim. As the only valid policy in place  was in Mr Ks name,  Admiral was obliged to deal with the 
claim.
In February  2019, almost  seven months after the accident, Mr K provided this service with
his evidence of the sale of his car. The note records the date of sale as 25 July 2018 and the time of 
the sale as 11.45  but doesnt record the cars registration or the price. It shows the buyer  as Mr Fs 
business. Its surprising that important information  is missing when the buyer  is a trader. Its not clear 
to me why Mr K didnt provide Admiral with this evidence before.  Mr K says that the sale was in cash 
and he didnt  deposit the cash into an account.  I assume that would be a significant sum. On balance,  
I dont think that Mr K has shown that he sold the car before the accident.
Mr K provided this service  with an e-mail dated 3 December 2018 from another  insurer  to the motor 
trader. That e-mail  doesnt  show  that there was other insurance in place.
Under the terms and conditions of the policy, Admiral can conduct  the settlement of any claim  on 
Mr Ks behalf. Considering everything, I dont think it was wrong to do that in this case.
Mr K says that his premium  has increased  because of how Admiral dealt with the claim.
Admiral has provided  me with confidential, business-sensitive information  to explain how   Mr Ks 
premium was calculated. Im afraid I cant share that with Mr K, but please rest assured Ive checked 
it carefully. I can see that Mr Ks premium  increased  following changes  of car. Im satisfied the 
premium Mr K was quoted has been calculated correctly  and all of Admirals  customers in Mr Ks 
position will have been charged  a similar premium.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  I dont intend to uphold  Mr Ks complaint.
Ref: DRN7571700