K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs R complain that Inter Partner Assistance SA (IPA) paid only a proportion  of 
their cancellation  claim  under their travel insurance policy.  
My references to IPA include its agents. 
background
Mr and Mrs R have travel insurance with IPA, as part of a package of benefits linked to their 
bank account.  In August 2017 Mrs R told IPA that shed been diagnosed with a heart 
condition called atrial  fibrillation or AF. She paid an additional premium for this condition to 
be covered until the end of November 2017.
Mrs R says that she telephoned IPA in November  2017 in response to a letter  shed received 
about renewing her travel  insurance medical declaration. She says she was asked whether 
she had any updates to make  to her declaration, and said that she didnt. There  was no 
additional premium  to pay and she says she noted  her copy of the letter to confirm  this. She 
and Mr R went ahead and booked  a holiday for February 2018 and a cruise for June 2018.
After experiencing  some  breathlessness  Mrs R was told in late April/early May 2018 that 
shed need a medical procedure related  to her AF. She was told she wasnt fit to travel  while  
waiting for that procedure.  She and Mr R cancelled their June 2017 cruise  and made  a claim 
to IPA.
IPA said Mrs R had failed  to update  her medical  declaration, as required under the policy 
terms. It noted that shed  called  every year for many years to tell it about her health. If shed 
done so in November 2017 (when the previous declaration expired) it would have charged 
her an additional  premium. It paid only a proportion of the claim, because  it said shed not 
paid the additional amount she should  have  paid to have full cover under the policy.
Mrs R said this was unfair. She said shed  phoned  IPA in November 2017 and been  asked  if 
she needed to update  her existing medical declaration. She didnt  need  to update it  
because shed told IPA about her medical  conditions including  the AF in August 2017   so 
she said no. Shed  not received confirmation  in writing but had overlooked this. Shed also 
been told the medical screening company IPA used had changed  but shed not been sent a 
written confirmation of that either.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I uphold  it. 
IPA accepts that Mrs R has an established  practice of calling it each year to tell it about  her 
medical conditions,  even if there had been no change to her conditions.  It is for this reason 
that it decided  to pay the claim  on a proportionate basis. It looked  at the additional  premium  
it would  have charged her in November 2017 to cover  her medical condition for the following 
12-month period.  It then paid her claim in the same proportion; shed effectively paid via the 
packaged bank  account only 17.90% of the premium she should have paid for that years 
cover. So it paid 17.90% of her and Mr Rs cancellation claim.  
Ref: DRN76714122I can see why IPA has taken this approach, but like our adjudicator I think the fair outcome is 
for it to pay Mr and Mrs Rs claim in full, with interest. Ill explain why.
Mrs R has been very clear and consistent in all her communications with IPA that she did 
telephone it in November 2017  in response  to the letter she received  dated 19 October 2017 
telling her that she needed  to renew  her health declaration. She explains she made  a note in 
her diary  to call (having  initially called  too early the first time). She says that when she called  
IPA in November  2017 she was asked  whether  anything had changed since  her last 
declaration. She answered no and she says that IPA told her she didnt need to do 
anything. She was pleased about  this, and recalls discussing it with Mr R. She explains she 
noted the letter shed received about updating  her health declaration with the words Phoned  
November  no further action needed. As part of her complaint  she told IPA about her notes 
on this letter and her diary note.
I cant see that IPA properly looked  into Mrs Rs explanation that she had called it in 
November 2017.  Shed set out her complaint  and explanation very clearly, together with a 
detailed timeline  of events. IPA seems to have made a call to the medical  screening  
company it was using,  which said it hadnt  any note of a new declaration. But there had been 
a recent  change in medical screening company. IPA could have asked Mrs R to confirm the 
number shed called and asked for the evidence shed told it about  the notes  made at the 
time of calling IPA. It didnt do so. 
I accept Mrs Rs clear  and consistent explanation that she did, in fact, make a call to IPA. 
I think on her evidence  she did answer  the question that was put to her with reasonable 
care. She said there hadnt  been any change in her declaration. Its not in dispute  that shed 
told IPA about  her AF in August 2017, and shed not had a significant change  in that 
condition. Mrs R didnt notice that shed not had a letter to confirm  the additional years  
cover, but I accept  her explanation that this was an oversight. So even if shed received the 
January 2018  letter  reminding her about  health declarations  shed reasonably thought shed  
done all she needed  to do to tell IPA about her health.
I accept that Mrs R booked her holidays in February 2018 and June 2018 in the reasonable 
belief that she and Mrs R were covered under their travel insurance policy.  
In around February  2018 Mrs R was given a change  in medication for her AF to help with 
some breathlessness shed experienced. On the strict policy terms she should have called 
IPA to tell it about  this change. But shed also been  reassured by her doctors  that she should  
wait and see about whether the medication would help. So shed have thought shed not had 
a significant change in her health until the end of April 2018 when she was told shed need a 
medical procedure,  and wasnt then fit to travel. At that point she cancelled the holiday and 
made the claim. I dont think IPA can reasonably say there was a significant  change in risk to 
it until this point. 
Mrs R had told IPA about the medical condition that caused  her to cancel the holiday. Ive 
found on balance  that she did call it in response  the medical declaration renewal, and 
reasonably believed shed done all she needed  to do to update IPA about her health.  So 
I think the fair outcome is for it to pay Mr and Mr Rs cancellation claim in full. IPA is entitled 
to deduct any payment  it has already  made under the claim before adding  8% simple 
interest to the balance.  
Ref: DRN76714123my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given I uphold this complaint. Within 28 days  of the date on which  we 
tell it Mr and Mrs R accept this final decision I require Inter Partner  Assistance  SA to pay 
their cancellation  claim.  IPA can deduct  any claim payment it has already  paid to Mr and 
Mrs R, and it must then add interest* to the resulting balance at the simple rate of 8% per 
year from the date of claim  to the date of settlement. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Amanda Maycock
ombudsman
*If IPA considers that its required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mr and Mrs R how much its taken off. It should  also give Mr and 
Mrs R a certificate showing  this if they ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from 
HM Revenue & Customs  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7671412