K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C say Lloyds Bank PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold them  a mortgage payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.  
background
Mr and Mrs C took out a PPI policy in 1994  when they applied  for their mortgage. They paid 
a monthly amount for the policy, which covered Mrs C only.  In the event of a successful 
claim, the policy would  have  paid out a monthly benefit of £400 if Mrs C wasnt  able to work 
because of sickness or involuntary  unemployment.  
One of our adjudicators considered the complaint but didn't think it should be upheld. 
Mr and Mrs C disagreed  with the adjudicators opinion, and as the complaint remains 
unresolved it has been  passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Cs case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs case  I know Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed  
so Ill explain why Ive reached that decision.
Lloyds had to make it clear to Mr and Mrs C that the policy  was optional and get their 
consent before the PPI could be added  to the mortgage. Mr and Mrs C have said they 
werent aware they had the PPI, they were  not told they had a choice about  taking  it, and in 
any event, they didn't  need it. 
Lloyds hasnt been able to provide much  information or documentation  from the time of the 
sale. But I dont find this at all surprising  considering  the sale took place nearly  25 years ago 
and businesses arent obliged to hold records indefinitely.  This means that I dont have all 
the paperwork that was completed at the time.  In cases like this I have to decide what  I think  
most likely happened  - Ill base my decision on what Ive been told and what I know  of 
Lloyds sales processes at the time.  
Lloyds cant be sure but because of its knowledge  of how it sold its policies at the time, it has 
assumed that the PPI was recommended to Mr and Mrs C and the sale took place in branch. 
By giving advice and recommending  the policy, Lloyds  had to make sure that Mr and Mrs C 
were aware they had a choice about taking the PPI. Because of the missing documentation, 
and in particular  the application  form, Ive taken into account the information  we do have  and 
what I know of how Lloyds sold these  policies. Mr and Mrs C have been able to give me a 
copy of the mortgage offer document and correspondence, and the mortgage details once 
the mortgage was completed. 
I can see that for both documents the MortgageSure Payment details are made clear on 
page one  included within the mortgage  monthly payment details - and the detail  of Mrs C 
Ref: DRN74500012being the one covered on page two. So I think during the mortgage offer process,  and after 
completion, it was made clear that PPI had been taken, who it covered and how much for. 
I think it most likely  that the PPI was added to the mortgage offer after a conversation with 
an adviser, otherwise  I would question why it was included in the offer itself.  And from what  
we know of how Lloyds  made PPI sales  it would have been necessary for Mr and Mrs C to 
decide the level of cover they wanted and for whom.  So even though Mr and Mrs C say the 
policy was added without  them knowing, and that they werent given a choice, I think it was 
more likely that Mr and Mrs C were  made  aware they had a choice, and that they chose to 
take it  and in the name of Mrs C only. 
And if the PPI had been added without  Mr and Mrs C knowing,  I think  it likely they would 
have questioned this with Lloyds if they didn't know what  it was, or want it. And I have also 
kept in mind that this sale was a long time ago, and memories can, and do fade, and 
typically buying insurance isnt memorable. 
Obviously I dont know what was discussed  at the meeting so cant  reach  any conclusion as 
to why it was only Mrs C that was covered. I know Mr and Mrs C have questioned the logic 
of this, but I cant make a finding on this because  of the lack of point of sale documentation  
only that I think it more likely  it was discussed. So Ive gone on to consider whether the 
policy was suitable  for Mr and Mrs C, bearing  in mind their circumstances at the time of the 
sale. And after doing so, I cant conclude the policy was unsuitable. I say this because  - 
Mrs C, who the policy  insured, was eligible for the cover and I havent been  given  
anything to suggest that she would  have been  affected by any of the main things that 
might have  made it more  difficult  for her to make a successful  claim  a pre-existing 
medical condition  as an example.
Mrs C was working when she took out the PPI. Shes told us she would have 
received between three and six months pay from her employer if she was too sick to 
work. But the policy would have paid out over and above Mrs Cs employee benefits 
and provided additional cover for a longer period  up to 12 months.  And as 
Mr and Mrs C were taking  on a large and new financial commitment  that was secured 
against their home  with significant  implications  if repayments werent kept up  I 
think PPI would have  given them a financial security if Mrs C was too ill to work or if 
she had an accident.  So I think the policy could have been  useful  for her.
Mr and Mrs C have told us they had joint savings of between  six and 12 months they 
could have used.  But having the policy  meant  the savings could have remained intact 
and for longer, to be used for their original purpose,  or for other emergencies and 
uninsured expenses.  So the policy would have helped to further  protect their savings. 
And the policy would  have  paid out in addition  to any redundancy pay Mrs C may 
have received. So any employee  benefits  she may have received could have been 
used for other essential outgoings or expenses. 
Nothing Mr and Mrs C have told us suggests  the PPI was unaffordable to them  or 
that they had a particular  need to keep the costs  down. 
As well as checking the cover was right for Mr and Mrs C, Lloyds also had to make sure it 
gave them enough information about the policy for them to decide whether they wanted to 
buy it. I cant know this for sure and its possible the information Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs C 
Ref: DRN74500013wasnt as clear as it should have been. But based on what I know  about  Mrs Cs 
circumstances, I cant  agree the recommendation was unsuitable,  so I dont think  clearer or 
better information would  have  stopped them from buying it. 
I know Mr and Mrs C will be disappointed with my conclusion. But Id like to assure them Ive 
carefully considered  what they have told us about  not being  aware  of the policy, not being 
told it was optional and not needing  it. But because of what  Ive said,  their comments  dont 
change my mind. 
This means  Lloyds doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds will pay back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C because: 
Lloyds got a high level of commission and profit  share  (more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr and Mrs C about that. Because Lloyds  didnt tell 
them, that was unfair.  
To put that right, Lloyds has basically offered to pay back the amount of commission  and 
profit share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that offer is fair in this 
case.
what the business needs  to do
Lloyds has to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission  and profit share  it got that was 
more than 50% of the PPI premium. Lloyds should also pay back to Mr and Mrs C any extra 
interest they paid because of that.
Lloyds should  pay back to Mr and Mrs C the extra they paid each month because  the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. Lloyds should also 
pay Mr and Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs C can claim back  the tax if they dont pay 
tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Lloyds Bank  PLC doesnt have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs C.
But Lloyds Bank PLC does have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs C any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium, if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2019.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7450001