K820x#14Complaint
Mrs A complains that Azimo Ltd made three  international transfers to the wrong  bank 
account. And shed  like Azimo to refund  the payments.  
Background
On the 24 April 2019 Mrs A made an international transfer via her Azimo  account to a 
bank account  in Nigeria. At 12:25pm on 24 April 2019 Mrs A received an email from 
Azimo informing her that the money had been received in Nigeria  but on checking her 
Nigerian bank account, Ill call Account A, she discovered the funds hadnt been 
credited. Mrs A logged  in to her Azimo  account and realised that the account details the 
funds had been sent to werent correct.  At 8:33pm on the same day Mrs A emailed 
Azimo and explained she wasnt sure the account  details were  correct and asked if the 
transfer could  be withdrawn and returned. Azimo explained that any change to the 
recipients details would take 24 hours.  
On the 26 April 2019 Mrs A contacted Azimo and asked  what  theyre doing to recover  
the funds. On the 7 May 2019 Azimo responded to Mrs A and explained that the funds 
had been credited to the account, Ill call Account  B, so the recipient details cant  be 
changed. They also suggested that Mrs As account  must have  been  hacked into for 
the details to be changed. 
Mrs A wasnt  happy with Azimos response  so complained to our service. 
One of our investigators  looked into Mrs As complaint but didnt uphold it. In summary 
he said that it was Mrs As responsibility to ensure the account  details were correct and 
he was satisfied she hadnt done this. He also asked Azimo whether theyd made any 
attempt to recall the funds   and they made  contact with the receiving bank on the 20 
August 2019 but this was unfortunately unsuccessful.  He thought  theyd done  enough  to 
recall the funds. 
Mrs A didnt accept our investigators opinion. 
As Mrs A didnt agree  its been passed  to me for a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And in doing so Ive reached the 
same conclusion as our investigator. Ill explain why below. 
Mrs A says she didnt provide Account Bs details for the three  international transfers. 
Azimo initially informed  Mrs A that someone  must  have  hacked into the account and 
changed the details  but later withdrew  this. Ive considered the possibility that 
someone gained  access to Mrs As account  and changed the details but I dont  think  this 
is the most  likely thing that happened  I say this because Ive not seen  any evidence 
that this occurred. And I think on balance its likely  Azimo were attempting  to provide Mrs 
A with an explanation as to why the payments didnt reach the expected account. Ive 
also seen evidence from Azimo that Account Bs details were provided  to Azimo in 
October 2017 prior to Account B. If a fraudster did gain access to Mrs As account, and 
Ref: DRN78712522amended the details,  Id have expected Account As details to be provided first before 
being amended to Account B. But, theres  evidence this isnt the case.  
Ive also considered that Mrs A emailed the business after the transaction had gone 
through to say she thought she may have provided the wrong bank  details. I find it odd 
that Mrs A would say this, if in fact this wasnt  the case. Because I think its more  likely 
than not Mrs A asked  Azimo to send the international  transfers  to the bank account  they 
arrived at Im satisfied Azimo did what Id expect  them to do here.  I realise this will be 
disappointing to Mrs A  but its a customers responsibility to check the account  details  
before requesting a transfer. 
Ive gone on to consider whether Azimo have done enough to attempt to withdraw  the 
transfers or recall the funds. Unfortunately Mrs A didnt notify Azimo on any of the three 
occasions that the funds had been sent to the wrong  account  until the funds had been 
credited. For this reason Im satisfied  that Azimo were unable to cancel the transfer 
requests.
But its possible for them to contact the recipient bank to see if the recipient will return  
the funds  and this is something Id expect  them  to do in the circumstances. Im 
surprised that Azimo didnt make  efforts  to do this sooner  around  the 26 April 2019 
when Mrs A first asked them about recalling the funds  and instead waited until the 20 
August 2019 before  approaching their intermediary. I understand that Azimo didnt 
receive a response  from this query   and although  Id expect them  to have  made contact 
sooner, I think its likely theyd have received the same response if theyd contacted  the 
receiving bank at an earlier time.  Once Azimo made contact its for the receiving bank to 
speak with the recipient about  whether theyre prepared  to return  the funds  and 
Azimos involvement ends. For this reason I dont think the delay has impacted on Mrs A 
getting her funds back. 
I realise this will be disappointing  to Mrs A but I wont be asking Azimo to do anything 
further here. 
My final decision
My final decision is I dont  uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before.  23 October  2020.
Jeff Burch
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7871252