K820x#14complaint
Mr B and the legal  representative of the late Mrs B complain because  Mapfre  Asistencia,
Compania Internacional De Seguros y Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) hasnt paid a claim for a
cancelled holiday under their travel  insurance  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs B held an annual travel insurance  policy provided by Mapfre, which  ran from
August 2016 until August 2017.
Mr and Mrs B booked  a holiday while this policy was still in force. They  were  due to travel in
November 2017.
In July 2017, Mr B contacted Mapfre to renew their insurance policy  and answered a number
of medical questions about himself and Mrs Bs health. Mr B told Mapfre  that Mrs B had
been undergoing investigations for abdominal pain but said she hadnt been diagnosed with
anything and was fit to travel.
Mapfre said it wouldnt be able to cover  any claims which were  directly or indirectly related to
Mrs Bs abdominal pain and that it couldnt carry out medical screening for this issue  as
Mrs B hadnt  been diagnosed with anything.
Mr and Mrs Bs second insurance policy was set up to run from August 2017  until August
2018.
Unfortunately Mrs B was diagnosed with a serious  illness a few days  before they were due
to travel,  so they cancelled the trip and made  a claim  under their insurance policy.
Mapfre said the claim wasnt  covered because Mr and Mrs Bs policy had a general
exclusion for claims relating to undiagnosed  medical conditions. Mr and Mrs B disputed this,
as they didnt think the general exclusion which Mapfre  had quoted applied  to the
circumstances of their claim.
Mapfre then said Mr B had been told when he bought  the policy that any claims resulting
from Mrs Bs ongoing investigations  wouldnt be covered. Mr and Mrs B responded to say,
amongst other things,  none of the insurance documentation  referred  to Mrs Bs declared
abdominal pain.
After Mapfre sent a final response  letter  maintaining its position, Mr and Mrs B brought their
complaint to our service. Sadly,  Mrs B has since passed away.
Our investigator looked into what had happened but she didnt think Mapfre had unfairly
declined Mr and Mrs Bs claim. Mr B didnt agree, so the complaint was passed  to me.
I made  my provisional decision about this complaint in October 2019. In it, I said:
Im very sorry to hear about  the sad circumstances surrounding this claim, and Id like to
offer Mr B and his family my condolences  for their loss.
I dont think this claim is covered under Mr and Mrs Bs insurance policy and I hope my
explanation below is helpful  to Mr B in understanding why.
Ref: DRN74258572Mr B has said Mrs B was continually covered by Mapfre since before she first consulted  her
doctor with abdominal pain. However,  although Mr and Mrs Bs holiday was booked while
the first insurance policy was in force, cover under the first insurance policy  ended  in August
2017. The holiday didnt  need to be  and wasnt - cancelled during the period of cover
under the first insurance policy.
The second  insurance policy isnt a continuation of the first insurance  policy   its an entirely
new and separate  annual  contract between Mr and Mrs B and Mapfre.  The cancellation of
the holiday happened while this second  insurance  policy was in force,  so its only this
second insurance policy which is relevant to the claim.
This means  no part of Mr and Mrs Bs claim is covered under the first insurance  policy.
Ive listed to the telephone  calls between  Mr B and Mapfre which  took place in July 2017
when the policy renewed and in October  2017  when Mr B called to query  the cover which
was in place.
I think its clear  during both of these calls that Mr B took great care to make sure he
answered Mapfres questions correctly and told it everything he needed  to. But, equally,  I
think Mapfre was clear  during these  calls that any claims which were directly or indirectly
related to Mrs Bs abdominal pain wouldnt be covered  under the policy.
When Mapfre initially declined the claim,  it relied  on a general exclusion which  says;
We will not cover the following;
1. If you have not declared  your medical conditions..we will not pay claims if at the
   time  you take out this insurance and/or,  prior to the booking of any individual trip,
   the following apply:
a.Any person  insured  on this policy whose condition may give rise to a claim
      and  who:
Is receiving  or waiting for medical tests  or treatment for any condition or set of
symptoms that have not been diagnosed..
As Mr B has correctly  pointed  out, this exclusion refers to situations where a medical
condition has not been declared. Mr B did tell Mapfre about  Mrs Bs abdominal pain.
But Ive also considered the rest of the policy terms and conditions  and page 2 of Mr and
Mrs Bs policy booklet sets out the following important information:
Medical exclusions
If, at the time of purchasing this policy or when  booking  a trip, the following criteria
apply to you or anyone  insured under this policy, you will not be covered for any
claim arising directly or indirectly from that medical  condition:
A Anyone who is receiving or waiting for medical tests or treatment for any medical
condition or set of symptoms that have not been  diagnosed.
Ref: DRN74258573This is the same information which Mr B was given during both of his telephone calls with
Mapfre. I understand Mr B says he didnt have  a written record  of what  was said during the
telephone conversation when he renewed  the policy. But Mapfre  did what  Id expect an
insurer to do - it gave information  to Mr B verbally in a way which I think  was clear and not
misleading.
And, while it may have  been helpful if Mapfre had clarified to Mr B exactly which  section of
the policy it was relying  on when declining  the claim, I think  the medical exclusion which Ive
set out above  is clearly  displayed in the policy  booklet.
The documentation  Mr B received for the second insurance policy refers to other declared
medical conditions  but doesnt mention abdominal  pain. However,  as Mapfre explained in
both telephone conversations with Mr B, this is because  its unable to screen for a medical
condition which has not yet been diagnosed. In the context of the other information given to
Mr and Mrs B by Mapfre, I dont think its misleading that Mrs Bs undiagnosed  condition
wasnt specifically listed as excluded.
Overall, this means I dont  think Mr and Mrs Bs claim is covered under the terms and
conditions of their policy,  and I dont think Mapfre has been unfair or unreasonable by
refusing to pay the claim
Ive taken into account all of Mr Bs comments about the sale of the policy. In my experience
of dealing with complaints  like this, exclusions for undiagnosed medical  conditions  arent
unusual. I think its very unlikely Mr and Mrs B would  have been able to find a travel 
insurance policy elsewhere on the market which would have provided cover  for Mrs Bs 
undiagnosed medical condition.
As a final point, Ive considered what Mr B has said about how Mapfre  handled  the claim. As
Ive already mentioned above,  I think it may have been helpful if Mapfre had clarified with
Mr B exactly  what exclusion it was relying on when corresponding with him. I also note there
was a typographical error in Mapfres final response  letter  it incorrectly  stated Mr B had
been told that claims as a result of ongoing  investigations would be covered. But, because I
dont think Mapfre has acted unfairly in turning down the claim, I dont intend to recommend
that it should do anything further.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold the complaint. 
Mapfre responded to my provisional decision and said it had nothing  further  to add. Mr B 
acknowledged receipt of my provisional  decision and requested an extension  of time to 
respond. The extended deadline has now passed, and Mr B hasnt  provided  a response. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As neither Mapfre nor Mr B have provided any additional comments  or new information, I 
see no reason to change my provisional decision. 
Ref: DRN74258574my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and the legal  
representative of the late Mrs B to accept or reject my decision before 18 January 2020.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7425857