K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Allianz Insurance Plc mis-sold payment protection  insurance  (PPI) to 
Mrs A. Allianz didnt actually sell the policy, but it has taken responsibility for the sale.  So Ill 
refer to it as the seller.  
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out in 1997 alongside a store credit account. 
Mrs A was sold the policy at the same time that she applied for the account in the shop.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  be upheld. Mrs A disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive considered what Mrs A has said, but Ive decided not to uphold her complaint. This is 
because:
 The form, which Mrs A filled in and signed, does set out the PPI as a choice, which  you 
make by ticking a box. As well as the box having a tick, I can see that Mrs As name 
and date of birth has been filled in by hand too, in the PPI section. Mrs A has said that 
she didnt accept  the offer of PPI. However, especially as this took place  about  20 
years ago, I cant be sure how well Mrs A has remembered  the details of what 
happened. And I dont have strong enough  evidence to say Mrs A didnt in fact make 
the choice that the form shows. 
 It doesnt seem that Allianz recommended the PPI as being particularly suitable  for 
Mrs As individual needs. This means  it didnt have to check if the PPI fitted her 
circumstances. It would  have  been for Mrs A to decide  whether it was suitable.
 However Allianz did need to give Mrs A clear  and fair information,  so she could make  
an informed choice.  And Im not sure that it did do this properly  at least  the 
information on the form itself wasnt full enough,  and I dont know what other 
information was given to Mrs A. So Ive thought about  whether  better  information  is 
likely to have made  a difference. But in Mrs As circumstances at the time, even if shed 
been given all the necessary information,  I dont think  its likely to have made a 
difference to whether she tool PPI. I say this because its fairly  likely that the PPI could  
have paid out for longer than her full employer sick pay lasted. And it would have been 
in addition to any employer sick pay or redundancy  pay. Also its not clear she had 
many alternative means to pay her living expenses  and credit  account for long, if she 
lost her income; and even if she did, she could have  kept those in reserve  for longer. 
So the PPI is likely  still to have seemed potentially useful.  Also it doesnt look like shed 
have been affected  by any of the significant  exclusions in the policy.  
Ref: DRN79710402my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7971040