K822xcomplaint
Mr O has complained about how Santander  UK Plc (the bank) maladministered  the process 
of obtaining information from him and then blocked,  unblocked and re-blocked his account. 
background 
Mr O had a business  account with the bank. It remains open, with an unpaid debit balance  
which includes some  interest  and charges, although  Mr Os main business  account is now 
with another bank.
In 2018 the bank had asked Mr O to provide some information regarding his business.  When  
Mr O failed to provide the information the bank required, it blocked Mr Os account, so he 
could no longer use it for the purposes of his business. 
At that point Mr O told the bank hed move his custom  elsewhere. Mr O also complained to 
the bank about how the banks information-gathering process  had been  conducted,  and then 
to the Financial Ombudsman Service. 
Our adjudicator upheld  Mr Os complaint. He concluded the bank had made  mistakes  in 
gathering information from Mr O and recommended the bank should pay him £100 
compensation. 
The parties responded. The bank  thought  it was less blameworthy than the adjudicator  
thought, and it offered to pay £50 instead.  Mr O thought £100 was too little, but he added 
that meanwhile the bank had treated him badly again.
Mr O said the bank,  without telling him, had unblocked his account around mid-October 2018 
which resulted in various direct debits and standing  orders  being paid from the account. This 
led to a substantial  overdraft and interest and charges.
The bank then blocked the account  again in November 2018. 
The adjudicator revised his conclusions and recommended the bank should pay Mr O £250 
instead of £100. He said the bank had failed  to notify Mr O of its intention  to unblock the 
account, and this had led to further, unexpected activity  on the account. However, the 
adjudicator hadnt received from Mr O any evidence the payments werent valid in 
themselves. He added  Mr O was still responsible for repaying the debit balance  on the 
account. 
The bank objected  to paying £250.  It said Mr O should accept a large part of the 
responsibility for the situation, because the account had been unblocked to allow the 
account to be closed and Mr O had still not closed the account. 
Our adjudicator revised his recommended settlement. He thought Mr O hadnt done  enough  
to mitigate the situation (ie Mr O hadnt closed the account) and the bank should  pay him 
£150 instead of £250. He also conveyed to Mr O the banks offer to pay this sum and 
remove the charges  and interest from the account if Mr O closed  his account (by repaying 
the debit balance)  within  21 days.  
Mr O didnt accept that offer within 21 days.  He later offered to settle  the complaint on the 
same terms.  However, while the bank  had decided to refund, and did refund to the account,  
Ref: DRN72952402the charges from October 2018 onwards, it refused to refund the charges for August and 
September 2018. This last point  was unacceptable to Mr O, so the complaint was referred to 
an ombudsman for review. 
While the complaint has been waiting  for review,  the bank agreed not to add any more 
charges to the account. It did, however, mistakenly  issue a default notice, which  Mr O was 
told he could ignore. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive only considered  the complaint about 
information-gathering and blocking. A complaint cant  continue to expand  while  under 
investigation. So I havent for example taken  account of the mistakenly issued default notice. 
It seems  to me there are two main questions for me to consider and decide:
Is £150 fair compensation for what the bank  did wrong? In order  to answer  this 
question, I have to consider, among other things, what  the banks errors were and 
whether Mr O did enough to mitigate the situation.
Should the bank  also refund the account  charges for August and September 2018?  
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr O but Ive decided, like the adjudicator, that £150  is enough  
compensation in this case. The banks errors were as the adjudicator  found them to be  
when it requested information and when it unblocked the account without notice  but while 
they undoubtedly caused Mr O worry and inconvenience, he was aware that the way to 
mitigate the effects was either to provide the information the bank required or to close  the 
account. He did neither.
Regarding the charges, I dont think I should require the bank to do more.  The ombudsman  
service awards two main  types of compensation  for worry and inconvenience,  and 
secondly for financial loss. The latter means  the extent to which  a customer  is left financially 
worse off as a result of errors.  In this case the charges  werent caused by the banks errors.  
They arose because  Mr O chose  to keep his account open. To the extent that Mr O was 
being charged for a blocked  account,  this again could have been avoided  if Mr O had 
provided the information the bank required. 
To be clear, an ombudsman isnt required to tell a bank to honour an offer it has made  to 
settle a complaint if that offer isnt taken  up by the customer (in this case within  21 days). 
And secondly, if as in this case a bank chooses to remove certain charges spontaneously,  
that doesnt mean the ombudsman will require the bank to remove  all charges. 
my final decision
I require Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr O £150 compensation
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.  
Ref: DRN72952403Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7295240