K822xComplaint
Ms W has complained that Red Sands Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited unfairly
increased the cost of her pet insurance policy.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Ms W took out, will continue  to cover any
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if claims are 
made. And that there is no limit to how much the premium could be.
Red Sands  should  have  made these longer-term  cost implications  clear  to Ms W and our 
investigator didnt  think  it had done this. Red Sands has now offered to pay her £950 
compensation for the trouble and upset  shes  been  caused as a result of this.
Ms W hasnt  accepted the offer and asked for an ombudsman to review  the complaint.
I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances  of Ms Ws
Complaint, which  I appreciate may come  as disappointing news  -  Ill explain why.
Its important to be clear that businesses  are entitled to decide how much to charge for the
insurance cover they provide. I dont have the power  to tell a business what its insurance
should cost. I would be, in effect,  determining or telling a business how it should operate 
and thats not my role. So I cant say the cost of Ms Ws policy  was too high, she should 
have been charged less for the policy or that she should be charged  less in the future. 
While Ms Ws premium increased significantly,  I havent seen any evidence  to suggest Red 
Sands has treated her differently to how it would have treated any other policyholder in the 
same position. So I cant tell Red Sands to charge her a lower premium going  forwards.
I know this will be disappointing to Ms W, as that was the outcome  she had been hoping  for.
I understand this situation has caused  Ms W a significant amount  of upset as, due to the
medical conditions  her pet now has, she cant find cover elsewhere.  And shes had to cancel
her Red Sands policy as its become unaffordable  for her.
But the thing Red Sands did wrong was not give Ms W the information she needed  to
understand she could end up in the position she now finds herself  in. Where I find something
has gone wrong, Ill look at whats likely to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer
has lost out.
Ref: DRN77700432Ms W chose  to take out pet insurance, so she wanted some  type of cover for her pet. And 
shes told us she chose  to take out a lifetime policy as she wanted the greater level of cover 
it provided for ongoing conditions. If Ms W hadnt  taken a lifetime policy,  she wouldve either 
had no cover at all, and would  have  had to pay for all her pets treatment herself, or a 
reduced level of cover,  where she would still have  found herself in a situation  where  her 
pets conditions were  no longer covered. So I think its likely she would still have  gone  ahead 
with the lifetime policy, even if shed known the premium could increase significantly in the 
future.
I recognise that its possible Ms W may have gone with a different  provider  offering  a similar
policy. But its impossible to know what policy Ms W would have ended up with. I think  its 
unlikely better information  about the possible future costs of the policy would  have resulted 
in Ms W paying a significantly lower amount, as providers that offer this type of insurance 
tend to operate in a similar  way  taking the same sort of factors  into account when the 
premiums are calculated at renewal.
But I do think better information about the policy wouldve meant that Ms W wasnt so
surprised and upset  when the cost increased significantly  instead  this would have been
something she was aware could  happen  and have prepared for.
I acknowledge what Ms W says about  the premium having reached a level that meant,  along  
with the co-payment and excess, she would have to pay out more than the maximum benefit 
(per condition) was worth to claim the full amount. And I can see why she doesnt  think its 
good value for money, as the likelihood of Ms W claiming more than she was paying  for the 
policy was significantly reduced. To be clear, it would be possible for this to happen  the 
limit is per condition  but I do understand Ms Ws point. 
When Ms W took out the policy  she clearly didnt expect to be in a position where the only 
way she could continue  to have any cover for her pets ongoing conditions  was to continue  
to pay for a policy that she didnt think was good value for money. And better  information  
about the longer-term costs would  have helped her realise this could happen.
The compensation Red Sands has offered recognises that better  information  about the
longer-term costs of the policy could have  avoided some of the trouble and upset Ms W has
experienced. Its not compensation  for any financial loss. And its also not to help cover her 
dogs medical or insurance costs going  forward  although of course  Ms W can use it for that. 
I think the offer fairly compensates Ms W.
My final decision
Red Sands  Insurance Company (Europe) Limiteds offer to pay Ms W £950 compensation is
fair and reasonable and it should now pay this to her.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms W to accept
or reject this decision before 15 January 2021.
Hannah Eykel
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7770043