K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs T complain  that Link Financial Outsourcing Limited is pursuing debt 
unreasonably.
background
In January 2000 Mr and Mrs T took out a bank loan for just under £7,000. In 2002 Mr T 
became ill and after missing a number of repayments a county court judgement  was 
obtained. This ordered them to repay  £2 per month  to repay  the debt of £8,475. In 2004  the 
debt was assigned  to Link and it continued to add interest and by July 2018 they owed 
£22,768.75.
They have complained on several  occasions  and most recently  Link responded to say that it 
was entitled to charge interest and it suggested  they increase their monthly  payments. They 
brought their complaint  to this service where  it was considered by one of our investigators 
who recommended  it be upheld.
She agreed  Link was entitled to charge interest in line with the original agreement, but she 
didnt think it was appropriate to continue to do so. She noted  that Mr and Mrs T had been in 
regular contact with Link to let it know about their situation. The call log shows that they 
called Link several  times  going back in 2011,  2012 and 2013 to let them  know  about their 
financial situation and Mr Ts health.
They told Link they had to sell their house  in May 2011 and as they had no equity  and no 
other assets they were unable to repay the outstanding balance. Later they told Link of Mr 
Ts serious medical condition and that Mrs T was now his full time carer. Subsequent to this 
they kept Link informed of their perilous financial situation living  in rented supported  
accommodation with several carers to help look after Mr T. Over the years they have also 
supplied income  and expenditure details which confirmed their financial difficulties.
She said she didnt  believe Link had responded to Mr and Mrs Ts circumstances positively 
and sympathetically. It had continued to apply interest to the account at a time when the 
consumers circumstances had changed  and they were unable  to work. Furthermore, it was 
unlikely their circumstances would change in the foreseeable  future.  She thought Link should  
stop pursuing the debt and that Mr and Mrs T should  not make any further payments and 
any future action to recover the debt be held indefinitely.
Link didnt agree and said it was prepared  to remove the interest it had charged of 
£14,677.41 leaving an outstanding balance of £8,077.44. It said it would refer Mr and Mrs T 
to its specialist support  team. It also said it would closely monitor the affordability of the 
account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I am somewhat bemused that Link has devoted  so much  time and effort  in pursuing a debt 
that I doubt it will ever collect. The cost of processing the monthly cheques must surely 
exceed the value of those  cheques.
Ref: DRN78265512I appreciate it was entitled to charge interest,  but as I have pointed  out this was a 
meaningless exercise in that it was never going to be paid. I am satisfied that Mr T who is 
now in his mid 70s is seriously  ill and has no assets  with which  to pay the loan. I gather his 
illness was the cause of the loan being defaulted  and has become worse over the years  and 
now he is in assisted accommodation with carers and his wife to support him. 
I find it hard to believe that Link pursuing them for £8,077  rather  than in excess of £22,000 is 
going to make any realistic difference. Indeed its offer to closely monitor their financial status 
seems designed  to apply more pressure  rather than to be sympathetic. I appreciate Mr and 
Mrs T had the use of the money and that they should repay it, but their circumstances have 
changed so radically due to no fault of their own that repayment  is not an option.
Therefore I find myself in agreement with the investigator and I believe Link should  cease  to 
pursue Mr and Mrs T for the debt.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Link Financial Outsourcing 
Limited to stop pursuing Mr and Mrs T for the debt. This means that Mr and Mrs T need 
make no further payments  and any future action to recover  the payments will be held 
indefinitely. Under  the rules of the Financial  Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and 
Mrs T to accept  or reject  my decision before 26 March 2019.
 
 
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7826551