K821x#15complaint
Mrs Ms complaint is about the progress  of the subsidence claim she 
made under her Allianz Insurance Plc home insurance policy. She is 
also unhappy at how much  her premium increased by when it renewed 
following the claim being made  it more than doubled.
background
Mrs M has explained that she moved  into her home  in late 2015.  In 
September 2016 she telephoned her insurance broker as she was 
concerned about  some cracking shed noticed below a window.  The 
broker transferred her to Allianzs claims  line. 
I have listened  to the telephone call Mrs M had with the claims line. I am 
satisfied that she did inform  Allianz of damage  to her home in 
September 2016 and the description she gave of the cracking fits with 
that associated  with subsidence.  However, the person  she spoke to told 
her not to pursue a claim at that time as the cracking  was nothing to 
worry about. She was told that the crack was too small to be subsidence 
 if it had been subsidence  it would  have been  floor to ceiling. When  Mrs 
M asked  if cracks could  start small  and get bigger, she was told no. The 
call handler told her to monitor it for a couple of weeks and to only call 
back if the damage got significantly  worse. 
In the summer of 2017, the cracks had expanded and Mrs M contacted 
Allianz again and a claim  was set up. The property was inspected in 
September 2017 and the surveyor sent Allianz a report in October 2017 
in which it recommended  some  ground investigations be done.  These 
were authorised by Allianz within days  and done shortly  thereafter. 
However, further investigations  were recommended in December 2017, 
including an assessment by a tree specialist. There  appears  to have 
been some miscommunication  at this point  the surveyor was expecting 
separate authorisation for the additional investigations. However, Allianz 
seems to have considered it had authorised  the surveyor  to complete all 
necessary investigations in October 2017, so no additional  authorisation 
was necessary.  This miscommunication came to light and was cleared 
up in February 2018 and the further  investigations were done.
It was then confirmed  the damage to Mrs Ms home was due to a large 
tree drying  out the ground beneath her property. The offending  tree 
Ref: DRN73915542needed to be removed,  but in order to have the tree removed, Allianz 
needed to have evidence for the local council proving the tree was 
causing the damage. Allianz repaired some damaged drains  at Mrs Ms 
property and should  have started  monitoring the cracking  to the property 
in early 2018. However, it didnt  start the monitoring until August 2018. 
Around that time the damage to Mrs Ms home notably deteriorated  and 
plaster fell from the walls in her home. Understandably  Mrs M was 
worried about  this. Unfortunately the part of Allianz that was dealing with 
her claim was closed because it was the weekend. She says she spoke 
to the Allianz home  emergency line and was told it couldnt  help her, but 
she might want to call the fire brigade to ensure it was safe to be in the 
property. So she spoke to the fire brigade  which advised  her that she 
should move out of the property for her own safety until the insurer had 
assessed the situation and confirmed it was safe.  Mrs M has said this 
was difficult for her as she has temperature sensitive medication, which 
she needed to be able to arrange  refrigeration for. Allianz attended the 
property shortly thereafter and reassured  Mrs M that it wasnt  dangerous 
for her to be living there.
In August 2018 Allianz  informed the local council about the damage  to 
Mrs Ms home;  that it was escalating and the cause was the oak tree. It 
put the council on notice  of the need to follow the advice of the tree 
report it enclosed  to allow the property to recover, stabilise and be 
repaired.
Over the following months the area and amount of damage  expanded 
considerably. During  this time Allianz continued to obtain the evidence  
the council needed  to agree to the tree removal. This was eventually  
agreed. Mrs M told us in October 2018 the tree had been removed, but it 
doesnt appear Allianz was aware of this fact until December  2018. 
Allianz continued to monitor the property to ensure removing the tree 
had worked and to establish when  the property had recovered/stabilised 
and repairs could be started. 
In January 2019  the loss adjusters  informed Allianz that the monitoring 
showed the property was recovering and the cracks  were closing. 
Monitoring continued into May 2019. By June 2019 the loss adjuster had 
decided the property could be repaired,  had drawn up a schedule of 
works and put the job out to tender. It informed Allianz of this in early 
August 2018. Allianz  asked for more details about the works that were 
Ref: DRN73915543being done and once received, it gave its approval. It also approved the 
storage costs  for Mrs Ms furniture and contents around the same time. 
So by mid-August  2019 all approvals had been given to allow the repairs 
to start. The loss adjuster then had to find suitable alterative 
accommodation for Mrs M and her son (who  acted as her carer).
Mrs M was moved into alternative accommodation  in October 2019 and 
the repairs were  done over the following weeks. The repairs were 
anticipated to take six weeks when  it was thought Mrs M would be 
staying in her home while they were being done. However,  as she was 
moved to alternative  accommodation  and the contractors  had another 
job cancelled and so had more  workers  available, the repairs only took 
two weeks. 
Mrs M complained twice to Allianz about the lack of progress on her 
claim. In February  2018 Allianz offered her £100  for the delays and 
inconvenience it had caused her. It said that works should proceed as 
soon as possible. As the claim didnt appear to be proceeding, Mrs M 
made another complaint in July 2018. Allianz offered a further £250, 
which she declined. 
Mrs M wasnt satisfied  with Allianz response to her complaints and 
referred the matter  to us. At the same  time she raised  the issue of her 
policy premium increasing so much. As this mater  wasnt  one Allianz 
had previously known about and had the opportunity to address,  it was 
referred to it so it could  do so. 
One of our investigators  considered  the complaint regarding the 
progress of the claim and upheld it. He recommended Allianz increase 
the payment made to Mrs M for the distress and inconvenience she had 
suffered by its poor claim  handling to £600. 
Allianz confirmed  it wouldnt be challenging the investigators opinion 
about the complaint. Mrs M didnt  accept  it. She thought the 
compensation was too low given  what  she had gone through. She asked 
that an ombudsman  consider the complaint. She also raised  concerns  
that following the most recent policy renewal, Allianz had restricted the 
cover to exclude rot of any description. 
Mrs Ms concern about the removal of cover for rot was referred to 
Allianz for consideration in January 2019.  It was asked to investigate this 
Ref: DRN73915544complaint and issue a final response letter alongside  its consideration of 
the pricing complaint Mrs M had made. 
The complaint was responded to on behalf of Allianz. In relation  to the 
price increase on Mrs Ms policy, it was explained that this was because 
it hadnt renewed her existing policy. It had discontinued that product 
and so had given her a different  insurance policy. When  it did so, it 
treated her like a completely new customer for underwriting and pricing 
purposes. The new product provided by Allianz was a specialist  one 
designed for properties that represented  a non-standard risk  this 
would presumably be because Mrs Ms home had suffered from 
subsidence. That was why the policy premium had increased so much. 
In relation to the question of cover  for rot, it said that rot had been 
specifically excluded under  the accidental damage  section of both 
policies. It would  also have been excluded by the general exclusion for 
gradually operating causes. As such, Allianz was satisfied there was no 
difference in the type or level of cover  provided by the two policies. Mrs 
M accepted this was a misunderstanding on her part. 
As agreement couldnt be reached, the complaint was passed  to me to 
consider. We discussed the complaint with Mrs M and Allianz.  It was 
decided that as the repairs  had been  completed and taking into account 
Mrs Ms medical  situation, it would be best for her if I considered the 
service she received from the time she first raised  concerns about 
cracking appearing,  right through  to the start of repair. 
It was intended that the matter of the policy  premium would also be 
included. However, when further  information was requested,  it came  to 
light the policies Mrs M had and currently has are only underwritten by 
Allianz and a different  business  is responsible for the decision to 
discontinue her first policy  and transfer  her onto a more expensive one. 
As such,  we will be dealing with that complaint separately.
I issued my provisional decision  on 21 February  2020. In that document I 
detailed my conclusions and reasons  for reaching them.  Below is an 
excerpt.
During the process of the claim there were at least four different 
members of the loss adjusters  staff who were supervising  the claim. 
Unfortunately, it doesnt  seem the transfer process between members of 
Ref: DRN73915545staff was particularly  efficient  and delays occurred. It would  also seem 
that the loss adjuster didnt  proactively keep  Mrs M informed  of the 
changes and as such she wasted  time trying to contact members of staff 
who were no longer employed and suffered frustration, upset  and 
inconvenience.
Allianz also found  when it upheld the second of Mrs Ms complaints 
about the progress of the claim  that it hadnt effectively  explained  the 
claim process to her. It is also clear  that despite the complaints Mrs M 
made, Allianz didnt keep in touch with her on a regular  basis and she 
had to constantly chase  for updates.  
As for the delays, these are considerable. The longest of the delays was 
at the very beginning of the process  when Allianzs agents  told Mrs M 
not to make a claim. She was told the cracking she described was not 
consistent with subsidence because it wasnt  severe enough, which was 
of course  incorrect.  Had this mistake not happened,  Mrs Ms claim would 
arguably have started moving ten months earlier than it did. There were 
then delays once the claim  had been  registered.  It was around  six weeks  
before the loss adjusters attended the property to complete the initial 
assessment. There were then also delays in reports  being provided,  
authorisation being requested and given   possibly due to confused 
communication  and then a five month delay in the monitoring 
equipment being installed.  
From that point on the timescales dont appear too bad. Monitoring  
would normally be done over a period  of six months for the purposes of 
proving damage  to a council. Fortunately that wasnt necessary, as the 
council removed the tree in October 2018, possibly due to the 
subsidence claims on Mrs Ms neighbours properties. It doesnt  appear 
Allianz was told about this by the council,  however, I dont think that 
slowed matters  down. I say this as it would be usual  for a period  of 
monitoring to be completed after the tree was removed to check that 
removal had worked and to determine  when the property had recovered  
and could  be repaired. 
The loss adjuster  was satisfied the property was stable after the May 
2019 monitoring  results had been received. A schedule  of works  was 
then drawn up, put it out to tender, a contractor  and storage  firm 
selected and Allianz for permission to move ahead.  The permission was 
given within a week. 
Ref: DRN73915546I note the start date for the repairs was meant to be slightly earlier than it 
was, but the delay was caused by difficulties finding suitable 
accommodation for Mrs M. At that point the repairs seem to have been 
completed more quickly than anticipated.
So, overall, I have assessed that there were around 16 months of delays  
from the point Mrs M first spoke to Allianzs  agent in 2016.
Mrs M has said the poor handling of her claim has led to her existing 
medical conditions deteriorating.  She has provided a letter from her GP 
which confirmed the claim  had caused  additional  stresses for Mrs M and 
having to chase up the insurer was specifically mentioned as causing 
some of that stress. It was also confirmed that during  the period of the 
claim Mrs Ms medical situation has deteriorated. 
Having carefully  thought about the circumstances in this case,  I think a 
considerably more substantive  award  than the £350 offered by Allianz is 
merited in this case.  I am minded to require Allianz  to pay Mrs M £2,500 
(less anything  already paid) for the poor service  she received which 
caused upset,  inconvenience and caused her health  to deteriorate. 
Mrs M accepted my provisional decision.
Allianz didnt. It agreed  that wouldnt have been right for its customer not 
to pursue a claim and options ought to have been explained  to Mrs M 
and the decision left to her to make. However, it didnt  agree that the 
claim would have arguably started to move at the time the cracking was 
initially reported. It said its subsidence  expert has told it that cracks can 
occur for many reasons  and a six inch hairline  crack is very minor, but it 
depends where it is and when  it developed. The decision to ask Mrs M 
to monitor the crack  for a couple of weeks and call back  if it worsened 
was probably correct. With that in mind,  it considered  it only caused  six 
months of delays. Whilst it accepted its actions caused  distress and 
inconvenience, it didnt  think £2,500 was warranted, rather the £600 it 
agreed with our investigator was an appropriate 
Ref: DRN73915547my findings
I have considered all the available evidence and arguments from the 
outset, including the further  comments of Allianz, to decide whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint.
Allianz doesnt consider  the time between Mrs M originally reporting the 
damage and her returning to it the following year when that damage  was 
much worse should be taken account of when assessing the delays in 
this case. This is because it was reasonable to ask her to monitor the 
damage for a couple of weeks and only contact it again if the damage  
got worse. 
I have dealt with many  subsidence cases and I have to say this is the 
first time I have seen such an approach suggested. When cracking 
consistent with subsidence damage is reported, given how serious 
subsidence can be, insurers have that damage assessed. Given  Mrs Ms 
description of the damage was entirely consistent with that which would 
commonly be caused by subsidence, I think the only reason for it not 
having been properly assessed was due to the member of staff on the 
claims line being  mistaken in his understanding of what  subsidence 
damage looked  like. 
I would  also comment that the nature of subsidence means that the 
damage usually happens slowly.  It is unlikely that a visual inspection by 
a lay person over a period of just a week or two would garner  any 
notable information.  That is even more  so when the consumer has 
impaired vision.  When cracks are professionally monitored, the 
measurements are taken  down  to fractions of millimetres, which would 
be very difficult  for the naked eye to identify.
As such,  I remain satisfied that but for the mistake by the call handler in 
2016 Mrs Ms claim would have been assessed much earlier and that 
delay should be included in my consideration of the overall handling  of 
the claim.  
Allianz has commented that I have awarded  a compensation amount  
equal to that which Mrs M asked for when  she referred her complaint to 
this service. I am unsure whether this comment indicates  that Allianz has 
concerns I have simply given  Mrs M the amount she wanted. To be clear 
on this matter, I very carefully considered the amount of compensation I 
Ref: DRN73915548awarded, taking into account  of the effect of the delays and poor service 
on Mrs M, as an individual  in her unique circumstances.  
my final decision
My final decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final 
settlement I order  Allianz Insurance Plc to pay Mrs M £2,500 
compensation for the delays, poor service and upset  its handling of her 
claim caused  her. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, 
I am required to Mrs M to accept or reject  my decision before  
10 September 2020.
Derry Baxter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7391554