K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services UK Limited (MBFS) has unfairly  
invoiced her charges after she returned a car at the end of a lease agreement. 
background 
In April 2016 signed a two year lease for a new car. The lease ran from May 2016 until May 
2018 and the mileage  was set at 10,000 per year and 20,000 for the period of the lease. 
As the lease  was coming to an end Miss M looked  into whether she could extend it for a 
further 12 months but found that the monthly rental  had increased and decided this was 
unaffordable as her circumstances had changed.  She made enquiries about  the handing 
back process with MBFS. 
MBFS informed Miss M that she should organise  the car to be inspected and then she could 
choose whether  or not to arrange for any necessary repairs herself before returning the car. 
Miss M asked what would happen  if she couldnt  arrange any repairs before the end of the 
lease and MBFS said the lease could be extended for a short  period. It also said the lease 
could be extended  for up to three  months  if Miss M arranged  to take out a new agreement  
for another  car of the same  make.  
Miss M didnt arrange a new agreement and arrange  for the car to be handed back.
The car was collected in June 2018 and Miss M received an invoice for charges arising from 
missed services, damages to the car and excess mileage. Miss M was also charged an 
additional months rental for the car.  
Miss M complained to MBFS about the charges imposed for the missed services and for the 
additional usage. 
MBFS didnt uphold her complaint. It said that under the agreement the car must be serviced  
in line with the manufacturers published service recommendations which was every  15,000  
miles or every 12 months (whichever occurred first) but no service  history had been returned 
with the car. The charges for missed services had been included in an information  sheet  
provided with the agreement  which set out that £990  could be charged if the service 
requirements werent met. 
MBFS said that the car had been  returned  one month after the end of the lease as Miss M 
had requested a lease  extension so that she could  have  the car inspected  and then arrange 
any necessary repairs  before it was handed  back. It said a rental payment was due for this 
period.
Ref: DRN79252072Miss M was unhappy at MBFSs response  and complained to this service. She said the 
service charge was excessive as a service cost around £150  at a local garage. She also 
said it had been  agreed she could keep  the car while she sourced another  and that thered 
be no charge for this period  but MBFS had then charged her.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that Miss Ms complaint should be upheld. He said that 
the agreement  set out that the car had to be serviced in line with owners  manual supplied  
with the car. And that failure to do so may result in a charge to compensate us for the loss 
we incur as a result of disposal of the vehicle . 
Our adjudicator said the additional information sheet provided with the lease agreement  had 
clearly set out the costs if the service  term wasnt kept to. This had shown there would be an 
approximate charge of £990. This sheet  also explained  that missed  services would be 
charged at the end of the agreement and the exact amount would depend on the length of 
the lease, mileage and condition of the car. Our adjudicator said the £800 Miss M had been 
charged was in line with the information that had been provided to her.
Our adjudicator said hed listened to calls between Miss M and MBFS regarding the handing 
back of the car and a possible extension of the lease. He said he was satisfied that Miss M 
had been told that she would be charged  a pro-rata  daily rate based on her current 
payments if the car wasnt returned in May.  And although our adjudicator accepted  Miss M 
had asked for a quote to extend the lease by a month which wasnt  then provided or acted  
on he didnt think the usage charge had been  unfair.  It had been kept to the rate shed been 
paying under  the lease.
Our adjudicator said that as Miss Ms circumstances had now changed hed expect MBFS to 
discuss with her the repayment options  and set a suitable repayment  plan for the 
outstanding charges.
Miss M said she was disappointed with our adjudicators view about the outstanding service 
charges and asked  for that to be reviewed.
As the parties werent able to agree then the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Miss M says she isnt disputing the charges for the damage to the car and she also hasnt 
asked me to look at the excess mileage costs. She says that the charges for the missed  
services are excessive in light of what a service actually costs.
Ive seen that MBFS has searched  for evidence that the car was serviced during the two 
year lease period  but hasnt found any record that it was. It told Miss M that if she sent in 
evidence of a service it would review  this charge but nothing has been provided.
While I appreciate the £800  charge  is significantly higher than the cost of an actual service 
this is due to the impact  of missing a service  rather than being  based on the cost of having 
one carried out. MBFS says that due to the missing service history it will now have  to sell the 
car at auction rather than keep it. Its likely that an auction sale will result in a loss for MBFS. 
Im also aware that a cars  service  history affects  its value  as a service  is also a record  that 
the car has been  properly maintained. If a car isnt regular serviced then issues can arise in 
Ref: DRN79252073the future  that couldve been prevented. So I think its reasonable that MBFS applies this 
charge to compensate it for the loss it will now incur.
Looking at the lease agreement and the additional information  sheet  I also think its 
reasonable to think that Miss M shouldve been aware that if she didnt provide the service 
history when she returned the car there would be a charge  imposed.  And that this charge 
would be in the region of £900. I cant reasonably  say that this term in the lease agreement 
was unfair  or that Miss M wouldnt have been aware  of it. Its reasonable to expect Miss M to 
have read the leases  terms and conditions.
Ive listened to the calls between Miss M and MBFS. Miss M had originally wanted to extend 
the lease but the monthly costs were greater than shed expected and due to a change  in 
her personal  circumstances not something  she could afford. I understand why she was keen 
not to find herself  without  a car and that she needed  to source another. I can also appreciate 
why she wanted  to keep costs down  by having  any damage found at the cars  inspection 
repaired before  handing  it back.  So I understand why the car wasnt returned at the end of 
the lease in May 2018.
But I think that MBFS was always clear that if the lease was extended there would be a 
charge for that. Miss M was told that for short extensions then the cost would be calculated 
on a pro-rata rate of the monthly payment she was currently  making. Ive seen that MBFS 
applied this calculation  for the extra month  she kept the car and I dont think that was unfair. 
Ive seen she asked  for a quote for an extra month  and MBFS dont appear to have acted on 
that but I dont  think I can reasonably say that failure meant  MBFS shouldnt  charge for that 
extra month. 
I appreciate Miss M must now pay off a large invoice and also finance another  car. And I 
would expect MBFS to take account of her current circumstances and act sympathetically  in 
setting an appropriate  payment plan going  forward.
MBFS says it has put a hold on the account  while Miss Ms complaint was being considered. 
Miss M says theres been an impact on her credit score over this outstanding balance.  
MBFS has asked that she provide evidence that it has caused  any negative  effect  and if 
Miss M wishes  to pursue that further then she would need  to provide this. This isnt 
something Ive looked at as I dont have any evidence of whats  happened and its fair that 
MBFS be able to investigate it first.
So looking  at the evidence Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint. I dont think  MBFS has 
acted unreasonably in sending Miss M an invoice for the missed services, damage  to the 
car, excess mileage and additional usage.
Ref: DRN79252074my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Im not upholding Miss Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 3 October  2019.
Jocelyn Griffith
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7925207