K821x#15Complaint
Mr B complains that Shawbrook Bank Limited refused to let him reject  a faulty vehicle.
Background
In September  2017 Mr B acquired a new van for use in his business. It cost £23,895  which 
was funded by a hire purchase  agreement  and a deposit of £1,000.  Mr B encountered a 
number of problems  with the van which have  been  set out in our adjudicators opinion issued 
in September  2019. I trust both parties will accept there is no need to repeat these here. The 
van broke down on several  occasions  and had to be towed back to the dealer. It has also 
required numerous repairs including fitting a replacement engine.
The majority of repairs have been carried  out under warranty,  but with the vehicle spending 
time in the garage this has had an impact  on Mr Bs business. Some  repairs have been 
deemed to be normal  wear and tear matters such as brake  pads and discs. Mr B has been 
given a courtesy vehicle  for some for the period his has been  in for repair. I would  add that 
by September  2019 the vehicle had covered some 71,000 miles.
Mr B complained, but Shawbrook disputed he was able to rely on the Consumer  Rights Act 
2015 as he used the vehicle for commercial  purposes.  The complaint was brought  to this 
service where it was considered by one of our adjudicators who recommend it be upheld. 
She asked  Shawbrook if it would pay for an independent inspection, but it declined saying 
that the reports from the dealer were  sufficient.
Our adjudicator noted that there were ingoing  problems and at the time she issued her view 
the vehicle had been in for further repairs to dealer with faults to the hill start system, parking 
sensors and gearbox. However, she didnt  think there was sufficient evidence to show  the 
faults were inherent  at the point of sale. But she felt Shawbrook should pay him one months 
rental of £470.20  to reflect the number of times  he had to take the vehicle back to the dealer 
Mr B didnt agree and said he had ongoing  problems with the vehicle which was unreliable. 
He listed the many parts which had broken down and which  had been replaced.  He said he 
hadnt been aware of his rights and had assumed he had to have the vehicle  repaired  under  
warranty. He didnt  think he should be obliged to forfeit his right to reject the vehicle. He also 
pointed out the stress  of having  to rely on a vehicle that might break down at any time. More 
recently he notified this service of yet more faults which were being dealt with under  
warranty. 
Shawbrook reiterated  its view that Mr B wasnt covered by the Consumer Rights  Act 2015 
and he was obliged  to maintain the vehicle and keep it in a good state of repair. 
I issued a provisional decision as follows:
I explained that in considering what is fair and reasonable, I needed to have regard to the 
relevant law and regulations, regulators  rules,  guidance and standards  and codes of 
practice and (where  appropriate) what I consider  to have  been good industry practice at the 
time. 
The finance  agreement, that is the hire purchase  agreement, in this case is a regulated  
consumer credit agreement. As such this service is able to consider complaints relating to it. 
Ref: DRN77750132Shawbrook is also the supplier of the goods under this type of agreement, and responsible 
for a complaint about their quality.
In this case the asset is being used in a business and as such is covered by the Sale of 
Goods Act and the Supply  of Goods and Services Act. The Consumer Credit Act also 
applies to contracts entered into by sole traders and so applies to Mr B. 
Although these are not identical to the Consumer Rights Act 2015,  they do offer protection to 
a business which has acquired an asset which is faulty. The law requires the quality of the 
goods should be satisfactory  and they are held to be so if they meet  the standard  that a 
reasonable person would consider satisfactory taking  into account any description of the 
goods, price and all other  relevant circumstances. So it seems likely that in a case involving 
a car, the other relevant circumstances a court would take into account might  include things 
like the age and the mileage at the time of sale and the vehicles history.
Under the relevant law the quality of the goods  includes their general state and condition and 
other things  like their fitness for purpose, appearance and finish, freedom from minor 
defects, safety, and durability can be aspects  of the quality of the goods.
I said the starting point  with this complaint was to state that it was reasonable to expect  a 
new vehicle to be fault free and to work as designed. This vehicle clearly  hasnt done  so. 
The list of faults  is lengthy and new ones  continue to emerge. I considered  any reasonable 
person would conclude that the vehicle had not performed  as it should have done.
I appreciated Mr B had done a high mileage,  but this is a commercial vehicle and it should 
be capable to cope  with such a level of use. As such  I didnt consider that a reason to accept 
the significant number of faults it has suffered. In any event, a number of problems arose 
within the first few months of it being delivered. It had all the hallmarks  of a rogue vehicle.
The vehicle has had a replacement battery, door seals, wheel bearings, anti-roll  rods an 
ABS sensor, engine,  etc. There is a long list of faults and given Mr B has a reasonable 
expectation of durability from his commercial  vehicle I can appreciate his disappointment at 
its regular failures. He had every  reason  to expect a reliable vehicle to allow him to carry on 
with his business. 
It has been in the garage for many  repairs and while on occasions Mr B has been given a 
suitable courtesy vehicle that has not always been  the case. This has meant he has missed 
out on jobs and I presume he suffered a loss of income.
However, as Mr B has had major repairs carried out I didnt consider that rejection was the 
right way to resolve  this complaint.  However, I believed he did deserve recompense  over 
and above that proposed by our adjudicator.  I considered  there to be three issues which 
needed to be addressed,  first the loss of use of the vehicle, the distress and inconvenience 
caused and the future  lack of protection should any further faults arise. Our adjudicator  
suggested Shaw forgo one months rental, but I considered this should be increased to two. 
Secondly Mr B should be paid £300 for the distress  and inconvenience he has suffered.  
Lastly to ensure Mr B doesnt have to pay for any further faults that may arise Shawbrook  
should arrange and pay for the warranty to be extended to cover  the length  of the finance 
agreement. 
Shawbrook didnt agree  and said it agreed that Mr B wasnt  entitled to reject the car. It said 
the relevant legislation  to take into account was the Supply of Goods (Implied Terms) Act 
Ref: DRN777501331973. Under that it said that any breach was not to be treated as a breach of condition, but 
of warranty. It said this meant Mr B wasnt  entitled to reject  the vehicle.
It disagreed with the proposed redress. It agreed that a number of repairs  have been carried  
out and these have been covered  under  the warranty. However, it said the vehicle was 
nearly three  years old and had covered a substantial number of miles. It said there was no 
fairness or logic in expecting Shawbrook to covers future costs and argued that future 
defects were unlikely  to arise from any inherent  faults. 
It said the agreement  signed by Mr B stated: You expressly agree that we will not be 
obliged to replace the whole or any part of the Goods nor be liable  for any loss including
loss of earnings or profits if the Goods become unusable but this does not affect any rights 
you may have under  the Consumer Rights Act 2015 ." It said the law required any limitation 
of a creditors rights to the extent that exclusion or restriction was reasonable.
It said that it was entirely reasonable  to exclude liability  for a loss of profits  and in any event, 
it had given Mr B a six-month holiday due to the current pandemic. It also said that Mr B may 
well be sub-letting the car to other  business users. It didnt consider that providing  an 
extended warranty was fair since it wasnt aware  that the vehicle would be used extensively  
for business and any faults developing after the initial  warranty period would not have  been  
present at the point of sale.
It didnt consider a refund  of instalments was appropriate as Mr B wasnt  entitled to have his 
loss of profits covered as a result of the agreement he had entered into.
Mr B detailed further issue he had encountered  with the vehicle and asked that he be 
allowed to reject it. It said it was having an impact  on his health and wellbeing.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I have given considerable thought to the arguments put forward  by both parties, but I have 
concluded that my original  decision  should  stand. I will explain why.
Shawbrook has put much effort into its legal arguments especially about  rejection of the 
vehicle. I have not suggested  that rejection should  be required so I will not explore this point 
further, despite me not being in total agreement  with Shawbrooks  analysis.  As for Mrs Bs 
request for rejection  I have reached  my conclusion after considering the use he has had of 
the vehicle and at this point I dont believe rejection is an appropriate  suggestion.
As I have explained above my role is to reach  a decision on the basis  of what is fair and 
reasonable. I take account of the relevant law, but I am not constrained by it. I have to 
consider whether, despite the significant  mileage covered  by Mr B, the vehicle was of 
reasonable quality. In simple terms I consider the answer to be no.
It has broken down frequently and for a new vehicle that is not to be expected. It could be 
said to be a rogue vehicle  which  has been kept going by multiple repairs.  It should have 
been of such a robust quality that it could  cope with the mileage covered. The faults have not 
been mere wear and tear issues and I have  seen no evidence  to show that Mr Bs use of it 
Ref: DRN77750134was the cause of the faults. I have  seen no evidence that Mr B sub-let the vehicle and I dont 
consider that suggestion insinuated  by the business to be relevant.
As I said in my provisional decision the list of faults is lengthy and beyond  what  any fair-
minded person would  consider reasonable. Mr B has tolerated these endless problems and 
has made the best of it. I agree he has had significant use of the vehicle, but that doesnt  
mean it was of acceptable quality. For example, if someone purchased a new house and it 
suffered endless  faults it isnt an appropriate response to say well you carried on living there 
so you have had use of it and the builder isnt responsible for fixing  the problems.
I have not suggested that he be compensated for loss of profits. I have  not asked about his 
profits or what loss, if any, he has suffered. I consider he should be compensated for the 
nuisance of having to have the vehicle off the road and taking the vehicle back and forth to 
have it repaired.  I consider  my recommendation that two payments be refunded  to be a 
modest response to what he has been suffering over the years. I note the business  has been 
supportive during  the pandemic,  but that is separate to the matter  I have to consider in 
addressing Mr Bs complaint. 
On a separate, but related point I considered he has been  through a lengthy and upsetting  
period as a result of the faulty vehicle. This has gone on for some time. For the distress he 
has been caused I consider £300  is fair and again  I believe it be a modest  award.
On the matter of the extended  warranty I am not persuaded by the argument that any future 
faults would  not be related to the state of the vehicle at the point of sale.  As I have said 
above the vehicle has all the hallmarks of being  a rogue one and I expect there  may well be 
future failures of key parts stemming from its build quality. 
Additionally, most warranties do not cover wear  and tear items, or servicing or MOT costs so 
I dont believe a suitable warranty will give Mr B an unfair benefit.  It will simply give him 
some protection against major faults arising  on the vehicle during the course  of the 
agreement. It is arguable  that if Shawbrook consider the vehicle to be of an acceptable 
standard and all the repairs so far have  been  effective then it is unlikely the vehicle will 
require any further  repairs.  It can simply guarantee to cover  the cost of repairing any future 
faults beyond  fair wear  and tear. 
My Final  Decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and I direct Shawbrook  Bank  Limited to:
Refund two monthly  payments
Pay Mr B compensation  of £300
Provide a warranty for the remainder of the life of the agreement  or give a guarantee 
to cover the costs  of any future repairs beyond those due to wear  and tear.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 October   2020.
Ref: DRN77750135Ivor Graham
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7775013