K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that U K Insurance Limited  (UKI) treated him unfairly when  he made a claim 
on his car insurance  policy.
background
In September  2017 Mr S had an accident  in his car. He says that the accident was caused  
when he swerved  to avoid a fox, felt the car pull to the left and, in trying to correct  the 
direction of the car, hit the central reservation.  The accident caused  extensive damage to the 
car including  the front left wheel which had sheared off during the accident. And Mr S thinks  
it was the failure  of this wheel which was the likely  cause of the accident.
Mr S claimed on his insurance  policy with UKI. It assessed the damage and decided the car 
was a write off and agreed a settlement figure with Mr S. In making the settlement payment it 
deducted the excess payable on the policy. And it also reduced  Mr Ss no claims bonus.
Mr S didnt think this was fair. In settling the claim UKI thought that the wheel must have hit 
something at considerable force to have failed in such a way. Mr S didnt agree. He said he 
hadnt hit anything; hed swerved hard to avoid a fox and also suggested that if he had hit 
something with force  the tyre would have burst. Mr S says that the wheel shouldnt have 
failed and it should have been properly tested to check if it was faulty. In making his 
complaint Mr S referred  to an earlier claim hed made with UKI.
Mr Ss car had been repaired following  an earlier accident in October 2016. The repairs were 
carried out as part of a claim hed made with UKI and Mr S complained  that the repairs were  
not carried out satisfactorily.  UKI upheld this complaint. 
Mr S thought  that, as it was accepted the earlier  repairs hadnt  been completed to the 
necessary standard, UKI should have undertaken a thorough test on the failed wheel. And, 
because it didnt, it was unfair for UKI to assume that the earlier repair  problems played no 
part in the accident. So he didnt think it was fair of UKI to assume the accident  was his fault, 
charge him the excess on his policy and reduce his no claims bonus.
UKI didnt  agree. It said its engineers had looked  at the damage  and thought  the wheel failed 
due to impact. And it didnt think there was anything to suggest the wheel was faulty.
Mr S didnt accept this so brought the complaint to us. Our investigator  didnt think  there was 
enough evidence  to say that UKI had acted unfairly  so didnt uphold the complaint. Mr S 
didnt agree and so the complaint has been brought to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked carefully  at the circumstances surrounding the claim Mr S made  following his 
accident in October  2016. From the evidence available, I can see Mr S was unhappy with 
the standard of repairs and complained. UKIs  engineer  inspected  the repairs  and agreed 
they were unsatisfactory. The engineers report Ive seen notes that the front left alloy wheel 
(the wheel that failed in the later accident) and suspension had been replaced.  And Ive also 
seen a copy of the invoice  for the claim which shows that a genuine alloy wheel was ordered  
Ref: DRN71579392as part of the repairs. The report doesnt say there  was anything  wrong  with the repairs  to 
the wheel  but it does  find other aspects of the repairs to be unsatisfactory.  The complaint 
was upheld and Mr S accepted a cash payment from UKI in lieu of these errors.
So I think, on balance,  it was reasonable for UKI to assume that, following the accident  in 
October 2016, it had met its responsibilities  with regard to the claim fully. Its records  showed 
the front left wheel had been  replaced, evidently by an authentic alloy wheel, and it had paid 
Mr S a cash  sum to allow him to undertake the necessary further  repairs. So when  it 
processed this later claim in 2017  I think it was reasonable for it to do so without reference to 
this previous claim.
Ive also looked  at how UKI processed  this later claim following the accident in 2017. When  
Mr S made the claim for the accident,  UKI arranged for its engineer to assess  the damage. 
The purpose of this assessment was to see if the car was repairable or if it was a write  off. It 
wasnt to decide  the cause of the accident. And this is what I would have  expected to 
happen in these circumstances. The engineer decided  the car was a write off and a 
settlement figure was agreed with, and paid to, Mr S. The car was then disposed of by UKI. 
Ive already said I think it was reasonable for UKI to think its responsibilities relating to the 
earlier accident and claim had been fulfilled.  So I can understand why UKI disposed  of the 
car and didnt think it was necessary to undertake any more  detailed tests.  And so I dont  
think UKI acted unreasonably  in the way it dealt with this later claim.
When Mr S complained that the wheel failure might have been related  to the previous repair  
problems, UKI asked its internal engineer and also its area network  controller to investigate.  
They concluded that as they had evidence that the wheel was an authentic  alloy and that it 
had been on the vehicle  for a period of nine months, the wheel most likely failed due to an 
impact and not solely from heavy swerving. They also say that the damage to the wing arch 
supports this probable scenario. 
Mr S doesnt  think these reports are detailed  enough. He says theyre just opinions  based on 
photographic evidence and circumstances. But, as they are the opinions of two experienced 
auto engineers, I dont  think I can reasonably doubt them. So I think, on the evidence  
available, it was reasonable for UKI to conclude the accident was not related to the previous 
repairs. And so I think its also reasonable for it to apply the normal  excess and no clams 
discount terms contained within the policy when  it settled  the claim.
Ive listened to calls that Mr S has made  with this service and I know  he feels that UKI should  
have told him that it didnt  intend to undertake a detailed test on the wheel. He says that 
given the previous problems hed had with the car it was reasonable for him to assume  it 
would thoroughly investigate. And he also says that had it told him of its intentions then he 
could have intervened and arranged  for the more detailed tests  himself. He says that 
opportunity is no longer  available  to him as the car has been destroyed.  And so hes unable  
to take any alternative  action.
I can understand Mr Ss frustration. Hes now unable  to arrange for the failed wheel to be 
tested and so is unable to prove, or disprove, his concerns about  the safety of the wheel. 
But, while I can understand why Mr S may have wanted to have the opportunity to do this, 
Ive already said that I think UKI processed  the claim in a way I would have expected. And 
so I dont think I can fairly say, on balance  and on the evidence Ive seen, that UKI acted 
unreasonably.
Ref: DRN71579393my final decision
For the reasons  stated  above, I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 April 2019.
Ben Castell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7157939