K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that MBNA Limited  (MBNA)  havent upheld a claim he made to them under 
section 75 of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974 (section 75). 
background
Mr S bought a TV from a retailer  Ill call C in November 2016. He complained to C about  it 
in June 2018 as he said the TV had been misrepresented to him and should have come with 
a dongle that would enable him to control other  smart devices in his house  through his TV.
C offered him a partial refund if he returned the TV or £150 in vouchers to enable  him to buy 
a similar  dongle. But Mr S was dissatisfied  with their offer and contacted  MBNA.  He said that 
as hed paid for the TV using a credit  card they provided, he had a like claim against them as 
he had against  the supplier of the TV. He made  a section 75 claim and asked them  to refund 
the full cost of the TV.
MBNA didnt  uphold Mr Ss claim. They said there  was no evidence  that the TV had been 
misrepresented and they thought Cs offer had been  a fair one.
So Mr S referred his complaint to this service and our investigator provided her view. She 
didnt think there was evidence that the TV had been  misrepresented.  She reviewed the 
original advert for the product and could not see that the dongle was included. She also 
thought it fair to suggest that if Mr S had been concerned about the missing dongle he would 
have complained straight away  and not left his complaint for almost  two years. She was not 
persuaded by evidence  Mr S provided of cases that had been  upheld by the courts and the 
retail ombudsman as she explained each case would have different features and adverts  
may have  been  different for the retailers involved. So she didnt think  there  was evidence 
that this TV had been misrepresented to Mr S and she didnt think  MBNA needed to take any 
further action.
But Mr S disagreed and he therefore  asked for a final decision by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I know it will disappoint Mr S but I agree with the investigators view. Please let me explain.
Where the information  Ive got is incomplete,  unclear or contradictory, as some of it is here I 
have to base my decision on the balance of probabilities.
Ive read and considered the whole  file, but Ill concentrate my comments  on what I think  is 
relevant. If I dont comment on any specific point its not because Ive failed to take it on 
board and think about  it but because I dont  think  I need  to comment  on it in order to reach 
what I think is the right outcome. In particular I note that Mr S has referred us to several  
decisions made elsewhere on similar issues. Ive reviewed these but Ive not found them 
persuasive in these circumstances. All cases have different facts and there are often 
different considerations in cases that on the face of it look similar. I think  thats the case  
here.
Ref: DRN76097262When considering  a complaint about a financial  services provider,  Im not determining the 
outcome of a claim that a party might have under section  75. I take section 75 into account 
when I think about  whats a fair way to resolve the complaint but I dont have  to reach the 
same view as, for example, a court might reach if Mr S made a claim through them for 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
When something goes  wrong  and the payment was made, in part or whole, with a credit 
card, as is the case here,  it might  be possible  to recover the money paid through a section 
75 claim. This section  of the Consumer Credit  Act (1974) says that in certain  circumstances, 
the borrower under a credit  agreement has a like right to claim against  the credit  provider as 
against the supplier  if there's  either a breach of contract or misrepresentation by the 
supplier. 
I dont think theres evidence that this TV was misrepresented  because the original advert  
doesnt make it clear that the dongle is supplied  with the TV. I note however, that Mr S says 
he relied on the Tech Talk webpages and that hes supplied  text that may suggest the 
dongle should  have been supplied.
But regardless of whether the TV was misrepresented Id still need to be persuaded that any 
misrepresentation led Mr S to purchase a product he would not have otherwise purchased 
and I dont think thats likely to have been  the case here. I say that because:
Mr S didnt  complain to the retailer until the summer of 2018. About a year a half after 
hed taken receipt of the TV. I think the delay  in making a claim suggests its more  
likely than not that Mr S subsequently  became aware of the issues  and that the 
presence of the dongle  was not an important consideration when he was making his 
choice to buy the TV;
Mr S originally  bought  a TV from another manufacturer  but took it back shortly 
afterwards. He says he was persuaded by C to take this TV instead  of the one he 
eventually purchased. But I think his willingness to initially  accept an alternative 
product, that didnt  have the dongle,  is evidence that the dongle wasnt  likely to be 
what persuaded him to buy. 
So I dont  think theres evidence of misrepresentation  and Im not persuaded that the 
misrepresentation Mr S complains of would have persuaded him to enter into a deal he 
would not otherwise have entered into. So I wont be asking MBNA to take any further 
action.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 2 February  2020.
Phil McMahon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7609726