K822xcomplaint
Miss B complains  that TSB Bank plc incorrectly cancelled her direct debit and she therefore 
incurred fees and charges. She also complains  that it sent her personal  information to a 
wrong address.
background 
Miss B had a number  of TSB accounts, one of which was a credit  card account. She paid the 
latter in full each  month by direct  debit from her account at another  bank (bank  2). In July 
2018 Miss B rang TSB because the direct  debit had been cancelled and she had incurred 
late payment fees and charges. TSB said that it had cancelled Miss Bs direct debit on 
instruction from bank 2 and had therefore  done  nothing wrong. Miss B obtained evidence 
from bank 2 showing that the direct  debit had been cancelled  by TSB. And so she 
complained to TSB about its error, about the charges shed incurred  and about  the fact that it 
had said it would record her missed payment with credit reference  agencies.
Separately, but also in July, Miss B noticed that TSB had changed  her address to a place  
where she had never lived.  She was concerned that her personal data might  have  been  sent 
to a third party and so she rang the bank  and registered another complaint.
Over the following months TSB sent Miss B a series of standard letters.  These  referred to 
the high volume  of complaints the bank was trying  to deal with following its recent systems  
upgrade. As a result it said it might not be able to respond to Miss Bs complaints as quickly  
as it would like. 
In early 2019, and having still not received a substantive response from TSB, Miss B 
complained to us.
Having considered the detail of what had happened here our investigator concluded that 
TSB had made some errors  and that it hadnt treated Miss B fairly.
In summary  our investigator said that TSB had now accepted that it appeared likely that it 
was responsible for the direct  debit cancellation. 
With respect to the incorrect  address TSB believed this must  have  been  human error on the 
banks part as Miss B hadnt informed it of any change of address. But it made the point that 
as most of Miss Bs accounts were paperless,  statements and correspondence would not 
have been posted. Miss Bs credit  card was the exception  and so those statements could 
have been sent to the wrong  address.  But in practice this had affected only the August 2018 
statement because following Miss Bs phone call TSB had blocked all further  postal 
correspondence. However it commented  that if Miss B had been prepared  to provide her 
correct address during her phone call, the bank would have amended the incorrect  one 
immediately. And in all probability that would then have prevented  the August statement 
from being sent to the wrong address. 
In the light of these  events our investigator  recommended that TSB pay Miss B £200;  refund 
any late fees and other  charges incurred on her account by the cancellation  of the direct  
debit and amend  any adverse information  that had been incorrectly  recorded on her credit  
file.
Ref: DRN78262882TSB agreed  to these  recommendations,  but Miss B did not. In particular she believed  the 
bank should pay her compensation of £1 per day for each complaint from the date it 
cancelled her direct debit (25 May 2018) to the date she complained to us (26 January 
2019). She also wanted a personal apology from the bank for its false and repeated  
accusation that she had cancelled the direct debit. And she wanted it to accept full 
responsibility for what had happened and for causing her significant stress and 
inconvenience.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
There seems  to be no dispute that Miss Bs credit card direct debit payment was cancelled 
resulting in a missed  payment  and consequent  charges.  The debate is about where the 
responsibility for this lies. For her part Miss B has said it wasnt her mistake and she has 
produced evidence from bank 2 that the direct debit was cancelled  by TSB. For its part TSB 
says it was informed  by bank 2 that the direct debit had been cancelled  and it therefore  
believes Miss B to have  been responsible. But although TSB has produced an internal note 
recording the cancellation, it hasnt been  able to provide the notification it said it received 
from bank 2. Consequently, TSB has said it is prepared to accept responsibility  for the 
cancellation.
TSB is plainly not convinced that it was at fault,  but in my view it is more  likely than not that it 
was. Miss B paid her credit card in full each month by direct debit. This being  the case  it 
seems to me unlikely  that she would have cancelled  that direct debit, not paid the amount 
outstanding some other way by the due date, but then rung TSB to complain about the 
missed payment. And set against  the backdrop  of the very significant problems TSB was 
experiencing with customers accounts around  that time following its systems  upgrade,  it is 
in my opinion possible  that Miss Bs account  had somehow been caught up in that. 
Around the same time Miss B discovered  from her online account that TSB appeared to 
have changed  her address to one that was incorrect and so she rang the bank. The adviser  
was unable to explain what  had happened and he asked Miss B for her correct address as 
the only one visible to him was the one she claimed  to be incorrect. Miss B refused to 
provide this saying  that TSB already  had it. This produced a stalemate with the adviser  
saying he couldnt  change the address without Miss B providing her correct  one, and Miss B 
asking for an explanation  of what had gone wrong  and refusing to give her address as her 
view was that TSB already had it. She was eventually transferred to the complaints team.
In its complaint response TSB has admitted that it was responsible  for the incorrect address 
it held for Miss B, although it hasnt  been able to explain precisely how this happened other 
than to say it was human error. It has however  pointed out that only one credit card 
statement was sent to the wrong address before correspondence was then blocked. And it 
has sought to place some responsibility  for this on Miss B because she wouldnt provide her 
correct address when  she rang to report the problem. TSB says that if she had done so, its 
adviser would  immediately have amended her address.  But whilst I accept TSBs assertion 
that this is what would have happened, and Miss B plainly did not choose to help herself by 
providing her correct address, this does not excuse the fact that the bank made an error as a 
result of which it sent Miss Bs personal information  to a third party.  This was a serious data 
breach.
Ref: DRN78262883Miss B maintains that the fact that she received letters to her correct  address following her 
complaint means  that TSB always had that address. Miss B may be right in her belief, as 
TSB plainly had her correct address  initially.  But Im afraid that that makes little difference to 
what happened here as the bank also had an incorrect address for her and that was the only 
one visible  to the adviser when Miss B rang to complain. 
Quite understandably Miss B has been very upset about what has taken place, the more so 
because she didnt  receive a reply  from TSB until she complained to us. And TSB doesnt 
appear to have corrected  her address  until March  2019, many months after she first raised 
her complaint. For its part TSB has said that the volume of complaints it received following 
its systems problems has meant  that it has taken longer  than usual to deal with them,  which 
although regrettable  is nevertheless understandable  given the scale of the systems failure.
Miss B has asked for compensation based on the length of time between the incorrect 
cancellation of her direct debit and her complaint to us. But whilst I agree with Miss B that 
that period of time is a relevant factor in that she will no doubt  have  been  under stress 
throughout, Im afraid that having  considered the full circumstances of her complaint I cannot 
reasonably recommend that she be paid the amount she has requested. My judgment is that 
a sum of £200  more appropriately  recompenses Miss B for TSBs service failures in this 
case. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require TSB Bank plc to:
pay Miss B £200;
refund  any late fees and charges,  such as interest, applied  to Miss Bs account 
resulting from the incorrect  cancellation of the direct  debit; and
remove any adverse information  recorded  on Miss Bs credit  file resulting from the 
missed payment.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss B to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 September 2019.
June Brown
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7826288