K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited declined her 
critical illness claim, saying she answered  the questions to the best of her knowledge and 
gave Royal  London  authority to access all her medical records at the time so it should have 
known about her medical check-ups and test results.
background
Royal London rejected her claim on the grounds that it would not have  agreed  to cover 
breast cancer if she had disclosed her full medical  history.
An investigator at this service noted that Mrs B underwent numerous  breast examinations 
between 1996  and 2008, all prompted by lumpiness in her breasts. Despite this, when she 
applied for the policy in 2004 she failed to disclose  the appointments with her doctor  in 
response to a specific question about this issue. She also failed to disclose that shed 
attended a hospital clinic  in August 1999  in response to a question about whether shed 
been to hospital in the past five years. 
The key questions were:  
In the last 5yrs, has the life proposed seen any doctor for any condition not disclosed in 
answer to Ql? Mrs B answered 'no'. Royal London said she should've answered, 'yes' 
because she had seen  her doctor about the lumps in her breast.
 
In the last 5yrs, has the life proposed attended  any hospital or clinic for treatment, 
investigation or periodic  review?
Mrs B also answered 'no' to this question. Royal London said she should've answered 'yes' 
because she had been referred to a breast clinic.
The investigator said that the Consumer  Insurance (Disclosures and Representations) Act 
2012 ("CIDRA") is applicable in these situations, with the law explaining that customers 
should take reasonable care not to make a misrepresentation when applying for insurance. 
And it sets out how insurers should respond  where there has been  a misrepresentation.
In this context, he said the key questions were:
Has there  been  a misrepresentation?
He was satisfied  that Mrs Bs replies were  inaccurate and therefore  there  had been a 
misrepresentation.
Was the misrepresentation  a qualifying one?
i.e. would Royal London have acted any differently had it known that Mrs B had seen her 
doctor about lumps  in her breast,  and that she'd been referred  to a breast clinic when 
applying for the policy.
Royal London says it would have asked for further  information from her doctor, and from the 
breast clinic.  It's said that had it seen that information in 2004,  it would have  applied  an 
exclusion for breast cancer  based on its classification of Mrs B as Risk Grade II.
Ref: DRN79923322But the investigator felt the correct classification would have been Risk Grade I which  does 
not carry an exclusion. So Mrs Bs misrepresentation was not a qualifying  one.
He said that where  a policyholder had misrepresented  their situation on the application  form 
the key issue  was what the provider, Royal London  in this case, would have done if given all 
the relevant information.
He noted that Royal  London  claimed  it would've  applied an exclusion under its underwriting 
guidance for fibro adenomas, which he accepted would have the correct course of action  if 
Mrs B had fibro adenomas - but she didn't.
He said Mrs B underwent  two fine needle aspirations, or biopsies, in 1999 and her GP has 
explained that the histology was normal. She was discharged with no further check-ups 
required, and no diagnosis of fibro adenomas was made.  In 2003, Mrs B again went to see 
her doctor and medical records showed  that one doctor suspected  she had two 'small,  
palpable, benign  feeling lumps' and these were  'probably  fibro adenomas'. She underwent 
mammograms and an ultrasound and these were both normal  - indeed in August  2003 one 
consultant said 'your recent breast  scan was absolutely  normal'.
Royal London said the suspicion in 2003  that Mrs B had fibro adenomas would have  caused  
it to postpone  the start of the policy until she had a biopsy of these lumps. But he didnt 
accept this given  that full investigations had recently  been conducted and no problems were 
identified, no diagnosis  made, and no further treatment prescribed. 
He felt Royal London would've  been  required to apply the guidance  under the fibro adenoma  
section of its underwriting guidance. He also noted  that in 2006 (two years after the start of 
the policy) Mrs B had another triple investigation  which resulted in her doctors  confirming 
that these lumps were  simply  glandular  tissue.  A further biopsy  in 2008 confirmed that the 
lumps in her breast contained 'normal  breast  cells' and Mrs B was reassured  and discharged  
again. 
So, overall, he felt that if Mrs B had answered the two key questions  with a 'yes' - as both 
she and Royal London agree she ought  to have been done - the policy  would've  been 
postponed while GP records  were  obtained.  At this point Royal  London would've obtained 
the biopsy results from 1999 which  Mrs B's GP confirmed were normal.  
He therefore didnt believe Royal London had convincingly  shown that it would've excluded 
breast cancer cover from the policy.
Royal London disagreed, and said:
The investigator focused on two fibro adenomas  but this was never the sole or 
central reason  why it would not have  approved  Miss Bs application
She had an extensive history of breast-related problems  and attended consultations 
12 times between February 1996 and July 2003,  which included  two biopsies and a 
mammogram
This is a relevant  history, not only to the claim, but also to how this policy should 
have been underwritten had this information been known
It still maintains that it would have decided to exclude breast  cancer from this policy 
had it been given the correct information  and the opportunity to make an appropriate  
assessment of her medical issues
Ref: DRN79923323my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the investigator  and for the same reasons. I will therefore not repeat 
all the arguments  he made about  the medical evidence  and the policys terms and 
conditions.
Overall, its accepted that Mrs B made two significant misrepresentations, but I dont  agree  
that these would  on the balance of probabilities  have led to an exclusion.
Ive seen no persuasive evidence that Mrs Bs misrepresentation was deliberate or 
reckless by the criteria laid down in CIDRA  i.e. She (a) knew  that it was untrue or 
misleading, or did not care whether or not it was untrue  or misleading, and (b) knew that the 
matter to which the misrepresentation related was relevant to the insurer, or did not care 
whether or not it was relevant to the insurer.
This guidance also states that it is for the insurer to show that a misrepresentation was 
deliberate or reckless,  and unless this is demonstrated it is to be presumed that the 
misrepresentation was careless.
I note that Mrs B has said she answered the questions to the best of her knowledge, 
implying that any misrepresentation was careless rather  than deliberate. And, crucially, 
Royal London has not disputed this.
I have therefore  assessed this complaint on the basis  that the misrepresentation was 
careless, and implications this has for how Royal London should  have assessed Mrs Bs 
claim.
Royal London has said that if Mrs B had answered the two questions  accurately,  it would  
have sought further information and/or investigations. This is not in dispute.  Both the hospital 
visit/s within the previous  five years and the regular consultations with her doctor would have 
led Royal London to look into Mrs Bs medical history and condition more  fully, thereby 
delaying the start of the policy  at least.
But, for the reasons outlined by the investigator, I have seen no persuasive evidence to 
indicate it would have subsequently not approved Mrs Bs application and without an 
exclusion for breast cancer.
The comments from Royal Londons  underwriters  do not address  how,  and under what 
section, of the guidance they wouldve applied this exclusion. It could not have been applied  
under the fibro adenomas  condition as Mrs B did not have  any. 
Had Royal London been able to investigate Mrs Bs medical condition,  there  is no evidence 
to indicate that it wouldve found  she was suffering from any condition  covered by its terms 
and conditions or underlying guidelines. I therefore do not believe it could reasonably have 
applied an exclusion for breast cancer  when she had no symptoms,  medical  diagnosis,  
history or relevant unresolved or outstanding relevant investigations  yet to be completed. 
Ref: DRN79923324Royal London appears to argue, particularly in its recent comments, that it would have 
applied an exclusion merely because she had undergone a series  of appointments and 
assessments, all of which proved problem-free.  I have not found anything  in its guidance that 
would have allowed  it to do this.
 
Crucially, the lumps were  investigated thoroughly by all methods available. Nothing was 
diagnosed, no problems were found, and Mrs B was discharged each and every time without 
further follow-up required.  The purpose  of the two key questions  was to elicit information 
about potential  conditions that werent  covered by other questions.  She had no condition,  so 
while she shouldve disclosed the clinic appointments, Royal London hasnt  in my 
judgment - been prejudiced by her non-disclosure.
Royal Londons argument that the history of referrals alone wouldve been  enough  to apply 
an exclusion  (something which isnt evidenced  anywhere in the underwriting  guidance 
provided to this service) has no evidential basis and seems manifestly unfair and 
unreasonable. Mrs B followed  advice  given to all women to have regular check-ups if she 
had any concerns. She was also pregnant for part of this time, and consequently there were 
physiological changes which account for some of these  referrals. 
Royal Londons position, in the absence of any condition to apply an exclusion under, 
amounts to penalising Mrs B for regular consultations with, and referrals  by, her GP. I cannot  
agree that this is either fair or reasonable.
Ultimately, I do not accept that Royal London  has provided convincing  evidence that its 
underwriters wouldve ignored the all-clear given by multiple investigations and applied  an 
exclusion, particularly  given the absence  of anything in the underwriting  guidance  to warrant  
such an approach. I am not persuaded that it would not have entered  into the contract or 
varied the terms if the misrepresentation had not occurred.
Royal London has confirmed that it would have  paid out the claim in full but for the alleged 
qualifying misrepresentation.
I therefore instruct Royal London to:
Pay the sum assured
Add 8% simple interest to the sum assured, from the date the claim became payable 
to the date of settlement
Pay a further  £500 to acknowledge the avoidable distress and inconvenience caused  
by incorrectly declining  the claim.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  The Royal London Mutual Insurance Society Limited to 
pay compensation as outlined  above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7992332