K821x#15complaint
Mr K complains that a car that was supplied to him under a conditional sale agreement with 
PCF Credit Limited was misrepresented to him.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr K under  a conditional  sale agreement with PCF Credit that he 
signed in June 2017. He complained to PCF Credit that hed found out that the car was an 
overseas import and hadnt been manufactured  for the UK market. It issued its final 
response in August 2018 but Mr K wasnt satisfied with it so complained  to this service.
The investigator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
the car was an import  but said that Mr K couldve reasonably inspected the car to ascertain 
its history and that he can return the car at the end of the agreement. So she didnt think that 
PCF Credit had done anything wrong.
Mr K has asked  for his complaint to be considered  by an ombudsman.  Hes provided a letter 
from his solicitor which says that court proceedings against the dealer have been issued. 
And he says, in summary, that the car was imported but he wasnt informed of that so the 
car was mis-sold  to him and that hes become aware that the car doesnt have all of the 
features that wouldve  been included on this model of car that was supplied to the UK 
market. And he says that when he asked a dealer about part-exchanging this car he was told 
that because it was imported with a different specification  it would be worth considerably less 
than it otherwise wouldve been.
my provisional decision
After considering all of the evidence, I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr K 
and to PCF Credit on 10 December 2019. In my provisional decision I said as follows:
The car was supplied  to Mr K in June 2017. The conditional sale agreement says 
that the car was first registered in the UK in September 2015 which is confirmed by 
the cars  registration  certificate. The manufacturer says:
I can confirm that your vehicle was manufactured for the [named nationality] 
market; and:
I can advise that this vehicle was built for [named country], and was sold by 
[named dealer] in [named country].
Mr K has provided an invoice which shows that the car was sold in May 2015 by the 
named overseas dealer  to the dealer in the UK that is identified  on the conditional 
sale agreement.  So Im satisfied that the car was imported into the UK and that it 
wasnt manufactured for the UK market.
When it was supplied to Mr K it had UK licence plates, it wasnt  mentioned  that it had 
been imported  and there was no reason for Mr K to be aware  that it had been 
imported. But the dealer  knew that the car had been  imported  and I consider that it 
would be fair and reasonable to expect  it to have told Mr K that the car was imported. 
Ive seen no evidence  to show that it did so. Mr K says that hes found out that the 
car has a different specification to the model  of car that was supplied to the UK 
Ref: DRN71171342market and he says that hes insured the car on the basis that it was originally 
supplied in the UK but hes now concerned that his car may not be properly insured. 
And he says that he wouldnt have agreed for the car to be supplied to him if hed 
known that it was imported. 
I consider that the fact that the car was imported was so significant that it was likely 
to impact Mr Ks buying decision  and I consider that it would be reasonable in these 
circumstances to expect  the dealer to have  told Mr K that the car was imported  and 
that it had a different specification to a car supplied to the UK market. Ive seen no 
evidence to show that Mr K paid a lower price for the car because it was imported 
than he wouldve paid had the car been  supplied to the UK market. But I consider it 
to be reasonable  to conclude that an imported car with a lower specification wouldve  
had a lower value than a car with a higher  specification that was supplied  to the UK 
market. Mr K says that when he asked a dealer about part-exchanging  this car he 
was told that because it was imported with a different specification  it would  be worth 
considerably less than it otherwise wouldve been.  Im persuaded that Mr K has 
suffered a significant  loss of value because the car was imported. And I consider it to 
be more likely than not that Mr K wouldnt have signed the conditional sale 
agreement if hed known  that the car was imported.
I find that it would be fair and reasonable in these circumstances for PCF Credit to 
arrange for the car to be collected from Mr K and to end the conditional sale 
agreement. The invoice for the car shows that its sales price was £53,848.99. It also 
shows that Mr K part-exchanged  his car which had a value of £21,000, that the 
outstanding finance on that car of £13,139.13 was settled and the net part-exchange  
value was £7,860.01. The invoice also shows a deposit of £3,038.98 and that the 
amount to be financed  was £42,950.  I find that it would  be fair and reasonable for 
PCF Credit to refund the £7,860.01 to Mr K and, if the deposit  was paid by Mr K, to 
also refund  £3,038.98 to him (both with interest). In responding to this provisional 
decision I ask PCF Credit  and Mr K to confirm  whether the deposit of £3,038.98 was 
paid by him.
Mr K has been able to use the car so I consider that it would be fair and reasonable 
for PCF Credit to keep  the monthly payments  that Mr Ks made under the agreement  
as payment for that usage. But these events have caused him distress  and 
inconvenience and I find that it would be fair and reasonable for it to pay him £250 to 
compensate him for that distress and inconvenience.
So subject to any further representations by Mr K or PCF Credit, my provisional decision 
was that I was minded to uphold this complaint.
Mr K has accepted my provisional decision and has discontinued his court proceedings so 
that a decision  on this complaint can be issued. PCF Credits solicitors  have responded to 
my provisional decision in detail and say, in summary, that:
theres no evidence  of a misrepresentation by the dealer;
the dealer  accepts  that the car was imported but no assertions were made by it to 
Mr K when the car was supplied to him;
it hasnt been  provided with a copy of the certificate of origin document  that shows 
that the car was imported but it presumes that it was available to Mr K when the car 
was supplied to him;
no evidence has been provided regarding the valuation  of the car  and it suggests 
that Mr K obtains a valuation report for the car which  compares its value if it was a 
Ref: DRN71171343UK sourced car to the actual car and, if there is a reduction, a resolution  may be 
possible regarding the balance to be paid under the agreement; and
the outcome  contained in my provisional decision will leave PCF Credit considerably 
out of pocket without  being able to recoup any losses  from the dealer.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not persuaded that I 
should change  my provisional  decision. 
In my provisional decision I said that Mr K had provided an invoice which showed that the 
car was sold in May 2015 by the named overseas dealer to the dealer in the UK that is 
identified on the conditional sale agreement. That was an error as that invoice was provided 
to this service by PCF Credit in August 2018.  A copy of the invoice has been provided to 
PCF Credits solicitors.  The invoice shows that the car was sold in May 2015 by the named 
overseas dealer to the dealer in the UK that is identified on the conditional sale agreement. 
So I consider that the dealer knew that the car was imported  when it was supplied to 
Mr K  and I dont consider that there  was any reason  for Mr K to be aware that it had been 
imported. So for the reasons set out in my provisional decision, I consider that it would be 
fair and reasonable to expect the dealer to have told Mr K that the car was imported. It didnt  
do so and I consider  that Mr K has suffered a loss as a result.
PCF Credits solicitors  have suggested  that Mr K obtain a valuation report  for the car which  
compares its value  if it was a UK sourced  car to the actual car. Mr K hasnt accepted  that 
suggestion. I consider  it to be more likely  than not that Mr K wouldnt have agreed  for the car 
to be supplied to him if hed been told that it was imported.  So I consider that it would be fair 
and reasonable in these  circumstances for Mr K to return the car to PCF Credit and for the 
agreement to be ended on the basis set out in my provisional decision.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, my decision is that I uphold Mr Ks complaint. And I order 
PCF Credit Limited to:
1.End the conditional  sale agreement  and arrange  for the car to be collected  from Mr K 
 both at no cost to him.
2.Refund to Mr K the net part-exchange value of £7,860.01.
3.Refund to Mr K the deposit of £3,038.98 - if he paid it for the car.
4.Pay interest on the amounts at 2 and 3 above at an annual rate of 8% simple  from 
the date of each  payment to the date of settlement.
5.Pay £250 to Mr K to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience  that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires PCF Credit to deduct tax from the interest  payment 
referred to at 4 above. PCF Credit must give Mr K a certificate showing how much tax its 
deducted if he asks it for one.
Ref: DRN71171344Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 April 2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7117134