K820x#14complaint
Mr R is unhappy about the fees and charges hes incurred  on an overdraft  attached to his 
account with Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax). 
background
Mr R complains about the charges applied to his overdraft  since 2012. He says hes in 
financial difficulties because hes lost his job and hes left with no money to live on once  the 
charges have been applied. 
Mr R complained to Halifax in 2017. They responded  to his complaint and said the charges 
had been applied correctly and in line with the terms and conditions. SO they wouldnt be 
refunding anything. They also let Mr R know the details of other organisations  that could help 
him if he was suffering  with financial difficulties. And they stopped his overdraft charges for a 
month to allow him time to speak  to their customer support  unit.
The adjudicator who looked at Mr Rs complaint didnt uphold it. In summary, she said the 
charges had been applied  correctly and Halifax kept Mr R updated of the changes and each 
time he was charged. She also hadnt seen Mr R had made Halifax  aware  of his financial 
circumstances before raising  the complaint. So she didnt think they should refund anything.
Mr R didnt agree. He said he was left without money because  he lost his job.
As an agreement couldnt  be reached, the complaint has been passed to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with the 
adjudicator for broadly the same reasons. I know this will disappoint  Mr R so Ive explained 
my reasons  further  below.
The Supreme Court ruling in 2009  says that charges cant be challenged  on the basis theyre 
unfair or too high. They can only be challenged if theyve been  applied incorrectly, against 
the terms and conditions of the account.
The terms and conditions  of Mr Rs bank  account set out the charges Halifax can apply if the 
overdraft is used. Ive seen from the statements,  Mr R used his overdraft regularly   and 
therefore Halifax applied  charges. Those charges are in line with the amounts Halifax  were 
entitled to apply. I appreciate Mr R feels the charges are too high, because once theyre 
applied hes left with no money to live on, but the terms on which the account  has been 
provided are clear so I dont think Halifax did anything wrong by applying  the charges.
I accept that Mr R was consistently overdrawn and that Halifax  had a duty to treat him both 
positively and sympathetically if he was experiencing financial hardship. But I cant  see that 
Mr R ever addressed this issue with Halifax directly,  until he complained  in 2017. Therefore, 
I cant fairly hold Halifax responsible for not giving Mr R the relevant support he may have 
needed. I say that because  Mr R would have  needed to tell Halifax  if he was struggling  he 
didnt and so they wouldnt have known  anything was wrong.
Ref: DRN76306112I can see from the bank  statements that the account  was regularly overdrawn but that 
doesnt necessarily  mean  there were financial difficulties as customers manage their 
accounts in different ways. 
Im pleased to see that when Halifax  was made  aware of the extent of Mr Rs financial 
situation, they suspended  charges  for a month to give him the opportunity to speak to the 
relevant department. And they gave him details of external organisations that may be able to 
assist him going forward. Im not aware  if Mr R took up Halifaxs  offer or spoke to the 
external organisations, but Im satisfied Halifax gave him the appropriate information to 
discuss the options available to him.
I know this isnt the decision Mr R was hoping for, but based  on everything Ive seen, I cant  
fairly say Halifax shouldnt have applied the charges or that they applied  them  incorrectly.  
While I appreciate the difficult situation  Mr R has recently found himself  in, banks arent 
always expected  to waive or refund  charges. Theyre expected to treat customers in a 
positive and sympathetic  way and Im satisfied theyve tried to help Mr R since  learning  of his 
situation. I hope Mr R feels  he will now be able to tell them  if he finds  himself  struggling with 
his finances in the future so they can offer him the appropriate support. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2019.
Hayley West
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7630611