K822xcomplaint
Mrs S complains that Home  Retail  Group Card Services Limited (HRG)  is asking her to pay 
for goods she says she didnt receive.  
background 
Mrs S has a store card with HRG that she used to order a mobile phone from a retailer.  She 
says there  was an error with the order and so she reordered the same phone a couple of 
days later.  She says the retailer  told her the original order would be cancelled. 
The following  day, Mrs S tells us a courier delivered a phone  and she signed a delivery 
receipt. However, a couple of months later, Mrs S noticed that shed been  charged for two 
phones, so she contacted  the retailer and HRG to complain. She also contacted the courier  
company to find out what happened.  
HRG said it provided finance to enable Mrs S to purchase goods from the retailer.  So any 
issues with deliveries or refunds would be referred to the retailer.  HRG said there were two 
orders made under two references, both of which were delivered and signed for on the same 
day. 
HRG said it took Mrs S over two months  to raise  her dispute.  It reviewed a letter  from the 
courier company that said it was investigating whether a package  had been returned. And it 
also requested Mrs S provide it with the tracking number for the returned item. But, after 
looking into things, it didnt offer to refund  Mrs S for the phone. 
Mrs S wasnt  happy with HRGs response so brought the complaint to our service to 
consider. Our investigator looked into the complaint and upheld it. The investigator thought 
the evidence relating  to the proof of delivery suggested one parcel  was delivered. He 
reviewed the evidence and spoke to the courier company.  He came to the view that only one 
order had been  signed for. He said that it looked like Mrs Ss signature had been duplicated 
across two orders, and that the delivery  slips show the exact  same  time for the two orders  
suggesting there was only one delivery. 
Our investigator accepted that two orders were generated, but he didnt think  the evidence  
supplied showed  that Mrs S took possession of two phones. So he thought  she should be 
refunded for one of the phones. Ultimately,  our investigator recommended Mrs Ss statement 
balance should  be reworked as if only one phone was ordered, and that if this resulted in a 
credit balance, it should be repaid to Mrs S. He also said her credit  file should be amended 
accordingly.
HRG didnt agree. It highlighted that Mrs S took a long time to raise her complaint despite 
being issued statements  in between. So it didnt  think shed raised her dispute in a timely 
manner. It said the information  provided  by the courier was conflicting. It pointed out the 
courier would only take one signature for delivery  of several items. And it said the tracking 
number Mrs S provided to it didnt  relate  to her order.  
As things  couldnt  be resolved, the case has been passed to me to make a final decision.
Ref: DRN76891112my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs S has a regulated store card agreement with HRG and this service  is able to consider 
complaints relating to these sorts of agreements. Ive considered whether it has acted fairly 
in administering  her account and failing  to remove the cost of one of the phones from her 
agreement. So Ive thought about  whether or not Mrs S ordered  two phones and whether 
she received both of them.  
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive or contradictory, I reach  my decision on the 
balance of probabilities  in other  words,  what I consider is most likely to have happened  in 
light of the available evidence and the wider circumstances.
Ive first thought about the orders. On balance, I think Mrs S did place two orders. She tells 
us she thought the first order didnt go through, but I can see two orders were placed  and 
there are corresponding order numbers. Mrs S tells us she spoke to the retailer when the 
first order  didnt go through and was told it would be cancelled and a new order  placed. Due 
to the time thats passed, the retailer has been  unable to provide us with more details or a 
recording of a call, so I dont know exactly what happened.  But from what I can see, whether 
or not she intended  to, two phones were  ordered. 
Ive thought about the evidence relating to the delivery. Mrs S insists she only received one 
phone. But I can see there are two reference numbers for the two phones and two proof  of 
delivery slips provided by the courier. The two slips say that there is one parcel per order,  
but it seems that Mrs S only signed  once. So Im not sure all of this proves  that Mrs S 
received two orders. Although it looks like the courier did have two orders to be delivered 
that day.
Ive thought about what happened next. Its curious  that it took Mrs S a couple of months  to 
contact HRG about  the complaint. Ideally, she wouldve  noticed  straight  away,  and it 
mightve been easier to track what happened with the relevant parcels. Due to the passage 
of time, it became increasingly difficult to find out what happened  as records  were not kept.  
But again,  I dont  think Mrs Ss delay in contacting HRG proves that two phones were 
delivered to her.  
What I can see is that Mrs S contacted HRG when she says she noticed shed been charged 
for two phones.  She also contacted the retailer and the courier  for help. Her actions and the 
steps she took from that point in time are consistent  with someone who was incorrectly  
charged twice. And from listening  to the calls shes had with our service, its clear that Mrs S 
is very worried  about being  charged  a significant amount of money  for something  she says 
she didnt receive. 
Ref: DRN76891113Ive considered Mrs Ss communication with the courier. The letter Mrs S received from it 
apologises she didnt  receive the order and says the last communication it had on the parcel 
was that it was returning to the retailer. Its not clear exactly what order this relates to 
because theres no tracking  number  on it. But I think  its a key piece of evidence because  it 
shows that the courier likely did return a parcel back to the retailer. Its not proof  that it was 
Mrs Ss order. But if it was, it supports  her account of what happened. And if it was in 
relation to an incorrect order (because Mrs S gave it the wrong  tracking number), it would be 
unusual that another customers order happened to fit into Mrs Ss account of what  
happened including the same dates  and times.  
Ive thought about the communication Mrs S had with the retailer and HRG. Shes  remained 
consistent throughout that only one phone was received. And she sent us evidence of notes 
she made during  telephone calls. Mrs S has noted  down a genuine  advisors name from the 
retailer from when she raised  her complaint. She was given a tracking number that seemed 
to be incorrect. Weve  tried to get a copy of this call, but its not been available, so I dont 
know exactly what was discussed. But Im satisfied that Mrs S did call the retailer  to discuss 
her complaint. Whats  not clear is whether the advisor gave her the wrong tracking number 
or whether Mrs S made a mistake when writing  it down.  But either way, I think  Mrs Ss 
account of what  happened is credible and consistent  with someone who was incorrectly  
charged twice. . 
Ive also thought about whether or not more  could have been done to investigate the matter 
by the retailer  and HRG. The tracking number  Mrs S says she was given was very similar to 
the actual tracking  number I can now see that relates to one of the orders. Unfortunately, the 
courier is now no longer  able to search  its records, but if more was done when Mrs S raised  
her initial complaint, I think wed likely have stronger evidence for what happened one way or 
another. 
As Ive said,  the evidence  here is incomplete. But its my role to decide this case  on the 
balance of probabilities. With the evidence Ive been provided Ill never know  for certain what 
happened to the phone. But I dont think the evidence says the most likely  thing  to have 
happened is that Mrs S received two phones. I think the conflicting evidence  from the courier  
company; the way Mrs S acted when she says she found out about the order;  her consistent 
and credible account of what happened; and the lack of evidence to the contrary  has made 
me decide that, on balance, she didnt receive two phones. 
Therefore, I think the recommendations  by our investigator seem  like a fair way to resolve 
the complaint.  I dont  think its fair that HRG is trying to recover  the money for the first phone. 
So I think Mrs Ss account should  be reworked as if it wasnt ordered. 
Ref: DRN76891114my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. Home Retail Group Card Services  Limited 
should:
Rework Mrs Ss account as if the first phone  had not been  ordered. 
If this results in a credit balance, it should  be paid to Mrs S along with 8% annual 
simple interest* from the date the payment was made to the date of settlement.
Remove all records  relating to the first phone from Mrs Ss credit file. 
*If HRG considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to withhold  income  tax from 
that interest,  it should tell Mrs S how much  its taken off. It should also provide Mrs S with a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 March  2020.  
Simon Wingfield
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7689111