K820x#14complaint
Mr H and Mrs C complain about  poor service from Nationwide Building Society when they 
tried to use its Refer a Friend switching service.
 
background
Mrs C has a current account  with Nationwide and wanted to use the societys Refer  a 
Friend (RAF)  service to recommend a similar  account to Mr H. Payments of £100 each 
would be made  to Mr H and Mrs C if Mr H successfully transferred his current account to 
Nationwide in line with the RAF schemes terms and conditions.
Mr H and Mrs C had difficulty completing the transfer in line with the schemes time limits, so 
they didnt receive  the £100  payments.
Nationwide accepted that some of its service couldve been better when Mr H and Mrs C 
tried to find out what was happening with the transfer, and paid them  £75.
Our investigator didnt  consider Nationwide needed  to do anything  else. He concluded that 
Nationwide had explained  what needed  to be done,  and that despite their best efforts 
Mr H and Mrs C hadnt completed  the second  stage of the transfer  process within the 
schemes time limits. 
Mr H and Mrs C didnt agree with the investigators  conclusions, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr H and Mrs C accept that they didnt manage  to complete the second stage of the transfer 
process within the RAF schemes  time limits.  But they think  its unfair that Nationwide wont 
honour the payments they were  expecting. They  consider  poor information from the society, 
together with its messaging systems, made  it difficult  for them  to do what was required.
The first part of the transfer  process  was completed in branch. Mrs C shouldve  then 
received an email with a link that Mr H could use to complete the second stage and receive 
their payments. I understand, however, that there  was a problem  with Mrs Cs email  account 
so its unlikely she received the required link.
Mr H asked why he and Mrs C hadnt received  their payments in branch, and was given 
website details to use. But Mr H struggled  to access the relevant part of the website because 
the address wasnt  written  clearly enough by Nationwide.
Mr H used Nationwides secure  messaging service  to ask for the link he needed,  and 
expected to receive a reply by email  to Mrs Cs email account.  It seems Nationwide sent the 
required link to Mrs C on 15 February 2019.
But Mr H discovered Mrs Cs email account  wasnt working, so they couldnt access the link. 
He says he contacted Nationwide as soon as he realised, and gave it details of his own 
email address. 
Ref: DRN72719522Nationwide replied to Mr H by secure  message  which  Mr H didnt pick up. Nationwide says 
that when Mr H sent secure  messages,  he didnt  opt to receive replies by email. From the 
evidence provided,  I cant  safely  say whether Mr H did select the email  option.
But even if Mr H had selected the email option,  I dont think  I can safely say that the steps 
required for a successful account  transfer  couldve been completed within the RAF schemes 
ninety day deadline.  Thats because when Mr H contacted Nationwide  on 19 February  2019,  
there was only one day left of the ninety day timeframe.  
Nationwide replied to Mr Hs message promptly and told him his message had been passed 
to the switching team. It said that team would  aim to reply within five working days.  I dont 
think thats unreasonable, given that Nationwide had already sent the required link to 
Mr H and Mrs C  albeit to an email  account that wasnt working. 
By the time the switching  team contacted Mr H the ninety day period had expired. On 
balance I think that wouldve  been the case whether  Nationwide contacted  Mr H by email  or 
secure message.  
I appreciate Mr H and Mrs C say they werent  told about the RAF schemes deadline for 
completing the transfer when they started the switching process.  Nationwide  accepted  it may 
not have given them the relevant details and paid £50 in recognition  of this.
It also paid £25 for the inconvenience Mr H experienced when Nationwides unclear  
information meant he had difficulty accessing the relevant part of the societys website.
I think the compensation Nationwide  has paid is fair. But overall,  Im not persuaded that the 
society is responsible  for Mr H and Mrs C not being  able to complete the transfer  process 
within the RAF schemes timescales.  So I dont consider Nationwide  needs to do anything 
else.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 November  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7271952