K822xcomplaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  about their investment in a target return portfolio managed by 
Aberdeen Standard Capital Limited (ASC).
background 
In December 2014, Mr and Mrs M invested  £572,054.08 into a target return portfolio
provided by Standard Life Wealth,  now ASC. Mr and Mrs M complain that ASC consistently
failed to achieve the target return.  In July 2018,  Mr and Mrs M surrendered  their investment
and transferred to a new provider, due to ASCs  inability  to reverse  the downward  trend in
performance. Mr and Mrs M point to a comparable investment, with another  provider that
performed significantly  better at the same  time.  They raised concern that the deterioration in
performance appeared to be linked to the timeline of a merger. Mr and Mrs M feel they have
been overcharged fees for consistent underperformance  and suggest  they were  exposed to
more risk than was appropriate for medium low investors. They  also raised concern about
the Strategic Investment  Allocation (SIA) Fund, forming  around a third of the portfolio,
which declined significantly over the period of their investment.
ASC acknowledge  that the portfolio underperformed, which theyve  said was largely due to a
number of unexpected economic scenarios. Despite using their best insight and views over
how they believed  the worlds financial markets  would play out, no guarantee was given that
these strategies would  be successful.  ASC say their investment  strategy did not change  as a
result of the merger. ASC say the SIA fund needs  to be considered  in the context of the
portfolio overall  as it is not standalone product. It played a critical role in managing risk
across the portfolio and its purpose  was to give protection against volatility. ASC maintained
that they werent responsible for investment suitability and their role was limited to managing
the portfolio within  the parameters of an agreed  mandate, which  they believe they did.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and decided not to uphold  it. He thought ASCs
assessment of Mr and Mrs M attitude  to risk was reasonable and the make-up of the
portfolio was broadly appropriate,  broken down as 51% equities,  16% bonds  and 33% in the
SIA fund. Our investigator noted there was a higher amount  of equities than would be
considered suitable for a medium low risk investor  but thought the strategies within  the SIA
fund to increase  diversification and reduce risk were  suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs. He
also considered  that performance of the SIA fund was comparable to other  hedge  funds.
Whilst a benefit  from an increase  in US interest  rates and certain currency changes  did not
materialise, the failure  of the fund managers predictions alone was not indicative of
mismanagement. Overall, he considered that the portfolio had been  managed  in line with the
mandate and it was appropriate for the fees to have been paid. Our investigator considered
Mr and Mrs Ms comments about  better  performance of a bond  with another  provider but
said no meaningful  comparison  could be made  as it may well be that different strategies
were deployed  within that bond.
Mr and Mrs M disagree with the view.  They say ASC should be held accountable for
consistent poor performance of the portfolio. They feel strongly that the SIA fund was
incompetently managed.  Whilst they had intended  to invest for the longer term, they felt
compelled to follow  their independent financial advisers (IFAs) advice to transfer the
investment given the lack of reversal of the downward trend. They seek compensation for
the losses they have sustained.
Having considered the view, ASC say that the SIA fund was an authorised UCITS fund,  not
Ref: DRN73675772a hedge fund,  albeit some  hedging  strategies were used within  it. Theyve now conceded
that they assessed Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk and they were responsible for assessing
suitability of the portfolio at the outset and on an ongoing basis  up to 5 April 2017, when that
responsibility was transferred to Mr and Mrs Ms IFA.
I wrote  a provisional decision in January, provisionally upholding the complaint, in which  I 
said: Mr and Mrs M had £1,400,000 from the sale of a business, which had been invested in 
a corporate bond over a 3-5 year period.  They split these funds, retaining around £250,000  
in cash, £572,054 was invested with ASC and the balance was invested in a cautious with
profits bond  with a different provider. It was common ground  that Mr and Mrs Ms IFA
recommended ASC to provide a discretionary fund management  service solution, but
assessment of Mr and Mrs Ms attitude  to risk and the suitability of the eventual  portfolio
recommended fell to ASC.
attitude to risk
ASC assessed  Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk, completing their own fact-finding
questionnaire.
I looked at the documents completed at the time.  They showed that whilst Mr and Mrs M
had a substantial  amount  to invest, they had only a basic understanding of equities, bonds
and complex investments.  They had some indirect investment experience but overall  their
experience was limited.  The response to questions showed they were relatively cautious in
relation to risk. Initially indicating a lower tolerance to risk, as seen by the provisional
markings on the questionnaire. They altered their responses slightly after talking to an ACS
adviser. ASCs notes record that Mr and Mrs M were looking  for a steady return with more
limited fluctuations relative  to equity markets. Their  capacity  for loss was 10-20%  of the
overall investment.
ASC assessed  Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk as medium low, where:
You are prepared to accept a moderate amount of risk over your time horizon. You want  to
protect the value of your investments but you want them  to grow as well. Under  normal
circumstances you would  not expect your investments  to fall and rise sharply in value. You
accept that in the longer  term, a higher  level of risk might result  in higher returns. 
I think that assessment  was broadly  in line with the level of risk exposure  Mr and Mrs M were
comfortable with and theres nothing to suggest  that they were unhappy with that
assessment at the time.
suitability
Mr and Mrs Ms objective was decumulation. They were looking  to take annual withdrawals
of £22,800 to support their pension income, so as to be able to maintain their standard  of
living. They  sought  a steady income  with minimal  depletion of capital.
On this occasion, responsibility for assessing  suitability  of the investment fell to ASC,  it was
for them to map the type of portfolio  recommended to Mr and Mrs Ms requirements. They 
used a bespoke  model to select  the portfolio appropriate for Mr and Mrs M as medium  low 
risk investors, recommending a target return portfolio, with a target  return  of Libor + 3.25%. 
ASC expressly conceded that they remained responsible for the ongoing suitability of the 
portfolio up to 5 April 2017,  when Mr and Mrs Ms IFA took over assessment of ongoing 
Ref: DRN73675773suitability. From this point ASC said they responsible for managing the portfolio within  the 
agreed mandate.
Mr and Mrs M invested £524,454.08 into an international bond and £23,800 each into ISAs.
The original  proposal  said the portfolio would be made up of equities and fixed interest  funds
in addition to the SIA fund to provide alternative diversification. The example allocation
suggested 15.8% in bonds, 50.5% in equities, 32.7% in the SIA fund and 1% in cash.
The split of assets was as follows as at 2015,  47.8%-56.5% equities,  15.2%-15.8%  bonds
and 34%-35.5% SIA fund.
ASC said that the portfolio did not have a significant equity exposure and the strategies 
within the SIA fund significantly reduced the net equity exposure. The purpose of the fund 
being to counterbalance  the portfolio so that when more traditional  investments werent  
performing, volatility was reduced. The proposal said,  we combine the SIA fund with other 
funds in your portfolio  this aims to reduce the overall volatility  of the portfolio and smooth  
investment returns,  regardless of the direction of markets and economic conditions. The SIA 
fund was held out as a safety  net, effectively protecting against  poor performance  of the 
stock market and fixed  interest investments, by hedging against the equity exposure.  It was 
used to bring diversity  into the portfolio. Whilst it shouldnt be viewed  in isolation, it did 
represent a significant proportion of the overall sum was invested, namely, over a third.
The fund itself used  strategies such as: currency pairing, investment in other  stock  markets
(Global and European equities) and property (examples including  the Global Real Estate
Investment Trusts). ASC employed short positions  in equities as well as use of derivatives
too. This resulted in the overall makeup of the portfolio being different to a conventional
multi-asset portfolio.
One of the key strategies  within the SIA fund was the use of hedging. ASC have said that
the SIA fund wasnt a hedge  fund but a UCITS fund, only available  to retail  consumers
through ASC.  I didnt  think it made  a difference  to the outcome of this complaint to define
the SIA fund. Instead, I was satisfied that the use of leverage and hedging were strategies
used by fund managers and this was confirmed by ASCs own reports  as to how the SIA 
fund affected the equity  allocation and in its own descriptions about the fund. For example, 
page 19 of the original  proposal, the SIA fund was defined as a:
.. unique  proposition  designed to reduce volatility with clients  portfolios.  The fund uses
derivative positions  to make uncorrelated investments and hedge certain underlying risks
within the portfolios.  These strategies are usually only available  to institutional investors."
In the managers  report from December 2014, it said,
.. we have  a number  of relative equity trades, seeking to play one market against  another,
for instance German v French equities..  . our strategy of being positive on Japanese versus
South Korean equities has proven to be profitable."
The nature of the hedging strategies used in the SIA fund meant that when traditional assets
performed well, the SIA fund was likely to underperform.  This was also addressed  in the
managers report from 2016, which commented  as follows:
We are hedging  meaningful amounts  of market risk at the moment, the SIA fund has
experienced heavy losses,  as equity  markets have rallied, sterling  has fallen and foreign
currencies have rallied. This is because the fund has essentially been  carrying short equity
Ref: DRN73675774and foreign currency positions."
Mr and Mrs M didnt  take up the offer of review meetings in 2015 and 2016. There  was 
nothing to show any separate  consideration or discussion  about  the suitability of the portfolio  
or the risk with the SIA fund until a review took place in January 2017,  at which it was 
recorded that nothing material had changed  and the portfolio remained suitable  for Mr and 
Mrs Ms needs. (ASC again expressly recording that they were  providing "investment 
suitability for this client.") However, embedded at page 34 of the review presentation of 
2017, ASC said of the SIA fund,
The fund is designed to generate an absolute return when viewed with other  assets in the
clients portfolio. As a result,  if other  assets are performing well, this fund may not produce a
positive return.
The use of derivatives in the fund may result in increased volatility in the funds price.
Due to the leveraged nature of derivatives, gains and losses can be greater than associated
with traditional investment  instruments.
The fund will have the ability to hold short derivative  positions. This means  that the fund will
not necessarily follow  market trends, i.e. if stock markets rise the fund may not do so at the
same rate or at all."
Despite the apparent highlighting of risk with the SIA fund (this being different to the
information provided in the initial proposal) there  was nothing  to show that this was drawn to
Mr and Mrs Ms attention at the time.
Indeed, it was clear  that Mr and Mrs M did not understand  the interplay of the SIA fund with
other assets within the portfolio as they expressly  requested, via their IFA, an explanation  for 
ongoing poor performance  within  the SIA fund in 2018. In an email response, ASC explained 
the risk that underperformance in the SIA fund could impact gains made in the balance of 
the portfolio. ASC said the fund had fallen in value partly due to the fact that stock markets 
had risen and the SIA fund had taken  a defensive hedging position.. . that does mean that 
the portfolio doesnt profit  as much when  stock markets rise a lot as the SIA fund may act as 
a drag as some of it might  be hedging the market risk.  They went  onto say, what is 
important is that the two concepts dont cancel each  other out and not result in no profit  at 
all."
I was not satisfied that the impact of this material risk was given proper consideration in the
context of the needs of these particular consumers. There was nothing  to show that this was
explained to Mr and Mrs M at the time the recommendation was made. Mr and Mrs M would
not have understood that any upturn in the market would be offset by falls in the hedged
assets. That was relevant  because Mr and Mrs M had a basic  understanding  of investments,
they werent sophisticated investors and it was unclear why they needed this relatively  
unusual product, where a third of the portfolio used strategies that were generally only 
available to institutional  investors. I hadnt seen anything that showed Mr and Mrs M 
understood how the portfolio, in particular the SIA fund,  was going to work in practice. If the 
predictions made by ASC didnt work  out, Mr and Mrs M stood exposed  to all of the equity, 
currency and interest  rate risk in the SIA fund and in the rest of the portfolio. They were 
potentially more at risk in an upturn than if theyd  been invested in a conventional lower risk 
portfolio. Moreover,  there was nothing to show that ASC considered or even discussed more  
traditional portfolios  given  Mr and Mrs Ms relatively low attitude to risk.
Ref: DRN73675775The breakdown of assets in 2015 fluctuated around 47% to 56% in equities, 15.2% to 15.8%
in bonds and 34%-35.5%  in the SIA fund. Our investigator suggested that the equity
exposure was above the level of risk Mr and Mrs M had wanted to take.  Whilst I understood
that ASC intended to reduce the net equity  exposure through  use of the hedging strategies,
that was predicated on the assumption the strategies would work. The counterbalance to the
equity risk was all in derivatives and complex  cross-market positions. If the predictions failed,
the risk exposure across the portfolio was higher. I was not satisfied that Mr and Mrs M
understood the complexity of the portfolio and the reliance on ASCs investment managers
making the right market  calls.
Looking at the portfolio in the round  and taking into account the particular circumstances and
experience of Mr and Mrs M, it was my view that they were exposed to more risk than they
were willing to take. I considered that the recommendation was unsuitable for them. That 
was not to say that this target return portfolio wouldnt be suitable for other investors with 
different circumstances, my findings in this matter  relate to the particular facts of this 
complaint.
ASC retained responsibility for the ongoing  assessment of suitability until April 2017, when
this role moved to Mr and Mrs Ms IFA and an adviser agreement was signed. Up to April
2017, the split of assets remained relatively similar as shown in the quarterly reports  and
ASC continued  to hold out that the portfolio was suitable for Mr and Mrs Ms needs.
From April 2017, ASC were responsible only for the discretionary management of the
portfolio within  the mandate.
From April 2017 to date of transfer,  it appeared that ASC continued  to manage the portfolio
roughly within  the parameters agreed  with around  35% of portfolio being  within  the SIA fund.
The objective remained  decumulation. During  this time ASC remained  open with
Mr and Mrs M and their IFA about  the strategies deployed within the SIA fund.  Both the IFA
and Mr and Mrs M were  able to track performance of the portfolio through  accessing  an
online portal, they also received quarterly reports and had regular reviews.  It was for the IFA
to advise on suitability  from April 2017 and I noted that a transfer was recommended in July
2018.
Performance
It was conceded  by ASC that the portfolio underperformed and the target wasnt  met. In
particular, the SIA fund performed poorly,  which had a negative  impact on other  gains made.
Whilst ASC had acknowledged that this performance was disappointing  and that some  of
the strategies  they deployed  werent successful, they said that no guarantees were  made
about performance. This service  doesnt  normally become involved in disputes about the
legitimate exercise  of commercial judgement unless theres reason to believe there had
been mismanagement.
I did not underestimate Mr and Mrs Ms disappointment with performance  of the portfolio but
there was nothing to show that it was mismanaged. Rather, the fund managers predictions
failed, but there was nothing to show that they didnt act in good faith or were  negligent  when
making the predictions. The risk of this failure  leading to the subsequent drag effect of the
SIA fund was inherent in the structure  of the portfolio provided.
Fees
Ref: DRN73675776Whilst Mr and Mrs M didnt receive  the return theyd  been hoping for, I didnt  think it was fair
and reasonable to refund any fees.  ASC continued  to manage the portfolio and I was mindful
that Mr and Mrs M would  have paid fees for a discretionary managed  service  from another
provider even if they had invested  differently.
Putting things right
In light of the above findings, the correct starting  point was that the recommendation to 
invest in this particular  target return portfolio shouldnt have been made at all. I thought that if 
a suitable recommendation had been given,  it was likely that Mr and Mrs M would have 
invested £572,054.08 differently.
I considered that Mr and Mrs M wanted  to achieve a return on their investment, but as
they were intending  to draw income  on a regular basis,  maintaining  their capital  was also
important to them.
It was not possible  to say precisely what Mr and Mrs M would have done differently. But I 
was satisfied that what I had set out below was fair and reasonable given their 
circumstances and objectives when they invested. I capped the timeframe to 5 April 2017,  as 
from this point ongoing suitability for the investment rested with the IFA.
So, ASC should  make an assessment in respect of the whole £572,054.08 invested:
Compare the performance of Mr and Mrs Ms investment with that of the benchmark  shown 
below and pay the difference between the fair value  and the actual value of the investment. 
If the actual  value is greater than the fair value, no compensation is payable.
Provide the details of the calculation in a clear,  simple format.
Income tax may be payable on any interest awarded.
investment 
namestatus Benchmarkfrom (start 
date)to (end 
date)additional  
growth
Target 
Return 
Portfoliotransferredfor half the 
investment: 
FTSE UK 
Private 
Investors  
Income Total 
Return Index; 
for the other 
half: average 
rate from 
fixed rate 
bondsdate the 
funds were 
paid into the 
Target 
Return 
Portfolio5 April 2017compensation 
amount  at the 
end date to be 
brought up to 
the date of my 
final decision 
using the 
same 
benchmark
If any compensation including the additional  growth at the benchmark  isnt paid to 
Ref: DRN73675777Mr and Mrs M within 28 days of ASCs  receipt of their acceptance  of my final decision, it will 
attract further interest at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date of that decision to the 
date it is paid.
actual value
This means  the actual amount paid from the investment at the end date.
fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return
using the benchmark.
To arrive at the fair value when using the fixed rate bonds as the benchmark,  you should  use
the monthly average rate for the fixed rate bonds  with 12 to 17 months maturity as published
by the Bank of England.  The rate for each month is that shown as at the end of the previous
month. Apply those  rates to the investment on an annually compounded  basis.
Any additional sum paid into the investment  should be added to the fair value calculation
from the point in time when it was actually paid in.
Any withdrawal, income or other payment out of the investments should be deducted from
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the
calculation from that point on.
If there are a large number of regular  payments,  to keep  calculations simpler, I will accept if
ASC total all those  payments  and deduct  that figure  at the end instead of deducting
periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
I have chosen  this method of compensation because:
 Mr and Mrs Ms objective  was decumulation so some growth  with a small risk to their
capital was important  to them.
 The average rate for the fixed rate bonds would be a fair measure for someone who
wanted to achieve a reasonable  return  without  risk to their capital.
 The FTSE UK Private Investors Income total return index (prior to 1 March 2017,  the
FTSE WMA Stock Market Income total return index) is a mix of diversified indices
representing different  asset classes, mainly UK equities and government bonds. It
would be a fair measure  for someone  who was prepared  to take some risk to get a
higher return.
 I considered that Mr and Mrs Ms risk profile was in between, in the sense that they were
prepared to take a small  level of risk to attain their investment objectives. So, the
50/50 combination  would reasonably put Mr and Mrs M into that position.  It does  not
mean that Mr and Mrs M would have  invested  50% of their money in a fixed rate bond
and 50% in some kind of index tracker fund. Rather, I considered this a reasonable
compromise that broadly reflects the sort of return Mr and Mrs M could have obtained
from investments suited to their objective and risk attitude.
Ref: DRN73675778 I capped  ASCs responsibility at the point where responsibility for the investment
suitability transferred to Mr and Mrs Ms IFA.
The parties have  now responded  to my provisional decision. Mr and Mrs M accept it but ASC 
disagree. Theyve said:
i. Mr and Mrs Ms adviser  recommended  investment  with ASC. ASC never 
recommended Mr and Mrs M to invest in a particular DFM solution;
ii. Mr and Mrs Ms investment experience was taken into account.  Basic 
knowledge, in itself, would not be a reason not to proceed with a discretionary 
investment manager or a target return portfolio;
iii. The assessment  of Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk was correct and the 
performance of the strategy was in line with their capacity for loss. The 
portfolio was managed within the mandate;
iv. The proposal and presentation  provided significant information about  the 
portfolio and SIA fund;
v. Conventional portfolios were addressed in the presentation pack  before ASC 
had assessed  Mr and Mrs Ms attitude  to risk;
vi. The investment  strategy  was different  from a conventional style portfolio, this 
did not necessarily  mean  that the strategy exposed  investors to more  
investment risk.
Ive now reconsidered  everything to reach a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
ASC say that the IFA made the recommendation to select and invest  in a discretionary 
managed fund with ASC and an adviser  fee was paid. They were not giving a 
recommendation and were not authorised to do so. But, ASC accept that in this instance 
they were responsible for assessing suitability as the discretionary investment manager  and 
considered whether they, could manage  a suitable investment solution to meet  the clients 
objectives, during the period 2014-2017. They went on to say:
Where ASC is responsible, this involves understanding a clients  investment requirements, 
financial situation, attitude to risk, investment  time line and knowledge and experience to 
ascertain their investment objectives and risk profile to enable us to determine if we can 
provide a suitable investment solution to meet their requirements. Regardless of the 
arrangement, ASC is responsible for ensuring that the underlying investments within the 
strategy (in this case, the selected Target  Return  Medium-Low risk strategy) are suitable for 
the agreed investment mandate and that we continue to manage the assets in accordance 
with this. . . 
Ref: DRN73675779For Mr and Mrs M, XX was the clients financial adviser throughout the entire period referred 
to. This responsibility included advice relating to the clients wider financial circumstances 
and the initial advice in 2014  to invest a portion of the clients assets  with a discretionary 
investment manager.   . .
ASCs meeting notes  of 16 December 2014,  record that Mr and Mrs M had an IFA but, SLW  
have assessed  investment  suitability in accordance with investment  objectives. ASC did not 
tick the box, which said the IFA had taken full responsibility for investment suitability. 
Further, it was recorded that the IFA, prefers SLW  take responsibility for assessing the 
suitability of the risk profile for the client, and as such I have used  our full risk profile as SLW 
are assessing risk, not the IFA. In response to the provisional decision,  ASC say that 
following assessment  of Mr and Mrs Ms objectives  and attitude to risk, a target return  
portfolio was selected for them. Once  the IFA made a recommendation to invest  with ASC 
as the discretionary  investment  manager,  the mantel then passed to ASC to assess 
Mr and Mrs Ms attitude to risk and to recommend a suitable solution.  The focus of my 
decision therefore remains whether the solution recommended by ASC was suitable for 
Mr and Mrs Ms needs. 
ASC say that Mr and Mrs M had sufficient  experience to understand the recommendation for 
this particular solution because Mr M had invested  in a similar fund as part of his pension. 
Theres nothing to show that a discussion took place around Mr Ms understanding  of the 
GARS fund in his pension and Im mindful that Mr and Mrs Ms joint investment experience 
was limited to investing in a corporate  bond  and a cautious bond with another provider. On 
balance, Im not persuaded that Mr and Mrs Ms investment knowledge  was anything more  
than limited.
ASC also say significant information was provided  as to how the target return strategy  
worked, including the role of and extent of investment in the SIA fund. I agree that ASC were  
transparent as to the percentage of assets within the SIA fund, thats  clear  from the face of 
the documents. But it remains my view that the fund itself was only held out as a means of 
protection for the portfolio. Thats apparent from the proposal document  and powerpoint  
presentation. The SIA fund was held out as being  key to volatility  management,  at page 10 
of the proposal  it was said to help, to smooth  the investment returns regardless of the 
direction of the market and economic conditions, increasing the likelihood  of Standard  Life 
Wealth delivering your goals over your time horizon.
ASC also point to a graph in the power  point presentation pack, showing the performance of 
the UK equity market,  a Medium-Low risk target  return portfolio,  the SIA fund and the 
performance benchmark for the Medium-Low risk portfolio  LIBOR +3%. They  say it 
showed that the target return portfolio could drop in value, was not similar to equity markets 
and the SIA fund return  profile could be the opposite to equity markets. But looking at that 
page, the first thing  to note is the written information  which says, The Strategic  Investment 
Allocation Fund is a simple and efficient way of delivering institutional-grade  strategies into 
your portfolios and helps  you to cope with market  volatility, thats supported  by the majority  
of the graph  showing  the SIA significantly outperforming and counter-balancing drops  in the 
equity market, re-enforcing the position  in the proposal document.  The fund is shown 
outperforming all comparators until from 2008  to 2013, when there is a slight drop below the 
FTSE All Share Index. So Im not satisfied that Mr and Mrs M would  have understood the 
potential negative impact  of the fund from this graph and Ive taken into account that the 
overall portfolio  performance looked  steady  through the years  shown.
Ref: DRN736757710ASC say a warning about the fund not producing a positive return if other assets  were  
performing well, was set out in the original  presentation  pack.  They also say a conventional 
portfolio was addressed. But the meeting notes from December 2014 refer to a generic 
presentation having been given to Mr and Mrs M. So, it doesnt  appear  that any particular 
risks were  highlighted. Ive seen that the warning was set out at page 21 of a 22 page 
presentation. Theres still nothing from the time to show that this was highlighted or 
discussed with Mr and Mrs M, which was a relevant factor  in their understanding  of the risks 
of the potential drag effect of the SIA fund, a third of their overall  portfolio.
Having considered this matter  carefully, Im not persuaded  to change my view from that 
reached in the provisional decision. It remains my view that the interplay of the SIA fund 
within the portfolio  exposed  Mr and Mrs M to more risk than they wanted to take and 
accordingly, the target return portfolio  was unsuitable for their needs. I consider that it is fair 
and reasonable to put things right in line with the recommendations set out in the provisional  
decision, set out above.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  I am upholding this complaint.  I direct  Aberdeen  Standard Capital 
Limited to put things  right for Mr and Mrs M as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  18 April 2021.
Sarah Tozzi
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7367577