K820x#14complaint
Ms D says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Ms D took out a store card with PPI in September 2004 when she was out shopping. 
The policy covered Ms D if she was too ill to work or had an accident or if she lost her job 
unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint comes to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Ds case.
Ive decided to uphold Ms Ds complaint because I dont think  she wouldve bought  the policy 
if she had been  given clearer information  about  its cost and benefits.
FICL needed to make sure it gave Ms D clear enough information about the policy so she 
could decide for herself  if she should  take it out. 
The store card application she filled in shows that the PPI cost £1.50  per £100 of the 
outstanding balance  and Ms D may have  been told this. But I dont think its very likely that 
the policys true cost and benefits  were  explained  clearly enough to allow  Ms D to work out 
whether PPI offered her any useful  benefit  it was worthwhile for her to buy. For example, 
I dont know if FICL  explained  to Ms D how interest might be added on or if shed have  to 
continue to pay the premiums during a claim.
Ms D told us she had other  means  she couldve relied on if she wasnt  able to work. In 
particular, when Ms D remembered where  she was working when she took out the PPI, she 
told us that her employer  wouldve paid her full sick pay for 6 months  then half pay for the 
next 6 months.  
Ive taken into account that Santander  said there was no evidence that she wouldve had 
sufficient cover to negate  the need for the policy. But I dont agree. Looking  at her 
employment and what shes told us about  her work  arrangements, I think  it is plausible that 
her employer wouldve  paid the amount of sick pay Ms D said, for as long as Ms D told us if 
she was off work sick.
This means  that the policy  offered her only limited  value given the other  means she couldve 
relied on. 
Ref: DRN75443262On balance, based on all the information  Ive seen, I dont think  Ms D wouldve bought the 
policy if FICL had given her clear  enough information about the cost and benefits  to be able 
to decide if it was good value for her. So, I think Ms D has lost out because  of what FICL did 
wrong.
putting things right
FICL should put Ms D in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. 
How it does this will depend on whether Ms Ds store card account  is still active or has been 
closed.
If Ms Ds account is still active, the policy should  be cancelled if it hasnt been cancelled  
already and:
A. FICL  should find out how much Ms D would owe on her store  card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms D owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Ms D made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got for 
the claim from the amount it owes her.
B. If  when FICL works out what Ms D would have owed each month without PPI  
Ms D paid more than enough to clear her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest 
on the extra Ms D paid. And it should  carry on paying interest until the point when Ms D 
wouldve owed FICL something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
C. FICL  should tell Ms D what its done  to work out A and B.
If Ms Ds account has been closed:  
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms D would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms D owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Ms D made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
Ref: DRN75443263B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms D would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms D would  have owed each month without  PPI  Ms D 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms D paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms D 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Ms D what  its done to work out A, B and C.
If the lender has already repaid any commission amount to Ms D that relates  to this PPI sale, 
that sum can be deducted by FICL  from the redress shown above.
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give 
Ms D a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Ds complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Ms D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7544326