K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains because Mapfre Asistencia, Compania Internacional De Seguros  y 
Reaseguros, S.A. (Mapfre) offered to pay only part of a claim under his travel  insurance 
policy. 
background
Mr S held a travel insurance  policy provided  by Mapfre.  The policy was bought online in mid-
June 2016.
When on holiday in America, Mr S experienced shortness of breath. Mr S contacted  Mapfre,
who helped  arrange  for Mr S to visit a hospital where he was given medication for
sarcoidosis and advised he should return the next month  for a follow-up appointment.
Mapfre said the follow-up  appointment  wouldnt be covered because  Mr S had extended his
return date to the UK from what was originally planned.
Mr S later experienced further shortness of breath and Mapfre agreed he could return to the
same hospital again.
Mapfre asked for medical records from Mr Ss GP and, after reviewing these, said
Mr S had been diagnosed  with sarcoidosis in 2013 and had seen his GP and been
prescribed medication for the condition before the policy was bought. Mapfre wrote  to
Mr S in December 2016 and said the claim wasnt covered because it was related to a pre-
existing medical condition which it hadnt been told about.
Mapfre wrote to Mr S in 2017  asking him to repay  money it had paid towards some of his
medical bills.
Mr S complained to Mapfre, who sent him a final response letter in 2018 saying it thought he
had deliberately failed to tell it about  his sarcoidosis  so, under legislation governing
insurance, it was entitled to turn down  his claim. However, despite this, Mapfre  said Mr S 
had paid 17% of the policy premiums he should have paid if hed declared sarcoidosis  so it
would pay 17% of his claim.
Unhappy, Mr S brought his complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator looked into what had happened  and didnt think  Mapfres calculations  about
the premiums Mr S should have paid were correct.  Instead, he recommended that Mapfre
should pay 21% of Mr Ss claim.
As a resolution couldnt be reached, the complaint  was passed to me. I made my provisional 
decision about this complaint in August 2019.  In it, I said;
Mr Ss policy doesnt cover claims arising  directly or indirectly from pre-existing medical
conditions and Mapfre seems to have relied on this exclusion to turn down Mr Ss claim in
December 2016.
When Mr S complained to Mapfre it reconsidered  the claim in line with the principles set out
in the Consumer Insurance (Disclosure and Representations) Act 2012  (CIDRA). CIDRA  is
designed to make sure consumers get the appropriate remedy from their insurer  if they
Ref: DRN75537092make what  is called a qualifying misrepresentation.
A qualifying  misrepresentation is when a consumer fails to take reasonable care not to
misrepresent facts which the insurer asks about, and the insurer  would have acted differently
if the consumer  hadnt  misrepresented those facts.
Ive seen the question Mr S was asked when he bought the policy on a price comparison
website. This said:
Medical details
Do you or anyone in your party have, or have you or anyone  in your party had any
pre-existing medical conditions?
Please tell us about your medical history. You wont always be charged extra but
failure to tell us about any medical  conditions,  past or on-going  could potentially
affect specific claims for medical treatment, flights or even the whole policy
Mr S answered no to this question.
Ive taken into account everything Mr S told us about his medical  history.  He says he had
sarcoidosis previously but it was completely cured and he didnt have the condition when he
bought his insurance policy. Mr S says he was never given  an appointment at a UK clinic for
sarcoidosis, because he didnt have the condition.
However the medical certificate completed by Mr Ss GP clearly  says Mr S was diagnosed
with sarcoidosis in 2013  and had been treated by a doctor in another  country since then. The
medical certificate also says Mr S was referred to a UK clinic for the condition  in May 2016 
and was prescribed medication for the condition on the same date. And Mr Ss medical
notes record a conversation between Mr S and his GP about sarcoidosis in early June 2016,
when Mr S asked to be seen at a UK clinic as soon  as possible before he left for America.
Having taken into account all of this information,  I think Mr S should have answered yes to
the medical question  he was asked,  and I dont think Mr S took reasonable care not to make
a misrepresentation.  I think a reasonable consumer wouldve realised sarcoidosis was a pre-
existing medical condition which Mapfre wanted  to know about.
If Mr S had answered yes, hed then have been asked to provide  further  details about his
medical condition.  At that point, Mapfre wouldve acted differently in terms of the cover it was
prepared to offer to Mr S.
I think Mr S made a qualifying misrepresentation, so I think  its fair and reasonable to apply
the principles set out in CIDRA  to his claim.
The remedies available to an insurer under CIDRA  depend on whether the 
misrepresentation is deliberate/reckless or careless.
Mapfre said it thinks Mr S deliberately mispresented the situation to it. Having considered
what Mr Ss medical records say about sarcoidosis in the six weeks  before the policy was
bought, I also think Mr Ss misrepresentation was deliberate  or reckless. This means I think
Mr S either knew he wasnt answering  the medical question truthfully or didnt care if he was
answering the question truthfully.
Ref: DRN75537093So, under CIDRA,  Mapfre would  be entitled to void the policy, refuse to pay any claims and
keep the premium Mr S paid.
However Mapfre has instead offered to pay 17% of Mr Ss claim, in line with the remedy set
out under  CIDRA for a careless  misrepresentation.  This says the insurer can reduce the
amount it pays on a claim proportionate  to the higher premium it would have charged had
the consumer  not misrepresented.
Our adjudicator had questions about  how Mapfre calculated its offer.  I also had questions
about how Mapfre calculated the figures, so I asked for further  evidence  of what it would
have done differently if Mr S had told it about  his sarcoidosis.
Mapfre originally said it would have  charged Mr S a higher premium  of £185.53, but later
said it would  have charged £153.56.  However, Ive now seen evidence to show  that both of
these figures are incorrect and Im satisfied Mapfre wouldnt actually  have offered any cover
at all to Mr S. This means, even if I thought Mr Ss misrepresentation was careless, Mapfre
would be entitled  to refuse to pay any of the claim.
However Mapfre says it will honour  its offer to pay 17% of Mr Ss claim. This offer is more
than what I would have  recommended for Mapfre to do in the circumstances. So I think  the
offer is fair and reasonable and I dont intend  to recommend that Mapfre should  do anything
more.
Mr S says hed have returned to the UK for treatment  had Mapfre not suggested  he go to the
hospital in America. Ive looked at Mapfres call notes  and I can see Mr S contacted it for
advice and assistance as he was experiencing difficulty breathing  and said he needed to see
a doctor. Mapfre provided Mr S with advice and assistance and helped make  arrangements
for him to go to a hospital, as Id have expected it to do. An insurer wouldnt generally be in a
position to confirm whether costs will be covered at such an early  point  in a claim, and I think
it would  have been unreasonable for Mapfre to have refused  to give Mr S help or advice
about how to arrange a hospital appointment when he was suffering from what could have
been very serious medical symptoms when he was far from home.
Mapfre then made further enquiries with Mr Ss GP, as it was reasonably entitled to do,
before deciding if the claim was covered.
I understand Mr S now has medical  bills which he may have difficulty  paying,  but I dont think
Mapfre acted unfairly  or unreasonably in this situation.
But I think it would be helpful  for Mapfre to contact  Mr S and set out what  hospital bills it has
paid, what hospital  bills remain  outstanding and what its offer means for the amount it is
seeking to reclaim from Mr S.
So, my provisional decision was that I didnt uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Mapfre accepted  my provisional decision.  Mr S responded to my provisional  decision with 
questions about  how much and who he would need  to pay. 
Ref: DRN75537094my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I havent received  any new information  or evidence  which would lead me to change  my 
provisional decision, so my findings remain unchanged. 
Mapfre is looking into the amount now due by Mr S and it would be helpful if Mapfre could  
contact Mr S directly with its calculations. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 October  2019.
Leah Nagle
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7553709