K822xcomplaint
Mr T complains about two mobile  phones he got from Virgin Media Telecoms Limited (the 
supplier). To purchase each phone,  Mr T took out two fixed  sum loan agreements with Virgin 
Media Mobile Finance Limited, who Ill refer to as Virgin  Finance. He says each phone has a 
fault, but Virgin Finance wont allow him to return the phones and cancel the finance 
agreements.
Mr T has not used the phones himself. One was used by his son (Phone  A) and the other 
(Phone B) was used by his daughter-in-law. Mr Ts son has brought  the complaint to us on 
Mr Ts behalf.
background 
I set out the background  to this complaint in my provisional decision, a copy  of which  is 
attached and forms part of this final decision.  I also explained why I proposed to uphold  the 
complaint and what Virgin Finance should  do to settle it.
I invited Mr T and Virgin Finance to let me have any final comments  and evidence before  
making my final decision. Virgin Finance had no further comments  to add to what theyd 
already told us. Mr T didnt accept  my provisional decision. In summary, Mr T said:
Both phones were unused from early  2019  and had significant problems from the 
start of the agreement.
In January 2019 he sold the replacement of Phone  A for £240 and used the money 
as a deposit to buy a new phone  for his daughter-in-law.
Hed like all the repayments hes made returned,  if he must give back Phone B.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, whilst I realise this isnt 
the answer Mr T was hoping for  Ive reached a different conclusion  as I did in my 
provisional decision, for slightly different  reasons.
not being able to use either phone and a full refund of the repayments
Mr T says that Phone B and the replacement  of Phone A, broke in August 2018  to the extent 
where they could  not be used. Previously, Mr T had said that it was the same key feature of 
each phone which could  not be used, rather than them stopping working altogether. I have 
considered how this key feature had an impact  on the functionality of the phones. I have also 
considered that Mr T was able to get £240  for the sale of one of the phones.
In all the circumstances, I still think each phone was able to be used. But, I agree  with Mr T 
that the fault with both phones significantly reduced their operation. The manufacture  
intended for a key feature  to help with the phones usability. So, I think  the impaired usage of 
Phones A and B was greater than I set out in my provisional decision.  I think  the refund of 
the proportion  of the repayments Mr T has made needs to be increased
Ref: DRN76470692Ive agreed that Mr T should receive  a part refund of the repayments he made  to Virgin  
Finance. Given the impaired usage  Mr T experienced, I think an 85% refund of each 
repayment hes made to Virgin Finance, under both agreements from September  2017  to 
January 2019  is fair.
Im also persuaded  that Mr T didnt use either phone from January 2019 onwards. I say this 
because Mr T sold Phone A at this time,  in order to put a deposit  on a new phone for his 
daughter-in-law. So, I think Mr Ts daughter-in-law used a different  phone from January 2019 
and Phone  A was on longer in Mr Ts possession.  
Because Ive concluded that neither phone was used from early 2019  onwards, I think  that 
Virgin Finance should  refund all of the repayments  made by Mr T from February 2019 to 
date. 
I think Mr T has been without the use of the repayment amounts since both agreements 
began. So, I think  Virgin Finance should  add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to any 
settlement it makes. This is from the date Mr T made the repayments  under each 
agreement, starting  in September 2017,  to the date of settlement.
the sale of the replacement  of Phone A
I concluded that Virgin Finance should  take back the replacement  of Phone  A from Mr T. Ive 
also said Mr T should have the right to reject Phone A. But, I think it may have retained 
some value to Virgin Finance.
Mr T has told us that the phone was sold earlier this year for £240. So, Ive considered if it is 
fair for him to keep  this money, bearing in mind my finding that he should get a refund of the 
majority of the repayments made under  both agreements.
I accept that Mr T says Virgin Finance could have resolved the issue with both phones  some 
time ago. And I agree he only sold the phone to try and secure  a newer  device for his 
daughter-in-law. But, I dont think this means he should benefit from the value of the phone 
as well as a refund of most of the repayments hes made  under  the finance  agreement.  So, I 
think Virgin Finance  should  deduct  £240 from the total settlement they make  to Mr T.
the repair of Phone B
Mr T has explained  that he tried get Phone B repaired, but couldnt. He said the phone 
hasnt been used and doesnt see why he should give it back  to Virgin Finance. I 
acknowledge that Mr T would like to keep Phone B, but my finding is Virgin  Finance should  
refund the majority of the repayments  he made under the agreement. So, I dont  think it 
would be fair for Mr T to retain  the phone. My conclusions remain unchanged  here,  in that 
Virgin Finance should  take the phone back.
Ref: DRN76470693my final decision
My final decision is to uphold this complaint. 
I require Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited  to: 
take back Phone B and end both fixed sum loan agreements  for Phones A and B at 
no cost to Mr T;
refund  85% of each repayment  Mr T has made  under each agreement since  they 
began on 23 September 2017 until January  2019;
refund  all the repayments Mr T has made  under each agreement since  February  
2019;
add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to any settlement it makes,  from the date 
Mr T made  the repayments under each agreement to the date of settlement; and
deduct £240 from the total amount before making the settlement to Mr T. 
If Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited  deducts tax from any interest it pays  to Mr T as 
above, it should provide Mr T with a tax deduction certificate, so he can reclaim the tax from 
the tax authorities  if appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 December  2019.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
copy of provisional decision
Ref: DRN76470694Mr T complains about two mobile phones he got from Virgin Media Telecoms Limited  (the supplier). 
To purchase each  phone, Mr T took out two fixed sum loan agreements with Virgin Media Mobile 
Finance Limited, who Ill refer to as Virgin Finance. He says each  phone has a fault, but Virgin 
Finance wont  allow him to return the phones and cancel the finance agreements.
Mr T has not used the phones himself. One was used by his son (Phone A) and the other (Phone B) 
was used  by his daughter-in-law. Mr Ts son has brought the complaint to us on Mr Ts behalf.
background
In late September 2017, Mr T signed two credit agreements with Virgin  Finance, to purchase 
Phone A and Phone  B. After receiving  Phone A, Mr Ts son noticed a fault, so contacted the 
supplier in early October  2017  to see if they could help.
Mr Ts son had some  difficulty explaining the problem  because the supplier needed to speak 
to Mr T as he is the account holder. Eventually, the supplier accepted Mr Ts authorisation 
that his son could speak  on his behalf.
The supplier said they would look into the concerns and during the call Mr Ts son mentioned 
hes already organised  a like for like replacement directly with the manufacturer  of the phone. 
The supplier explained that they should have looked at the phone  first, since it was under  
their warranty. He asked Mr Ts son to call him back once hed received the replacement 
phone from the manufacturer. The supplier also arranged to waive the next two payments due 
under the finance agreement for Phone A because of the way Mr T was treated when he first 
called.
In November 2017,  Mr Ts son called the supplier again because  the replacement  phone he 
received from the manufacturer also had a fault.  The supplier  said they could not offer 
anything under their warranty  because they didnt  supply the replacement  phone. The 
supplier told Mr Ts son to contact the manufacturer and try to get it fixed  with them. At this 
point Mr Ts son told the supplier that Phone B also had a fault, so he was sent a replacement  
SIM card for it.
Mr Ts son wasnt happy to go back  to the manufacturer, so complained to Virgin Finance 
because he wanted them to cancel both of the finance  agreements  taken out by Mr T. He said 
the phones have faults and are of poor quality.  
Mr Ts son was also concerned that Mr Ts credit file had been affected because  the supplier 
hadnt waived the two payments they agreed to. Mr Ts son says Virgin  Finance didnt give 
him a response to the complaint, so he brought the case to us.
Our investigator considered the complaint  and said Mr Ts son had already ordered the replacement 
phone from the manufacturer, before he raised the fault about Phone A with the supplier. So, she 
agreed it wasnt for the supplier to repair or replace his phone.  She also said the supplier is willing to 
look at Phone B so she couldnt say theyd done anything wrong.  The investigator considered Mr Ts 
concerns about his credit file and said the supplier is still prepared to amend  it. She concluded that 
this was a fair outcome.
Mr T disagreed and said the supplier should have told him to cancel the replacement with the 
manufacturer because they needed to inspect his phone first. He also said he shouldnt have to give 
the supplier another  chance  to fix Phone B. Mr T explained his personal circumstances to us and why 
his son and daughter-in-law need a mobile  phone.
Ref: DRN76470695my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.  
the arrangement  between Mr T and the users of the Phone  A and Phone  B
When he took delivery of the phones from the supplier,  Mr T allowed his son and daughter-in-law to 
use one phone each.  Mr T has told us he pays the monthly instalments, due under the finance 
agreements, from his bank account. His son and daughter-in-law then transfer money to him. 
Based on the evidence,  including the paperwork, Im satisfied Mr T had a contract  with the supplier  of 
the phones. Im also satisfied that this means he has a like claim  with Virgin Finance under Section 75 
of the Consumer Credit  Act 1974. 
Virgin Finances responsibility
Virgin Finance gave  Mr T two fixed sum loan agreements for the two phones  given to him by the 
supplier. The supplier  is another  arm of Virgin Finance. Although  they are separate companies, from 
Mr Ts point of view he has dealt with the same people  throughout.
Under Section 75 of the Consumer Credit Act 1974, a finance provider is responsible for any breach 
of contract by the supplier in certain circumstances. Also, under the Consumer Rights Act 2015 
(CRA), there  is an implied term written into contracts that goods  supplied need to be of satisfactory  
quality. The CRA says the quality  of goods  is satisfactory  if they meet the standard  that a reasonable 
person would  consider satisfactory, taking into account any description of the goods,  the price and all 
the other relevant  circumstances. 
In Mr Ts case, he says the phones provided  are not working as they should. If the goods provided  by 
the supplier are not of satisfactory  quality, then this is a breach of contract. So, Virgin  Finances 
responsibility to Mr T is to consider his Section 75 claim and decide  if the phones were  of satisfactory 
quality. If its found they were not of satisfactory quality, it would be for Virgin Finance  to then offer Mr 
T an appropriate remedy.
Phone A
In comparison to other mobile phones available at the time, Phone A is one of the more  expensive  
models and its made by a well-established manufacturer. It was also supplied brand  new rather than 
second hand  or refurbished. So, I think Mr T could have expected  a high quality product which was 
fault free at the point of supply and durable.
Less than two weeks after getting  the phone,  Mr Ts son called the supplier  because  he said Phone A 
was not working properly.  One of the key features of Phone  A is that it allows the user to interact with 
it in a distinct  way. Mr Ts son has told us that it was this key feature which didnt work. He had also 
taken Phone  A directly to the manufacturer, who agreed there was a fault and arranged a like for like 
replacement. 
Mr Ts son provided a letter  from the manufacturer confirming that his handset had been replaced 
because of the problems. The letter shows  the International Mobile  Equipment Identities number 
(IMEI) for the old phone and the brand  new replacement. Had the manufacturer  suspected signs of 
misuse or damage caused by Mr Ts son, I would  have expected  them  to have declined to replace the 
phone. But, Mr T has provided evidence  to show the phone was replaced because  of the issues he 
experienced. 
Because the manufacturer agreed that there was a fault and replaced the phone  so soon after the 
finance agreement was made,  I think the supplier  provided Mr T with a phone that was not of 
Ref: DRN76470696satisfactory quality. This is a breach of the contract by the supplier which  Virgin Finance  are 
responsible for.
Virgin Finance have  said that the manufacturer provided the replacement directly and indicated  the 
supplier didnt  have a chance to sort things out. But it sounds like the phone was beyond  repair, so Mr 
T was entitled to a replacement  anyway.  And I dont think Mr T has acted  unreasonably in having his 
son source an exchange  directly  from the manufacturer. This is because Mr Ts son informed the 
supplier of his intentions  before the replacement  had been  finalised and they didnt offer to do 
anything differently.  Also,  he took the phone to an accredited place  for assessment and replacement 
(the manufacturers store).
The problem occurred within the first thirty days of Mr T being given  the phone and I think its very 
likely Mr T was entitled to reject Phone A there and then. So, I think its unfair  for Virgin Finance  to 
criticise him for sourcing a replacement himself.
the replacement of Phone A
In November 2017, Mr Ts son found that the replacement phone  was faulty.  Mr Ts son has provided 
an email from the manufacturer dated 22 December 2017, which says there is a problem with the 
receiver and with the same key feature  of the phone as with the original device.  
The manufacturer also says that the phone will need to be replaced. Virgin Finance  says Mr T doesnt 
have any rights under  the warranty  because the replacement phone was sent directly  from the 
manufacturer. But, Mr T still has his consumer  rights. In light of this I have considered  if the 
replacement phone is of satisfactory quality.
Mr T says the replacement  phone  has the same problem  with the key feature as Phone A and his son 
can only make and receive calls when the loud speaker is on. Virgin Finance  have not provided Mr T 
with a remedy  to the problems he says his son has with the replacement phone. Ive said I agree  
Phone A was not of satisfactory quality, so Ive considered if there is enough evidence for me to say 
the same about the replacement. 
The supplier has not conducted an investigation into the replacement phone and I think it has had a 
reasonable opportunity to do so. Mr Ts son brought the problems with it to the suppliers attention in 
December 2017, which was quite soon after he got it (and not long after the date Phone  A was 
originally supplied).  Considering this, I think the supplier should have done more  to investigate the 
problem at the time to say if the fault was down to an inherent  problem or not. Particularly as there 
has been a confirmed fault with the original handset.  An investigation at that stage would likely have 
given more  information as to whether  or not the device conformed to the contract  when it was 
supplied.
On balance, Im not persuaded the replacement device  was of satisfactory quality. I say this because 
the fault with the replacement is very similar  to the fault with Phone A. The manufacturer has 
confirmed this was an inherent fault, so I cannot rule out that the poor quality of both phones may 
have been down to a manufacturing problem. I dont think the faults with both phones  were down  to 
wear and tear, given how quickly Mr Ts son reported the problems after getting the phones.
The supplier has had an opportunity to investigate the replacement phone  to prove it was of 
satisfactory quality, but chose not to. I think  Virgin  Finance should  allow Mr T to reject the 
replacement phone and be allowed to cancel the finance agreement for Phone A at no cost to him.
Phone B
Phone B is the same make  and model as Phone A. It was also a brand new phone. The suppliers 
notes show that Mr T raised concerns  about  Phone B soon after it was delivered to him. Mr T says 
that as well as having the same fault as Phone A, it wouldnt  make or receive calls. To help, Mr T was 
Ref: DRN76470697sent a new SIM card for Phone B. I think the supplier has tried to help Mr T with Phone B, but he still 
says there is still a fault with it. 
Mr T has told us that Phone  B has the same fault as Phone A, where a key feature of the phone 
doesnt work. I dont think this is a coincidence and I have considered that the same problem occurred 
with Mr Ts sons  replacement phone. Mr T reported  the problems soon after getting  all three phones 
and provided evidence from the manufacturer. So, I consider what hes told us to be credible. 
The supplier hasnt asked  Mr T to send them Phone B so they can investigate  and I think  theyve had 
more than enough opportunity to show that the problem wasnt  an inherent fault when it was given  to 
Mr T. Ive concluded Phone A and its replacement may have faults originating from a manufacturing 
problem. Given the evidence provided by Mr T, how quickly he reported the problem  with Phone  B 
and that the same  problem occurred with Phone A and its replacement,  I think  its likely  Phone  B had 
the same inherent  fault. So, Im not persuaded that Phone B was of satisfactory quality when the 
supplier sent it to Mr T.
Im satisfied that the supplier has breached the contract it has with Mr T, because Phone  B is not of 
satisfactory quality. I dont  think Virgin  Finance  have  dealt with Mr Ts claim correctly, so I think he is 
entitled to a remedy.  It would normally  be possible for Virgin Finance to arrange  for the faults to be 
investigated. But, because  of the time that has passed for an investigation to take place and the 
inconvenience Mr T has experienced with Phone B, I think  he should  be allowed to reject it. So, I think  
Virgin Finance should allow Mr T to reject Phone B and be allowed to cancel the finance agreement  
for this device at no cost to him.
the monthly repayments for both phones
Ive concluded that Mr T should be able to reject Phone A, its replacement and Phone  B because  
they are not of satisfactory quality. So, I have to consider the use Mr Ts son and daughter-in-law 
have had from the phones to decide  if Mr T should get a refund of the repayments he made  under  
each contract.
I have considered that Mr T has told us he receives  contributions from his son and daughter-in-law 
towards each  contract  he has with Virgin Finance. But, I dont think  this prevents Mr T from being able 
to make a claim for the repayments, since he is the contracting party  for both agreements. So, I think  
Mr T should receive the appropriate remedy related  to any repayments hes made.
Mr Ts son has used two different phones, but says hes not been able to use them properly and 
without inconvenience. Mr Ts daughter-in-law wasnt able to use the phone at all when she got it. But 
she was able to use the phone  when she was sent a replacement SIM card. For all three phones, the 
same key feature  didnt work properly.  So, although  the phones have been used to make and receive 
calls (with  the exception  of Phone  B for a short time) the fault with the key feature means there has 
been restricted use overall.
Because Mr Ts son and his daughter-in-law have, on the whole, been able to make and receive calls,  
I think  they have been able to use the phones main function. So, I dont think Virgin Finance has to 
refund all the repayments Mr T has made to them for both contracts. 
But, part of the attraction  of the particular  make and model of the phones Mr T has, is the key feature 
of being able to interact with the each phones screen in a certain way. I think Virgin  Finance should 
refund a proportion of repayments hes made as the distinctive feature could not be used fully. So, I 
think Virgin Finance should refund Mr T 50% of the repayments hes made  under  both contracts for 
the restricted  use his son and daughter-in-law have had from Phone  A, the replacement and Phone B.
Ref: DRN76470698the monthly line rental
Mr T has explained that as well as receiving monthly payments  from his son and daughter-in-law for 
the phones, hes also made monthly repayments for the associated  line rental. So, I have considered 
if Mr T should get a refund  of the line rental costs. 
The fault with Phone A, its replacement and Phone B didnt have an overall impact on being able to 
make or receive calls or the other applications the phones  needed  a line rental  contract  for.  I think  Mr 
Ts son and his daughter-in-law were able to make use of the line rental  contracts  despite there being 
a fault with the phones. So, I dont think Virgin  finance should refund any of the payments Mr T has 
made for the associated line rental.
Mr Ts credit file
In bringing Mr Ts case to us, his son said that he is concerned the supplier had made an error with 
the refund of two months repayments. He said this will reflect  negatively on Mr Ts credit file. Mr T 
says he hasnt  got a copy of his credit report and doesnt know for certain if it has been affected. Hes 
also been given time to show where Virgin  Finance  has made the error.
Without any evidence to show  Mr Ts credit has been updated in error, I dont think Virgin  Finance 
need to do anything further here. The suppliers notes say that the two payments have  been waived,  
so Im satisfied theyve done what they said they would. Mr T is not clear that an error has been  made 
and Virgin Finance  have offered to speak to him in the future if he finds a discrepancy relating to the 
waiving of the two repayments. I think this is practical way to address this part of Mr Ts complaint.
my provisional  decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, but subject to any further comments or evidence I receive from Mr T 
or Virgin Finance by 9 May 2019, my provisional decision is that Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited  
should: 
take back  Phone As replacement  handset and Phone  B and end the fixed sum loan 
agreements at no cost to Mr T;
refund 50% of each repayment Mr T has made under  each agreement  since they began on 
23 September 2017; and
add interest at an annual rate of 8% simple to any settlement it makes, from the date Mr T 
made the repayments under  each agreement to the date of settlement.
If Virgin Media Mobile Finance Limited  deducts tax from any interest it pays  to Mr T as above, it 
should provide Mr T with a tax deduction certificate, so he can reclaim the tax from the tax authorities 
if appropriate.
Sam Wedderburn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7647069