K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Liverpool Victoria Insurance Company Limited  wont  pay for repairs to 
his car after it was involved in an accident.
background
Mr R was involved in a road traffic accident in April 2018 which  wasnt his fault. Liverpool 
Victoria (LV) arranged  for repairs to Mr Rs car to be carried  out immediately after the 
accident.
Mr R says he noticed a scraping  noise as he drove the car out of the garage  which  had 
carried out the repairs (garage A). He says he found  out this was due to damaged brakes  
when he took the car to another garage (garage  B) for investigation.  
He says he took the car to garage  B because when he contacted garage A the morning after 
the repairs had been carried out, they told him they couldnt fit his car in for a further  
inspection for three weeks.
Mr R says the brakes were damaged as a result of the accident. He asked LV to pay for 
repairs to the brakes, but they refused on the basis that the damage was wear and tear, 
which is not covered  by Mr Rs policy.
Mr R wasnt happy with this and made  a complaint to LV. They didnt uphold it, so Mr R 
complained to us. Our investigator  looked into it and thought LV had done  nothing wrong.
Mr R disagreed and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Rs car insurance policy is absolutely clear that accidental damage  is covered but wear 
and tear is not  and theres no dispute about that in this case.  Theres also no dispute that 
Mr Rs cars  brakes were  in need  of repair.
So, the key question for me in making  this decision is whether its fair and reasonable for LV 
to conclude that the damage to the brakes  is likely to be wear  and tear rather  than a result of 
the accident.
The impact  suffered by Mrs car in the accident  was described by garage  A as light.  So its 
very unlikely  that any damage occurred to the brakes as a direct result  of the impact.
Mr R says the damage to his front and rear brake discs  and pads was caused when the third 
party driver fled the scene  at speed,  causing  gravel  to fly up at his car. He says the gravel  
got into the brakes and caused the damage. He also says he was told by garage B that the 
damage was a result of the accident.  
LV say garage  A reported that the damage  to the brakes couldnt have been  caused  by the 
accident. And their own engineers took the same  view when they reviewed the claim. They  
Ref: DRN71437392also pointed to an MOT carried out in July 2015  on the car. This was passed, but there  was 
an advisory note saying the brake  discs and pads worn.
We dont have any report from garage B which confirms they told Mr R the damage was 
caused by the accident  and/or  explains  how that might have happened.  LVs contact notes 
suggest they did ask Mr R to provide them with any evidence that this was the case, but he 
didnt do so.
I can also see that when  Mr R contacted LV to claim for the cost of the repairs  to his brakes 
 after hed been advised by garage B  he still appeared unsure as to the cause  of the 
damage. His email  to LV says the brakes  may have been damaged  by garage A applying  
the handbrake too tightly, or possibly damaged in the accident also. This doesnt suggest 
Mr R was told unequivocally by garage B that the damage was due to the accident.
Mr R bought the car in 2017. He says after the MOT in 2015, the previous owner must have 
had repairs carried out to the brakes.  He says the car passed MOTs in 2016  and 2017 and 
wouldnt have done so if repairs hadnt  been  carried out.
Whilst the later MOTs  were passed,  we also know that Mr Rs car failed its MOT in July 
2018 (presumably  before all the repairs had been carried out by garage  B). The reasons for 
that failure included  a significantly and obviously worn front brake  disc and front brake pads 
less than 1.5mm thick.
I dont doubt that Mr R first noticed  the problem  with his brakes immediately after the 
accident. And I can see why in that case, he associates the problem with the accident.
However, it is difficult see how either  the impact of the accident or the spraying of gravel  
onto (presumably, one side) of Mr Rs car might  have  caused the worn brake pads and discs  
which caused Mrs car to fail its MOT in 2018.  We also have experts at garage A and LV 
saying the accident couldnt have caused  the damage  and no expert evidence to the 
contrary.
So, Im satisfied that it was reasonable for LV to conclude that the damage  was very likely to 
be wear and tear and very unlikely to have been caused by the accident. That being the 
case, I cant say that their decision  to reject Mr Rs claim was in any way unfair  or 
unreasonable.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 February  2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7143739