K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC gave him incorrect information about porting his 
mortgage product.  Mr B would like more compensation  than he has been  offered.
background
Mr B had a buy to let mortgage with Barclays since 2008. He wanted to sell a property and 
buy another one. He also wanted to carry over the favourable rate of interest to the new 
property. Mr B contacted  Barclays about arranging to port and says that he was told that he 
could carry over the mortgage if he bought  a new property within 90 days of selling his 
existing property. Mr B says that Barclays didnt tell him that he would have to make a new 
mortgage application in order to do this. When Mr B made an application for a new buy to let 
mortgage his application wasnt successful.
Barclays confirmed that it hadnt alerted Mr B to the fact that a new application was required. 
It also accepted  that there were a number  of other errors in the application  process. So, it 
offered compensation of £650  to Mr B for the loss of two months rent and £200 for the 
inconvenience caused by the poor service.   
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that this complaint should be upheld. He agreed that 
Barclays had made  errors but that it was reasonable for it to refuse  the new mortgage. He 
also felt that the level of compensation was fair.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In particular Ive listened  carefully  to the 
several phone recordings  Ive been provided with.
Mr B was selling a property to buy another one that would cost less. Mr B told one of the 
Barclays advisers that he would be able to release some  equity  and get about the same rent 
as on the existing property. Mr B also mentioned  that the new property was closer to his 
home than the one he was selling. So, its clear that there were  advantages to the deal 
without porting the mortgage.
From listening to the calls,  Barclays advisers  when faced by Mr Bs inquiry  were  not very 
helpful in explaining what was going  on. In particular I didnt detect any explanation that Mr B 
would have to apply for a new mortgage  on the new property. He seems  to have assumed 
that porting meant that the mortgage would be transferred over whereas it is only the 
mortgage product  that transfers and Mr B would have to apply for a new mortgage. In the 
event, Mr B did apply for a mortgage but his application didnt succeed. Barclays  was unable 
to offer a mortgage after applying its affordability  criteria to the application. This seems to 
have been a reasonable application  of its commercial judgement.
From listening to the recordings I agree that there was a failure to provide the service that Mr 
B should expect  and he should get compensation for that. But it doesnt seem  that Mr B 
decided to sell and buy these properties  only on the basis that he could port the mortgage. It 
also seems that had Mr B been given the correct information, as his mortgage application 
was refused, that he couldnt have ported the mortgage product in any case. I sympathise 
Ref: DRN70373122with Mr Bs frustration at not getting  clear information from Barclays  despite the numerous 
phone calls. But I also believe that the compensation  paid by Barclays is fair. So, on that 
basis I cant fairly uphold  this complaint.    
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2019.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7037312