K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained Barclays  Bank UK PLC closed his account without notice and placed a 
fraud-related marker against his record.
background
Mr C called his bank  on 9 November 2018 after finding he couldnt access  his mobile 
banking app or use his account.  Barclays told him they were conducting a review into his 
account so it was blocked.  On 20 November Barclays  told Mr C they were  closing his 
account with immediate effect.
Mr C had already noticed transactions  on the account that he didnt recognise and 
mentioned those to Barclays.  He believed hed been  a victim of account takeover. He didnt  
understand why he was being penalised  as hed not gained from what  had happened. As 
Barclays wouldnt reconsider their decision, Mr C brought  his complaint to the ombudsman 
service.
Our investigator considered the evidence. This included Mr Cs mobile and online banking 
records as well as what Barclays had told us about  other intended incoming payments as 
well as the £3,900 which had credited Mr Cs account on 8 November.
He felt it was most likely Mr C had authorised the use of his account, along with his card and 
PIN to withdraw £2,000 on 8 November.
Mr C disagreed with this outcome. Hes asked an ombudsman to consider his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done  so, Ive reached  roughly the 
same outcome as our investigator. Ill explain why.
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; regulators rules, guidance  and standards; codes of practice; and, where 
appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the relevant time.
The Payment Services Regulations are the relevant law here. These  primarily require banks 
to refund customers if they didnt make or authorise  payments  themselves. Certain other 
circumstances do apply  but nothing thats had a marked impact on the decision Im making 
here. So when  we look at whether a bank  has acted fairly in rejecting someones fraud 
complaint, one of the things we consider is whether the customer  made  the transactions  
themselves or allowed  them to be made.  If they did, then we generally wouldnt ask the bank 
to refund them.
So to help me decide what happened and whether Barclays  were correct to lodge a fraud-
related marker  against Mr C, Ive looked at the evidence of the transactions,  as well as what 
both Barclays and Mr C have shared with us. 
Firstly I can see the timeline of events, each  partys testimony and how the transactions  
were made were covered in our investigators  views of 11 December 2019  and 9 January 
2020. I dont intend to repeat everything that was said there.  I will, of course,  refer to those 
Ref: DRN74197972aspects which form the basis  of my decision. I can reassure Mr C and Barclays  Ive read the 
file thoroughly.
The following  summarises what Ive considered:
Barclays received a notification of a transaction for £5,400  being  attempted to be 
paid into Mr Cs account on 5 November but stopped  by the sending bank.
Mr Cs mobile  and online banking  records show  regular  checking throughout that day 
but no other transactions.
On 6 November  two tiny transfers were made to a new payee  (Dee). A payment 
inwards from supposedly the same reference was also attempted  and blocked. It is 
entirely possible these  were  made to test a recipient account. Mr C has disputed  
these transactions  were  made by him. His mobile  and online banking records  dont  
show any different devices being  used.
A payment of £3,900  was successfully credited into Mr Cs account on 8 November. 
Barclays were  notified  by the sending bank that these funds were destined  for 
another account.
Mr Cs mobile  and online banking  records show  his account being  checked 
throughout that day, including at 11:31.
At 11:40  someone  withdrew £2,000 from a device within a Barclays  branch. This 
followed a further balance enquiry at 11:39.  The genuine card and PIN were used to 
make this withdrawal along with whoever  making this withdrawal needing to know 
Mr Cs date of birth.
Further retail transactions were  attempted after this in a main city shopping centre. 
These were declined as Mr Cs account  had already been blocked by this stage.
The location of the branch where  the £2,000 was withdrawn and the shopping centre  
arent massively far from where Mr C was having lectures earlier  that morning. And 
before he played football that afternoon.
A further  credit was blocked on 15 November and paid back  to the sender.
The mobile and online banking evidence shows Mr C regularly uses both although 
Mr C has denied ever setting up online banking.  Barclays records  also show the 
same device  being used throughout. Theres no discrepancy with the IP addresses 
either.
The evidence doesnt match what Mr C said. Numerous transfers were set up using 
online banking and never disputed  and these seem normal transactions  and part of 
Mr Cs account management.
At the time of being notified by other  banks of fraudulent credits and reviewing what 
was then unusual account activity, I can see why Barclays blocked Mr Cs account.
Ive also considered whether they met the relevant tests in deciding  whether they 
could lodge a fraud-related  marker  on the industry  fraud  database about Mr C. Our 
investigator laid out the tests  in detail in his view of 11 December 2019. Like him, I 
dont believe  Barclays has done anything wrong  here.
It is not unusual  for young people to be persuaded to get involved in something  similar  to 
what happened here. They allow someone else to use their account to transfer fraudulent  
money in and then give their card and PIN to allow cash to be withdrawn. Whats  happening 
here is money laundering.
In similar  cases  what we see is people, purporting to be friends,  persuade  in some cases 
using more forceful ways  than others   account  holders. Theyre  generally told nothing will 
go wrong, and as they dont make the transactions themselves, banks cant  hold them liable  
Ref: DRN74197973as no money will be left for the bank to take. Theyre generally not told of the risk that a bank 
will place a fraud-related  marker against their name; this will stay for six years and will have 
an impact on their banking and credit history.
This isnt true. The relevant  legislation is the Payment Services  Regulations which talks 
about the payment service user  Mr C in this context  making  or authorising  someone else 
to make transactions.
I have reviewed whether  there were potentially other scenarios which could  explain  what  had 
happened. Yes, someone could  have taken and replaced Mr Cs card.  But I dont know how 
they would  know  his PIN and date of birth unless that person had been known to him. This 
also doesnt explain the continued  use of online  and mobile banking using Mr Cs own 
device.
Taking all the evidence into consideration, I believe Mr C authorised these transactions. This 
doesnt mean he made them  himself but I do believe he knew  about  and authorised  them. I 
wont be asking Barclays to do anything  further.
I appreciate Mr C is not going to agree with this outcome  but overall based on the evidence  I 
think this is the most likely scenario.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, my final decision is not to uphold Mr Cs complaint against 
Barclays Bank UK PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 July 2020.
Sandra Quinn
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7419797