K820x#14complaint
Mr E took out a current account with Travel  and Tech Packs  with Barclays  Bank UK PLC 
(Barclays) from January  2017 for which he was charged a monthly  fee. He says it was mis-
sold.
background
Mr E took out an Additions Account with Barclays in August  2003.
He then upgraded to an Additions  Plus Account (APA) in September 2005.
Mr E was then transferred  by Barclays to a current  account with Travel and Tech Packs  in 
January 2017.
Mr E says this complaint  is about the Travel and Tech  packs; he didnt want them and didnt  
know he had them, so Barclays  has mis-sold them to him.
Barclays says it didnt  do anything wrong  in the transfer.
Our adjudicator also thought that Barclays didnt do anything wrong but Mr E disagrees so 
the case has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.    Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help me decide  Mr Es complaint.
In 2016, the APA that Mr E had had for seven years  cost £16 a month. Its main benefits 
were worldwide travel insurance, car breakdown cover, free mobile  phone  insurance, and 
gadget insurance.
Barclays says it wrote to Mr E in September 2016  saying it was closing APAs  and it offered 
him a current account with a Travel Pack and a Tech Pack   instead.  The Travel  Pack  
(worldwide travel insurance) and Tech Pack (mobile phone and gadget insurance) had the 
same main  benefits as the APA and cost £20 a month together  in total.  In its letter  Barclays 
explained that he could have a fee free account  but if it didnt hear from him, it would transfer 
his account to the current account with Travel and Tech Packs.
Mr E didnt reply so Barclays says it wrote  to him again in January 2017 saying his account  
was now a current account with Travel and Tech Packs, but he could cancel it at any time.
Mr E says that he didnt  receive either of the letters.
Ive looked at the letters Barclays sent to Mr E in September 2016 and January 2017. They are 
correctly addressed so I think its more  likely  than not that he received at least  one of these. 
And I think there is enough  information in either of the first two letters to enable  Mr E to realise 
what was happening and make an informed decision.
Ref: DRN71303192So, although  I dont  doubt Mr Es honest  recollections, I think its more  likely than not that he 
did receive one of the letters notifying him of the change in September  2016 and January 
2017, and didnt reply,  hence facilitating the account change.  
Mr E says that he never  signed  any approval with Barclays for the Travel and Tech Packs. But 
my role in this is to decide what is fair and reasonable taking everything into account. And 
having done so, although I know Mr E will be disappointed, I dont  think Barclays did anything 
wrong in transferring him to a current account with the Travel and Tech Packs, and I cant  
uphold Mr Es complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold Mr Es complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr E to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7130319