K821x#15complaint
Ms C says Elevate Credit International Limited  trading  as Sunny (ECI)  irresponsibly lent to 
her.
background
This complaint is about 3 instalment loans ECI provided to Ms C between  January and April 
2016. Ms Cs borrowing  history is as follows:
Loan Date 
TakenDate 
RepaidInstalments Amount Highest 
Repayment
1 15/01/2016 16/01/2017
Debt  Sold6 £500.00 £146.81
2 27/02/2016 16/01/2017
Debt  Sold6 £250.00 £229.37
3 28/04/2016 16/01/2017
Debt  Sold6 £200.00 £295.88
Ms C complains that ECI did not complete sufficient checks  before it lent her money. She 
says that if it had done, it would have seen she had become  reliant on short  term loans. So 
she concludes ECI lent irresponsibly to her.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Cs complaint  and thought  loan 3 shouldnt have been 
given. ECI disagreed with our adjudicators view and it asked for the matter to be looked at 
again. ECI added  that its own rules allowed it to give 4 loans to a consumer which means  a 
consumer could borrow four small amounts instead of one large amount. So if loans were 
affordable, they were  issued.
None of the parties has commented on loans 1 and 2 being rejected. So I wont  need to look 
at loans 1 and 2 again in this decision. However, I will look at all the loans and the general 
lending history to assess  the case fairly.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
ECI needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In practice 
this means that it should have carried out proportionate checks  to make  sure Ms C could 
repay the loans  in a sustainable manner. These checks could take into account a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Ref: DRN74953902But certain factors might  point to the fact that ECI should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a consumers income (reflecting that it could  be more difficult to make  
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. However, I dont think we reach  that point 
here in Ms Cs case.
I think that it is important for me to start by saying that ECI was required to establish whether 
Ms C could sustainably  repay  her loans  not just whether the loan payments were  
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Cs complaint.
As our adjudicator explained, a proportionate  check for loan 3 would most likely  have shown  
that Ms C was not managing her money  well. I say this because  a more proportionate check  
at the time she took out loan 3 would have shown  she had other  loans from other short-term 
lenders  apart from ECI. I note that this would  not have been an issue  for ECI due to its 
own internal lending policy, but I think a proportionate check  means ECI would have realised 
Ms C was not engaged in short-term lending to deal with an unexpected  cash-flow.  It was 
more likely she had longer term financial problems which she wasnt managing  well. So I 
dont think ECI should have given loan 3 to Ms C.
So  like our adjudicator - Im also upholding the complaint about loan 3 and ECI should  put 
things right.
putting things right  what Elevate Credit  International  Limited needs to do
Elevate Credit International Limited shouldnt have given Ms C loan 3.
If Elevate  Credit International Limited has sold the outstanding debts then it should buy 
these back if it is able to do so and then take the following steps. If Elevate Credit 
Ref: DRN74953903International Limited is not able to buy the debts back then it should liaise with the new debt 
owner to achieve  the results outlined below.
A)Add together the total of the repayments made by Ms C towards interest,  fees and charges 
on all upheld loans without an outstanding balance, not including anything  Elevate Credit 
International Limited has already  refunded.
B)Calculate 8% per year simple interest* on the individual payments made by Ms C which  
were considered as part of A, calculated from the date Ms C originally made  the 
payments, to the date the complaint is settled.
C)Remove all interest, fees and charges  from the balance on any upheld  outstanding loans, 
and treat any repayments made  by Ms C as though they had been repayments of the 
principal on all outstanding loans. If this results in Ms C having  made  overpayments then 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  refund these overpayments with 8% per year 
simple interest* calculated  on the overpayments,  from the date the overpayments would 
have arisen, to the date the complaint is settled. Elevate  Credit  International Limited  should  
then refund the amounts calculated  in A and B and move to step E.
D)If there  is still an outstanding balance then the amounts  calculated  in A and B should be 
used to repay any balance remaining on outstanding  loans (and any principal Elevate 
Credit International  Limited has already written-off). If this results in a surplus  then the 
surplus should be paid to Ms C. However  if there is still an outstanding  balance then 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  try to agree an affordable repayment plan with 
Ms C. Elevate Credit  International Limited shouldnt  pursue outstanding  balances made up 
of the principal Elevate Credit International Limited has already written-off.
E)Remove any adverse  payment information  recorded on Ms Cs credit  file in relation to loan 
3. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires  Elevate  Credit International Limited to deduct tax from this interest.  
Elevate Credit International Limited should give Ms C a certificate showing  how much  tax it has 
deducted, if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im partially  upholding Ms Cs complaint. 
Elevate Credit International Limited should  put things right for Ms C as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 March  2020.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7495390