K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C complain that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them payment protection insurance 
(PPI) in connection  with their mortgage.
background
In 2003 Mr and Mrs C took out took out PPI to cover Mr Cs income and protect their 
mortgage payments  in the event Mr C couldnt work  through accident or sickness.
The policy cost £23.73 a month and it provided  a benefit to approximately match  Mr and Mrs 
Cs monthly mortgage payment of £728  per month.
Upon a successful  claim the policy would have  paid out for Mr C for accident or sickness for 
up to 12 months per claim.
Mr and Mrs Cs PPI policy ended in 2005.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint. The adjudicator  said the evidence 
showed that Mr and Mrs C chose to take out the PPI and there was nothing to indicate 
theyd lost out as a result.
Mr and Mrs C disagree so the complaint comes to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
complaints about  PPI on our website, and Ive taken account of whats  relevant here in 
considering this complaint.
Santander says this was an advised  sale. So it not only had to provide Mr and Mrs C with 
enough information about the policy so they could make an informed decision about  it. It also 
had to ensure  the policy was right or suitable for them  based  on their needs and 
circumstances at the time. Ive taken this into account in my consideration of the case.
did Santander make  it clear to Mr and Mrs C that they had a choice about  PPI?
The PPI policy was sold in a meeting in February 2003  when Mr and Mrs C were looking to 
increase their mortgage borrowing.  I dont know what  Santander  said to Mr and Mrs C but I 
have two documents from the sale, the welcome  letter for the PPI which Santander says it 
sent to Mr and Mrs C and the PPI policy which  Mr and Mrs C bought. 
I accept it is possible Santander  didnt give Mr and Mrs C a choice about  taking PPI. I also 
accept it is possible Santander  gave them the impression they had to take it out. But it 
seems more likely  Santander gave Mr and Mrs C the opportunity to take out the policy  or 
decline it as part of their mortgage extension application, and that they chose to take it out, 
but have simply forgotten in the years that have now elapsed. I say this because they had 
previously had a mortgage  without PPI cover. And had they chosen  not to purchase PPI, or 
had it been added to their account without either their knowledge or consent,  I wouldve 
expected them to query or challenge this shortly afterwards, especially as I think  its likely 
Ref: DRN76625622they were sent a welcome letter and the PPI cost made  their monthly repayments nearly £24 
higher than the monthly cost of the advance of their extended borrowing.
This means  Im not persuaded (as I must  be to uphold Mr and Mrs Cs complaint) it is more 
likely than not Santander presented the policy to Mr and Mrs C as compulsory or that it didnt 
tell them  about  the policy at all. 
So I think it is more likely  than not Santander presented the policy as optional  and that Mr 
and Mrs C chose to have  it. 
did things  happen  as they should have done  were Mr and Mrs C properly advised 
and informed?
if not  have Mr and Mrs C lost out?
I dont know what Santander  said or did when it recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs C. I 
also dont know what information  Mr and Mrs C were given about the PPI. For example  
whether they were  told about the significant exclusions and limitations of cover or if the 
policys costs and benefits were made clear to them, though I can see the costs of the PPI 
were shown separately in the welcome  letter. I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs C agreed  to take 
the cover  out without  knowing  anything about  it, but I dont know if they received everything  
they needed to know to allow them to make an informed decision.
So I accept  its possible that things did not happen as they should  have done  when 
Santander recommended  to Mr and Mrs C that they take out PPI to cover Mr C. I accept Mr 
and Mrs C may not have  been treated fairly  and reasonably.
But for the reasons Ive set out below, I dont think Mr and Mrs C have lost out as a result. I 
say this because, given  Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances  and needs at the time, I think  the 
policy cover  for Mr C was suitable  for them. And I find it unlikely that Mr and Mrs C would 
have acted differently  and not gone  ahead with the cover  if Santander  had given them more 
information. My reasons  are as follows:
Mr C was eligible for his cover and all its benefits
Mr C was employed and in good health at the time, so it doesnt appear he would 
have been affected  by any of the key exclusions  / limitations  of his cover  such  as 
existing medical condition exclusions.
Mr C may have  had some sick pay entitlement from his employer, which could have  
helped them make the mortgage  payments if Mr C was off work ill. But the policy 
would have paid out in addition  to Mr Cs sick pay and for longer than his employer if 
necessary  up to 12 months for accident and sickness.  Mr and Mrs C were mainly 
reliant on Mr Cs income and had limited  other  means to help them. So I think  Mr and 
Mrs C had a need for Mr Cs cover and that it would have been useful to them if Mr C 
found he was unable to work. It could have helped them  financially at what  would be 
a difficult time and it couldve helped them keep their home.
I find it unlikely Mr and Mrs C would have agreed  to something without having some  
understanding of the cost. And I think its unlikely they would have declined it solely 
on the basis of its cost had it been  made  clearer to them. Ive already said they had a 
need for it and at approximately £24 per month it appears to have  been  affordable.
So overall, while I accept  there may have been  failings  in the way the policy  was sold and Mr 
and Mrs C may not have  been treated fairly  and reasonably by Santander  in its dealings with 
them, I find theyve not lost out. This is because, on balance,  for the reasons Ive detailed 
Ref: DRN76625623above, I think Mr and Mrs C would have  been in the same position  if Santander  had done  
more and properly  advised and informed  them  - I think they would have still taken out the 
PPI.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above Ive decided that Mr and Mrs C have not lost out as a result of 
taking out PPI with their mortgage, so I make  no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Richard Hill
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7662562