K822xComplaint
Mr W has complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance Plc (RSA) has unfairly  increased 
the cost of his pet insurance policy each  year.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr W took out, will continue to cover any 
medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy is renewed each year.  
These are sometimes referred  to as lifetime policies,  as ongoing  or recurring  conditions  will 
continue to be covered  for the lifetime  of the pet, if premiums carry on being  paid.  The yearly 
cost of these lifetime policies can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim is 
made. 
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr W. It has accepted  
the information it gave Mr W about  the policy wasnt as clear as it should  have  been.  And 
RSA has offered to pay him £250  compensation for the trouble and upset hes been caused 
as a result  of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation in the circumstances 
of Mr Ws complaint.
Mr W has told us hes not happy with the offer RSA has made  because  no other insurer  will 
cover his pets ongoing condition now. So he is trapped  in the policy.
Businesses are entitled to decide  how much to charge for the insurance cover they provide, 
and I dont have  the power to tell a business  what its insurance should cost.  I would be, in 
effect, determining  or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. So I 
cant say the cost of Mr Ws policy is too high,  he should  have  been  charged less for the 
policy or that he should be charged less in the future.
While Mr Ws premium  has seen  significant  increases, I havent  seen any evidence  to 
suggest RSA has treated  him differently to how it would have treated any other  policyholder 
in the same position. So I cant tell RSA to charge him a lower  premium going forwards.
I understand this situation has caused  Mr W distress as he cant  find an alternative  policy  
that will cover his pets ongoing condition. And I recognise the likely continuing increases in 
the premium in future years mean he may not be able to afford to continue  with the policy.  
But the thing RSA did wrong was not give Mr W the information he needed to understand he 
could end up in the position  he now finds himself in. Where I find something has gone  
wrong, Ill look at whats likely  to have happened if it hadnt, to see if a consumer has lost 
out.
Ref: DRN74908472If Mr W hadnt taken  a lifetime policy, he would have either had no cover at all, and would 
have had to pay for all his pets treatments  himself, or a reduced level of cover,  where he 
would still have found himself in a situation  where his pets  condition was no longer covered.
I think its unlikely better  information  about  the possible future costs of the policy  would have 
resulted in Mr W having cover for ongoing  conditions at a fixed  or capped  premium  this 
type of policy typically  doesnt exist. So it wouldnt be fair for me to put him in this position.  
The compensation RSA has offered recognises  that better information about  the longer-term 
costs of the policy could have avoided  some of the upset and distress  Mr W has 
experienced. I think the award fairly compensates Mr W for the trouble and upset hes been 
caused.
My final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr W £250 compensation is fair and 
reasonable. I dont  require  it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr W to accept 
or reject my decision before 10 February  2020. 
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7490847