K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs S complain  about the handling of their home insurance  claim by Fairmead 
Insurance Limited (Fairmead).
There were several parties  involved in this complaint on behalf of Fairmead, such as loss 
adjusters and contractors  but for ease  I will only refer to Fairmead  in this decision.
background
In August  2016  Mr and Mrs S made a claim on their home insurance policy  after a car 
crashed into their home and caused significant damage. Around  three  weeks later Fairmead 
appointed a loss adjuster and a schedule of works was completed to confirm  the work that 
would be needed  to rectify the damage  to the property  this included  rebuilding  an area at 
the front of the property.
Fairmead started work  on the property  in December 2016. But the wall that was rebuilt was 
not of good quality  the bricks were the wrong  colour and cement had been used instead of 
lime mortar.  The wall had to be repeatedly rebuilt due to the issues  with each attempt. 
Around June 2017 a building surveyor inspected the property and recommended that all 
existing works needed  to be demolished  and the project needed  to be started again.
Following this report, there was a delay while Fairmead tried to source the correct coloured 
bricks for the property. A match  was found  and delivered to the property  in November 2017. 
The rebuild  was completed shortly after. And in January 2018 a new window was ordered  
from the supplier,  which was fitted  in April 2018. However, when this was inspected by the 
surveyor, it was confirmed  that the window hadnt  been built to the appropriate specification.  
A new window had to be ordered and was fitted  in July 2018.  Having rebuilt  the exterior of 
the house, Fairmead then began works to the inside  of the property. A completion  certificate  
for the works  was issued in November  2018.
Mr and Mrs S are unhappy with the way the claim was handled and the service  they have 
been provided during the claim. The y raised their concerns with Fairmead  who agreed that 
the level of service had fallen  far below what they would expect on several occasions. And 
Fairmead acknowledged that the standard of work completed by their contractors and 
suppliers had not been satisfactory. Fairmead  offered  Mr and Mrs S a total of £2,400 
compensation. And it offered  them  a further  £1,500 in recognition to the less than desired 
condition of their home for a prolonged period.
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He agreed that Fairmead had 
provided a very poor level of service  throughout the claim, but he thought  the compensation 
it had already offered was sufficient to reflect this.
Mr and Mrs S disagreed so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
outcome as our investigator and for the same  reasons.
Ref: DRN72122582The work to Mr and Mrs S property is now complete. And both parties agree that the 
handling of this claim was poor and that the workmanship of Fairmeads contractors has 
fallen far below the standard that could reasonably be expected. So the only issue  for me to 
decide in this decision is whether the offer of compensation Fairmead  has already made is 
enough.
Mr and Mrs S have  said they were caused financial loss as a result  of the issues  with 
Fairmead and have referred to the mortgage  payments they made on their property, council 
tax and utility  bills. But these are costs Mr and Mrs S would have incurred regardless of 
whether there was a claim so we wouldnt  expect  Fairmead to reimburse these and I havent 
seen anything in their policy that would  provide  cover  for these expenses.  So I dont agree 
that there  have been financial losses that Fairmead  should pay for.
It is clear from Mr and Mrs Ss correspondence with both this service and Fairmead that this 
issue has had a huge impact on their lives and has caused a great deal of stress. 
Unfortunately in claims like this, there will always be an element  of stress due to the nature 
of home  insurance  claims. But in this case,  I think Fairmead and its agents significantly 
added to the distress  that was caused to Mr and Mrs S.
The claim took over two years to complete and there  were  significant periods where I think  
Fairmead could have done more  to progress things. In addition to this, I can see that there  
were often periods  throughout  the claim where  Mr and Mrs S were not being regularly kept 
up to date and where  correspondence wasnt replied to when they were told it would be. And 
having reviewed  the evidence,  it seems  to me that often the progress of the claim was 
entirely due to Mr and Mrs Ss persistence  in managing  the project themselves. So I agree 
with Mr and Mrs S that the claim handling and overall service they have  received  from 
Fairmead was of a poor standard and not what they reasonably  should  have expected.  And I 
can certainly appreciate  their strength of feeling on this issue.
But I also have to consider that the compensation that has been offered to Mr and Mrs S is 
significant. Mr and Mrs S have commented  that Fairmead hasnt shown any compassion  or 
understanding of how this issue  has affected their lives  and I can understand why they 
would say that. But the particularly high level of compensation offered by Fairmead, 
suggests that it recognises its significant  failings in handling this claim and has offered an 
amount that is a genuine attempt to reflect  the distress and inconvenience it caused to Mr 
and Mrs S and the impact  the handling of this claim had on their lives.
Mr and Mrs S have  calculated an amount they believe to be fair based on Mr S hourly  rate 
and his time in dealing  with this matter  but we dont generally consider compensation 
based on an hourly rate or even a daily rate, rather we will look at everything and make a 
decision based on what we consider  to be fair overall..
And having considered the timeline of events and the fact that many of the delays were  
avoidable, I think the amount offered fairly  reflects the level of distress and inconvenience 
caused to Mr and Mrs S during their claim. So while I agree with Mr and Mrs S that this claim 
was very poorly handled, I do think Fairmead has offered  enough to reflect this. So I wont  
be asking it to do anything  further.  
Mr and Mrs S have  raised concerns about  the information being  recorded about their claim 
on the central insurance database. But I havent seen  any evidence  that Fairmead has 
addressed a complaint about  that issue so they will need to raise any concerns they have 
with Fairmead in the first instance.
Ref: DRN72122583my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. Fairmead Insurance  Limited should 
pay Mr and Mrs S the total compensation it has already offered if it has not done so already.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  29 June  2020.
Sara Falzon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7212258