K821x#15complaint
Mr N complains that when he made  a claim on his motor insurance policy Calpe Insurance  
Company Limited  delayed  dealing with it and still hasnt settled the claim.  
Where I refer to Calpe, this includes its agents  and claims handlers  acting on its behalf.
background
Mr N had his car insured  with Calpe. In August 2017 he bought  a new car and called Calpe 
to let them know. He gave the details  of the new car, which he said was worth  £16,000. The 
insurance was updated  to show  the change of vehicle from that date.
In March 2018 Mr N reported that his car had been  stolen and he wished to make a claim on 
his policy. Calpe sent him a claim form and requested information from him about the 
circumstances of the theft.
Over the following months Calpe carried out further  investigations into the claim, including 
requesting a copy of the police report and instructing investigators to see Mr N and obtain 
further details  from him. Calpe asked for proof of where the cash  Mr N used to buy the car 
had come from.
Mr N complained that the investigations were taking  too long and said Calpe should have 
settled his claim. Calpe  said it was entitled  to carry out any investigations necessary and 
there was no set timeline for this; it had no control  over the timeline of police enquiries;  and 
there had been  no undue delays. Calpe also said it required evidence from Mr N of where 
the cash used  as part payment of the car had come  from.
Mr N was unhappy the claim was still ongoing  and complained to this service. One of our 
investigators looked into the complaint.  She didnt think it was necessary for Mr N to provide 
proof of the funds  used to buy the car. And she said there had been unnecessary delays,  
which had left Mr N without a car for many months. She said Calpe should pay Mr N £10 per 
day until the claim was settled for loss of use, together with £250  compensation for the 
trouble and upset  caused to him. 
Caple disagreed and provided  further  comments. It said the investigation was ongoing.  A 
second investigator reviewed the complaint. He said Mr N had proved the loss and it wasnt 
fair to require proof of funds before settling the claim. He thought  the claim should be paid, 
and the only issue  was the value  of the car, which he put at £25,000. He said Mr N should  
also be paid £750  compensation to reflect delays of seven months caused by Calpe.
Calpe didnt agree  and, amongst other things, has said:  
it still has concerns around the circumstances of the loss;
it doesnt agree that Mr N should not be required  to require proof  of funds;
Mr N had valued the car at £16,000, so if the car was worth  £25,000 this showed he 
had made a clear  and deliberate misrepresentation about its value;
Our investigator thought any misrepresentation by Mr N was careless rather  than deliberate 
or reckless, so the claim should still be paid, but with a reduction to reflect the lower 
premium calculated on the value given by Mr N.
Ref: DRN75141362As no agreement was reached, the case was passed to me to decide. I issued a provisional 
decision on 20 February. In the provisional decision I said:
An insurer  should  deal with any claim promptly and fairly. Calpe says that although  it has 
taken a long time to deal with the claim,  it was making valid enquiries  and the delays were  
not due to failings on its part. In particular,  it says there were  discrepancies in the information  
provided by Mr N, so it was reasonable to instruct investigators to carry out further enquires 
and to get a copy  of the police report  and delays obtaining that were outside  its control.
Calpe has referred  to the policy terms, which  say:
When we are dealing with any claim the person who is seeking payment under this policy 
shall give us all the relevant information,  documents and assistance we require to enable 
any claim to be validated  for us to achieve a settlement  or pursue a recovery.
Below are some  examples of what we may request. However, we may also ask for other 
information, documents and assistance relevant to your claim. 
The policy document gives details of the sorts of things that may be requested,  which 
include for example  witnesses statements,  driving licence, proof of identity and address, 
vehicle documentation  and proof  of purchase, receipts and invoices.
I agree  it was reasonable for Calpe to carry out investigations. In the first instance,  its for the 
policyholder to prove their claim. So if there was information Calpe needed for this, it was 
reasonable (and in line with the policy terms) to ask for it. But I think  there was some 
unnecessary delay caused by Calpes handling of the claim. In particular, it says it wasnt  
responsible for delays  by the police  providing the report. But that overlooks the fact that the 
initial request  for a police  report was sent to the wrong  place (and not just, as has been 
suggested, the wrong department, but the wrong police force  entirely).  If the request had 
been sent to the right police force, some  of that delay might  have  been  avoided.
Having said that, ultimately Calpe hasnt  yet settled the claim because of concerns around  
two issues  the alleged misrepresentation by Mr N; and proof of the funds he used to buy 
the car. So Ive considered very carefully  how Calpe has dealt with these  two issues.
misrepresentation 
The law relating  to misrepresentation is set out in the Consumer Insurance  (Disclosure  and 
Representations) Act 2012 (or CIDRA). CIDRA says a consumer  has a duty to take 
reasonable care not to make  a misrepresentation to the insurer. So Ive considered  what
Mr N was asked and how he answered. 
Ive listened to the call between Mr N and Calpe  in August 2017 when he phoned to say he 
had a new car. On this call Mr N is first asked  How much have you bought  it for? and 
answers same as the last one, £16,000. Hes then asked, and how much did you value  it 
at? and answers at that same price.
Im satisfied these were clear questions.  I dont think theres any doubt  he was being asked 
how much  it had cost to buy the car and what it was worth. 
Ref: DRN75141363Mr N had bought  the car for £29,000. This was paid for by part-exchanging his old car for 
£15,000 and paying the balance of £14,000 in cash.  So the answers  he gave were not 
correct. He hadnt paid £16,000  and the car wasnt worth that amount. 
In my judgment Mr N didnt take reasonable care when answering the questions.  I say this 
because he had only just bought the car. He would have known how much the car was worth  
and how much hed paid for it. I dont agree Mr N could reasonably say he had bought  it for 
£16,000 or that the car was worth that amount. 
Calpe has shown it would not have offered insurance on the same  terms if that 
misrepresentation hadnt happened  it would have  charged a higher premium.  So this was 
a qualifying misrepresentation under CIDRA.  
Calpe says the misrepresentation was deliberate, but Mr N says it was an innocent mistake.  
He says the price  paid in cash was on his mind  and he informed the call handler  that hed 
paid £16,000;  if they been more specific about the value of the car he would have thought 
twice and told her the exact price, but because he had paid in cash,  he just forgot that part 
payment had been made with part-exchange  of his previous car. He also says he has 
medical conditions  for which he takes regular medication, and this means sometimes  he isnt 
able to comprehend things in the way one should;  as a result  he got confused and 
innocently stated the price  he had paid,  forgetting the value of the part- exchanged car.
I have considered Mr Ns explanation  carefully. I appreciate that he may sometimes get 
confused and may not understand things as well as someone else. But even allowing for 
that, its not clear  to me how he could say he paid £16,000 for the car, or that it was worth  
that amount.  He says he forgot about the part-exchange and was only thinking about what  
hed actually paid.  But he hadnt paid £16,000   hed paid £14,000. And its difficult  to see 
how someone could  forget the fact they have just part-exchanged their car for a new one.
He also says if the person he spoke to had been more specific about the value he would 
have thought twice and given the correct figure. However, as Ive mentioned above, they did 
specifically ask him about the value of the car. Bearing in mind  that Mr N had only just 
bought the car  and was given a receipt showing the breakdown of the part-exchange and 
the amount hed paid  I cant see how he could reasonably say the car was worth  £16,000  
when hed just bought  it for £29,000.  In my judgment, he should reasonably have known            
thats what it had cost to buy the car and how much it was worth. So in these circumstances 
I think the misrepresentation was at least reckless.
Where there is a reckless  misrepresentation  the insurer is entitled to refuse  the claim and 
void the policy (that is, treat it as if it had never  been in force).  And it doesnt  have to return 
the premium unless that would be unfair  in the circumstances. 
proof of funds
Calpe says it was entitled to request proof of funds because Mr N couldnt  explain where  the 
cash he used in part payment for the car had come  from.
Financial businesses have responsibilities to carry out checks and report  suspicious 
transactions. But in this case, the transaction in question took place when Mr N bought  the 
car. If there  had been concerns about  the cash he used in part payment, that was something 
for the business  carrying out that transaction to consider. While it was reasonable for Calpe 
to investigate the circumstances of the loss, and consider any concerns around  that (for 
Ref: DRN75141364example, inconsistencies in what Mr N said about the theft or about the value of the car) in 
my judgment it didnt need to look for proof  of the funds used to buy the car.
summary
Taking all the above circumstances into account,  I think it was reasonable for Calpe  to 
investigate the claim  and that would have taken some time in any event. There was some 
delay initially  in obtaining information from Mr N. But I do think there was some unnecessary 
delay, in particular  relating to obtaining  the police report. And if Calpe hadnt  insisted on 
investigating proof of funds, that aspect could  have been avoided  altogether.  If Calpe had 
focused instead on assessing  the claim itself, and the misrepresentation, it could have 
reached a conclusion earlier.
This delay  was upsetting for Mr N. He was asked unnecessary questions  about proof  of 
funding. Calpe could have  reached  a decision much earlier, instead of leaving Mr N not 
knowing whether  the claim would  be settled. And this would have been particularly upsetting 
for Mr N  due to his medical conditions, any stress would  have  had a greater effect  on him. 
For these reasons I agree that a payment of £750 is a fair reflection of the trouble and upset  
caused to Mr N
I appreciate this payment is relatively small compared to the value of the car  which  is what  
Mr N is looking  for. But ultimately I think it was reasonable to refuse the claim (and void the 
policy) on the basis of the misrepresentation made  by Mr N. So I dont intend  to uphold the 
complaint other than in respect  of the delays  and the impact  these had on him.
For these reasons, my provisional decision was that I intended to partly  uphold the complaint 
and direct Calpe Insurance Company Limited  to pay compensation of £750 to Mr N for the 
distress and inconvenience caused to him.
developments 
Calpe has accepted the provisional decision but Mr N has not. He has referred  to his 
medical conditions,  saying these affect  his decision-making  ability  and make him feel 
confused and disorientated. He accepts that he made an error but says this was innocent  
mistake and there was no reason for him to undervalue his car, given that the difference  in 
premium was so small. Hes also provided some information about the medication he says 
he is taking and the various  side effects this can cause. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr N has provided comments about his health and explained how this affects him. Ive 
considered this carefully but dont think it means  the complaint  should  be upheld.  Although  
he has provided some information, its general in nature. I dont  have any medical evidence 
 for example from his GP  confirming his condition  or how this would have affected his 
ability to answer the questions  put to him. Ive listened to the call recording and it doesnt 
appear to me that he was confused or didnt understand what was asked. He didnt, for 
example, ask for clarification when he answered the questions about  what hed paid for the 
car and what it was worth. And as Ive said, he had only just bought  the car. Taking into 
Ref: DRN75141365account all the information I have, it remains my view that he didnt take reasonable care and 
that his answers  were  reckless.
The difference in premium  that Calpe would have  charged isnt large.  But I think its unlikely 
Mr N would have known  this at the time, so in my judgment that isnt a decisive factor in 
deciding why he might  have answered the questions in the way he did.
So for these reasons, and the reasons set out in the provisional decision, I dont think the 
complaint should  be upheld,  except  to the extent  that there was some delay and Mr N should 
be compensated for the trouble and upset  this caused to him.
my final decision
My final decision is that I partly uphold the complaint and direct Calpe Insurance  Company 
Limited to pay compensation of £750 to Mr N for the distress and inconvenience  caused to 
him.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Peter Whiteley 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7514136