K820x#14complaint
Mr M says Santander UK Plc (when  it was trading as National  and Provincial) mis-sold him a 
payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
From now on Ill just refer to Santander  in my decision as it is responsible for dealing  with 
this complaint. 
background
In 1993, Mr M had a PPI policy  alongside a mortgage. He paid a monthly amount for the 
policy and it protected  his mortgage repayments if he couldnt  work.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ms mis-selling complaint. Mr M disagrees and hes mainly  
concerned that he didnt  need PPI. He says he was missold  the policy as he already had 
other ways  to pay the mortgage so the policy provided duplicate cover. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ms complaint.  Ill explain my reasons.
Mr M told us that he took out the PPI in a meeting  and he may well be right about that. 
Santander couldnt provide any paperwork from the sale. So Ive seen nothing signed by 
Mr M from when he was sold PPI. But its not surprising, given how long ago this sale 
happened, that paperwork isnt still available. I wouldnt expect Santander or Mr M to have 
kept this.   
And I cant know exactly what  was discussed  when Mr M arranged this PPI. It isnt 
reasonable to expect  him to recall  in detail what was said at the time after so long. This 
means that what Mr M says about how Santander  sold him the PPI isnt enough on its own 
for me to be able to uphold this complaint. I have  to look at everything  and decide what 
I think is most likely.  
Overall, I dont  think the evidence is strong enough  for me to say that Santander didnt make 
it clear that it was open to Mr M not to choose PPI if he didnt want to have it, just based on 
what he says now. 
The mortgage was a major financial  commitment, due to run for a long period of time. His 
home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments werent kept up to date.  So, I can see 
why Mr M mightve felt PPI was useful to have.  I can completely understand why Mr M 
mightve forgotten this now. But, on balance, I think its more likely that at the time Mr M 
wanted to have the benefits that PPI offered him and he decided  to buy the policy. 
Ref: DRN72488112If a financial business  makes a recommendation about PPI, it has to take reasonable steps  
to make sure the cover it recommends is suitable  as well as giving important policy 
information in a clear  way. Santander  looked at the complaint on the basis that it 
recommended the PPI to him. This fits with what Mr M recalls from the sale and I think its 
the fairest way to assess his complaint given the lack of paperwork and other information 
showing how PPI was sold. And so this is also the approach Ive taken.
The exact date Mr M was sold the PPI isnt known. But Santander has provided a policy 
leaflet which  looks like it was in use around  the time he was paying  for PPI  so I think its 
likely that in all main  respects the policy that Mr M took out wouldve had similar terms and 
conditions.
PPI seems to have been right for Mr M based  on what  Ive seen of his circumstances. The 
policy couldve covered  his mortgage  repayments  for significantly longer than he expected to 
receive full sick pay from his employer if he couldnt  work  up to 24 months  per claim. I say 
this because the policy leaflet Ive seen  mentions  that up to two years  cover was available . 
And it wouldve paid out in addition  to any work benefits providing  a useful benefit at what  
couldve been a difficult time  especially  if Mr M mightve faced extra  costs  as a result  of 
being sick or disabled. 
Ive taken into account that Mr M says he had a stable job  but no job can be guaranteed to 
be secure indefinitely.  As well as protecting him in the event of accident  or sickness,  the 
policy couldve also paid out if Mr M lost his job and was unexpectedly unemployed.
I dont know if Mr M wouldve always had savings  to rely on if he wasnt  able to work. And 
Ive taken into account that Mr M told us his monthly costs  (including  his mortgage) were  
modest and he didnt have any expensive payments he had to meet.  But the policy couldve 
paid a monthly benefit for quite a lot longer than its likely the amount of savings hes 
mentioned wouldve lasted if hed had to rely on these to cover outgoings when he was 
unable to work. So, looking at his circumstances  at the time, I think  the PPI was suitable.   
Its possible Santander didnt point out some  things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr M doesnt  
appear to have been affected by any of those. So I dont  think its likely this information 
wouldve made any difference  to his decision to take out PPI. And I dont know if the PPI 
cost was made clear  to Mr M when he took it out. But, from what Ive seen, Mr M hasnt 
suggested that he couldnt  afford the monthly  premiums. 
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr M still wouldve decided to buy the policy even if hed been  given  clearer 
information as it gave him useful protection in his particular situation. I dont find that Mr M 
has lost out as a result  of anything Santander did wrong. This means  it doesnt  need to do 
anything to put things right.
Ref: DRN72488113my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 October  2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7248811