K821x#15complaint
Mr J complains that a car that was supplied to him under a hire purchase agreement with 
Advantage Finance Limited wasnt of satisfactory  quality and that it should pay him more 
compensation.
background
A used  car was supplied to Mr J under a hire purchase agreement with Advantage Finance 
that he electronically signed in August 2018.  The car was about six years old and had a cash 
price of £8,000.  He had some issues with the car and it broke  down twice  in October 2018. 
The first breakdown report shows that the cars mileage  was 87,632 miles. There  were  
lengthy discussions involving Mr J, Advantage Finance and the dealer about repairs to the 
car but Advantage Finance then accepted that Mr J could reject it and end his agreement. It 
refunded £587  to him but retained £231.25 for the condition of the car when it was returned. 
Mr J wasnt satisfied with its response  because he wanted it to pay him more compensation 
than that so he complained to this service.
The investigator recommended  that this complaint should be upheld.  He said that it wasnt in 
dispute that the car wasnt fit for purpose and free from defects and that Advantage Finance 
had agreed to accept  the car back. He recommended that it  should end the agreement,  
collect the car and refund  Mr Js deposit  and any payments since the first payment was 
made (with interest).  But he didnt recommend that it should  refund to Mr J any of the 
additional costs  that hed claimed. He said that there  was evidence  of an inspection  to show  
that Mr J returned the car in an unacceptable  condition but he recommended that Advantage 
Finance should  pay Mr J £150 for the distress and inconvenience that hed been caused.
Advantage Finance has accepted the investigators recommendations and says that the 
agreement has ended  and the car has been collected from Mr J. It says that Mr J didnt pay 
a deposit and its refunded all but one of his monthly  payments and £231.25 and will pay him 
the other recommended amounts if he accepts that outcome (but it says that hell need  to 
provide it with the details of his bank  account).
Mr J has asked for his complaint to be considered by an ombudsman. He says, in summary, 
that he wants to claim for redress and or damages due to his loss of use of the car (as he 
had to use taxis,  hire a friend's car or cycle to work), reimbursement for servicing the car and 
carrying out a health check and compensation for the negligence of Advantage Finance  and 
the dealer for offering goods  that are unsafe  and not fit for purpose. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Advantage Finance has accepted that the car wasnt of satisfactory  quality when it was 
supplied to Mr J. So it says that its ended the hire purchase agreement and collected the car 
from him. It says that its refunded £587 to Mr J to refund him for all but one of the monthly  
payments that hes made to it but its also retained £231.25 because of the condition  in 
which the car was returned to it by Mr J. 
Mr J was able to use the car to drive about  1,800 miles and I consider it to be fair and 
reasonable that he should pay for the use that hes had from the car. So I consider that its 
Ref: DRN73341632fair and reasonable for Advantage Finance  to retain  one monthly payment of £268.75 for that 
use. 
Advantage Finance has also provided  photos  which it says show  the condition in which the 
car was returned to it. But theres  no report to explain the condition of the car or the 
estimated repair  costs. And Im not persuaded that its fair and reasonable for it to retain 
£231.25 because  of the condition in which Mr J returned the car to it.
Mr J says that he paid £299.93 in November  2018  for the car to be serviced and a deposit  of 
£238.31 for a service  plan  and that he should  be reimbursed for those costs and for the 
cost of a health  check. But servicing  a car is one of the normal  running  costs of a car and Im 
not persuaded that it would be fair or reasonable for me to require Advantage Finance to 
reimburse him for those costs.
Advantage Finance has ended the agreement and collected the car and I consider that it 
should ensure  that its refunded to Mr J all of the monthly payments that he made for the car 
(with interest) - other than one months  payment  as above for the use that hes had from the 
car. The hire purchase agreement shows that Mr J didnt pay a deposit  for the car  which 
has been confirmed  by Advantage Finance  so theres no deposit to be refunded to him. 
And Advantage Finance  has also agreed to pay £150 to Mr J to compensate him for the 
distress and inconvenience that hes been caused.
I consider that to be fair and reasonable in the circumstances. And Im not persuaded that it 
would be fair or reasonable for me to require it to pay a higher amount of compensation to 
Mr J for his distress and inconvenience  or to pay him any other damages for any breach of 
contract or negligence.
my final decision
For these reasons, my decision is that I uphold Mr Js complaint in part. And I order  
Advantage Finance Limited to:
1.Refund to Mr J all but one of the monthly payments that he made under the 
agreement.
2.Pay interest on those  amounts  at an annual rate of 8% simple  from the date of each  
payment to the date of settlement.
3.Pay £150 to Mr J to compensate him for the distress and inconvenience that hes 
been caused.
HM Revenue & Customs  requires Advantage Finance to deduct tax from the interest 
payment referred  to at 2 above. Advantage Finance must give Mr J a certificate showing 
how much  tax its deducted if he asks it for one.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 February  2020.
Jarrod Hastings
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7334163