K821x#15complaint
Mr B complaints that Tesco Personal  Finance PLC T/A Tesco  Clubcard Credit  Card wont  
refund disputed transactions made on his credit card.
background
Mr B says that while on holiday abroad, his Tesco credit card was stolen and used without 
his knowledge.
Mr B says that following a night  out he was walking back to the apartment  where  he was 
staying. He says he walked past a group of men and shortly after realised that his phone and 
bank cards had been  stolen  from his pockets. Mr B says that he got back to the apartment  
and only had the Tesco credit card which  he hadnt  taken out with him previously. He says 
he tried to use his Tesco  credit card but had forgotten  his PIN, and his card became  locked  
through failed  attempts.
Mr B says he called  Tesco to get his card unblocked  and was told to find an ATM machine 
with PIN service to unlock the card. He says he went to an ATM machine and believes  he 
put in the correct PIN but was still unable to use his Tesco card.  Mr B says that for the rest of 
the trip he borrowed money off his friends.
Mr B says when he returned to the UK three  days later, he realised he couldnt find his 
Tesco card.  Mr B says he hadnt checked  for it since the Sunday when hed been unable  to 
use it at the ATM. At this point Mr B called Tesco to report his card stolen and found  out that 
transactions had been made  on his account  that he didnt  recognise.
Ive listed out the transactions during the time period in question, as well as important points 
in time. The transactions in bold have  been disputed by Mr B, as not being authorised by 
him. The transactions in italics were declined and didnt debit Mr Bs account. The attempted 
uses of the card which were declined  due to PIN issues on the 28 June were made by Mr B.
Date Time Place/location Type of transaction Amount
28/8/2016 06:42-
06:57Banco Santander 3x Chip and PIN 
transactions  declined  
incorrect PIN£63.76,
£100.20,
£94.91
07:53 Mr B contacts Tesco to let them know his other bank card was stolen 
and he cant get cash out on his Tesco credit  card
08:08
 08:57 La Caixa 3063 and 
Tazsideca3x chip and PIN 
transactions  declined  by 
PIN£54.82, £54.82,
£4.42
09:05 Mr B contacts Tesco to let them know he still cant get cash  out. 
Tesco tell Mr B how he can unblock  his card
09:17 Mr B calls Tesco to say the machine hes trying to use doesnt give 
him the option  to change his PIN.
09:35 Banco Santander Chip and PIN transaction
 declined due to 
excessive declined  
authorisation requests£94.91
Ref: DRN7949793229/8/2016 03:19
 03:20 Rayan Supermercado 2x chip and PIN 
transactions£10.35, £86.28
03:24 Caja De Ah Y 
PensionesChip and PIN 
transaction£274.12
03:25-
03:27Caja De Ah Y 
Pensiones4x chip and PIN 
transactions  declined  as 
exceeds daily ATM  limit£274.12,
£137.06,
£91.37,
£182.74
03:31 Raya Supermercado Chip and PIN 
transaction£86.28
03:42 Flota 3  Santa Adria 
DeChip and PIN 
transaction£4.57
03:45 Tobaco & Shisha 
TradeChip and PIN 
transaction£13.40
03:57-
23:02Various locations  in 
Spain15x chip an PIN 
transactions  declined  for 
reasons including exceeds 
daily ATM  limit, excessive 
declined authorisations, 
and one bad pinTotalling
£720.86
30/8/2016 11:21 B B V A Chip and PIN 
transaction£172.56
11:22-
11:23BBVA 2x chip and PIN 
transactions  declined  
due to not enough 
available cash and 
exceeds daily ATM  limit£258.84,
£172.56
11:26
 11:43 Gavernia 3x chip and PIN 
transactions£91.12,
£172.56,
£172.56
11:53 Gavernia Chip and PIN transaction
 declined due to not 
enough available money£345.12
11:53 Gavernia Chip and PIN 
transaction£172.56
12:43 Bancosabadell Chip and PIN transaction
 declined due to 
exceeds daily ATM  limit£44.29
12:59
 17:22 Various locations in 
Spain9x chip and PIN 
transactionsTotalling
£260.12
18:40 Mr Bs flight  left Spain  arrival time in UK 20:10
19:34 Bazar Oriental C 
ElkanChip and PIN 
transaction£14.46
20:12 Federal Caf Chip and PIN 
transaction£4.54
31/8/2016 00:05
 00:06 Bankia 2x chip and PIN 
transactions  declined  
due to not enough money  
available£85.58, £87.99
Ref: DRN7949793300:17 Taxi Chip and pin transaction £7.06
00:21-
14:33Various locations 9x chip and PIN 
transactions  declined  
due to not enough money  
availableTotalling
£825.16
19:15 Mr B called to report his Tesco credit card stolen
Tesco investigated and decided not to refund  the disputed withdrawals. They  said they were 
holding Mr B liable for the transactions because:
they dont  believe  a fraudster would wait a number of hours between getting the card
and making the first transaction   they would expect the card to be used as quickly
as possible
they werent persuaded that Mr B had been pickpocketed twice - saying that the
other bank  cards hadnt been cancelled with the respective banks
As Mr B didnt agree  with Tescos decision, he asked us to investigate.
Our investigator recommended the complaint  should be upheld. In summary,  she felt the 
most likely scenario was that Mr Bs card had been stolen and used  by a third party  who had 
observed his PIN. She recommended that Tesco should put the account back to where it 
shouldve been  before the transactions took place. But she felt the first two successful 
transactions on 29 June  at Rayan Supermercado  were probably completed by Mr B, as such  
she didnt recommend that these two transactions totalling £96.63 should be refunded.
Tesco disagreed  with the investigators opinion saying:
it was unusual that Mr B didnt  have his Tesco card on him when he was first
pickpocketed, but had it to use the next day;
the pattern  didnt  look like usual fraudster  spending, also they felt the timings  of the
transactions suggested it was Mr B who completed the transactions; and
they couldnt get confirmation Mr B was on a flight  during some of the transactions,
but regardless they werent persuaded that it wasnt Mr B that carried  out the
transactions, or that he hadnt given permission to a third party to use the card.
Tesco asked  for the answer to be reviewed by an ombudsman, so the complaint has been 
passed to me.
my provisional findings
In my provisional decision,  I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As part of this Im required to take into 
account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards;  codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. And where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete or 
contradictory, I reached my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other  words,  on what  
I consider is most likely to have  happened in light of the available  evidence.
Generally, Tesco can hold Mr B liable for the disputed withdrawals if the evidence suggests 
that its more likely than not that he made  or authorised them  himself.
Ref: DRN79497934Im satisfied from the banks technical  evidence that Mr Bs genuine  card and PIN were used 
to make the disputed transactions.  But the regulations relevant to this case  say that is not, 
on its own, enough to enable Tesco to hold him liable. So, I also need to think  about whether 
the evidence suggests that its more likely than not that Mr B consented to the withdrawals 
being made.
Tesco say theyre  holding Mr B liable as they think its most  likely that he made these 
transactions or authorised  someone  to make  them.
Having looked  at everything its unclear exactly what happened to Mr Bs Tesco credit card 
while he was in Spain,  but I dont need to determine  that in order  to decide  whether or not I 
think its fair for Tesco  to hold him liable for the transactions. I need to decide whether the 
evidence persuades me that its more likely than not that Mr B authorised  the transactions,  
either by doing  them  himself  or giving his card to someone else to use with his consent. 
Based on all the evidence I think its more likely than not that Mr B didnt carry out or 
authorise the disputed transactions on his Tesco  credit card and Ill explain why.
Most of the transactions were carried out during the time Mr B was abroad,  but I can see that 
the last 14 uses  of the card happened after Mr B said he had returned to the UK. Weve 
talked to the airline that Mr B used for his flight back to the UK, and theyve confirmed the 
date and time of the flight, and that he boarded it  details included in the table. Therefore I 
cant see how Mr B wouldve have been  able to complete these last 14 transactions  himself, 
as he wasnt in the country where they were made. I appreciate  that this could still allow for 
Mr B to have given the card to someone  else to use with his consent, which Ive considered.
Looking at the pattern of the transactions, they arent what  I would expect if Mr B had 
completed them or consented  to someone  to use his card to complete them. I say this 
because there are multiple attempts just minutes apart, with decreasing amounts being tried 
when the card is declined. The pattern of transactions appears to be me to be of someone  
who is trying  to get out as much money as possible from the card. Also,  while there were 
more than 50 attempts  to use the card after Mr Bs last call to Tesco, 34 were declined.  This 
looks particularly unusual  to me and looks like a fraudulent pattern where someone is trying 
to constantly use the card before  its cancelled.
Also, I can see that a number of the attempted withdrawals, especially the later ones, were 
declined as the card had exceeded its limit. Mr B knew what his card limit was, so I wouldnt 
expect him to continue  trying to take funds  out multiple times when the card was already 
over its limit and had been declined  again  this feels more  like the behaviour of a fraudster. 
This also suggests to me that Mr B didnt give his card to someone else to carry out the 
transactions. As I think its unlikely they also wouldve  continued using the card once the 
card had reached its limit.
I appreciate that there are no transactions attempted  after the card had been cancelled,  but I 
think this is most likely because the last nine attempted transactions  were all declined.
Ref: DRN79497935For an unknown third party to have used Mr Bs card they wouldve needed to obtain his 
PIN, and its not clear  exactly  how this happened. But I accept  its possible  that Mr B mayve 
been observed entering his correct PIN. He told us that he initially  didnt remember his PIN. 
But that after some  attempts he did remember his PIN, but the card wouldnt work as it had 
been locked. There is a possibility that he did try using the right PIN and was observed 
doing so before the card was taken. Its also possible that the PIN on his Tesco card 
matched the PIN on his other cards that were stolen from him earlier the same  day. Another  
possibility is that someone known to Mr B obtained  his Tesco card and observed his PIN 
without his knowledge. Not being  able to clearly identify exactly  how and when his PIN was 
compromised isnt enough in this case to persuade me that Mr B completed these 
transactions.
Part of the reason Tesco says its holding Mr B liable  is that Mr B didnt report fraud  on any 
of his other cards, and they doubt he was pick pocketed and lost his other bank cards and 
his phone. But we have  confirmation from another bank that Mr B reported his card with 
them stolen on the date he told Tesco he was pick pocketed, and we have evidence  from his 
mobile phone provider that he contacted them to report  his phone stolen on the same  date.  
So, I think its likely Mr B was initially pick pocketed and lost his phone and at least  one of his 
other bank  cards which was reported as stolen, prior to him losing possession of his Tesco 
card.
Tesco has also raised a concern that the gap of 18 hours in usage of the card isnt 
suggestive of fraudster  behaviour, and I do appreciate that it is unusual. But having 
considered all the evidence I dont find this gap enough to persuade  me that its more  likely 
than not that Mr B carried out these transactions  or consented to someone else using his 
card to complete  them. As Ive set out above there  a number of explanations for how the 
card and PIN were  obtained. I only need  to be persuaded that Mr B carrying  out the 
transactions isnt the most likely  explanation.
The investigator had thought it was most  likely that Mr B completed the first two successful 
transactions on the 29 June, made  at Rayan Supermercado totalling £96.63. But I think  this 
is unlikely as there was a successful use of the card less than four minutes later  with 
ongoing attempted use of the card every few minutes for over an hour.  Mr B has told us that 
he didnt successfully use his card at all, and based  on the time difference  between  the 
transactions, I think its most likely  that all the transactions  on the 29th June were made by 
one person  which for the reasons Ive already  given I dont think was Mr B.
Taking everything into account,  I find, on balance, that Mr B didnt authorise the disputed
withdrawals. It follows  that Tesco cant hold him liable for them.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr B responded to the provisional decision saying he accepted  it.
Tesco responded saying they disagreed  with the outcome reached.  They felt it was 
impossible for someone else to have obtained Mr Bs PIN without his knowledge. Saying this 
was too important a point  to overlook.
Ref: DRN79497936Id like to reassure Tesco that in reaching  an answer, I considered  all the possible scenarios  
as set out in my provisional decision. Ive carefully  thought about the points theyve raised  as 
to why they say it was impossible for someone  else to obtain  Mr Bs PIN without his 
knowledge. 
Mr B has been very consistent in telling us that he eventually remembered his PIN, but the 
machine still wouldnt  work. As detailed in the transactions  table, the last declined  
transaction that Mr B attempted was declined  due to excessive declined  authorisation 
requests, whereas his previous attempts were  declined due to a problem with the PIN. But 
regardless, I think its more likely  than not that Mr B mayve remembered his PIN and used it 
at the cash machine. This wouldve given someone either known to him, or unknown  to him 
the opportunity  to observe  his PIN. Im not convinced that Mr Bs card was necessarily  taken 
by the same people who had earlier taken  his other  card and phone, but this is a possibility. 
Its also possible that someone known to Mr B took the card and used it without his consent.  
Overall, I have  to make  a decision  on whether I think it is more  likely than not that Mr B 
authorised these transactions. And even considering everything that Tesco has said as to 
why they think  its most likely that Mr B did authorise the transactions, Im still not persuaded 
that he did. I think the pattern of the spending and the use of the card is more  like that of a 
fraudster  with multiple attempts  after declined  transactions,  attempts for reducing amounts 
to get as much money as possible, attempts after Mr B had left the country, and finally  9 
failed attempts in a row after there was no further  money available  on the credit card.
Taking everything into account,  on balance, Im not persuaded that Mr B authorised  the 
disputed withdrawals. It follows that Tesco cant hold him liable for them.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint.
To put things right Tesco Personal Finance PLC T/A Tesco Clubcard Credit Card should:
refund  the disputed  transactions  totalling £1,542.54 as well as any cash
handling fees
rework the credit card to the position it wouldve been in if the transactions  never
happened
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 June  2020.
Lisa Lowe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7949793