K822xcomplaint
Ms B complains  about the advice  she received  from AWD Home Finance  Limited,  a 
mortgage broker and appointed representative  of Legal & General  Partnership Services 
Limited. Ms B says she was mis-sold a mortgage,  an accident  sickness and unemployment 
policy (ASU),  a will and estate planning package, and a legal administration service.
A claims  management company (CMC) brings this complaint on Ms Bs behalf.
background 
In 2006 AWD recommended a mortgage  to Ms B. She already had a mortgage and AWD 
recommended a switch  to another lender  with an interest rate fixed for ten years.  Added  to 
the mortgage were  an ASU package,  a wills and estate planning package and legal costs. 
The cost of these  was added to the mortgage.
The CMC says that after being  cold-called  AWD offered  Ms B unsuitable mortgage advice. 
The CMC says that the advice was unsuitable  for several reasons including:
 Ms B didnt require  a new mortgage.
The mortgage that AWD advised  she take out was more costly  than if she stayed 
with her existing lender  who would have provided free legals.
If Ms B required more capital she could  have stayed with her existing lender but there 
is no evidence she wanted  more capital.
AWD  should have recommended her existing lenders 3 year fixed  rate which  was at 
a better  rate than the recommended 10 year fixed rate.
The wills package was expensive and AWD  was conflicted in its advice as it shared a 
director with the wills drafting company.
AWD  charged a legal  administration  fee and didnt provide that service.
Our adjudicator recommended  that this complaint should partly succeed. She felt, and L&G 
agreed, that that the premium for the ASU policy of £3,202.50 should  be refunded with 
mortgage interest to date of payment. L&G also offered to refund the interest impact of 
adding the will package  onto the mortgage of £302.50 along  with £150 for the trouble and 
upset this caused. Our adjudicator thought that, apart from this, the mortgage  advice was fair 
and reasonable and the compensation offered represented a fair outcome to this complaint. 
The CMC disagreed and made the following points which I summarise:
Ms B should have  been referred to the original lender as she initially wanted a 
mortgage product  fixed for 3-5 years.
Ms B didnt require  surplus funds but at completion of the re-mortgage she got 
£2,632.71.
Ms B shouldnt have  to pay legal administration fees as the solicitor  did all that and 
was paid for it.
Ms B didnt have  any realistic option other than use the firm recommended by AWD 
for making her will and the fee charged  was excessive.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN71484562Mortgage Advice:
Its not clear to me whether Ms B was cold called or opted in to get AWDs advice. The real 
question is whether the advice she got was suitable. Ms B was on her existing lenders 
standard variable  rate. AWD set out its recommendations in a suitability letter. AWD 
recommended a 10 year fixed  rate mortgage because  the letter records that Ms B wanted 
this. Ms B originally wanted a 3-5 year fived rate mortgage product but after a full 
discussion  decided to proceed with a 10 Year fixed rate mortgage. The advantage of this is 
that Ms B would  know  the absolute maximum monthly payments over an extended period.
I note that the CMC  suggests that it would be better and with the advantage of free legals, if 
Ms B had got a mortgage with her existing lender. But it seems  that her existing lender didnt 
offer such  an extended fixed rate. There was also no early  repayment charge to consider 
although there was a redemption fee and other costs including a product fee for the new 
mortgage. On the other hand  there was a £1,000 cashback to help with the costs.
I can understand that in a period of interest rate volatility, as was the case  at that time, it 
would be reasonable for Ms B to want to fix the rate of interest she was paying for an 
extended period  having  initially  considered  a shorter period. I dont believe that AWD has 
done anything  wrong by having a full discussion with Ms B about her options and assisting 
her in what she wanted to do which was to fix the interest rate for the longer period. I 
appreciate that there were  other options  if Ms B wanted a shorter fixed  rate period. But if Ms 
B wanted the extended period and that seems a reasonable  choice for her to make at the 
time I dont  believe that AWD has done  anything wrong by recommending  the mortgage  it 
did.
As this was Ms Bs objective I would have expected AWD to source  the best rate available  to 
it and there  is no evidence that another lender  would  provide a keener rate for that period so 
I cant reasonably say that AWDs mortgage  advice  was unsuitable  for Ms B. 
The CMC makes an additional point in that there was a surplus on completion of £2,632.71. 
Part of this seems to be the £1,000 cash back. So, it seems  that Ms B got more  money  than 
is accounted for in the documentation.  The CMC says that Ms B would have been unaware 
of this. Im not sure how that could  be as I presume she would only have expected the cash 
back and not the extra  money. Ms B would have received a redemption  statement and the 
money although I appreciate that that the redemption statement would have been later than 
the mortgage. But, if Ms B was unhappy  with the receipt  of the extra  money, I would have 
thought that the time to raise that issue was at that time. I dont think  it was reasonable for 
Ms B to conclude that there was no cost to this extra money  she got or to expect not to pay 
interest on it. If Ms B wanted to reduce the cost she could have overpaid on her mortgage.  
So, I dont believe that it its reasonable to require AWD to reimburse  the interest to Ms B at 
this stage. 
ASU policy
This aspect  of the complaint has been resolved and AWD has agreed  to refund the single 
premium of £3,202.50  with mortgage  interest to put  Ms B in the position  she would have 
been in had this product not been sold to her. That seems to be a fair solution.
Wills Package
Ref: DRN71484563AWD recommended  that Ms B and her partner  review  her will arrangements and the 
Mortgage Record of Suitability recorded  that she would be contacted by a will drafting 
company to discuss her requirements. AWD also included in the new mortgage amount a 
sum of £464  to cover payment for the will service  Ms B was to select. This was added to the 
mortgage. As I understand it, the wills company had a range of wills packages  which  Ms B 
could choose  from. There is an issue that AWD  and the will drafting company had a common  
director. 
But I consider that it was reasonable  that AWD  recommend that Ms B consider a wills 
package given her circumstances.  Although Ms B was to be contacted by a company I dont 
see any evidence in the papers that Ms B was recommended to take out a particular  
package by AWD. There was certainly an introduction and a provision  for payment but I cant  
fairly say that Ms B didnt  retain her ability to choose  between  packages or to not take out 
one at all. I dont see the fact of the common director impeding Ms Bs ability to choose.  But I 
dont believe  that it was a cost that should have  been added to the mortgage  and I agree 
with the offer of compensation made by L&G for that.
Legal administration fee:
Legal costs were added to the mortgage  which  in itself is not unusual. Part of the legal costs 
was paid to AWD as an administration fee. Although the CMC says that free legals would 
have been available from her existing lender, Ms Bs existing lender didnt provide the 
extended fixed rate period that Ms B wanted. In its letter to L&G of 6 April 2016 the CMC  
says that the solicitors  costs and disbursements were £680. 
I note that the Key Facts  document refers to legal costs estimated  of £750 made up of £522 
plus vat and outlay.  The completion statement indicates that this fee was charged.  There is a 
letter from the conveyancers dated June 2006  which says that AWD got a legal and 
administration fee of £293.75.  As I understand it, this was part of the legal costs for some  
legal administration  performed by AWD  rather than the solicitors.
Ive seen a redemption statement addressed to AWD which  indicates  that it did in fact do 
some administrative  work.  From Ms Bs perspective  I would  have thought that if she was 
made aware  of what the likely legal costs would be and she is charged in accordance  with 
those charges and indeed  slightly lower,  I dont believe that she is unfairly treated if the legal 
administration fees are apportioned between the solicitors and AWD. AWD may indeed have 
done more administration than ascertaining the redemption figure  - it refers  to several other  
tasks it performed - but I this is clearly  some time ago and I wouldnt expect all the records to 
be available.  My attention has been drawn to an issue of the payment of a referral fee to the 
broker by the legal firm involved. But Im told that whilst the complaint has been with us the 
CMC has confirmed acceptance of L&Gs offer to resolve that issue and so its something 
that Ive not considered further here.
Summary:
For the reasons  set out above I approve  L&Gs offer to settle this complaint of refunding the 
ASU together  with mortgage interest to date together with £302.14 being interest on the wills 
package to the date the mortgage  ended together  with £150 compensation for Ms Bs 
trouble and upset.  
my final decision
Ref: DRN71484564My decision  is that I approve the settlement suggested by Legal & General Partnership 
Services Limited of refunding the ASU together  with mortgage interest to date together with 
£302.14 being interest on the wills package  to the date the mortgage ended  together  with 
£150 compensation for Ms Bs trouble and upset. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 January 2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7148456