K820x#14complaint
Mr X complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) mis-sold him Payment 
Protection Insurance (PPI)  with a loan.
background
Briefly:
In 2001 Mr X applied  for a loan and at the same  time he took out PPI designed to protect his 
loan repayments  in the event he couldnt work through accident, sickness  and 
unemployment.
Nationwide says Mr X applied for the loan and PPI using a postal paper application, but says 
Mr X also telephoned  it to progress and process  the application.
The PPI was a single  premium policy, so its cost was added upfront to the loan. It cost 
around £1,000  and added around  £26 a month  to the overall monthly loan repayment.
The loan ran to term and it ended in 2005.
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  She said she thought it was clear Mr X was 
given a choice  about PPI and there  was nothing to indicate hed lost out as a result of having 
the policy.
Mr X disagrees, so the complaint  comes to me for a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our approach  to handling  
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
this complaint.
Nationwide says it didnt  recommend PPI to Mr X  it gave him information about it so he 
could make his own mind up about it. Mr X says Nationwide advised him to take it out.
Ive thought about this carefully.  And having  done  so, Ive not seen enough to persuade me 
that Nationwide did advise Mr X or recommend the cover as being suitable  for him. So 
Nationwide didnt have  to check PPI was right for him. But it did need to give him enough 
clear and timely information  about it so Mr X could make that decision for himself.
I can see theres some discrepancy  about  how the PPI sale came about  Nationwide says 
Mr X completed a postal  application for the loan and PPI, but says there was a telephone 
call  Mr X phoned up its direct unit to progress  and process the loan after hed sent the 
application in. Mr X says PPI was sold to him over the phone. 
Based on what Ive seen,  I think this was a sale by post. While I can see a telephone call 
likely took place  Nationwides  records suggest  so  this appears  to have been to discuss  
the amount of the loan based on what Mr X indicated he needed it for along with some  other  
information hed put on the loan application. Im not persuaded based  on what  Ive seen that 
there was a discussion about PPI over the phone.
Ref: DRN76889532I think Nationwide made it clear PPI was optional and that Mr X chose  to take it out knowing 
he didnt have to. I say this because:
Mr X indicated  he wanted PPI on the loan application he completed and posted back  
to Nationwide   the form offered Mr X two equally prominent options  about PPI (Yes 
and No) asking him to tick the relevant box. And I can see Mr X ticked the Yes box.
The subsequent  loan agreement Mr X was sent set out the cost of PPI separately 
under the heading  Optional Credit  Insurance.
Theres nothing Ive seen on the application form or loan agreement, which  said or 
implied that Mr X had to have PPI to be granted the loan.
Its not clear to me what information  Mr X got about PPI alongside  the loan application. I 
think it was likely there was some information  because Mr X was asked on the application if 
he wanted it. I find it unlikely Mr X ticked the Yes box knowing nothing  about it. But the 
evidence doesnt  tell me if Mr X received everything  he needed to know  about the cover,  
including the significant features and limitations / exclusions of cover  for example existing 
medical condition  exclusions.
I am satisfied Nationwide did enough to make the cost of PPI clear   the agreement set out 
everything I would  expect to see separating out the PPI cost,  the interest charged on the 
premium, the overall cost as well as the monthly  cost.
So I accept  there might  have been  gaps in the information Mr X needed  to make a properly  
informed decision about PPI. But despite  this, I think the policy  was appropriate for him given 
his circumstances  and so Im not persuaded he wouldve changed  his mind about taking it 
out if Nationwide had done  more.  For example:
Mr X was eligible  for the cover and its benefits.
he chose to take it out, so it was clearly of interest to him. And given  his existing 
means  he had limited sick pay and no savings to fall back  on - this isnt surprising 
to me.
He was employed and in good  health, so he wouldnt  have been put off by the 
significant exclusions or limitations around  existing medical  conditions or unusual 
employment circumstances.
Mr X might  not have  known the policy would only pay out for 12 months for 
unemployment. But Ive already said he didnt  have much to fall back  on, so I think  he 
would still have  wanted a policy that paid out for this length of time as it would have 
been useful to him.
The cost was set out clearly,  so Mr X could determine if it was affordable for him and 
if the cost and benefit proposition worked  for him.
The policy offered  a pro-rata refund  if it was cancelled early  for example if the loan 
was repaid early   so it offered flexibility.
So overall, while I accept  Nationwide might not have done everything  it should have, for the 
reasons Ive set out above, I dont  think Mr X would have likely acted differently and declined 
the cover  had Nationwide done  anything more. It follows that I dont think hes lost out.
Ref: DRN76889533my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above,  Ive decided that Mr X has not lost out as a result of 
taking out PPI with his loan, so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr X to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 April 2019.
Paul Featherstone
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7688953