K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mrs A took out a regular premium PPI policy  with a store card in 2002. She paid a monthly 
amount for the policy. Its been agreed in this case that FICL, as the insurer, should take 
responsibility for the complaint.  To keep things  simple,  Ill refer to FICL as the seller in my 
decision.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL has disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs As case. 
Having done this, Ive decided to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why. 
Mrs A says she was working less than 16 hours  when she took out the PPI so Ive looked at 
whether she was eligible to claim under the terms of the policy sold to her. 
The terms set out that she had to be in regular active  paid work  for 16 or more  hours  per 
week to qualify for cover under the policy. FICL  says Mrs A originally gave the wrong date of 
the sale and she hasnt provided any proof of her employment. 
Mrs As testimony has been  consistent  throughout this review, and Ive seen no evidence to 
suggest she was working  more than 16 hours,  so I think I can fairly rely on what  shes  told 
us. 
So Mrs A wasnt eligible. And I dont think Mrs A wouldve taken out the policy if she had 
understood she wasnt eligible, and would never have been  able to claim successfully.
And because of what FICL did wrong,  I think Mrs A has lost out. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mrs A in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mrs A would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Ref: DRN72890032FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mrs A owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Mrs A made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, FICL  can take off what  she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mrs A would have 
owed when she closed her account  from when  she closed it until she gets the refund. 
The interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mrs A would  have owed each month without  PPI  Mrs A 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mrs A paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mrs A 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a year.
D.FICL should tell Mrs A what its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give   Mrs A a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is I uphold  Mrs As complaint. Financial Insurance Company  Limited  must pay 
her compensation as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 November 2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7289003