K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains about Allianz Insurance Plc (Allianz) not paying out on his building insurance 
policy after his house was damaged by water. Mr R took out his insurance through  a bank 
but Allianz are the insurance company. He also complains  about the way his claim was 
handled.
background
Mr R told us that in March 2018, he engaged a builder to reseal  a gap that had appeared in 
the worktop over his kitchen sink. The builder advised having the matter looked  at in greater 
detail. Mr R got in a structural engineer who suggested there might be corrosion to two RSJ 
beams which supported  the kitchen from the garage  below. But he couldnt  confirm this. So, 
an inspection and further investigative work were carried out. It became clear that there was 
rust and pieces of loose  steel  inside the RSJs. Mr Rs engineers completed a report  and he 
sent a copy to Allianz in April. It concluded that the RSJs had been subject to moisture  for a 
considerable period and as such the steel had corroded, expanded, laminated  and broken 
away from the parent metal. Mr  R also sent Allianz  a copy  of the survey  carried  out when 
hed bought the house in 2013. 
Mr R got an estimate on the cost of remedial work and forwarded it to Allianz. From 9 July, 
builders were on site for three weeks and extensive  works were carried  out, including  the 
removal and replacement of the RSJs. The cost of the investigations and the subsequent 
repair to Mr Rs property was £29,652.  Mr R asked Allianz to pay this. 
Allianz then told Mr R his policy didnt cover the cost of the work. It said this was because  
the damage had happened over a long period  of time, so, it wasnt  covered by his policy.  On 
1 June Mr R wrote to Allianz  to complain. Mr R was told his case would be reviewed.
On 11 July, Allianzs surveyor visited Mr Rs home.  He inspected the house, accompanied 
by Mr R and the builder.  He looked  at the RSJs and at the work being carried out. He 
completed another structural report. This stated that the rust and breakdown of the surfaces 
[of the RSJs] is consistent with damage that has been happening gradually over a long 
period of time. Investigation  work  confirms extensive deterioration of the metal. Due to the 
subterranean location of the garage it is most  likely more susceptible  to problems with 
penetrating damp.
The report  concluded  that the damage  to Mr Rs property hadnt  occurred due to accidental 
damage, or the operation of any other insured peril. This meant  something  that was 
covered by Mr Rs insurance  policy. The damage  had been  caused gradually by structural  
failings and poor construction. And these were specifically excluded under the terms of Mr 
Rs policy. So, Allianz said they wouldnt contribute towards the costs of repair.
Mr R was again told that his claim was rejected.  He wrote that he accepted that the problem 
had only became apparent early in 2018. And that both his own and Allianzs surveyor  had 
confirmed the damage  had arisen  from water corrosion to the RSJs. But he said the cost of 
should be covered  under  various  terms of his policy. But Allianz maintained its position. 
Mr R wrote to us to complain. In September, Allianz  sent its final response letter. They  said 
they didnt uphold Mr Rs complaint, as they were  satisfied their procedure  had been carried 
out correctly and the right decision made,  based on the terms and conditions  of Mr Rs 
policy. They  repeated their view that the damage wasnt  related to an insured peril.  They  
explained that any damage  had to have happened  because of such  a peril.  And that an 
Ref: DRN76315122event had to be a one-off. They said that the damage to Mr Rs home had been  caused 
gradually due to the entry of moisture. But this wasnt covered by the policy. They  also 
pointed out that Mr Rs own surveyors had noticed  cracking several years earlier, when he 
bought the property.
Mr R also complained about the handling  of his claim  by Allianz.  He said theyd been 
untimely and inconsistent and their management of his claim had been very unsatisfactory.
In June 2019, our investigator set out his view. He said the terms of Mr Rs policy  didnt 
cover his claim and that Allianz hadnt  acted  unfairly in declining it. Mr R disagreed with a 
number of points.  And, because he didnt agree with our investigator, his case has now 
come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
terms of the policy
Building insurance policies only cover  damage  to buildings in particular situations  that is 
insured perils or events. And these are set out in the policy  document.  So, a policy may 
cover damage caused by various things, including  water, but only if it satisfies the terms of 
the policy. Ive looked  at the Mr Rs policy to see what  it says.
accidental and gradual damage
Mr Rs policy  booklet covers various  insured events, including  accidental damage  which is 
defined as sudden, unexpected physical damage . But it also excludes damage that occurs 
gradually over a period of time.
The report  of April 2018 commissioned by Mr R from his structural engineers  said:  There is 
a gap of approximately 10-15mm our client said that when they moved in there  was a 
nominal gap at this location and they thought nothing about  it. However,  over the period  they 
have lived there this gap has gradually increased  to the point it currently is and this in turn 
has raised concerns  with our client as to the reason why the gap has increased. It goes on: 
[a loss of capacity in the RSJs led] to a slow and steady increase in deflection which over 
a period has led to the downward movement  of the kitchen floor and in turn the kitchen  
units. 
In July 2018, Allianzs surveyor described:  structural movement which  appears to have 
been ongoing for some considerable time. And said the damage  had been caused by a 
deterioration of the two side by side RSJs  in the garage over a long period of time. It 
concluded: The damage evident  is unrelated to Accidental Damage and relates to a 
gradually operating  cause, inherent structural failings and poor construction  details.
Both Allianzs and Mr Rs own surveyor agreed that the damage to Mr Rs property had 
happened gradually. So, Im satisfied that it was caused over a period of time, and wasnt 
accidental damage  as defined by the policy, because it didnt happen suddenly.  And, this 
means it isnt covered  by Mr Rs policy as accidental damage.
escape of water
Ref: DRN76315123Mr R has said his policy should pay out because his policy  includes cover  for damage 
caused by escape of water. And in July 2018,  Allianzs surveyor  wrote that the damage was 
likely to have been related  to problems with penetrating damp. Again, Ive looked at the 
policy booklet and see that on page  13, Mr Rs policy covers:  Water or oil escaping  from 
any fixed domestic water or heating installation, including underground  drains and pipes or 
from any domestic appliance.
But this means damage from water  escaping from a system that was designed to hold it. It 
doesnt mean damage caused by water  from natural sources such as rain or ground  water.  
And this section also specifically excludes  loss or damage that happens gradually over a 
period of time.
If a leaking pipe had caused the entry of moisture it could  be argued that this constituted an 
escape of water from a fixed water  installation. And in that case, we might  say that because 
Mr R couldnt reasonably have known about  it, then it wouldnt be fair and reasonable to 
allow Allianz to rely on the gradually  operating cause exclusion. But theres  no compelling 
evidence to show that it was a leaking pipe that caused the moisture, despite some  
speculation by the surveyor. And even if it was, it would still be gradual damage and I think  
something Mr R should  really have been  aware  of, given  the survey  report commissioned 
when he bought the property.
So, Mr Rs claim  isnt covered under the insured event of escape of water.
trace and access
Mr R said his policy should  cover  the cost of accessing and replacing  the RSJs under  trace  
and access. Because  the damage had been caused by water penetration and investigations 
had to be carried out to establish  what had happened.  Again, Ive looked at the Policy  
Booklet and see that on page 14, under  the section trace and access, it states: We will pay 
the costs you have to pay to find where water or oil is leaking from, including  the cost of 
removing and replacing any part of the walls,  floors, roof or ceiling.  This is intended  to cover 
the cost of identifying and accessing the source  of a leak in order  to repair it.
But the work done on Mr Rs property and the exposure of the RSJs wasnt  carried out to 
find a leak. Because  at that stage, nobody  knew that the RSJs had become corroded  by 
moisture in the first place.  This was only discovered  after the structural engineer carried out 
his investigations.  So, accessing and inspecting the RSJs wasnt carried out to find where  
water or oil [was] leaking from. It was done  to investigate the reason for the gap in the 
kitchen worktop. And also, there never was any leak as such. So, I dont think  its covered 
under the trace and access cover  under Mr Rs policy  either.
fees and clearance
Finally, Mr R has said his policy should assist him under fees  and clearance costs . Again, 
Ive looked at the policy booklet and see that this section states: We will pay the following  
expenses when rebuilding or repairing the buildings as a result of damage covered by this 
cover.  architects, surveyors, consultants and legal fees;  the cost of cleaning the site and 
making it and the buildings safe. This refers to additional expenses that arise from damage  
thats covered  by the policy.
Ref: DRN76315124But as the damage to Mr Rs property hasnt  been caused by anything covered by this 
cover I think its reasonable for Allianz to refuse  to pay out for professional  fees or site 
clearance.
I understand how stressful this situation  must  have  been for Mr R. And how disappointing for 
him to find that his insurers  werent  going  to pay out on his claim. But, because Mr Rs policy  
didnt cover the damage that occurred to his property, Im satisfied it was reasonable for 
Allianz to refuse his claim.  
claim handling
Mr R also complained about the handling  of his claim  by Allianz.  Ive looked at the 
management of the claim.  And I do think there was some poor service by Allianzs  claims 
handling agent and the bank. And I think  this warrants an apology.
my final decision
For the above reasons explained above, I dont uphold Mr Rs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 July 2020
Simon Stanley
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7631512