K821x#15complaint
Mr O complains that a used car he acquired  through a hire purchase agreement with          
R. Raphael & Sons PIc (Raphael) wasnt of satisfactory quality. He wants to reject the car.
background
In 2017 Mr O took out a hire purchase  agreement with Raphael  to acquire a used car. It was
ten years  old and had around 70,000 miles on clock. Soon after picking up the car, Mr O
reported faults to the garage  hed acquired  it from. They asked him to bring it in for a check
when he could. But before  he was able to it had broken down and was recovered for repairs.
The recovery agents notes say the car was overheating, and the garages  invoice shows  a
coil spring had broken  and there  were issues with the brakes. The repairs  took two months,
and no courtesy car was provided.
The car broke down  again at the start of 2018,  around seven months  into the finance
agreement. This time the problems were more serious, with a cracked cylinder  head and
bent engine valves leading the recovery agent to suspect the timing chain may have
snapped.
Mr O complained to Raphael that hed only covered 1,876 miles in the car since  taking
possession of it, having been  away with work  at various points. He argued that the timing
chain was designed to last the lifespan of the engine (given the extent of the work required
to replace it) - and so had failed prematurely. Because  Mr O had driven the car so little, he
believed the fault must  have been developing when it was sold to him.
Raphael didnt uphold  Mr Os complaint, saying hed had the car for more  than six months
and issues with timing  chains were frequently wear  and tear related. It asked Mr O to provide
evidence there was a fault present at the time he signed the agreement, in the form of an
independent report  into the what caused the engine failure. Mr O says he couldnt afford to
pay for a report of the type the finance  company would accept, especially as it seemed likely
(based on Raphaels response)  that hed also be liable for the repairs  anyway.
Mr O had the car towed  to a garage, which he says cost him £200  each way, to quote  for
repairs and diagnose  the fault.  The garage  removed the cylinder head cover and inspected
the engine timing, and thought it seemed to be not set correctly (rather  than the chain having
snapped). As the engine would need to be dismantled and several parts  replaced,  the
repairs had the potential to exceed the cars purchase price.  Raphael still declined  to allow
Mr O to reject the car, and so he referred  the complaint to our service  for review.
An investigator here reviewed things  and didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  He
said there wasnt enough evidence to indicate  there  was a fault with the timing chain when
Mr O had acquired the car, and it was entirely  possible the breakdown was a wear and tear
issue. Mr O didnt agree with the investigators  view, and so the complaint was passed  to me
for a decision.
I sent my provisional decision on this complaint  to both parties on 31 July 2020. In it I 
explained why I thought  Mr Os complaint should be upheld. Ive set out the main part of my 
provisional decision below:
The agreement in this case is a hire purchase agreement, and a regulated  consumer credit
Ref: DRN70588142agreement - so the Consumer Credit Act 1974 (CCA) and the Consumer Rights Act 2015
(CRA) are relevant to this complaint. Raphael is also the supplier of the goods (the car)
under this type of agreement, and responsible for a complaint about  their quality. Taking
account of the relevant law, I dont  think Raphael has treated Mr O fairly. So currently I
intend to uphold his complaint, and Ive explained  why below.
The CRA implied into the hire purchase  contract a responsibility on Raphael  to ensure the
car was of satisfactory quality at the point it was supplied to Mr O. Satisfactory quality is
judged by what a reasonable  person would expect of the goods in question, taking into
account all the relevant  circumstances. In the case of a used car those  could include things
like its age, mileage and the price paid for it. Satisfactory quality also covers  durability, which
means that the components within the car must  last a reasonable amount of time - but
exactly how long will also depend on a number of factors.
The CRA allows a car to be rejected  within 30 days if its not of satisfactory quality. The
business is given  an opportunity to repair faults discovered after 30 days  - but if those
repairs arent successful  then the car can be rejected. Where a fault occurs  within  the first
six months, there's a presumption that it was present or developing at the point of supply,
unless the business can show otherwise.
Mr O wants to reject the car in line with the provisions  of the CRA. Raphael hasnt allowed
him to do that, as it doesnt think hes shown that there was a fault developing at the point of
sale. Raphael says the burden  of proof  is on Mr O, given hed had the car for seven months
by the time the engine failed - which is why it asked him to pay for an expert  report.
Ive considered that the price Mr O paid for the car was lower because  of its age and
mileage. A reasonable person would  expect that parts  of the car might have already suffered
a degree of wear  and tear. There was also a greater risk it might  need repair  and/or
maintenance sooner than a car which hadnt  covered  as many miles when it was supplied.
That said,  it had a low mileage for its age - and I think  a reasonable expectation would have
been that the car was roadworthy, even if there was some wear and tear.
Raphael asked for an inspection to be carried out after the 2018 breakdown, but wouldnt
accept the reports  Mr O provided or offered to get - because  those  garages  werent  on its
approved list of independent  engineers.  I dont think that stance was reasonable, as Mr O
had already demonstrated the car had had a significant number of issues over a short  space
of time. As Raphael  didnt want to carry out its own inspection,  Ive looked at what evidence
is available to determine, on balance, if I think a fault was developing from the start.
Initially the recovery agent speculated the timing chain may have snapped. But later in 2018,
after Mr O had the car towed for inspection, a garage said the engine  timing looked to be
incorrectly set following the engine failure (rather  than the chain having snapped). They
didnt confirm what had likely led to the breakdown, but I dont think Mr O could have driven
1,876 miles without engine issues manifesting  earlier if the timing chain had been incorrectly
set when he took possession of the car. So Im not certain the engine failure was result  of a
problem with the timing  chain.
Mr O doesnt have  the service history  for the car - and, when he realised it wasnt  included
in the information pack, he challenged the garage, who told him they didnt have it. But the
car hadnt driven far for its age, and the garages it went to for repairs checked it over and
didnt comment that it appeared to have not been  properly serviced in the past. The car also
passed its previous  MOTs, after some wear and tear issues were  corrected. So Im leaning
Ref: DRN70588143towards saying poor maintenance,  or normal wear and tear of the parts,  wasnt  the cause of
the engine breakdown.
I asked Mr O to describe the issues he had with the car since  he got it, and he commented
that initially the car was overheating when he had the air-conditioning on. He said that after
being away with work  for short periods, when he came to use the car, he would always  have
to refill it with water. Mr O says he complained  from the start that the engine sounded loud
and was running rough  - and that the original garage told him it noticed  this before the sale
but assumed it was a characteristic of the car. Overheating is mentioned in the first recovery
notes too, and the 2017 garage  invoice does reference some electric fan wiring  repairs.  But
if Mr O was having to refill the water  as often as he describes, then I dont think the
overheating issues that presented within days of him picking up the vehicle  had been
properly sorted with the first set of repairs.
In summary,  Mr O hadnt driven the car very far at all in seven months (hed only had it in his
possession for five of those), it also had done  a low mileage for its age - and hed
complained of engine noise and overheating right from the start. So I think  the engine  failing
when it did, indicated there was likely a problem with the car when Mr O acquired it - and
therefore, on balance,  it wasnt  of satisfactory  quality when it was supplied. That means
Raphael now needs to take steps to put things right.
As Raphaels  opportunity  to inspect and repair the car has now passed, I think  it would  be
fair in the circumstances for Mr O to be able to reject the vehicle and exit the agreement at
no further cost to him. Mr O didnt  pay a deposit, but he has paid monthly instalments when
hes not had use of the car - in August and September  2017 (roughly when the car was
undergoing the first set of repairs),  and any from January 2018 onwards  (after it broke
down). I think those should  be refunded, and Mr O should be compensated for the time hes
been without that money.  To do that Raphael should  pay simple  interest  on top the refunds
at 8% a year, from the dates each instalment (Ive said should be refunded) was paid, until
the date of settlement (in line with what the courts would award). But Mr O has had some
usage of the car, so I dont think any further  refunds are due - as the other  instalments  paid
for months  where he didnt have problems.
Ive seen a repair quote from the garage  Mr O says he towed the car to in 2018.  Given  that
garage is seven miles from his house,  and the car was undriveable, you can speculate that it
must have  been  towed  there and back.  I appreciate this happened  a while ago, but the
amount involved  seems high (£400)  based  on my research, and Id have expected  some
kind of trail of money being withdrawn to support this expense. Mr O hasnt been able to
evidence this cost,  so I dont think it would be fair for me to ask Raphael to cover  it. But if he
can provide something  from the towing company he used, or anything  else to show what he
paid the service, then Ill reconsider my position. I do think it would have been inconvenient,
though, for Mr O to have  to organise  his car to be inspected. So, as Im holding Raphael
responsible for the cars failure, Ive factored that into my overall thoughts  on compensation.
Mr O and his family have been without a second  car since the start of 2018. Hes said he
couldnt afford to pay for the repairs,  and he worried about being  asked to make up the
payments on this agreement (which  had been suspended while we investigated).  That
meant he continued to put money aside  each month  - and so couldnt  afford  to take out
another agreement  or save up for a different car. Not having a second car, with two young
children, has been frustrating  and inconvenient  - and has seriously affected his family  life.
Hes spoken of having to make  long bus journeys to get to work, and the heartbreak  of his
children having  to miss various activities because he couldnt  get them there. On top of that
theres the inspection  he organised in 2018.
Ref: DRN70588144Bearing in mind our services approach  to these awards, in order  to recognise  the significant
practical and emotional impact Raphaels error  has had on Mr Os life for the last two years,  
I think a further payment  £750 would be fair to compensate  him.
Both Mr O and Raphael responded to say they had nothing further to add. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Given neither party  had anything further they wished me to consider, I see no reason  to 
depart from my provisional findings.  So for the reasons set out above, I dont think  the car 
supplied by Raphael  to Mr O was of satisfactory  quality   and Ive set out below how the 
finance provider  should now put things right.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Mr Os complaint about R. Raphael  & Sons Plc, and direct 
the finance provider to:
End the agreement with nothing further  to pay for Mr O (which includes first buying 
the debt back  if Raphael is no longer the owner).
Collect the car at no cost to Mr O. This must be done at a time that is mutually 
convenient for both parties.
Refund August  and September  2017s monthly  instalments, to reflect the time he was 
without the use of the car while it was being  repaired the first time, plus 8% simple  
interest from the date paid to the date of settlement.1
Refund all monthly payments Mr O had made  from January 2018  onwards, to reflect 
that Mr O has been without use of the car since then, plus 8% simple interest from 
the date paid to the date of settlement. 
Remove any adverse  information about the agreement from Mr Os credit file.
Pay Mr O £750 to reflect the distress and inconvenience caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 October  2020.
Ryan Miles
ombudsman
1 If Raphael  considers that It's required by HM Revenue & Customs to deduct Income tax from that interest, It   
should tell Mr O how much  It's taken off. It should also give Mr O a tax deduction  certificate if he asks for one, so 
he can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7058814