K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained about Amtrust International Underwriters DACs handling of a claim he 
made on his guaranteed asset  protection (GAP) insurance policy.
Reference to Amtrust  includes its agents.
background
Mr H took out finance to buy his car for £25,000.  And he took out a return to invoice GAP 
policy. 
Mr Hs car was damaged  in an accident. He claimed from the other  drivers  insurer  and his 
car was deemed a total loss. The other drivers insurer settled Mr Hs claim for his car and 
paid him £5,955. Mr H sold the salvage for £2.975. So he received £8,930  in total for his car.  
In the meantime Mr H contacted Amtrust  about  claiming on his GAP  policy. Some  weeks 
later Amtrust refused his claim. It said that as he hadn't  claimed  through his own motor 
insurer his claim wasn't covered.
I issued a provisional decision on 16 January 2019. For ease Ive copied my provisional 
findings below.  I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, its likely Ill uphold  it. 
Amtrust refused Mr Hs claim because he hadn't  claimed directly from his own motor  insurer 
but instead, with the help of a representative,  claimed from the other drivers insurer. Ive 
seen that Mr Hs GAP policy says that in order to be covered he needed  to claim directly 
from his own motor  insurer. As, Mr H didn't do this, under the strict terms of the policy, 
Amtrust was entitled to refuse his claim.  But that doesn't mean it was fair for it to do so.
Ive seen that Mr H contacted Amtrust  about  his claim fairly early  in the process.  He told 
Amtrust that he was claiming from the other  drivers insurer.  But Amtrust didn't tell Mr H at 
that stage that, in order to be covered by his GAP policy, he would need to route the claim 
through his own insurer. Indeed from Amtrusts notes  on the claim it seems likely that  at 
times - Amtrust  thought  the other drivers  insurer was actually Mr Hs insurer. But that wasn't  
Mr Hs fault. And I think that if Amtrust had made it clear when he told it about  his GAP claim 
that he needed to claim  for the loss of his car through his own insurer, he would have done 
so. And Amtrust  could, if it needed to, have liaised with that insurer  about its settlement of 
Mr Hs motor insurance claim. But because it didn't tell Mr H he needed to claim from his 
insurer he lost the opportunity  to do so before the other  drivers  insurer had actually settled 
the claim.
In those circumstances I don't think its fair for Amtrust to refuse  the claim. And instead I 
think the reasonable thing  for Amtrust to do would  be to consider the actions of the other 
drivers insurer  as being those of Mr Hs own insurer. In other  words  it should consider 
Mr Hs claim as if the third party insurers decision that the car was a total loss and the 
settlement it paid to him for that came  from his own insurer. 
So I think Amtrust  should settle Mr Hs GAP  claim in line with remaining  terms and 
conditions of his policy. Theres been  some confusion over the level of cover Mr Hs policy 
Ref: DRN72660262provides. Mr Hs policy is whats known  as a return to invoice policy which  will pay the 
difference between  the Motor Insurers Settlement  at the Point of Total  Loss  and the 
Purchase Price  paid for Your Vehicle. 
It also says that if the Outstanding Finance Balance at the Point of Total Loss is greater 
than the Purchase Price,  This Insurance will pay the difference  between  the Motor Insurers 
Settlement at the Point of Total Loss and the Outstanding Finance Balance.
In other  words where  the finance outstanding  on a car is more  than the amount the 
policyholder initially  bought their car for, then Amtrust will use the finance outstanding figure 
as the basis for the settlement calculation. But in this case the finance outstanding figure, 
which I understand to be around £8,500, is far less than the amount Mr H bought his car for 
(£25,000). So its simply not fair to use the finance outstanding figure as the basis for 
settlement.
Instead, in line with what Mr Hs policy says, Amtrust should pay the difference between the 
purchase price of the car, and the insurer's settlement of £5,955.  The policy  also says that it 
doesn't cover the salvage value of the car. So as Mr H received £2,975  for the cars salvage,  
its fair for Amtrust to deduct that sum when calculating its settlement. It should  add simple 
interest to its settlement sum at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Hs claim to the date 
it makes payment. Also, its clear that the circumstances  that led to this complaint have been 
a source of distress and inconvenience for Mr H, so I think Amtrust should pay him £150 
compensation.
For completeness Ill add that Amtrust  wasn't persuaded that the car should have been 
deemed a total loss. But the third partys  insurer accepted that it was. And, as Ive said 
above, for the purposes of considering the GAP claim I think  Amtrust should treat the actions 
of the third party insurers as being those of Mr Hs own insurers. So as the third party insurer 
was satisfied that the car was a total loss, Amtrust should accept that conclusion.
developments
Mr H replied to my provisional decision. He said that because Amtrust had turned down his 
GAP claim he didn't have  a car to use, couldn't earn the same  amounts and couldn't  make 
his finance repayments, which had destroyed his credit history.  He said he felt he was about 
£2,000 out of pocket.
Amtrust said it had no further comments to make.
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im going to uphold it. 
Amtrust hasn't raised any comments that would call into question  my provisional  finding that 
it was fair for it to pay Mr Hs GAP claim.  So I see no reason to amend that conclusion and 
will require Amtrust  to settle Mr Hs GAP claim as described above.
Mr H has said hes out of pocket because Amtrust hadn't paid his claim.  Im aware that Mr H 
relied on his car for work. But its been over a year since  his car was deemed  a total loss and 
over eight months since Amtrust turned down his GAP claim. Mr H had received a 
settlement for his previous car. And he hadn't previously mentioned that Amtrusts decision 
was preventing him from working or affecting  him financially.  And, had that been the case  I 
Ref: DRN72660263would have expected him to raise that significant  issue before now.  So Im not persuaded  
that Amtrusts decision to turn down Mr Hs GAP claim  has prevented him from working or 
led to him missing finance payments.  So I don't intend to award additional compensation.
That said,  I recognised  in my provisional decision that Amtrust had caused Mr H some 
distress and inconvenience and awarded  £150 compensation to address that. Ive also 
directed Amtrust to add 8% simple  interest to its settlement of the GAP  claim, and that 
should go some way to address any issues concerned with Mr Hs loss of use of that money. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above and in my provisional  decision  I uphold this complaint. I 
require Amtrust International Underwriters DAC to:
Settle Mr Hs GAP  claim  based on the original purchase price  of the car, from that 
sum Amtrust should  deduct the £5,955  Mr H received from the other  drivers  insurer 
and the £2,975 sum he received for its salvage.  It should  add simple interest to its 
settlement figure at a rate of 8% a year from the date of Mr Hs claim to the date it 
makes payment1.
Pay Mr H £150 compensation for his distress and inconvenience.  This should be paid 
within 28 days of us telling it that Mr H has accepted my final decision. If it pays later 
than this it must also pay interest on that amount from the date of my final decision to 
the date of payment at a rate of 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2019.
Joe Scott
ombudsman 
1 If Amtrust  considers that its required by HM Revenue  & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, it should tell Mr H how much its taken off. It should also give Mr H a certificate showing  this if 
he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if appropriate.
Ref: DRN7266026