K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited (British Gas) poorly handled a claim she 
made under her home care insurance  policy.
background
In April 2019 Ms W contacted British  Gas to repair her boiler.  She said an engineer attended 
and diagnosed the problem  an issue with the fan and a gas valve  and carried  out repairs 
for around  two hours. The engineer returned the following day, and after another few hours  
he explained  he had noticed there was a hole in the manifold (pipes  near the boiler).  The 
engineer said the part hed need  to repair it with was considered to be obsolete by the 
manufacturer, so he was unable to source a new one to complete the repair.  The engineer 
then isolated the boiler   meaning it would no longer function.
Ms W complained to British Gas soon after and said the engineer  shouldve  found the fault 
more quickly than he did. She also said the damaged part may have been caused by British  
Gas engineer. Ms W said she had to chase British Gas for several weeks before one of its 
engineers spoke to her at the start of May 2019.
British Gas said its engineer reiterated that it was unable  to source the part. But it said if 
Ms W was able to source this part herself  from an alternative supplier it would re-attend, fit 
the part and re-establish  the supply to the boiler.  Alternatively it could offer a quote for a 
replacement boiler.  British Gas also said its engineer couldnt have caused the damage to 
the manifold as he had focused on a separate part of the boiler.
Ms W subsequently  paid for a plumber to attend  her home at the end of May 2019 to repair  
the boiler at a cost of £142.20.
So Ms W brought her complaint to our service. She said the action and lack of responses  
from British Gas meant she was without  hot water for many  weeks. One of our investigators 
looked into things  and upheld the complaint.  
The investigator said British Gas had given incorrect information  to Ms W by telling her the 
entire manifold would need replacing. And instead he said Ms W was able to replace only 
the broken part of the manifold and her contractor  was able to get it working again. So he 
said British Gas should pay for the cost of her contractor, and award  £200  to her in 
compensation for the time she was without hot water and central heating.  British  Gas 
disagreed so the complaint has been  passed to me for an ombudsmans final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Im upholding  this complaint. Ill explain why.
British Gas has agreed to cover the cost of Ms Ws plumber repairing her boiler. So I dont  
need to make a finding on this area. So Ive gone  on to consider the overall service it 
provided when  handling this claim.
Ref: DRN78498782Its not in dispute  that Ms Ws boiler was faulty  and required a specific  part to be able to 
complete the repair. Nor is it disputed that British Gas was unable to source  this part itself as 
it was obsolete. 
So Ive looked  at Ms Ws policy to see what it says should happen  in that situation.  It says:
If were unable to provide a boiler, appliance or part with similar functionality well install a 
new and unused like for like alternative  that you provide, but well only accept responsibility 
for our workmanship.
Ms W has said British  Gas told her the entire manifold of the boiler  would need  to be 
replaced. And shes explained that the engineer  said she could buy a second hand  boiler  to 
take this manifold from.
Ms W had concerns about this so she sought a second opinion. And the advice given  said 
she would  only need to replace one part of the manifold  the broken gas flue test nipple. 
Subsequently she sourced this, the boiler was repaired and fully functional  again. This 
satisfies me the entire manifold  didnt need  replacing.
So, while I think it was inevitable that Ms S home  would be without heating  for a period of 
time, I think British Gas extended this timeframe by not giving her the right advice when it 
shouldve. And if shed been  made aware  that she didnt need to replace  the whole manifold 
earlier, shed have  been able to have  the boiler repaired quicker than she did.
 
British Gas has said that Ms W was on a reduced  service listing  since 2016, and this meant 
it may not be able to source parts for older boilers.  However this doesnt change my mind as 
I fully accept British Gas couldnt  provide  either the manifold or part of it itself. But instead I 
think British Gas caused a delay by not giving Ms W the right advice when it shouldve. 
Ms W also has said British Gas wasnt responding to her and was difficult  to reach. And it 
seems it took around two and a half weeks to write to her outlining  its position following its 
engineers visit. Taking into account British Gas knew she was without heating, Id have 
expected it have been more forthcoming  with responses than it was. 
So taking into account everything thats happened, my decision is for British Gas to give 
Ms W £200 to compensate her for the extended  period of time she was without heating, and 
for the way it handled this claim overall. 
Ref: DRN78498783my final decision
For the above reasons Im upholding this complaint  and directing British  Gas Insurance 
Limited to do the following:
pay Ms W £200 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  it caused; and
if it hasnt already done so, settle  the invoice Ms W has provided as it has agreed.
British Gas Insurance Limited must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on 
which we tell it Ms W accepts my final decision. If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of payment at 8% 
a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019. 
Jack Baldry
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7849878