K821x#15complaint
Mr B and T, a limited  company, have  complained  about property insurers,  AXA Insurance 
UK Plc, in relation  to a claim they made when a water  leak damaged Mr Bs bathroom.
background
Mr B lives in a block of flats. T is a policyholder for the propertys buildings insurance. 
AXA was notified  of damage having occurred in Mr Bs flat. It appointed  contractors  to repair  
the bathroom. When the contractors came to fit the tiles, Mr B was unhappy with the 
materials supplied. Work stopped and Mr B complained about the work completed to date. 
Mr B got his own estimate from a contractor to complete the work and repair  damage he said 
AXAs contractors had caused. The estimate totalled £1,575, £650 of which,  Mr B said, was 
for the work  needed to resolve the damage AXA had caused.
AXA accepted that some damage had been  caused, but said that this would have been 
resolved during its completion of the works. It felt the work and costs Mr B had detailed to 
resolve this were excessive  for example, it felt a patch  repair  of plasterboard was possible, 
whereas Mr Bs estimate  allowed for a complete  replacement. It said that it would settle in 
cash based on its cost to finish the reinstatement work. It said this was £1,050 and noted 
that this came to slightly more than what Mr B had been estimated for this work (having 
discounted the £650 it felt reflected unnecessary  work).     
Mr B was unhappy. He felt it should pay the total of his estimate.  He also said MDF  had 
been used in one area which had been panelled  in solid wood  before. Mr B complained to 
us. We made some  enquiries  with Mr Bs contractor.  Mr B showed  us damage hed found  to 
the bath panel. We asked  AXA about  this  and about replacing/re-fitting the shower screen 
which it didnt seem to have included a cost for in its settlement. AXA agreed  to consider 
Mr Bs costs for buying and fitting a replacement bath panel and that it should be paying for 
the shower screen to be fitted, but not to be replaced as it said this hadnt been damaged by 
it upon removal.
Our investigator felt that it was unlikely that the shower screen had been damaged  by AXA.  
He noted AXAs agreement to cover installation  costs and the cost to replace  the bath panel. 
He felt AXAs work and settlement had otherwise been fair and reasonable.
Mr B felt AXAs contractors had been dishonest and so couldnt  be trusted in respect of 
anything theyd said about work  completed.  He asked for an ombudsmans decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
plasterboarding
Mr Bs estimate provided for taking out two walls of plasterboarding that AXA had installed, 
and fitting new,  as well as repairing the ceiling.  Mr B said this was because of damage 
above the sink and at the ceiling  juncture. Mr Bs contractor didnt mention this to our 
investigator. AXA said the damage  to the boarding could simple be patch repaired.
Ref: DRN79123012Ive seen photos of the damage, and note that the contractor didnt cite this as a reason for 
him costing  to replace the boarding on two walls. Rather he said the boarding didnt go up 
far enough. The estimate reflects this. The photos do show  the boarding  goes all the way to 
the ceiling.
I havent seen  any expert  comment to suggest  a patch repair  to the walls  wouldnt be 
possible. And Mr Bs contractor was satisfied to patch repair the ceiling.
Im satisfied that it was reasonable for AXA to remove the cost of replacing plasterboard 
from the estimate. That cost also included the ceiling repair.  And AXA did need to cover the 
cost of repairing  all the damaged plasterboard. But I think its settlement offer, of £1,050  
£125 more than the estimate cost minus  the costs it wasnt happy  to settle for  reasonably 
allows for this. Im not going to make it pay more.
replacing suite
The estimate allowed  for replacing  the suite because the bath would likely be damaged  
whilst being removed to replace the plasterboard.  AXA said as replacing the plasterboard  
wasnt necessary, neither  was the cost for replacing  the suite. I think thats  reasonable. Im 
not going to make it pay for this. 
MDF
Mr B said the boxed in area at the end of his bath had been made out of solid wood panels  
before but AXA had reinstated  the area using MDF. He and his contractor said MDF  would 
be susceptible to water damage in the future. AXA said it was MDF that it had removed  from 
this area,  so it had replaced it like-for-like. It said the area would be tiled anyway, making  it 
waterproof.
Mr B says it was wood, AXA says it was MDF.  I havent seen  any photos from before the 
original boxing  was removed so I cant be satisfied  who is most likely  correct. But the area is 
to be tiled, and tiling will provide a waterproof  surface. If the surface  isnt maintained,  or is 
breached then the boarding in this area will be more susceptible than the water resistant 
boarding utilised elsewhere. But that doesnt  mean AXA hasnt  carried out a satisfactory 
repair. It isnt its job to prevent or minimise the risk of future damage occurring. Im not going  
to make AXA do anything  more in this respect.   
bath panel and shower screen
AXA has accepted  that the panel  needs  replacing, likely due to damage  caused during the 
works. It also accepts that it had removed the shower screen  and was going  to re-fit it during 
the works  but hadnt. It agreed a cost should be allowed for this. I think AXAs  offer in these 
respects is reasonable. 
I know Mr B says the screen was damaged during removal and that he disposed of it. He 
hasnt been able to evidence this damage  though. Whilst damage did occur to the bath 
panel, it doesnt automatically mean other damage  was done. The key difference is that the 
damage to the baht panel has been  shown whereas it hasnt been shown to have occurred  
to the shower  screen. It is Mr Bs word  against AXAs  and Ive no reason to prefer  the 
evidence of either. As I cant be satisfied that AXA most likely damaged the screen. I cant  
reasonably require it to pay for a replacement. 
Ref: DRN79123013 
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  in part. I require  AXA Insurance UK Plc to consider evidence  
provided by Mr B in respect of the costs he will incur for replacing his bath panel  and fitting 
this as well as a shower  screen, and make a fair and reasonable settlement to him in this 
respect.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B and T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 November  2019.
Fiona Robinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7912301