K820x#14complaint
Ms K complains  that SOFOLOGY LIMITED  mis-sold her an insurance policy for a sofa she 
purchased from them.
background
Ms K purchased a sofa from Sofology in January 2017. At the time of purchase  she says she 
was also sold a three year insurance policy to protect her sofa. She says the adviser told her 
that the policy came with an annual cleaning service for the whole sofa. She says this was 
regardless of any claim she could make. Her sofa was delivered on 17 March  2017 and the 
insurance policy documentation was sent via email on 27 March 2017.  
In September  2018, Ms K made  a claim to Sofology for stain  removal. She says they refused 
to clean anything  other  than where the stain was. She says Sofology  dismissed her 
complaint saying cleaning the whole sofa wasnt included in the insurance policy. Ms K says 
she wouldnt  have taken  out the policy if the annual cleaning service wasnt included so she 
feels she has been mis-sold the policy. She paid £156 for this policy  and wants her money 
refunded.
Sofology say they act as an introducer of the policy and do not offer any advice on the 
products. They  simply accept consent  to the policy and take payment. The full terms and 
conditions of the policy are sent to the consumer after delivery  of the sofa. They say they 
have standard  wording  which  is read to every  customer  when they chose to purchase the 
insurance and this doesnt detail  any annual cleaning service. In addition to this, they say 
Ms K could have cancelled the policy within 14 days of receipt of the certificate of insurance 
- the 14 days  would have  started on 27 March 2017.  They  say the terms and conditions  do 
not include an annual  cleaning service. They didnt uphold her complaint so Ms K 
complained to this service.
An investigator at this service looked at this complaint and said there was no evidence of 
what the adviser had said to Ms K. He said Ms K should have checked the terms and 
conditions upon  receipt to ensure  she was satisfied with the insurance, but if not, be able to 
cancel within  the 14 day period. He said that Ms K didnt do this and didnt  think there was 
any evidence that Sofology had done  anything  wrong.
Ms K didnt agree with the investigators  view so this has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive decided not to 
uphold the complaint. Ill explain  why. 
Sofology has explained it sold the policies on an information only basis; it didnt give advice.
Although it didnt give advice, as the seller of the policy Sofology was required to provide 
Ms K with clear, fair and not misleading information to enable  her to make  an informed 
decision. Sofology do not provide any literature to consumers but they have provided us with 
a copy of the wording  their advisers use for care advice. The wording doesnt mention  
anything about  an annual cleaning service.
Ref: DRN78249412I have also considered Ms Ks testimony  about what happened.  She says she was told by 
the adviser that annual cleaning would have been included  and without this she wouldnt 
have purchased the insurance policy. Whilst I take on board what Ms K says she was told, 
unfortunately theres no way establishing  exactly what was said at the time by Ms K or the 
adviser. So I have  to rely on the information and evidence  that is available  to me. 
Looking at the documents provided the insurance certificate which  sets out the terms and 
conditions shows that Ms K had 14 days from receipt of the certificate of insurance  to cancel 
the policy if she wasnt happy with it. I think its reasonable to expect that Ms K should  have 
checked the documents she received to ensure they were  consistent with the policy  she 
thought she was buying. If the policy documents didnt meet her expectations or what  she 
thought she had purchased then this is something she should have queried with Sofology.  
She also could have cancelled the policy within the 14 day period but she didnt exercise her 
right to do this. 
In addition, the policy wording is clear.  It specifically says that accidental  damage and 
staining are covered.  There is an extensive list of exclusions and there is no mention  of an 
annual cleaning service.  Whilst I sympathise with Ms Ks situation as she thought  she was 
buying a different policy, I think  it was Ms Ks responsibility to ensure that the policy she 
purchased met her expectations. She should have  checked the policy  documentation  to 
ensure she was happy with the policy.
I think Ms K had enough  information to be aware of the policy terms and conditions and had 
the opportunity  to cancel the policy if she wasnt happy with this. She didnt  do either 
presumably because she was happy  with her sofa being protected  for accidental damage  
and staining. After careful consideration, Im not persuaded that if the policy was made any 
clearer, Ms K would have  decided against the policy so Ive decided not to uphold  this 
complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I will not be upholding this complaint against SOFOLOGY  LIMITED.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 October  2019.
Naima Abdul-Rasool
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7824941