K821x#15complaint
CB, a limited  company, is seeking to recover £15,000 from TSB Bank plc (TSB), which  was 
stolen from its business  banking account as a result of a third-party  scam. 
The owners of CB, Mr C1 and Mr C2 are bringing  the complaint on its behalf. But as the 
complaint has been represented by only one of them,  I will only refer to one of them  
throughout.  
TSB says it is not liable for the loss because Mr C1 unwittingly authorised the payment  
and it could not reasonably have intervened or done more to try to recoup the money  from 
the receiving bank. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have concluded that 
the fair and reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances, would be to uphold this complaint 
for the following reasons:
It is common ground that Mr C1 authorised the scam payment of £15,000. He was in the 
process of paying for supplies  for his business  and was waiting for an email  invoice  from 
his supplier. On 13 July 2018, Mr C1 received an email which  appeared to come from the 
supplier. The email  said the suppliers bank account  was going through  some  scheduled  
maintenance and asked Mr C1 to make payment to another account  instead. The email  
appeared in a chain  of others  that Mr C1 had been  responding to and appeared to come 
from the supplier  he had been in contact with. 
On 14 July 2018, Mr C1 transferred the money as per the instructions  he was sent in the 
email. He did so via online  banking where he firstly transferred the funds from his Business 
Instant Access  account to his Electronic Business account. He has told us he set up a new 
payee to make the payment  although TSB has been unable to confirm this. 
When Mr C1 received an email asking for a further  payment from the supplier,  he called the 
supplier to enquire what was going  on, he hadnt made any further purchases and did not 
owe them  any money. It then came to light that the suppliers had not sent the email 
containing the updated account  details. And the £15,000 invoice payment had not been  
paid into their account. Mr C1 had fallen victim  to a sophisticated scam - the email Mr C1 
received was from a fraudster  who had managed to send a fake email to Mr C1 - which  
appeared to be just like genuine ones sent by his supplier and which appeared to come 
from the same email  address.
I accept that this was an authorised payment even though Mr C1 was the victim of a 
sophisticated scam. He used  his security credentials to request the payment online.  So, 
although he did not intend the money  to go to the scammers, under the Payment Services  
Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of his account, CB is presumed liable for 
the loss in the first instance. 
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of 
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider 
TSB should fairly and reasonably:
Ref: DRN76142822Have been monitoring accounts  and any payments made or received to counter  
various risks,  including anti-money  laundering, countering  the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud  and scams.
Have had systems  in place to look out for unusual  transactions  or other signs that 
might indicate  that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally  more familiar with than the average customer.   
In some circumstances, irrespective of the payment channel  used, have  taken 
additional steps,  or make  additional  checks, before processing  a payment, or in 
some cases declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud. 
 For branch transactions, those steps  may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
TSB initially declined  to refund CB the £15,000  as it didnt  believe it had done  anything 
wrong in carrying out Mr C1s instructions to make the payment. It said there was nothing  
about the payment itself that shouldve put TSB on notice that CB mightve been at risk of 
financial harm.
After some further investigation, it came to light that the payment had flagged on TSBs 
fraud monitoring systems and an internal alert had been sent to TSBs fraud monitoring 
department. In fact, Mr C1 had tried to make  the payment on four separate  occasions and 
four separate alerts were  sent internally.  
A TSB agent reviewed all four of the alerts, and, having looked at the way CB usually 
managed its account,  its customer  profile and account history, decided there wasnt  
anything unusual enough about the payment that indicated CB was at risk of financial 
harm. The payment was released, and a message sent to Mr C1 to tell him he could go 
ahead and authorise it. During the review process there was no direct contact with 
Mr C1 or Mr C2 at all.
TSB said even if the internal alerts  had prompted a discussion with Mr C1 or Mr C2, the 
scam still wouldnt have  been uncovered - they would simply have explained what the 
payment was for and confirmed it was genuine.  TSB wouldnt have known his suppliers 
account details  had been changed. And so, TSB could not have prevented  the scam. 
It is therefore common ground that there  were  fraud  triggers in this case  because  TSB staff 
did in fact intervene before the payment was made.  Im satisfied a payment  of £15,000 was 
unusual for CB and uncharacteristic for the account, particularly as it was being sent to a 
new payee. There had been no comparable legitimate  payments  in recent times. And so 
TSB was right to review the payment before it was sent. 
Accordingly, its now just a question of whether it did enough in all the circumstances. And 
Im satisfied TSB ought  fairly  and reasonably,  and as a matter  of good practice, to have done  
more - I think  it ought to have made  enquiries about  the purpose of and the circumstances 
leading up to the payment before it processed  it. And I dont think a review of the payment 
without Mr C1 or Mr C2s input was good  enough to satisfy TSB CB wasnt at risk of financial 
harm. 
Ref: DRN76142823TSB has commented that it had an obligation to debit its customers accounts in line with its 
customers mandate and by allowing  the payment to leave the account here, it was simply 
following Mr C1s payment instruction. There is a balance to be struck between  identifying 
potentially fraudulent payments and minimising disruption to legitimate payments. But in this 
particular case,  disruption had already been caused,  the payment had been stopped for 
review on four separate  occasions. 
Ive thought carefully about the review TSB says one of its agents wouldve completed. But 
I dont think this was good enough to fulfil TSBs obligations to protect its customers from 
financial harm. Whilst this type of review  and the sending of an SMS may protect customers  
from unauthorised use of their account,  in that it informs a customer a payment is leaving 
their account, which they then have the ability to stop, it has very little impact on customers 
who are the victims of well-known authorised push payment scams - such as this one.  
One of the intrinsic characteristics of this type of scam is that the customer makes the 
payment themselves, not knowing they are being  scammed, to what  appears to be an 
account they are likely to have dealings with  in this case a scaffolding firm. And so an 
account review and an SMS alert of the type being  referred to here wouldnt have 
prevented CB from falling victim to this type of scam.  It potentially  fails to protect  any 
customer who believes they are in the process of making a legitimate payment.  For these  
reasons, I think TSB ought to have  contacted  Mr C1 or Mr C2 directly to question them 
about the payment. Had it done so, I believe the scam would have been revealed and 
prevented. Ill explain  why.
Mr C1 fell victim to a scam which is sadly all too common  invoice intercept. And its a 
type of scam Im satisfied TSB ought  to have  been aware of at the time. Fraudsters 
employing this type of scam are known to target business customers in particular  theyre  
more likely to receive  large  bill payments or invoices via email. 
I agree  with TSB that had it contacted  Mr C1, he would most likely  have  told TSB he was 
intending to pay for some  supplies he had bought  for his business. But, at this point, being 
aware of the prevalence of this type of scam  and its common characteristics, TSB 
wouldve had the opportunity to question him further. 
A particularly  common feature of this type of scam, is that a customer will receive an email  
that appears to be from the genuine  business  they are in contact with. This email  will 
contain either updated payment details  or the payment details previously  provided  will 
have been subtly  changed - unbeknown to the customer, in order to redirect  the payment 
to a fraudulent  account. 
This is a common scam with very particular  characteristics, and TSB shouldve been 
aware that it would be very difficult to uncover this type of scam  without contacting  a 
customer directly  in order to identify the circumstances that had led up to them  making the 
payment itself. A review of a customers account  history alone, would not suffice.
Im satisfied TSB ought  fairly  and reasonably  to have asked Mr C1 how the payment 
details had been communicated to him. Mr C1 wouldve told the bank theyd been sent to 
him by his supplier, by email.  And TSB couldve questioned if the account details hed 
been provided with were  different to those hed received in the past.  
Ref: DRN76142824TSB could  then have  educated Mr C1 about this type of scam  and its key characteristics. It 
also couldve  told Mr C1 that the reason provided for the updated account details being sent 
didnt sound particularly plausible  an audit being  completed on the suppliers account. And 
it couldve advised Mr C1 to contact his supplier using an established contact number to 
confirm the updated account details were correct.  Had TSB done  so, Im persuaded that 
this would likely have  produced some doubt  in Mr C1s mind that the payment  details  may 
not be legitimate,  and he wouldve contacted his supplier to check. 
Mr C1 may not have  been aware previously  that this type of scam was even possible,  and 
Im persuaded that once informed of this, he would have taken some  steps  to verify the 
account details  provided to him  had Mr C1 done  so, Im persuaded that the scam would 
have been prevented and no loss occurred. 
In summary,  Im persuaded  TSB ought fairly and reasonably  to have encouraged Mr C1 to 
confirm the account details  hed been  sent. His circumstances had all of the hallmarks  of a 
well-known scam. And TSB should have explained the risks of scams involving the 
interception, altering and hacking of emails which would have prompted further action from 
him. In other words, if the staff had carried out further or better  questioning  in line with a 
banks duty of care, it seems probable that Mr C1 would have contacted his supplier just to 
make sure everything was as it should be. At this point the scam would have come to light. 
The fraud would have failed; and CB would not have lost £15,000.  
 
It took 9 days for the scam to come to light and by then it was too late  the funds had 
already been removed  from the recipient account  (which meant  TSB could  not, despite 
efforts, recover any of CBs funds). 
In light of my conclusions above,  it is not necessary in this case  to consider whether the 
bank also exercised enough  care and urgency in trying to recover  the stolen funds from the 
payee bank before they were irretrievably removed by the scammers. But for completeness,  
I will say that, it would have made  no difference because the recipient  banks  records  show 
that the scammers withdrew all the money before Mr C1 had notified TSB of his concerns. 
I have also considered whether Mr C1, on behalf of CB, should  bear some  responsibility by 
way of contributory negligence. However, it is clear  that up to and including  the time of 
authorising the payment, he was still totally in the dark and simply did not appreciate what  he 
was doing  he thought  he was making a legitimate payment to a business he had been in 
regular contact with. I am satisfied there  was no contributory negligence on this occasion, Mr 
C1 was the unwitting and blameless victim of a clever fraudster. The bank was the 
professional in financial matters; Mr C1 was a layperson. 
In the circumstances I am satisfied TSB should  fairly and reasonably  reimburse CB for the 
loss suffered without  any reduction together with interest to compensate it for being deprived 
of the money  it lost. I am satisfied that had the fraudster not taken the money from CB, it 
wouldve used it for its intended purpose, to pay its supplier, and so interest  should  be 
calculated at a rate of 8% simple  per annum.   
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against TSB Bank plc and direct  it to:
refund  CB the £15,000 lost as part of the scam;  and
Ref: DRN76142825pay interest at a rate of 8% simple per annum from the date the payment left the 
account to the date of settlement*;
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C1 and 
Mr C2, on behalf of CB, to accept or reject my decision before 3 December 2020.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
*If TSB Bank plc deducts tax from the interest element of this award, it should provide Mr C with the appropriate  
tax certificate so he might  submit a claim  to HMRC if applicable.
Ref: DRN7614282