K821x#15complaint
Ms W complains the jewellery she pawned  with Speedloan Finance Limited hasnt been
returned to her.
background
In September  2017 Ms W pawned two rings  and a bracelet to borrow  money from
Speedloan.
In June 2018 Ms W repaid the loan to get her jewellery back. Speedloan said theyd made
an error with Ms Ws pledge ticket. So the items  under Ms Ws ticket  didnt match  and her
jewellery had been  sent to auction  - or scrapped.
Speedloan said they tried to find like for like items to replace Ms Ws jewellery but were
unsuccessful.
Speedloan said when Ms W took the loan they valued the gold content in her jewellery at
around £200. Theyve also said the market value  of Ms Ws jewellery is roughly £600. They
offered compensation but Ms W didnt accept. She said one of the rings  was worth around
£2,500 and her other items around £500 and £50  so Speedloans offer wasnt  enough. 
She said the jewellery held sentimental value  as they belonged to her Mother  and 
Grandmother who have  both sadly  passed  away. She was also planning  to gift these to her 
daughter in the future.
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint on 3 October 2019. In that decision I said:
Speedloans terms  and conditions say they wont insure a customers  property but will take
reasonable care of it. Speedloan said human error and a mix up with the pledge  tickets led
to Ms Ws jewellery being sent to auction. So I agree  they havent taken reasonable care
with Ms Ws jewellery and should  pay to replace it. But I need to decide what  I think  is a fair
and reasonable amount.
Speedloans terms  and conditions say they will pay a reasonable estimate of an items value
at the time of its loss as compensation. Speedloan said the original loan was based on the
gold content in Ms Ws jewellery.  But they havent provided details of how they come to this
figure. They also havent said how they estimated the jewellerys  market  value - and if this
took place before or after it was lost. So I cant say whether their valuations are fair.
Ms W provided me with photos shes said are similar items and given descriptions of the
jewellerys composition. But there are no photos or independent valuations of her jewellery
so I cant say whether  the examples shes provided would be similar or if what shes  said
about her jewellery  would make a difference to its value.
Ms W said she would  prefer like for like replacements and would like to choose one. But
Speedloan have already said theyve been unable  to find like for like replacements  and as
there is a lack of information about  Ms Ws jewellery  its not possible to fairly determine what
would be like for like. So I dont think this would be a fair and reasonable option  to resolve
the complaint.
So Ive had to decide what I think is a fair valuation with the limited information available to
me. The total weight  of the jewellery shown on the agreement says it weighed  25.2g. This
isnt the weight of the gold content, but its the best indication available. If you average out
Ref: DRN76208542the weight between the three items they would each  weigh about 8.4g. Looking  at the prices
for selling gold at the time Ms W took the loan and the percentage of pure gold content in her
jewellery, this would have been worth around  £388. I think this gives a fair indication of the
gold contents  value. But the jewellery wasnt completely composed of gold so Ive thought
about whats a fair value  for the rest of the jewellery.
Speedloan said the second  hand market value  of the jewellery is £600  so this meant they
valued the gold at about 34% of the total value. So if I applied  Speedloans calculation of the
loan to value to what Ive said the gold is worth, the total value  is around  £1,140.
Both parties  said they cant find like for like replacements  so I think  its reasonable Speedloan
pay to replace the items as new.  Ive looked  at the price difference of second hand jewellery
compared to if the same  items were  bought  as new. Ive done this across several different
jewellers and I can see the value does  differ depending on the item - but ranges from 25% to
50%. With the lack of information available I think the fairest approach  is to use an average
figure and apply it to the value of the jewellery  - in this case  37.5%. This would amount to
around an additional £427.50.
So with the information available I think this is the fairest way to value the jewellery - and
Speedloan should pay Ms W £1,567.50 to replace it.
Ms W has had the benefit of the money  from the loan  so I dont think she should get this
back. But Ms W paid interest,  including  interest  only payments, to extend  the contract and be
able to redeem  the items  at the end of the agreement. She wasnt  able to do this as the
jewellery was lost - so I think Speedloan  should  refund the interest Ms W paid on the loan.
Speedloan have said this is about £181.
Ive also considered the impact of Speedloans error on Ms W - and shes spoken  about the
stress shes  suffered  trying to get her jewellery  back.
Ms W repaid her loan expecting to get her jewellery  back. Ive seen emails  Ms W sent to
Speedloan and she visited a branch to try and resolve the issue.
Because of the sentimental value  they hold, Ms W will never  be able to truly replace the
jewellery. Speedloan  havent provided  any information to show they searched their
warehouse for Ms Ws jewellery when they discovered it was missing  and I think Speedloan
couldve done more  to try and locate it when they realised it was missing.
So I also think Speedloan  should pay Ms W £700 for the distress and inconvenience  caused.
Speedloan havent responded but Ms W has provided us with a photo  of the ring.
Ref: DRN76208543my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ms W provided a photo of her Grandmother wearing one of the rings  she pawned  with 
Speedloan. You can see the size and shape  possibly matches Ms Ws previous description.  
But, as Ms W has said herself, the photo isnt very clear, possibly due to how long ago it was 
taken  so the finer detail of the rings composition  isnt clear. 
So Im unable to say this makes a difference to my findings and they remain unchanged from 
my provisional decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold Ms Ws complaint. 
To put things right Speedloan Finance  Limited should:
Pay Ms W £1,567.50  to replace her jewellery
Refund Ms W the interest paid on her loan  Speedloan said this was £181
Pay Ms W £700 for the distress and inconvenience caused
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 November  2019.
Michael Baronti
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7620854