K821x#15complaint
Mrs B complains that Lloyds Bank PLC sent correspondence to her spouse when it should 
not have done.
background
Mrs B was going through a divorce. She had joint accounts with her husband. She told us 
they both asked that the joint accounts be transferred  to her name only. But something went 
wrong with one of the accounts.  It remained in joint names. As a result  Mrs Bs husband  
received a statement for that account.  According to Mrs B, he then started to make new 
demands in the divorce proceedings. She explained  this was both distressing and was going  
to cause her to run up new legal  fees. She wanted an award for this.
Lloyds took Mrs Bs word  for what had happened, in so far as the request to change  the 
accounts status was concerned. As it said its internal records did not show that Mrs B and 
her husband  had asked for this joint account to be made into her sole account. But 
nonetheless it went with her version of events on this point .On this basis,  it agreed  it had 
made a mistake.  It accepted it is likely  this caused her distress  and inconvenience. It offered 
£250 for this.
But Lloyds thought Mrs B had not demonstrated  that the legal expenses she talked  about  
were caused  by anything it had done  wrong.
Dissatisfied, Mrs B came to our service.
Our investigator looked into the complaint. She thought Lloyds hadnt gone  far enough to put 
things right. She agreed  it was unlikely that Mrs Bs increased legal costs  were due to 
Lloyds mistake. But there was no dispute about the fact that the account should have been 
changed to a sole account  when  Lloyds was asked to do this. Further  she noted both Mrs B 
and Lloyds accepted that Mrs Bs husband  should not have been allowed to see the 
statement. Mrs B was going through a particularly  difficult time in life. Mrs B had only been 
able to get her husband to agree to change the status of the account after protracted 
negotiations. It had taken Lloyds over three  months  to get this simple matter  sorted.  The 
impact of the mistake  on Mrs B was made worse because of her situation. Taking all of this 
into account our investigator  thought £500 was a fair and reasonable award.
Mrs B accepted this decision. Lloyds didnt. It pointed out it again that it had given Mrs B the 
benefit of the doubt. The only issue in question now was what  impact  sending the statement 
to her husband had had on Mrs B. It wanted us to follow the approach  in another  separate 
complaint we had looked  at where  we had indicated that an award  of less than £250 was 
fine. 
We could get no further with this complaint at this stage. On that basis the complaint was 
sent to me to take a fresh look at it and come to a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN79946132Mrs B is no longer asking  Lloyds to pay for her additional legal fees. Rather, she is prepared  
to accept £500 to make  up for the banks mistake and for the distress and inconvenience it 
caused her to experience. Lloyds accepts it made a mistake in not changing the account  
from a joint to a sole one. Albeit it keeps on mentioning to us that it is taking on trust Mrs Bs 
version of events about what  it was asked to do by Mrs B and her husband. As it says its 
records dont back up what she says. I note it is not disputing her version of events on this 
point, but that is its choice  to make. Both parties  also agree Mrs B husband ought not to 
have been allowed to see the statement for the account. 
Anyone who has ever been unfortunate enough to be involved in a divorce knows that they 
can be very stressful. Feelings can run high and coming to agreements is not always  easy. It 
seems likely, based on the information  I have that this was the case  here. 
Further, Mrs B had every reason to expect that Lloyds  would  keep her personal information 
secure. Instead it let her down. It sent her confidential information  to her husband. Then her 
husband told her about  this. 
I can well understand  why given this particular  sequence of events, Mrs B might have felt a 
heightened sense  of distress. I also think it is significant that she then had to go to the bother 
of telling Lloyds  again to change the account. I can also well understand if she could have 
done without this, after all Lloyds ought  to have got this right first time. It is not as if she had 
asked it to do anything  very complicated  or unusual.
All in all I think Lloyds made  an already bad situation  worse. It could easily  have avoided  
this.
Lloyds wants to rely on another separate complaint. I have to look at the individual 
circumstances of each  complaint.  Although,  it is correct that I also have to be mindful of our 
general approach  to similar issues. That said, the complaint  Lloyds talks about is not similar  
to this complaint,  in my opinion. I think it throws  no light on what might  be a fair and 
reasonable award here.
For all the reasons I set out above.  I think £500 more properly reflects  what  went wrong and 
the level of distress and inconvenience it is likely  Mrs B experienced as a result of Lloyds  
mistake.
Ref: DRN79946133my final decision
My final decision is that Lloyds Bank PLC must pay Mrs B £500 for the mistake it made and 
the distress and inconvenience  this most  likely caused her to experience.
Lloyds Bank  PLC must  pay the total compensation within 28 days of the date on which we 
tell it Mrs B accepts my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay interest on the 
£500 from the date of the final decision until the date of payment at the rate of 8% simple  per 
year.
If it considers it is legally required to deduct  income  tax from that interest, it must send a tax 
deduction certificate with the payment so that Mrs B can reclaim the tax if she is able to.
Mrs B should refer back to Lloyds  Bank  PLC if she is unsure of the approach it has taken 
and both parties should contact HM Revenue & Customs if they want to know more  about 
the tax treatment of this portion of the compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 March  2020.
Joyce Gordon
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7994613