K820x#14complaint
This complaint originates from the commercial loan and overdraft that Mr and Mrs F hold 
with The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS). Theyre unhappy  with RBSs decision to call in 
the facilities in 2018, and with the way it dealt  with them in the wake  of that decision.
background
By way of a jurisdiction  decision earlier this month, I set out the reasons why our power to 
consider this complaint was restricted to just one issue, which  RBS addressed in a final 
response dated 11 February  2019. The issue in question was how RBS had dealt with 
earlier letters  from Mr and Mrs F, and its failure  to provide a follow-up to a holding email  sent 
in November 2018.
RBS largely rejected the complaint; it pointed to the various final responses it had sent 
Mr and Mrs F in reply  to their letters, including one that was issued in September 2018 but 
only reached Mr and Mrs F in January 2019.  Where  RBS did admit fault was in relation  to an 
email it sent in November  2018 in response to an enquiry from Mr and Mrs F. This was an 
acknowledgement email,  promising  a more substantive reply within two weeks;  the promise 
wasnt kept.
RBS apologised  for this and sent Mr and Mrs F a cheque for £50. Our investigator  
considered that a fair response, but as Mr and Mrs F dont agree, it falls to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Given the limited scope I have to consider  this complaint, its simpler than it might  look at 
first glance.  Thats  because the main  thrust of Mr and Mrs Fs complaint  to do with the 
calling in of their lending  is time-barred  under  our rules. 
What remains is largely  to do with administration and housekeeping on RBS  part, and I 
dont have to decide if it is at fault.  Thats because RBS has already accepted that it failed to 
provide a substantive reply to Mr and Mrs Fs email enquiry in November  2018.  All I have to 
decide is if the apology and the £50 RBS paid them  is fair compensation for the poor 
customer service.  On balance, I think it is.
This was poor customer service; annoying and regrettable,  but thats all it was. In the greater 
scheme of things, I dont  consider it changed  anything or added  meaningful  detriment to 
Mr and Mrs Fs wider  situation. 
In my view, the £50 RBS sent Mr and Mrs F was fair compensation for its omission over the 
email enquiry in November 2018. If Mr and Mrs F didnt receive  the cheque  (or if they didnt 
cash it and its out of date) and now want to accept the compensation, they should let RBS 
know and it should  make a fresh payment. But I dont make  any further order or award.
Ref: DRN75147962my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  My final decision concludes  this services consideration of this 
complaint, which  means Ill not be engaging in any further consideration or discussion of the 
merits of it.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  19 September 2020.
Jeff Parrington
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7514796