K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs D say NRAM plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance 
(MPPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs D took out an MPPI  policy with a mortgage in 1989. The policy protected only 
Mr D. They  paid a monthly amount for the policy.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs D disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion, so the complaint has been  passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Ds case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ds complaint. Ill explain why.
Theres little information  available  about how the policy was sold. The mortgage and policy 
were sold (and I understand ended)  a long time before a complaint was first made. So I dont 
read anything negative into the limited  availability of paperwork  and other evidence.
Mr and Mrs D have told us what they remember about the sale. But I dont find their 
recollections detailed  enough, on their own, to find NRAM  said the PPI was compulsory. And 
without any strong recollections  or clear evidence from either side,  Im unable  to find the 
business didnt  present  the policy as optional.
NRAM recommended the MPPI to Mr D, and it seems to have been right for him based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. I can see Mr D had good employee  benefits, 
but I dont think  these made the MPPI unsuitable.
Its possible NRAM couldve explained the cost of the policy better  than it did. But as Ive 
explained, I think the policy was suitable and affordable, so I dont think a clear explanation 
of the cost wouldve put them off taking it.
Its possible NRAM didnt point out the main  things the policy didnt cover.  But Mr D doesnt  
appear to have been affected by any of those things. 
Ive taken into account Mr and Mrs Ds comments, including what  they said in response  to 
the adjudicator.  But these  points dont change my conclusion.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 March 2019.
Ref: DRN77076262Matthew Bradford
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7707626