K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains that Rowanbank Financial Consultants Limited (RFC  Limited)  mis-sold him 
a monthly premium payment protection insurance (PPI) policy in 2006 in connection  with a 
mortgage.
background
Mr W complained  to this Service. He initially said the PPI was sold by the lender. He said the 
lender sold him the PPI over the telephone when he was in the offices of RFC Limited. After 
that he said RFC Limited told him the lender  would  only give him a mortgage  if he bought 
PPI with it. So Mr W concluded  RFC Limited mis-sold him the policy.  RFC Limited said it was 
not responsible  for the PPI sale. It said the lender sold the policy  and that any commission 
which the lender  paid to RFC Limited was only an introducer fee allowing the lender to speak 
directly to its client. It concludes the lender sold the PPI. Our adjudicator said RFC Limited 
was probably responsible  for the PPI sale. RFC Limited disagreed  with our adjudicators  
view and asked for the matter to be looked  at again. 
I issued my provisional decision in January where I explained why I thought RFC Limited  
was not responsible for the PPI sale, so I could not uphold the PPI mis-sale complaint 
against it. I sent a copy of my provisional  decision to all parties and asked them to comment  
or to send in any new evidence.  Each  party confirmed they had received a copy  of my 
provisional decision. Mr W and RFC Limited both made further submissions for me to 
consider.
Mr W told us he dealt only with a female  - called  Ms H - when he bought his mortgage  and 
PPI in 2006. RFC Limited produced a mortgage application  form from 2006 which  had been 
completed by Ms H. She was described  as IFA [Independent Financial Adviser ]/Mortgage 
Advisor.  The mortgage form only applied for Mr Ws mortgage as the PPI sections on the 
form had been  left blank; and the direct debit  mandate  for the PPI payment had been 
crossed out and also left blank. RFC Limited  accepted Ms H transacted  the mortgage  
through RFC Limited but it also said she did not sell the PPI on RFC Limiteds behalf.
Mr W added  that he could  not understand how the lender and RFC Limited  could both not be 
responsible for selling him PPI  for which he is still paying. I do understand Mr Ws 
confusion but having seen  the further evidence  and having listened  to Mr Ws comments  that 
Ms H dealt with him in 2006, I have no new evidence to consider so I see no reason to 
change the conclusions I reached in my provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ws case.
The first thing I need to decide is whether RFC Limited is responsible  for the sale of the 
policy. If I decide it is, then this Service can decide  whether  the sale happened as it should  
have done. 
Ref: DRN77856282In this case - based on the evidence I have received - I am going to say that RFC Limited 
was probably not responsible for the PPI sale. So I will also be saying that I will not be 
upholding the complaint  against RFC Limited.  
I have been referred  to some new evidence by RFC Limited. It produced the mortgage 
application form which was completed by Ms H on behalf of Mr W in 2006. RFC Limited 
confirmed Ms H transacted the mortgage through RFC Limited. Ive looked  at the mortgage 
application form very carefully.  It seems clear that Ms H is acting as an independent  financial 
adviser and that she has only brokered the mortgage. I say this because the PPI section of 
the mortgage application form has been  left completely blank. I also saw the direct debit 
mandate attached to the application form  and in this, the PPI section has been  crossed  out 
and also left completely  blank.  So I think this evidence  suggests Ms H did not sell Mr W the 
PPI at the time she sold him the mortgage.
Mr W has recently called  in to say he only spoke to Ms H and he says he gave the lender  
permission to speak  to RFC Limited on his behalf. Mr W had originally said he bought the 
PPI at the time of buying the mortgage  in RFC Limiteds offices  which would suggest he 
bought the PPI in around the same time frame. However, it is not obvious  - from any of the 
evidence from 2006 which I have seen  as to who actually sold the PPI to Mr W. So I can 
only reasonably  conclude that the evidence shows on a balance of probabilities  that RFC 
Limited is not responsible for this PPI sale.
It follows that if RFC Limited did not sell the PPI, then I cannot say it did anything  wrong  
during the sale.  So I am not going to uphold this complaint against  RFC Limited. I am sorry 
to disappoint Mr W, but this is as far as this Service can take this complaint against RFC 
Limited.
my final decision
My final decision is that Rowanbank Financial Consultants Limited is probably not 
responsible for the PPI sale and I do not uphold the PPI mis-sale complaint against  
Rowanbank Financial  Consultants Limited. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 May 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7785628