K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (PPI) sold by Yorkshire 
Building Society (YBS), in 1999.  
background
One of our adjudicators said the complaint about  the policy being mis-sold shouldnt  be 
upheld. Mr and Mrs H disagreed so the complaint has come to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. But YBS has told me it 
has agreed to pay back  some of the commission it got from the PPI sale.  
Im sure Mr and Mrs H now honestly and genuinely believe  they were mis-sold this cover. 
However, with regard to their actual mis-sale complaint, Mr and Mrs H say that they were 
told the PPI was something they needed  to have to get their mortgage  approved.  But I think  
they would  have been able see, at the time of the sale, that the cover was optional.
I say this because  to get PPI with the mortgage, YBS required  the filling out of an application 
form which was in addition to the mortgage application process. I think this would have 
helped Mr and Mrs H to understand the PPI wasnt a compulsory product that needed  to be 
added to their new mortgage. 
On their mortgage application, they indicated on the form that they were interested  in the PPI 
by ticking a box about it, and they both signed that form. They then went on to complete the 
PPI application  as Ive described above.  Finally,  I can see their Mortgage Offer specifically 
said theyd chosen  to have PPI cover.
So I think these things  show  they were afforded an appropriate degree of choice and I note 
Mr H went on to alter who was covered  on the policy several years later. On balance, I 
therefore think they wanted such a policy and I think YBS properly obtained their consent.
YBS said this wasnt an advised sale but it still had a duty to provide information that was 
clear enough  for Mr and Mrs H to decide what they wanted to do. 
Ive seen that the cost was disclosed to Mr and Mrs H and they were given a schedule  about 
who and what was covered. So I think they would have had enough information on which to 
make an informed choice.
Its obviously possible that YBS didnt do everything right or that Mr and Mrs H werent told 
everything they ought to have been.  But the evidence Ive seen shows  they engaged in the 
sale and wanted  this type of cover. They seem also to have been  eligible for the cover and 
not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these types  of policy. 
Ref: DRN70042792I agree  they may have had some  sickness protection already with their jobs. But this doesnt  
necessarily mean the policy wasnt of use. Their mortgage was secured  against their home 
and so the consequences of not being  able to make the repayments could have been 
serious. In the event  of a successful claim, the PPI would have helped  pay the mortgage for 
up to 12 months. This would have been  in addition to the other means they had.
I therefore think the cover was of use and thats  probably why they agreed to buy it by 
signing all the relevant forms. Which means YBS, doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of 
the PPI to Mr and Mrs H. But its told us it has offered to pay back  some of the cost of the 
PPI to Mr and Mrs H because:
 
When the policy was sold,  it expected  to get a high level of commission and profit 
share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have  told Mr and Mrs H 
about that. Because it didnt tell Mr and Mrs H, that was unfair.
To put that right, YBS has offered  to pay back the amount  of commission  and profit 
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium and I think  this is fair in this case.
what the business needs  to do
If it hasnt  already done so, YBS should  pay back to Mr and Mrs H the extra  they paid each 
month because the commission  and profit share it got was more than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
YBS should  also pay Mr and Mrs H 8%* simple interest on each payment.
*Businesses have  to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mr and Mrs H can claim back the tax if they dont pay tax.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Yorkshire  Building Society doesnt  have to pay back  all 
of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
But Yorkshire Building Society does have to pay back  to Mr and Mrs H any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  4 November 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7004279