K820x#14Complaint
Mr I complains about the service he received in branch after a transfer was held up for 
additional checks by Barclays Bank  UK PLC. 
Background
Mr I called Barclays and asked to transfer £50,000  to a third party  on 29 May 2019.  But the 
transfer was held by Barclays systems for additional checks  and Mr I was asked to take 
identification into a branch  to release it. 
On 30 May 2019 Mr I visited a local branch with the documents Barclays  said were required.  
Mr I says that the service  he received in the branch was poor and that he had to spend 
around two hours before  the transfer was released.  Mr I says he was incorrectly told he 
would need his passport in order to proceed. Mr I complains that he got upset by the 
incorrect information he was being given and the length of time the situation had taken to 
deal with in branch. Mr I says the branch manager had to become involved after the original 
person assisting wasnt able to resolve  the situation.  
Mr I complained about the service he received. On 31 May 2019 Barclays  wrote to Mr I and 
warned him about his behaviour in branch. Barclays also wrote Mr I a letter to say his 
complaint had been resolved over the phone. 
Mr I referred his complaint  to our service and it was passed to an investigator. The 
investigator thought  Barclays  had dealt  with Mr Is complaint fairly so didnt tell it to do 
anything else. As Mr I didnt accept the investigators view his complaint has been passed to 
me to make a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr Is complaint centres around  the way he was spoken to in branch, the documents 
Barclays staff said he needed  to provide and the length of time it took to release his transfer. 
In response to the investigator, Mr I asked whether we have exact recordings or versions of 
what happened from Barclays.  Hes asked why his visit took so long and also checked 
whether businesses are required to record  meetings with customers. 
Mr I queries why theres no direct  record of his branch visit or transcript  of his conversations  
available. There are no rules that require a business  to record all of its interactions with 
customers. Mr I met with a member  of staff in a private room and theres no recording of 
what was discussed.  But both Mr I and the branch staff involved on the day have provided 
statements setting out their versions  of events, which  are what Ive used when  considering 
what happened. 
Where evidence is incomplete or inconclusive, Ill base my decision on the balance of 
probability. That is, what I consider most likely to have happened based  on all the available  
information. In this case, I dont doubt that Mr Is visit took a long time. Hes told us thats 
because Barclays was asking for the wrong information which was frustrating. Barclays says 
that Mr Is behaviour during his visit meant it took longer to release his transfer.  
Ref: DRN74593392Its clear matters became  very heated. Mr I says he was upset by being asked to supply a 
passport when hed been  told his drivers licence would be sufficient during an earlier call. I 
have no reason to doubt that Mr I was initially asked  to give Barclays his passport. But I 
have to balance  that against  the fact Barclays  was subsequently able to release the transfer 
using the information Mr I had with him. Mr I says that he had to complain and got upset 
before his transfer was released but Barclays say his reaction caused the situation to take a 
lot longer to resolve and delayed things.  
On 31 May 2019 Barclays took the step of contacting Mr I to warn him about his behaviour in 
branch. I know Mr I feels Barclays was at fault.  But Barclays  is free to decide whether to 
continue a banking  relationship and can end it, under the terms, by providing notice. 
As Ive said,  Im satisfied  matters were very heated  and I accept Barclays  may have initially 
incorrectly asked for a passport. But businesses can make  mistakes and its not my role to 
fine or punish. Ive thought carefully  about everything Mr I and Barclays  have said and 
supplied. Whilst I note everything Mr I has said, I havent been  persuaded that Barclays  
treated him unfairly during his branch visit. I think its more likely  than not that the situation 
became protracted  after both parties  became frustrated with the other.  But I havent seen 
anything that shows Barclays treated Mr I unfairly.  
Whilst I accept  the branch  visit didnt go well, I havent been  persuaded that there are 
grounds to tell Barclays to pay compensation or that this complaint should be upheld.  
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr I to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 December  2019.
Marco Manente
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7459339