K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains about the amount  of compensation offered by Assurant General Insurance  
Limited (AGI) for poor customer service  when he made a claim under his mobile phone 
insurance policy.
background
Through his bank account, Mr S had the benefit  of a mobile phone insurance  policy  which 
was underwritten by AGI. In February  2019  Mr Ss phone stopped  working. So he registered  
a claim with AGI under  his policy and arranged to send it to AGIs authorised repairer.  
However when it was returned  to him after repair, he found  the phones  memory had been 
reduced from its original 128 GB to 64 GB.
Mr S complained to AGI. Initially it didnt accept  the memory had been reduced. It asked    
Mr S to provide evidence  of the memory of the phone when it was supplied. Mr S obtained 
this from the manufacturer and passed  it to AGI.
AGI asked the repairer to investigate  what had happened. It said that as part of the repair 
the phones motherboard had been replaced, and it seemed likely that this had had the 
effect of reducing  the phones internal memory.
AGI wasnt able to obtain a like for like replacement for the phone. So it offered Mr S a cash 
settlement of £340 in respect of the value of the phone,  plus £50 compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience he had suffered. However he would have to return  the phone 
and pay the £100 excess required by his policy.
Mr S accepted the settlement  figure  for his phone, and the compensation offered. But he 
didnt think he should have to pay the policy excess as the damage to his phone was entirely  
AGIs fault.  AGI didnt agree, so Mr S complained  to us.
Our investigator recommended that this complaint should be upheld in part. She pointed out 
it was a term of the policy that an excess of £100  had to be paid on each successful claim 
made under the policy. Mr Ss phone broke and he claimed under his policy. So she didnt 
think it was reasonable  to ask AGI to waive this. However she thought the compensation 
payable should  be £100 rather than £50.
AGI had confirmed it didnt hold any information  on its database regarding the memory built 
into phones. Mr S said the memory  on the phone when it was returned  was less than the 
memory when new. To prove this to AGI Mr S had to contact the manufacturer and ask it to 
confirm this.
The investigator didnt  think it was unreasonable to expect AGI to note the memory  of a 
phone prior to repair, particularly when it was replacing the motherboard  which could affect  
this. If it had done so this would have avoided the trouble Mr S was put to.
AGI responded to say, in summary, that:
under  the policy terms and conditions, it could require confirmation  of the make,  
model, memory size and IMEI number of a phone to be provided;
it thought the £50 redress it had offered was in line with its usual practice, and in view 
of the limited inconvenience to Mr S was fair in the circumstances; and
Ref: DRN73559562to assist Mr S, and reduce the inconvenience  to him, it had offered to pay the 
settlement figure to him before  he returned the phone, which  was beyond  its usual 
procedures.
The investigator said AGI hadnt  asked for evidence  of the original memory on the phone 
before Mr S complained it had been  reduced. This wouldnt have been needed if AGI had 
recorded the relevant features of the phone at the outset.
Mr S accepted the investigators recommendation. However he pointed out that when he 
registered the details of the phone on the policy some  time ago, the memory  size was 
mentioned, along  with the IMEI number which itself would  have confirmed  the memory size. 
So AGI could have checked this record.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Its clear AGIs repairer was at fault in the way it carried out the repair and returned the 
phone with reduced memory. AGI has recognised this and has offered a settlement figure  of 
£340 in respect  of the value of the phone, subject to the phone being  returned to it, which 
has now happened. Mr S hasnt  disputed that this is reasonable in relation to the value of his 
phone.
I agree  with the investigator that the policy terms are clear that AGI is entitled to charge a 
policy excess of £100 in the case of each successful claim.  So AGI is entitled  to deduct £100 
from any payment it makes to Mr S under his claim.
AGI did offer to assist Mr S by saying it would pay the settlement figure before it received his 
phone back. But all in all, like the investigator, I think that £100 is fair compensation for the 
distress and inconvenience AGI has caused  Mr S.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part, and order Assurant General Insurance  
Limited to pay Mr S compensation in total of £440 (£340 + £100), less the policy  excess  of 
£100.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2019.
Lennox Towers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7355956