K820x#14complaint
Mr C is the executor of the late Mr Ms estate. He complains  that Mr M was given unsuitable 
advice by UK Workplace Solutions Limited (WP) to stay in his defined benefit  (DB) pension  
scheme. 
At the time of the advice, WP was an appointed representative of deVere and Partners (UK) 
Limited (de Vere), so de Vere is responsible for the advice and this complaint.
background
Mr M had deferred pension benefits  in his former employers DB pension  scheme.  On 22 
January 2016  the trustees for the scheme  wrote  to him with an offer to provide an enhanced 
pension transfer  option.
The trustees offered  to pay for financial advice by WP if Mr M wanted to transfer  his benefits 
out of the scheme. They would provide a one-off increase to the transfer  value, if the option 
was taken up by 21 April 2016. The standard transfer value for Mr M was £163,450 which  
was enhanced to £174,222. 
Information from the DB scheme indicates the benefits available  in March 2016  were a 
pension of £5,436.60 a year, or a reduced  pension of £4,215 a year plus a lump sum of 
£28,100. The pension  would increase on average  at a yearly  rate of 1.61%.
Mr M suffered a severe injury in the late 1980s which  left him physically disabled and unable  
to work. In 2011  he suffered two strokes which left him bed-bound. He required  daily care. 
Ms M, a relative, had been his carer for many  years and both her and Mr C held power of 
attorney for Mr M.
Ms M contacted WP on 11 March 2016  to discuss Mr Ms pension offer. She explained  that 
Mr M had difficulties holding a phone conversation and that she was his carer. WP 
requested Ms Ms power of attorney which she sent to them. A telephone review  meeting 
with a WP adviser was subsequently held on 30 March 2016 in which  he discussed Mr Ms 
circumstances with Ms M.
Mr M was single,  aged 61, with no dependants. He and Ms M lived together.  Mr M had 
£14,500 in savings. Other than his DB pension he had no other pensions or investments. He 
had no debts. 
Mr M received income through  disability living allowance (DLA) and employment support 
allowance (ESA). He also received a reduction in council tax and home  care benefits. Ms M 
was due to reapply for housing benefit  as a previous application had been declined  due to 
Mr Ms savings.  Recently  Mr M had also been  charged for part of the daily care which was 
being provided by the local authority. Ms M explained that Mr M had very little outgoings. 
Other than rent, she estimated he needed about £200 per month  to live on. Mr Ms attitude 
to risk was established as cautious. 
The adviser explained to Ms M that as Mr M had no spouse or dependent children, his DB 
pension would likely die with him if he passed away.  Ms M could potentially receive a 
dependants pension  but it would be reliant  on the DB trustees discretion and could not be 
guaranteed. 
Ref: DRN72791062The adviser discussed Mr Ms different options.  If he remained in the DB scheme he could 
choose to start taking  benefits from the scheme  or keep them deferred until he needed them. 
If he transferred he could buy an annuity  which would provide him with an annual steady 
income or he could  transfer his pension into a drawdown plan where he could take tax free 
cash and draw income when and if he needed  it more flexibly. The adviser and Ms M agreed 
that a guaranteed annual  income was the preferred  option as no additional investment 
management was necessary  and Mr M more likely needed the security of a guaranteed 
income.
The adviser said he would send Ms M a health  questionnaire  for her to complete on Mr Ms 
behalf and with this information he would then request quotes for enhanced annuities  on the 
open market.  
On 12 April the adviser left Ms M a voicemail  asking whether she had had a chance to look 
at the health questionnaire yet and had any success with receiving some information from 
the benefits office. A day later Ms M returned  the call saying  she was looking at the 
questionnaire. She said she had difficulties finding someone to talk to about Mr Ms welfare 
benefits but would continue to try. I havent  seen any evidence  like a phone call or letter  
about this, but it seems  WP had asked her at some point between  30 March and 12 April to 
find out what impact taking pension benefits  would have on Mr Ms entitlement  to his welfare  
benefits and that they had suggested  the Citizens Advice Bureau  might be able to help.  
On 26 April, Ms M spoke  to the adviser  and explained that she had difficulties getting  the 
required information from anyone about the impact on Mr Ms benefits. She had troubles 
getting through on the phone to the Department  for Work and Pension or the Citizens Advice 
Bureau and her social worker or welfare officer hadnt been able to help either. The adviser  
said they would need confirmation  about the impact on Mr Ms benefits as they couldnt  
advise without this. Ms M said she had several  phone numbers and would  continue  to try to 
contact someone.  
On 29 April, Mr C called the adviser. He said he hadnt given much thought to Mr Ms 
pension before but had spoken  to Ms M and was calling  to understand what  was going on. 
The adviser and Mr C discussed enhanced annuity  quotes which  had been issued on 27 
April and which provided a significantly higher  income than Mr Ms DB benefits. For a 
purchase price of £174,222 Mr M could have an annuity of £14,007.60 a year guaranteed for 
10 years,  or an annuity of £10,511.88 a year guaranteed for 20 years.  The guarantee period 
would ensure that if Mr M died within the guarantee period,  his pension would be paid in full 
to his beneficiaries  for the remainder  of the guarantee period. 
The adviser explained what he had discussed  with Ms M, including  that if Mr M died whilst in 
the DB scheme  it was not guaranteed that Ms M would receive any death benefits and that 
the pension likely would die with Mr M.
He explained  that as an adviser he needed to satisfy himself that a transfer was in Mr Ms 
best interest and that any pension income  wouldnt impact on Mr Ms welfare benefits. 
Although he had a broad  understanding about welfare benefits, WP were no experts on this 
subject matter and each council handled  things differently. The adviser explained to Mr C 
that he didnt know enough about  Mr Ms financial circumstances and without more 
information, he would need to provide a retain report to say Mr M should stay in his DB 
scheme for now. He advised to persevere  and try to find out the required information from 
the welfare office, benefits agency,  Citizens Advice Bureau or anyone  who was willing  to 
help. Mr C said he understood.
Ref: DRN72791063On 3 May WP issued a report to say Mr M should stay in the DB scheme.  Ms M confirmed 
that she received  the report on 5 May. The report said without knowledge of what  would 
happen to Mr Ms welfare benefits in the event he withdrew any benefit  from his pension, WP 
was not in a position  to recommend the transfer of the benefits. They said:
I cannot see if [Mr M] will see any benefit from taking this pension,  either from the 
scheme or through  an annuity. Therefore I recommend that you defer making any 
immediate decision in relation to this pension until you understand what impact taking 
it will have.
On 2 June Mr C spoke  to the adviser again. The adviser  reiterated  the problems of not 
knowing the impact of taking annuity  benefits on Mr Ms welfare benefits. The adviser 
explained that he understood the importance of death benefits, but WP had concerns 
making a recommendation to benefit  a power of attorney. He explained  again  that the advice 
needed to be in Mr Ms best interest. He advised  Mr C to maybe  try and contact advisers 
who were local to Mr M and who had experience with customers  on welfare benefits.
Mr C acknowledged the difficult position  the adviser was in and understood what  information 
was needed. He said he would help Ms M collate the necessary information and agreed it 
made sense  to contact  local advisers who might also be able to visit Mr M at his home. Mr C 
said he would consult  different advisers.
A day later Mr C wrote to the adviser and pointed out that it seemed the benefits  from an 
enhanced annuity would  outweigh  the benefits  from the DB scheme  and so a transfer 
seemed to be justified.  WP replied the same day saying:
There is no doubt that this is worth  pursuing and I hope you can find suitably experienced 
help.
The last contact with Mr C was on 13 June 2016.  WP resent a copy  of their certificate 
confirming they had given advice about  transferring Mr Ms DB scheme which another 
adviser might find useful.
Mr M sadly passed away shortly after that on 20 June 2016.  At the time of his death  he still 
held benefits in his DB scheme. Ms M eventually received a dependants  pension from the 
scheme of around  £123 per month until her death  in August 2020.
Mr C complained to de Vere in January 2017.  He says the advice to stay in the DB scheme  
was unsuitable  in Mr Ms circumstances. He says Mr M should have been advised  to transfer 
his pension and buy an enhanced annuity as this would have resulted in a higher  income  for 
him. Also the death benefits would  have been better and they were important to Mr M. 
Instead of a small dependents  pension from the DB scheme, Mr Ms beneficiaries  would 
have received his full annuity income  for the remainder of the annuity guaranteed period. 
Mr C feels WP ought to have been  able to work out the implications on Mr Ms welfare 
benefits. He considered that even if Mr M had lost all his benefits by taking his pension, he 
still would  have been better  off financially by taking the annuity. In any event, he thinks  it was 
inappropriate to ask Ms M to try to ascertain the information about the impact of pension 
benefits on his welfare  benefits and it was wrong to point her to the Citizens Advice Bureau 
rather than the local authority.  He says WP should  have gathered the information 
Ref: DRN72791064themselves, found  additional resource or should  have withdrawn from the advice process 
sooner which  would have allowed Ms M and himself to seek advice elsewhere a lot earlier.
De Vere didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. Mr Ms health had been poor for a considerable 
time. There was no indication he should expect  a shortened life expectancy. The adviser 
was required to act in the best interests  of their client for his long-term income needs. And 
they didnt have all the information  they required to satisfy themselves a transfer  was 
suitable for Mr M. They  also had to bear in mind  that Mr M was vulnerable, so they had to 
take particular  care. They say it was right for the adviser to ask Ms M to establish the 
approach of her local benefits office as there  is a variation in practice  and interpretation of 
legislation.
Mr C referred  his complaint to this service. An adjudicator thought WP had acted reasonably 
when they asked Ms M to provide further  information about the impact of pension  benefits on 
Mr Ms welfare benefits. He referred  to the regulators rules on DB transfers  which stated 
that the starting assumption when giving  advice on a transfer was that it was unsuitable. WP 
needed to demonstrate that it was in Mr Ms best interest to transfer and he didnt think WP 
were in a position  to fully understand Mr Ms position without the missing  information. He 
also didnt think WP had unreasonably delayed the advice process.
Mr C didnt agree and an ombudsman reviewed the complaint. He issued a provisional 
decision upholding the complaint. He felt WP had enough information to see that even if Mr 
M lost all his welfare benefits,  he would have still had a better income from the enhanced  
annuity. So suitable advice would have been to transfer.
De Vere disagreed and made detailed submissions reiterating they acted reasonably. The 
previous ombudsman has since left this service  and wasnt able to issue a final decision, so 
the complaint  was passed to me. 
 
After reviewing the evidence independently, I issued a provisional  decision in which I 
explained that I intended to not uphold this complaint. I invited both parties to provide further 
comments or information they wanted me to consider before I finalised my decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In my provisional decision I said the following:
was the advice to not transfer Mr Ms DB pension unsuitable?
Looking at the advice report and viewing  it in conjunction with the conversations the adviser 
had both with Ms M and Mr C, I think  it was clear to all parties that there might be good 
reasons for Mr M to transfer his pension. This included the fact Mr Ms pension would die 
with him in the scheme and the high enhanced  annuity quotes available on the open 
market. In this context I think its important to note that WPs advice didnt say remaining in 
the DB scheme  was generally more suitable than transferring. The advice was Mr M should 
defer an immediate decision until he knew more about his benefits situation.
The regulations around DB transfers  are strict for good reason. Customers  are giving up 
valuable guaranteed benefits and the regulator is clear that the starting  position  for an 
Ref: DRN72791065adviser is that a transfer from a DB scheme is unsuitable unless  the adviser can clearly  
demonstrate on contemporary evidence that its in the clients best interest to transfer. 
I appreciate Mr M was in poor health.  But he had been in poor health for many  years and 
there was no indication his death  was imminent. In fact during conversations  between the 
adviser and Ms M, she was more concerned about  her predeceasing Mr M. And both Ms M 
and Mr C were  discussing  the need to think about future care home costs for Mr M with the 
adviser. So it was right for WP to ensure that any advice  was right for Mr M in the medium to 
long-term. Whilst death benefits are something to keep in mind  and surely were a relevant 
consideration here, ensuring Mr Ms financial security whilst he was alive was the primary 
focus and rightly so.
Mr M was relying on welfare benefits, so the impact on any pension  payments on this was 
highly important. WP needed  to ensure  that by transferring his pension  he wouldnt be 
financially worse off. The adviser was entitled  to ask for as much information  as he deemed  
necessary to satisfy  himself that a transfer was in Mr Ms best interest. 
Mr C says it was obvious  from the information  available that even if Mr M lost all his welfare 
benefits, he would still have a higher income  from the enhanced  annuity. And its correct that 
the annuity quotes were significantly higher than the scheme benefits. However, whilst Ms M 
told the adviser about some of Mr Ms benefits  she also mentioned  that the council kept 
changing things,  for example she had recently been  charged for some carers costs  and she 
hadnt been given a clear  answer what costs  to expect in future. She also was about to 
submit another  application for housing  benefits  which had previously been declined. I think 
its fair to say that Mr M was entitled  to a range of benefits which he was heavily  reliant on 
and which  werent  as straight forward as Mr C now claims. 
Ive seen a statement from the local council which sets out Mr Ms benefits, including  
disability allowance, employment support allowance and home care benefits. Mr C says this 
would have given  the adviser enough information to work out that Mr M would be no worse 
off if he transferred away from the DB scheme. However, WP didnt  take up the offer by 
Ms M to provide this. Even if the adviser  had seen this statement, I think it still wouldnt have 
given him full information in what way Mr Ms overall benefits would have been impacted  by 
taking pension benefits. Mr M was also receiving other benefits  (for example reduction in 
council tax) and it was possible  he would receive  housing benefits if his next application was 
successful. When Ms M talked through this statement with the adviser they both agreed it 
was complicated and Ms M said she had different parts  with different people. 
I think it was reasonable  to not proceed until Ms M had confirmation how Mr Ms welfare 
benefits would be impacted. And, again,  its worth repeating that Mr M wasnt  expected to 
die at that time so there  was no reasonably  foreseeable downside  in getting a fuller picture 
of the situation.  
WPs advice needed to not only include whether Mr M should transfer or not, but also if he 
did transfer what he should do with his funds,  e.g. take benefits straight away as an annuity, 
take some  tax-free  cash and leave the rest invested  in a flexible drawdown arrangement or 
keep the pension invested and take benefits at a later stage, for example when he reached 
state retirement age. A robust knowledge of Mr Ms financial position was essential.  Not just 
whether benefits  would be impacted or not, but also by how much as this would influence 
how to proceed after the transfer. Ms M and Mr C both confirmed that Mr M didnt really 
need any additional income.  His financial position  at the time was secure. Making sure this 
remained the case in the long-term was more important than securing death benefits.
Ref: DRN72791066I considered whether the adviser reasonably should have advised Mr M to transfer and defer  
taking his benefits as this wouldnt  have  had any impact on his welfare benefits and allowed 
Mr M to make  a decision about how to take benefits  later on. With hindsight of Mr Ms 
sudden death,  this would have been more beneficial for his estate. However, I think  it was 
reasonable for the adviser  at the time,  and without  any signs that Mr Ms death was likely  to 
be imminent, to err on the side of caution here and make sure Mr M, through  his power of 
attorneys, properly understood his financial situation  and how it could be impacted.  
I wouldnt expect the adviser to make quick assumptions on incomplete  information just to 
facilitate a transfer. An adviser  has to evidence that they know  their customer which includes 
their financial  situation. If it later turned out certain  benefits had been overlooked  or the 
impact was greater than expected, they would  be held accountable for not acting in Mr Ms 
best interest and having insufficient evidence. So the adviser  needed to feel confident they 
had enough information to advise  on a transfer. It was also important that Ms M, on behalf  of 
Mr M, understood the benefits position,  so she would be able to make  an informed choice 
once advice was given. As explained earlier, it also wasnt  reasonably  foreseeable that Mr 
Ms death  was imminent, so taking  the time to properly understand his financial position and 
ensure he wasnt losing financial security seems  prudent (and in line with regulations)  to me. 
And from the phone  calls I listened to both Ms M and Mr C understood this.
So I think the advice  to defer a transfer decision until Ms M and Mr C had sufficient 
information to properly understand Mr Ms position with regards  to his benefits and the 
impact of taking pension benefits  in any form was suitable in the circumstances.
should WP have handled the advice process differently?
I considered Mr Cs argument that WP should  have  obtained the information they needed  
directly from the relevant  authorities or that they should have involved a benefits expert 
themselves. Or alternatively, if they couldnt advise, they should have told Ms M earlier,  so 
she could have sought advice elsewhere  quicker.  
Generally its reasonable to ask customers to gather  certain  information  and provide it to the 
adviser. And in this particular case I think Ms M was best placed to find out the required 
information. She would  know  what benefits Mr M was receiving and she had authority to 
request information  on Mr Ms behalf.  I dont think it was unreasonable  for WP to ask her to 
do this and I dont  think it was immediately foreseeable that she would have  such  difficulties 
obtaining this information, so there was no reason for WP to say they couldnt help with a 
transfer straight away. From the phone calls in mid-April I take it that Ms M was still 
completing the health questionnaire at this point (which was needed  for enhanced annuity 
quotes). I dont know when exactly she submitted this, but WP was requesting  annuity  
quotes from third parties which, I take from internal WP notes, took a while to get in and 
where only issued  on 27 April. Overall, I dont  think WP delayed the process here or acted 
unreasonably in any way.
By the end of April, when it became clear that Ms M had continued troubles getting the 
required information, WP informed her - and shortly after Mr C -that they would issue a retain  
report as without the information on benefits  they wouldnt be able to advise to transfer. There 
have been discussions  about whether the deadline for the enhanced transfer value could be 
extended, but I dont consider this particularly relevant here. Even  outside the deadline, Mr M 
still could have transferred his pension and the adviser explained this to Mr C. A few days  later 
the retain report was issued.
Ref: DRN72791067Its unfortunate that Mr M died before he was able to find out the required information  and/or 
see another adviser to facilitate the transfer.  And I appreciate that if he had transferred his 
pension, his estate  would  be in a better position. However,  I need  to make a decision that 
isnt tainted by the benefit of hindsight. And I think WPs advice here was reasonable and I 
dont think they delayed the process unnecessarily or acted negligently .
responses to my provisional  decision  
De Vere agreed with my findings and confirmed they had nothing further to add.
Mr C provided  detailed  comments which I thank  him for. I appreciate  the time and care he 
has taken with his submissions.  I can assure  him that Ive carefully  considered them together  
with all submissions he has made previously. I also note that Mr C referred in detail to call 
recordings and their content. I can confirm that before I issued my provisional decision I had 
listened to the same  phone calls and theres no dispute about what was discussed or said in 
these conversations.
As an informal resolution service Ill focus  in my decision  on what I consider the most 
relevant points. I trust Mr C doesnt regard this as a discourtesy.
Mr C made  the following  key points:
By turning down  Ms Ms offer of providing the benefits assessment letter from the 
local council, the adviser obtained  incomplete information in the fact find interview. 
The letter would have provided the adviser  with the list of welfare benefits Mr M was 
receiving and a clear explanation how the Home  Care  charge would be calculated.
It would have given  the adviser sufficient information  to conclude Mr M would be in a  
financial position which was just as good or better than in his DB scheme if he 
transferred.
WP should have held a face-to-face  meeting, rather than corresponding solely  by 
telephone. He referred to a good practice code which  said face-to-face meetings 
should be made available to vulnerable clients. Mr C thinks in a meeting the adviser 
would have been able to review the councils benefit assessment letter.  
Ms M had conflated  her own benefits with Mr Ms. Mr M was responsible  for Home 
Care Benefit and Ms M for both the housing benefits  and council tax. Mr M was only 
entitled to the benefits on the councils assessment letter.  There  was no entitlement  
to a range  of benefits as I concluded  in my provisional decision.
Mr C did further research and provided evidence from the Disability  Rights Handbook 
which showed that any pension income would be charged against Mr Ms home  care 
costs which were  £32,552 per year and made  up the bulk of Mr Ms benefits. He says 
the position on how pension income would affect Mr Ms benefits was clear.
 
The enhanced  annuities quotations which indicated superior benefits and the ability  
to pass on pension  benefits to Ms M were contemporary evidence that transferring 
from the DB scheme  was in Mr Ms best interest. WP kept referring  to the financial 
security aspect as a reason to justify Mr M staying in the DB scheme. But there  were  
a wide range of products available to Mr M after the transfer with higher security 
credentials. And the adviser was tasked to identify these for Mr M. The DB scheme 
Ref: DRN72791068carried its own risk of becoming insolvent.  This was the reason the trustees of the 
scheme had commissioned a de-risking exercise.
The adviser had the intention to ask his manager  whether the offer for Mr M could be 
extended, but it seems WP had chosen to simply advise to retain due to KYC [Know  
Your Client] problems. There was a conflict of interest between the advisers 
determination to provide  the best advice and the managers determination to avoid 
further slippage  of the projects completion date. 
The adviser had outlined different options to Ms M and had told her he would 
consider them further and advise  on the most appropriate option  for Mr M. However, 
he never followed up on this.
I carefully considered  everything Mr C has said. However, I still remain of the view that WP 
acted reasonably in this case. 
I disagree that if the adviser had seen  the benefits assessment letter - either  by visiting Mr M 
and Ms M at their house or by accepting Ms Ms offer to send in the statement- he would 
have had sufficient  information to make  a recommendation to transfer. It would have shown 
the adviser the amount  of home  care benefit Mr M was receiving which  was substantial. 
However, it still wouldnt have evidenced  what impact the receipt of pension  income would 
have on Mr Ms overall situation. 
I appreciate Mr C says the housing  benefit and council tax were the responsibility of Ms M. 
However, when the adviser spoke to Ms M she gave the impression these were joint benefits 
and I dont think there would have been reason for the adviser to doubt this. Also,  the fact 
that Mr Ms level of savings meant the last housing  benefit application was unsuccessful 
implies this benefit wasnt completely independent  of his financial position and could have 
been affected by his pension.
In the first fact find call on 30 March, Ms M also explained that they had recently  been  billed  
for daily care (varied amounts of £180,  £160  and £80 per month)  and she hadnt been given 
a clear answer as to what to expect in future.  I appreciate Mr C says the assessment  letter  
was clear Mr M was only being  charged  £1.52 per week for his care. But Ms Ms statements 
would have caused some  doubts  around this. 
I agree  that given  Mr Ms - and arguably Ms Ms- vulnerability, a face to face meeting would 
have been good practice and appropriate when  giving  advice.  However, I dont think  a 
meeting would have led to a transfer recommendation before Mr Ms death.  I dont  consider  
it likely  a conversation  in person with Mr M and Ms M would have provided the adviser  with 
the assurance and confirmation of how a transfer would affect Mr Ms benefits and financial 
situation.
Mr C says the impact of pension income  to Mr Ms benefits was clear. He says any income  
would have been charged towards his care costs. This means, given that Mr Ms care costs  
significantly outweighed  any possible  pension  income (even from enhanced annuities), Mr M 
wouldnt have received any additional  income by transferring.  Mr Cs argument is that 
whether he transferred or received pension income from the DB scheme, his net financial 
position would effectively be the same. However,  by transferring Mr M would have at least  
been able to pass on his pension in the event of his death.
Ref: DRN72791069I can see Mr Cs argument. However,  if drawing a pension income affected Mr Ms housing 
benefit and/or council  tax or Mr M received  additional care that wasnt referred  to in the 
assessment-like Ms Ms statements  about monthly  additional care bills might have 
suggested - he might  have been  worse off financially. 
In any event, the adviser was right to be careful  here and in my view he was entitled  to ask 
for as much information  as he required to be satisfied he knew enough about Mr Ms 
financial situation to judge whether a transfer was suitable and if so what  Mr M should do 
with his funds  (annuity,  lump sum, drawdown  etc) once  transferred. I dont  think  its in 
dispute that a transfer might have been  beneficial to Mr M, however WP wanted more 
certainty about Mr Ms situation  which was their prerogative. 
Mr C says the adviser set out different options but didnt  advise Ms M on the most 
appropriate option for Mr M. Its correct that the adviser outlined  a few possible options  over 
the phone  when he first spoke to Ms M. However, WP subsequently decided they required 
further information about the impact of pension benefits on Mr Ms welfare benefits before 
they could recommend what Mr M should do. And so it makes sense that the adviser didnt 
discuss possible options further. 
Im unsure  what Mr C refers to when  he says other products with higher security credentials 
were available outside the DB scheme.  Mr Ms DB pension offered secure  and guaranteed  
benefits. After a transfer, unless he took an annuity  straight away,  his funds would have 
been exposed  to investment risk. And if he was planning to defer  taking his benefits and buy 
an annuity later on he was also facing the risk of annuity rates falling. There  is also no 
indication that Mr Ms scheme  was at risk of becoming insolvent.  An incentive  exercise  as 
conducted here, does  not necessarily mean a scheme is in financial difficulty. And even  in 
the fairly  rare circumstance that a DB scheme fails, they are protected by the Pension 
Protection Fund which would provide 90% of Mr Ms benefits. 
Mr C thinks WP was behind schedule in their project  and therefore  wasnt interested  in 
providing Mr M with advice. However,  I cant see this was case here. Mr M was issued with a 
transfer quote including an enhanced transfer value  in January 2016 which was guaranteed  
until 21 April. The letter said Mr M should  contact WP by 24 March.  Ms M called WP for the 
first time on 11 March, about  half way through the three-month guarantee period. Despite 
this late start, I think a transfer  recommendation could  have  been  given within  the guarantee 
period if WP had been provided  with all the information they required straight  away.  This isnt 
a criticism of Ms M. She did everything  she could to get the required information, however 
Mr Ms circumstances  were unusual and so the advice process was bound to take slightly 
longer than normal. 
WP confirmed with Mr C that if he and Ms M were able to provide the requested  confirmation  
about the impact  of pension benefits,  they could approach WP again.  The adviser explained 
that even if the guarantee period had expired, a new transfer quote could be requested  from 
the trustees. Mr C feels WP should have requested  a time extension to the guarantee 
period. However,  even  if they had done  so, Mr Ms estate wouldnt be in a different position 
now. An extension would have only meant that the enhanced transfer value would have 
been available for longer. The issue here isnt that Mr M missed  out on an enhanced  transfer  
value, but that he passed  away  before he had sufficient information which could be provided 
to WP or before a different adviser  could be found who was willing to help. An extension  to 
the guarantee period  wouldnt have  changed  this.
Ref: DRN727910610Having considered everything  again, my decision remains  that WP acted reasonably  here 
and didnt treat Mr M unfairly.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C, on behalf  of 
Mr Ms estate,  to accept or reject my decision before 30 July 2021.
Nina Walter
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7279106