K820x#14complaint
Mr Bs unhappy that Tesco Personal Finance PLC wrote to him in January 2019 offering 
information on what to do if he was in financial difficulty. He feels  the letter  was 
unreasonable and irresponsible.
background
In February 2019  Mr B sent a letter  to Mr B in which it set out some information  about the 
support available if he was having  any concerns  about  meeting his financial commitments. It 
ended by saying  If you are not currently facing difficulty, please keep this letter  in a safe 
place should a change in circumstances.
Mr B says he had a fixed sum loan with T that hed taken out in 2017  but his payments were 
up to date so he feels the letter was inappropriate. He says hes away  a lot and his 
neighbour opens his post so this may have  given a misleading impression.
He feels Tesco must  have accessed other information about him from other sources to 
prompt this letter. Hes unhappy  about  this and the way its used his data. And he asks why it 
hadnt offered  similar  help when hed got into difficulty  with his loan in 2018.
Tesco said the Financial  Conduct Authority (FCA) had issued new guidance in September 
2018 to encourage greater contact with customers  who may be having  financial problems. 
As a result it had started sending these  letters  in January 2019 to some  customers.  It did so 
on the basis of a number of factors including  the way they managed  their accounts, any 
missed payments and information from the credit  reference agencies. It didnt agree the 
letter was irresponsible.
It said under  the terms and conditions of the agreement signed by Mr B, it was allowed to 
carry out credit checks and share information  so this wasnt  unreasonable.  And in view of the 
FCA guidelines, it couldnt agree that a similar letter wouldnt be sent in the future.
Our investigator accepted the letter had been  sent in line with the FCA guidelines. and on 
that basis he couldnt agree it was inappropriate.  He couldnt say precisely  why the letter had 
been sent to Mr B but Mr B had acknowledged he was having some financial difficulties and 
thered been some  missed payments on his Tesco loan in the summer of 2018 so he didnt 
think it was unreasonable. And he noted the terms and conditions  of Mr Bs loan with Tesco 
allowed it to review Mr Bs credit file and share  information. Hed taken into account Mr Bs 
concern at his neighbour seeing the letter but it had been sent to Mr B at his correct address 
so he didnt feel Tesco could have known this would happen. Overall he didnt feel Tesco  
had done anything wrong so he wouldnt be asking it to do anything  more.
But Mr B said he didnt  feel Tesco had been  sufficiently clear  in its terms and conditions 
about how Tesco could  check  and use data on him. And he thought some of the information 
on his credit file was incorrect in any event. He asked  for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont think Tesco  made 
a mistake as Ill now explain.
Ref: DRN75898222As Tesco has said, the FCA issued guidelines  in September 2018 to encourage banks to 
make contact with customers who might be in financial difficulty. Its aim was to offer help 
and support early  on to avoid more serious problems later. But the question is whether it was 
reasonable to send  this type of letter  to Mr B at this time.
Tescos said it looks at a number of factors including the way in which  a customers  used 
their account  and their credit history. I cant be certain why Tesco  wrote  to Mr B but Ive seen 
hed missed 2 payments  on his loan in the summer of 2018 so this may have raised 
concerns. And hes said hes having  some financial difficulties at the moment  which has led 
to some adverse  information being  recorded  against him. I can see hes disputing some of 
the information but while its on his file Tescos entitled to take it into account and to use it in 
its decision making. I know  hes unhappy  at being sent this letter but on the information Ive 
seen I cant agree it was inappropriate.
I should add that the guidelines didnt come  into effect until September  2018 which was after 
Mr B got into difficulty with his repayments  on the Tesco  loan so I wouldnt have expected  it 
to have written to him at that time.  But as he has now said he is having difficulty  I would 
encourage him to make contact with Tesco and see what  support it can provide.
Its understandable  that Mr B felt uncomfortable  at having this letter  opened by his 
neighbour. But Tesco sent the letter to Mr B at his address. It couldnt have anticipated that it 
would be seen by anyone else so I dont feel it can reasonably  be held responsible  for this. 
Its also fair to say the letter  doesnt include any specific personal information  about Mr Bs 
account but simply sets out the support and help that would be available  should  Mr B require 
it so I dont consider  that any confidential  information was disclosed in any event.
Ive seen Mr Bs unhappy with the way Tesco uses his personal information. But the terms 
and conditions of his loan agreement explain that Tesco may share information with other 
third parties where appropriate as well as making credit checks  from time to time so if it did 
access information in this way then it was acting in line with the agreement and on that 
basis, I cant reasonably say its being  unreasonable.
I realise Mr B may be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons set out above, I dont 
consider Tesco has acted unfairly and I wont be asking  it to do anything  more to resolve  this 
complaint.
Ref: DRN75898223my final decision
My final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7589822