K820x#14complaint
Mr D has complained about U K Insurance Limiteds  handling of his two car insurance
policies.
Reference to UKI includes their agents.
background
Mr D had a car insurance policy with UKI. On 18 February 2018, Mr D took out a second,
fully comprehensive,  policy  with UKI for a second car to start the following day. Mr D took out
the second policy online but he called  UKI to clarify certain details of his policies.
Mr D said he intended to only keep  the second car as he was going to sell the first car. So
he said he no longer  needed the first car insured. UKI told Mr D they could cancel the policy
on the first car but there would be a cancellation  fee of £48.16. Mr D didnt  think  that was fair
as he said although  he was cancelling one policy, he was still continuing as a UKI customer
on the other policy. He said UKI should only charge a cancellation fee if he was leaving them
as a customer altogether.  UKI then looked to see if it was cheaper  for Mr D to cancel the
policy on the second car and then amend the first policy to swap  the cars over.  The policy on
the second car was still within its 14 days cooling off period which meant  Mr D wouldnt pay
a cancellation  fee if he cancelled it. But, after doing the calculations, it became apparent that
amending the first policy to swap the cars would cost Mr D more  than it would compared to
keeping the second policy and cancelling the first policy.  Mr D told UKI he wanted them to go
ahead and cancel  the first policy  and that he would pay the cancellation  fee under protest
and make a complaint.
UKI and Mr D then went through the details  of the second policy. During the online
application, Mr D had stated he had two years no claims bonus (NCB) and that he held a full
UK drivers  licence for two years. In fact, Mr D had four years NCB  which  were  being  used
on his first policy. So, when the first policy was cancelled,  UKI transferred the NCB  to his
second policy which gave  Mr D a discount.  It was also established that Mr D hadnt  held his
full UK licence for two full years. He had one full year and was short of a couple  of months
before he had two years.  UKI amended that to show he had one year. Mr D didnt think  that
was fair, especially as he had around  30 years of driving experience  abroad.
The premium Mr D was charged when he took out the second policy online was around 
£670. With the corrections made by UKI, the premium went  up to around £760. Mr D felt the
increase was unfair and said UKI should honour  the original online price. As he found the
increase unaffordable, Mr D asked to have  his cover reduced from fully comprehensive to
third party, fire and theft (TPFT). That reduced the premium to around  £640.
Mr D complained. He said:
It was unfair to charge him a cancellation fee when he cancelled the first policy.
The online price he was given  for the second policy  wasnt honoured as it was 
increased over the phone.
UKI didnt take into consideration  the fact that he held a drivers licence abroad for 
over 25 years.
UKI should have  taken into consideration the fact that he didnt have any accidents  or 
claims in the last 10 years  of driving.
UKI should have  taken into consideration his loyal custom and the fact that he had 
referred another customer to them who took out a policy  with UKI.
Ref: DRN72509832The online price he was given  for fully comprehensive cover was cheaper than the 
price he was given  over the phone for TPFT  cover.
UKI didnt  uphold Mr Ds complaint. Mr D didn't think that was fair so he brought his 
complaint to us. One of our adjudicators  looked into it. But he didnt think that UKI had done
anything wrong. As Mr D didnt agree with our adjudicator, the complaint was passed  to me 
to decide.
My provisional decision was issued on 22 July 2019. I said:
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I appreciate  this will be 
disappointing for Mr D, but Im not intending to uphold his complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive considered all of Mr Ds points carefully.  But, in this decision, I will focus on what 
I consider to be the key issues. My role is to decide  if UKI have  dealt with Mr D in a 
fair and reasonable way.
the cancellation fee for the first policy
The policy documentation made it clear that a cancellation fee would be charged in 
the event Mr D cancelled  his policy before the policy year ended. We think  that its 
reasonable for insurers to charge a cancellation  fee to reflect the administrative task 
of cancelling  a policy. Most insurers I know of charge a cancellation fee. I can 
understand why Mr D feels he shouldnt have been  charged a fee given he stayed on 
as a UKI customer with another  policy.  But the policy doesnt say he would only be 
charged a cancellation fee if he is no longer a customer, it says a fee would be 
charged in the event  he cancels a policy. So I think UKI applied the fee fairly. Im 
therefore not intending to uphold this part of the complaint.
UKI didnt  honour  the online price
The online price UKI gave Mr D wasnt accurate due to two main reasons. The first 
was that it was based on Mr D having two NCB years. During the phone call that was 
amended to four years. That had the effect of increasing the discount  Mr D was 
entitled to for claim free years of driving.  The second  reason was because Mr D had 
said he had a full UK licence  for two years. That was corrected to one year during the 
phone call, which I understand  from UKI had a significant bearing on the price  of the 
premium increasing. I can understand why Mr D felt it was reasonable for him to 
round up the time he held his UK licence to two years given he had only a couple of 
months to go. But UKI, like most  insurers, only take into account full years when 
counting the number of years  a licence has been held. Given  the information Mr D 
gave during the online application wasnt accurate, the premium quoted online didn't 
reflect Mr Ds true circumstances.  So I think UKI not honouring  that price  was 
reasonable. Im therefore not intending  to uphold this part of the complaint.
UKI didnt  take into consideration  Mr Ds extensive driving experience abroad
UKI, like most other insurers,  base their premiums on a large number of risk rating 
factors. In other words, they assess the level of risk each  policyholder poses and the 
likelihood of them making a claim in the future by looking  at many factors.  Those 
include things like: the type of car being  insured; the cars  age; the address the car is 
Ref: DRN72509833kept at; what the car is used for; whether the car has any modifications; the number  
of people who will use the car; the policyholders occupation; the type of licence held 
by the policyholder; and the number  of years the licence  has been held. UKI take into 
consideration the number of years a UK licence has been held.  And while Mr D has 
been driving for almost 30 years, most of that has been abroad. Given  driving  rules  
and habits can vary from country to country, most  insurers feel that the number of 
years driven in the UK on a UK licence is the best way to assess a policyholders 
experience and potential risk. It also means that policyholders are treated the same  
irrespective of which country their past driving  experience is from. And its not for me 
to tell insurers like UKI how to go about its risk assessments. I therefore think that 
UKI not taking into consideration  Mr Ds experience of driving abroad was 
reasonable.
UKI didnt  take into consideration  Mr Ds claim free years
Mr D said that UKI should have  taken into consideration  the fact that he wasnt  
involved in any accidents in the last 10 years nor did he make any claims in that 
period. I understand that Mr D has been driving in the UK since  2014, therefore part 
of the 10 years of claim free driving  took place  abroad.  I also understand that since  
Mr D has been driving in the UK he has only been insured by UKI. UKI applied four 
years NCB when Mr D took out the second  policy, so I think they did take into 
consideration his accident  and claim free period while in the UK. I understand that 
UKI, like most other insurers,  dont award  NCB years for claim free years abroad.  
And thats a decision their entitled  to come  to when deciding how to calculate their 
premiums. So I think  their decision to only take into consideration Mr Ds accident 
and claim free years in the UK, which meant  a number  of years in the last 10 year 
period were  not taken into consideration, was reasonable.
Mr Ds loyal custom
Mr D said that UKI should have  taken into consideration  the fact that he has been  
insured with UKI for a number of years and that he had referred  a friend who took out 
a policy  with UKI. I can only look to see if UKI have correctly applied  the policy, the 
law and insurance industry practice  correctly. And whether or not they have treated 
Mr D in a fair and reasonable way. Whether  or not UKI use their discretion  to give Mr 
D any benefits or discounts as a result of him being a long standing  customer, or 
because he referred  a customer,  is a matter of judgement  for them  and not 
something I can interfere with. Im therefore not intending to uphold this part of the 
complaint.
the fully comprehensive cover  was cheaper than the TPFT cover
Mr D said the online price  for the fully comprehensive cover  was cheaper than the 
price he was given  over the phone for TPFT,  which he thinks  was unfair.  But I don 
think that is correct. From  the information  I have seen the online price for the 
comprehensive cover  was around  £670. But the price went  down to around  £640 
when Mr D opted for TPFT. And as Ive mentioned  before, the online price was 
based on incorrect information. Im therefore  not intending to uphold this part of the 
complaint.
other complaints
Ref: DRN72509834I understand that Mr D is also unhappy  about a number of other matters  which  were 
raised after the main  complaint was made. Before we can look into those, UKI would 
have to respond to Mr D in writing  to address those concerns. And if Mr D is not 
satisfied with UKIs response, he can then bring  a new complaint for our service to 
consider. I understand the outstanding issues are:
UKI didnt provide  a statement clearly explaining  all charges and payments made 
in relation to adding  and removing the vehicles.  I think  it would help if Mr D writes 
to UKI to clarify exactly what information  he expects to receive.
Mr D said that UKIs complaint handling procedure lacked a proper escalation 
procedure.
After Mr D took out the second  policy, UKI wrote to him asking him to provide  
evidence of his NCB  years. He said the letters threatened to increase his 
premium if he didnt  provide the information. He feels these letters  shouldnt  have  
been sent to him as the information should be on UKIs database given he has 
only ever been  insured by UKI.
The parties were invited to comment on my findings. UKI accepted my provisional findings. 
Mr D didnt comment. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my findings remain  the 
same. 
In relation to the three additional matters identified above under other complaints, if Mr D 
wishes to pursue them he should  either contact UKI or our service to confirm  that. I think  the 
third point is clear, but I feel the first two points require further clarification from Mr D so that 
UKI can address  them properly.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.   
Mehmet Osman   
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7250983