K821x#15complaint
Mr A has complained about Tesco Underwriting  Limiteds handling  of his car insurance 
policy.
Reference to Tesco  includes their agents.
background
Mr A had an accident on 19 November 2016  and his car was damaged. He said he told 
Tesco that he intended to keep his car and wanted  to have it repaired. But if that wasnt 
possible, he said he would have it scrapped. But he told Tesco  he wouldnt be claiming on 
his policy. 
Tesco told Mr A he had 14 days in which to replace the car on his policy otherwise his policy 
would be cancelled. He said this put both him and his family under immense  psychological 
stress and pressure  to replace  the car within short notice. Tesco also told Mr A that if he 
cancelled the policy he would only have to pay a cancellation fee.
On 22 November 2016, Mr A bought a replacement car and had his policy  amended to cover 
it. But his annual premium  went up by around  £400.  Mr A didnt think  that was fair. Soon 
after, Tesco wrote to Mr A saying that his policy would be cancelled within  seven days. That 
was despite Mr As replacement car already being  insured under  the policy. Mr A 
complained.
Tesco looked into Mr As complaint.  They  said that the premium increase on the 
replacement car was correct. But they accepted  they had misinformed him when they said 
his policy  would be cancelled  within  14 days if he hadnt replaced the car. They were also 
wrong in saying if he cancelled the policy he would only have to pay a cancellation fee. In 
fact, he would have  had to have paid the whole annual. As an apology,  Tesco  offered Mr A 
£100 compensation.
Mr A didn't  think the compensation offered went far enough, so he brought  his complaint to 
our service.  One of our adjudicators looked into the complaint. She said that the premium 
increase for the replacement car was reasonable. But for the poor service and 
misinformation given  to Mr A, she recommended they pay Mr A £200 compensation. As 
Tesco didnt  agree with our adjudicator,  the complaint has been passed  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding this 
complaint in part. Ill explain why.
Mr A has made a number  of detailed points and Ive considered all of those very carefully. 
But, in this decision, I will focus on what I consider to be the key issues.  My role is to decide 
if Tesco have dealt  with Mr A in a fair and reasonable way.
premium increase
Mr A believes the increase to his premium on his replacement car was unfair.  It might  help if 
I explain that we're not the industry  regulator.  That means it's not my role to tell an insurer 
Ref: DRN74421862how much  they can charge for their policies. And our service generally takes the view that, 
providing they treat people fairly - that is they treat customers with similar circumstances in 
the same  way - insurers are entitled  to charge  what they feel they need  to in order  to cover  a 
risk.
Mr As premium  did go up significantly, so I can understand why he was concerned. But just 
because his premium  has increased, I don't think that means that Tesco  have treated him 
unfairly. Tesco provided me with information  to show how Mr As premium has increased.  
That information is commercially sensitive so I can't share it with Mr A. But having looked at 
it carefully, Im satisfied that Tesco treated Mr A in the same way as they would other 
policyholders in similar circumstances.  So I think they calculated  his premium  reasonably.
When setting premiums  insurers  will think about the likelihood that their policyholders will 
make a claim and how much they will have to pay out for those.  And its not down to me to 
tell insurers what factors they should take into account when assessing  risk, nor how to go 
about those assessments.  Different insurers will have different views on what presents a risk 
and the extent of those.  Thats essentially a matter of commercial  judgement,  balancing risk 
against the need to compete with other  policies  on offer, and not something  we would 
usually think its fair to interfere with. 
The replacement car Mr A bought was newer  than his previous car. Tesco, like almost all 
insurers, rate cars on many aspects, including: the model, the cars age, its value etc. As 
insurance is essentially an assessment of risk, I dont think  theres anything  wrong  with 
insurers considering  whether  or not certain cars fall into higher risk groupings.  I therefore  
think Tesco  acted reasonably, so Im not upholding this part of the complaint.
poor service
Tesco have  accepted their service  could have been better  and that they gave Mr A wrong  
information. But they feel £100  compensation is adequate  to address that. But I have to look 
to see what impact Tescos poor service has had on Mr A. Mr A said that Tescos actions 
caused him and his family considerable psychological  stress during a very difficult  period.
I understand it was a particularly difficult time for Mr A as his car was a total loss and he was 
faced with making important decisions within a short period of time. Decisions that would 
also have a financial impact on him and his family.  It was therefore important for Tesco to 
give him correct information  to help him in making those decisions.
I note that Tesco have said Mr A had already  made the decision to scrap  his car before they 
had wrongly told him he had 14 days to replace his car on the policy. So Tesco say his 
decision to buy another car couldnt have  been influenced by the information they gave him. 
But Mr A disputes that. He said it was during a phone call on 20 November 2016 that he was 
given the wrong  information, before he had made  the decision to scrap his old car and get a 
replacement. The notes  from that call provided to us by Tesco say:
[Mr A] calls and explains their car has been written off but they don't want to make a 
claim and they are going to keep the car and try to fix it themselves. The CSR 
explains we will allow them 14 days to fix the car and if we don't hear from them  then 
we'll cancel
Ref: DRN74421863I think this note supports  Mr As version  of what happened  as the 14 day deadline  was given 
to him after he said he was going  to try to repair the car himself.  There  is no mention in the 
note that he said he had decided to scrap  the car.
Even after Mr A got a replacement car and had the policy amended  to cover it, Tesco 
wrongly sent him a cancellation notice.  I think that would have been a source of great 
distress to Mr A, especially after all that had happened.
I therefore think £200 compensation to address the distress  and inconvenience  Mr A 
experienced is appropriate in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I uphold this complaint in part and require Tesco  
Underwriting Limited to pay Mr A £200  compensation for the distress and inconvenience he 
experienced. This should be paid within 28 days of us telling them that Mr A has accepted  
my final decision. If they pay later than this they must also pay interest on that amount from 
the date of my final decision  to the date of payment  at a rate of 8% a year simple.1 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 July 2019.
Mehmet Osman  
ombudsman
1 If Tesco consider that they are required  by HM Revenue & Customs to take off income  tax from that 
interest, they should tell Mr A how much they have taken off. They  should  also give him a certificate 
showing this if he asks for one, so he can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.  
Ref: DRN7442186