K821x#15complaint
Miss S says Canada Square Operations Limited mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy with a credit card. 
background
Miss S took out a monthly premium PPI policy  with a credit card in 2004. She took it out over 
the internet at the same time as applying  for the credit card. The policy  covered Miss S 
against accident, sickness, or unemployment.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Canada Square disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion so the complaints been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ss case. 
Ive decided to uphold Miss Ss complaint and Ill explain why below:
Canada Square  needed to provide clear,  fair and not misleading information  to Miss S so 
she could fairly decide  if she wanted  to buy the policy. But I dont think  Canada Square 
made the costs  of the policy clear to Miss S. 
Canada Square  has shown us a screenshot of what it says Miss S would have seen when 
she applied  for the credit  card.  The screen described the cost as being Just 74p per £100  of 
your monthly statement balance.  But Miss S wouldve had to work out for herself how much  
thatd be, depending on the size of the balance and no examples  were given on the screen 
to help. And there is no mention  that if she didnt clear the balance  then the PPI premium 
itself would attract interest. And shed need  to continue paying the PPI premium  during a 
claim which would, in effect reduce the monthly benefit.
 
I think this would have  mattered to Miss S because shes told us she had significant other 
benefits in place to meet her repayments should  the need arise.
Miss S has told us her employer wouldve paid her sick pay for around three to six months if 
she became too unwell to work.
And I can see from Miss Ss application  records that she was living  with her parents so she 
had no mortgage,  and her rent, if anything, was likely to be low.
Miss S told us she had significant savings. She told us she had received  these savings as a 
gift from a grandparent and had put the money by in case she needed  it for higher 
education.
I can see that when  Miss S complained to Canada Square initially  using an online form she 
input a different  level of savings and Canada Square  has questioned this inconsistency. But 
Ref: DRN72086162Miss S has told us she put the wrong answer in that section and then couldnt find a way to 
correct the error.
Canada Square  has pointed to the way the credit  card was used as evidence  that Miss S 
may not have had the level of savings  available that she recalls. Canada  Square has said 
that Miss S often went over her credit  limit and incurred charges which  she couldve avoided 
if shed used some of her savings to lower her balance.
Ive thought about this, but it isnt unusual for consumers to keep  savings and credit  
separate. Ive not seen that Miss S ever actually missed payments or defaulted on the card, 
just exceeded  the limit. I dont think that necessarily  means Miss S didnt have savings held 
elsewhere. And I note she cleared the credit card with one payment when it was closed.
Ive considered Miss Ss testimony  and I think other  than the error  on the online 
questionnaire which she has explained,  shes been  consistent and plausible in what shes  
told us about her circumstances at the time. So on balance, I think  Miss Ss recollection of 
her general  circumstances, sick pay and savings is reliable.
This means  she couldve met her credit card repayments for some time without  the policy. 
So I think Miss S probably wouldnt have  bought  the policy if shed been given clearer  
information about the cost and benefits. So, I think Miss S has lost out because  of what 
Canada Square  did wrong. 
putting things right
Canada Square  should put Miss S in the financial position shed be in now if she hadnt 
taken out PPI. 
A.Canada Square should find out how much  Miss S would have  owed when she closed 
her credit card account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
Canada Square  should then refund the difference between  what Miss S owed when she 
closed her account and what she would have  owed if she hadnt had PPI.
If Miss S made a successful claim under the PPI policy,  Canada Square can take off 
what she got for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.Canada Square should add simple interest  on the difference  between  what  Miss S 
would have owed when  she closed her account from when  she closed it until she gets 
the refund. The interest  rate should  be 8% a year .
C.If  when  Canada  Square works out what Miss S would have owed each month  without 
PPI  Miss S paid more than enough to clear her balance,  Canada  Square  should also 
pay simple interest  on the extra Miss S paid.  And it should carry on paying interest until 
the point when Miss S wouldve owed Canada Square something on her credit  card.  
The interest rate should  be 8% a year. 
D.Canada Square should tell Miss S what its done to work out A, B and C.
Ref: DRN72086163 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires Canada Square  to take off tax from this interest. Canada 
Square must give Miss S a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for 
one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Miss Ss complaint.  Canada  Square Operations 
Limited should put things right by doing  what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss S to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7208616