K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about payment protection insurance (MPPI) policy taken  out in alongside  a 
further advance  on Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage in 1999. The policy was taken out in Mr Ds 
sole name. Mr and Mrs D say Nationwide Building  Society mis-sold them the MPPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments, to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website, and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ds case.
Having done that, I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
The policy was sold during a meeting between Mr and Mrs D and Nationwide. Mr and Mrs D 
say they were told they had to have the MPPI.  As  I cant  know  exactly  what was discussed  
with the advisor  when  Mr and Mrs D applied for the advance, Ive looked at the mortgage 
documents Nationwide has provided.  Ive also thought about Mr and Mrs Ds comments and 
what I know about these  kinds  of sales in general. 
I can see that when  Mr and Mrs D originally  took their mortgage out in 1987 they opted not 
to have MPPI, so they were aware  they didnt  need  the policy in order  to get the borrowing.
On the copy of the application form for MPPI,  I can see that cover has been  selected for 
Mr D only and for a policy which would cover him for accident, sickness and unemployment. 
So I think its likely that Mr and Mrs D discussed  the option for the policy at the time and they 
chose the cover which best suited their circumstances at the time.  
So, taking everything  Ive seen into account,  I think Nationwide  made  it clear  that                
Mr and Mrs D didnt have to take out the MPPI and they chose to take it out  although I can 
understand why they cant remember this.
Based on my experience of how Nationwide usually  sold these policies at the time, I dont 
think its likely it gave Mr and Mrs D advice about whether to buy the policy.  So this meant it 
didnt have to check if the MPPI was right for them. But it did have to make  sure that 
Mr and Mrs D got the information they needed  to decide if it was right for them.  
Looking at everything Ive been given, its possible the information  Nationwide gave 
Mr and Mrs D about the MPPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  But they chose to take 
out the MPPI  - so it looks like they wanted  this type of cover. Based  on what Ive seen of 
Mr Ds circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he was affected by any of the exclusions 
to or limits on the MPPI cover. 
Ref: DRN71667622Mr and Mrs D say Mr D was self-employed at the time. So Ive carefully reviewed the terms 
of the policy  but being  self-employed wouldnt have made it any more  difficult for him to 
make a claim. Mr and Mrs D say they had assets  such  as a second  home  and vehicles  
they could have used if theyd needed to raise funds. But the fund wouldnt have been 
immediately available  and the price isnt guaranteed. Also by having the policy  meant that 
they didnt have to sell their house  or vehicles.  Mr and Mrs D were borrowing additional 
funds against  a large and long term financial commitment,  which  was secured on their home. 
So I think having the security that their mortgage  repayments would be made if Mr D was 
unable to work would have  been important to them. So it looks like the policy  would have 
been useful for them  if something went wrong.  
It also looks like the policy was affordable for them. So I dont think better information about 
the MPPI  would have  put Mr and Mrs D off taking out the cover. Which means Nationwide 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the MPPI  to Mr and Mrs D.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs D paid on their PPI  and whether 
Nationwide treated them unfairly. 
Nationwide has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs Ds PPI was less than half of 
what they paid for each  premium. Weve looked at how Nationwide  has been working this 
out and based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Ds commission  was 
less than half the cost of the MPPI. As thats the case, I dont think  it needed to tell them 
about the commission  so I dont think Nationwide treated them unfairly.  This means  it 
doesnt need to pay Mr and Mrs D back any of the commission they paid for the MPPI. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  before  25 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7166762