K820x#14complaint
Miss N complains that Nationwide Building Society (Nationwide) reduced her overdraft 
facility from £3,000 to £100 with only one months notice period and in so doing treated her 
unfairly. 
background
On the 2 June  2018 Nationwide notified  Miss N in writing that they intended to reduce  her 
overdraft limit to £100 taking effect on the 12 July 2018. They offered to discuss  Miss Ns 
account with her to help her manage her overdraft, and also offered to help her put together 
a repayment plan if that was required. Miss N didnt take them up on that as she feared it 
would affect her credit file.
At the time Miss N had an overdraft  limit of £3,000, with a balance on the account  being a 
debit of £2,507.50. She was also going  through difficult circumstances at the time and so 
she felt that reducing  it to £100 was unfair.
Nationwide said that they had carried out a review of her account over the previous 6 
months and taken a business decision to reduce the overdraft limit in the light of her heavy 
reliance upon  it and to ensure that it was affordable. They said they had acted in accordance 
with the terms and conditions of the account, which stated that the overdraft was repayable  
upon demand, and with the giving of 30 days notice. As such  they did not consider they had 
done anything  wrong.
Miss N was unhappy with Nationwides response and so an adjudicator  from this service 
looked into the complaint but didnt  think  they had done anything wrong. Miss N disagreed  
with that view and so the matter has been  passed  to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I will not repeat the adjudicators summary of the background to this complaint because it is 
accurate and full and I want  to avoid repetition. But, if it appears that I havent mentioned 
something it is not because I have  ignored  it, but because  I dont  think its relevant to the 
issues I have to decide.  
Looking at the available evidence, I think we have an unfortunate situation here. I have  seen 
Miss Ns bank statements  for May June and July 2018 and it is clear  she was using her 
overdraft significantly.  
I have also seen that the terms  and conditions of the account do provide that it must be 
repaid if the bank demands it to be, provided  they give 30 days notice.  And they did. In 
Miss Ns case  they gave 6 weeks notice  so they complied with that requirement.
Its for a business to decide who it lends to and to decide upon the criteria to help it make 
these decisions.  It isnt the role of this service  to tell a business what its lending criteria 
should be when  considering such matters  as overdraft limits. But businesses do have to deal 
with their customers positively, sympathetically  and fairly. And they have to have regard to 
whether a customer can afford the money  they are borrowing.
Ref: DRN74793792Ultimately, what  I need to decide  is whether  Nationwide  acted fairly and reasonably in how it 
dealt with Miss N. I know Miss N will be disappointed with my decision but I have come to 
the same  conclusion as the adjudicator and for similar reasons. 
Nationwide carried out a review and reached  the decision  that the overdraft was not 
affordable. They were entitled  to come to that conclusion based upon their own lending  
criteria. It follows, they were entitled to then reduce Miss Ns overdraft limit. 
I can see Nationwide followed the correct procedure and gave more than the required period 
of notice. They were  sympathetic  and acted positively towards Miss N because  they offered 
to help her. 
So, in these circumstances,  Im not satisfied that Nationwide have treated Miss N unfairly, 
and so Im not upholding her complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I do not uphold the complaint against Nationwide  Building  
Society.
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss N to accept 
or reject my decision before 28 September 2019.
Jonathan Willis
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7479379