K821x#15complaint
Miss D is unhappy that Goldman Smith Claims Management Ltd (GSCM) is charging her a 
fee for a mis-sold payment protection insurance (PPI) policy claim.
background
In September  2017, Miss D signed a letter of authority (LOA). This said GSCM could look to 
see if she had any PPI policies with her lender. This was submitted by GSCM to her lender 
but the lender couldnt find any trace of any PPI policies.
But the document was inaccurate  as it had Miss Ds wrong date of birth. GSCM asked
Miss D for further information and submitted these to her lender, but the date of birth hadnt 
been corrected.  So again Miss Ds lender didnt find any PPI policies.
In September  2018, GSCM asked Miss D to sign another LOA due to the time that had 
passed. This was submitted to her lender in October  2018. And this time the lender found a
PPI policy  as the date of birth was the correct one.
GSCM tried to speak to Miss D about this. But Miss D said as GSCM hadnt been in touch  
with her for some considerable time,  shed asked  another claims management  company to 
look into her PPI claims. And she said as GSCM hadnt been  responsible  for submitting her 
claim its fee wasnt justified.
GSCM said as Miss D had cancelled her agreement its fee was due for the work it had done.
Initially it had charged its fee from September 2017, but accepted  it had given Miss D a poor 
service so had reduced its fee to the work  done from October 2018 when Miss D had signed 
the LOA.
Miss D wasnt  happy with GSCMs response and referred her complaint to us.
Our investigator said GSCM hadnt done  any work of value  and so couldnt charge Miss D its 
fee. GSCM didnt agree  and has asked for an ombudsman to decide.
I issued a provisional decision in September 2019  which said:
The agreement Miss D had with GSCM was on a No win No fee basis. This means GSCM 
charged a percentage success fee, not a fee based upon the amount of work  they actually 
did. So, any work done on any unsuccessful claims would be done for free. Where a claim  
was successful, GSCMs fee may be more or less than the value of the work they actually
did. This is the risk taken  by all parties  in this type of agreement.
But in January 2019 Miss D cancelled her No Win No Fee agreement with GSCM. So, I 
dont need to determine if the fee was charged on the basis  of whether her claim was 
successful or not. But whether GSCM has been fair and reasonable in charging a fee for the 
work it has done.
In September  2017 Miss D signed the LOA with GSCM. Along with the LOA she was also
sent the terms and conditions  of her agreement with GSCM. And these said:
You can terminate this agreement from the date that you sign the letter  of authority 
a 14 day cooling off period.
Ref: DRN74052302Miss D didnt cancel the agreement  within the 14 day cooling off period.  But GSCM didnt 
make contact again with her until September 2018.  Which I think  is an unreasonable  delay 
and can understand why Miss D would think GSCM were no longer pursuing her claim.
So when Miss D signed another LOA, dated 1 October 2018, with GSCM I think  she should  
have had another 14 day cooling  off period - until 14 October  2018  to cancel the agreement.
But again  Miss D didnt cancel it.
GSCM did submit  the LOA  now with the correct date of birth - to her lender. Following 
which Miss Ds lender told GSCM she did have a PPI policy.
Ive seen that GSCM made a number of attempts  to contact Miss D, initially through its 
automated system. And it did try to speak to her on 27 November 2018, but Miss D hung  up 
when she said she found out who it was that was calling her.
GSCM continued making a number of automated calls from 27 November 2018.  And it sent 
out a marketing letter, dated 2 January  2019,  about PPI ending  and updating its customers 
about its reduction in its fees. I think it was this letter that prompted Miss D to contact  GSCM.
As on 10 January  2019 she called and cancelled her agreement as she had gotten another 
claims management company to work  for her. GSCM told her.as  this was outside of the 14 
day cooling  off period, shed need to pay for any work it had done.
Miss D has said she wasnt sure when she signed the LOA whether it was before or after 
she had authorised the second claims management company. Or whether shed thought  she 
was signing it as part of the documentation sent to her by the second  claims management  
company. But GSCMS terms and conditions say:
You can terminate this agreement at any time outside of the 14 day cooling off 
period. We reserve the right to charge a reasonable  fee based on the work 
carried out in relation  to your PPI claim  at a rate of £75 plus VAT per hour and £10 
plus VAT for each individual piece of correspondence..
GSCM did at first look to charge for the work itd done since September 2017  but as outlined 
above I think it wasnt unreasonable of Miss D to think GSCM werent doing any work  for her 
up to September  2018, when it contacted her again.
I know Miss D said she was confused  over when and what  she was signing for as she was 
dealing with more  than one claims management  company. But I have seen the LOA she 
signed in October  2018 and it is clear that it was from GSCM. So, Im satisfied her 
agreement with GSCM can be considered from October 2018 when she signed the LOA until 
she cancelled it in January 2019.
Miss D doesnt think GSCM should be paid as the other claims management company has 
done the work for her. But in signing the LOA in October 2018  she agreed to GSCMs terms 
and conditions. So Im satisfied GSCM can charge for work  it has done.
Ive seen a breakdown of the work GSCM is charging Miss D for, a handling time total of 25 
minutes plus three individual pieces of correspondence - £61.25  plus VAT. I do question one 
of the items being charged which is equal  to ten minutes handling time and an individual 
piece of correspondence. It says this is for Miss D to provide additional information for the 
complaint. Ive not seen any evidence of this work.  So unless any such  evidence  is provided
Ref: DRN74052303I think the handling time total should be 15 minutes plus two individual pieces of 
correspondence - £38.75  plus VAT
responses to my provisional  findings
Miss D didnt agree as she doesnt think the fees are fair. And that she would have to pay 
more in fees than she actually got for her compensation award.
GSCM also disagreed  as it still thought the fee being charged was fair and didnt  agree  with 
the reduction to it as the work it said had been  done  specifically on Miss Ds claim. GSCM 
said it had tried to contact Miss D, 21 times between November 2018 and January 2019. 
And the letter it sent in January 2019  wasnt a marketing letter but had been  specific  to 
Miss D about her claim.  So it didnt agree that this work should  be removed from its fee.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But I havent  been persuaded to change  
my decision  - for the reasons given below.
I have looked  again at the letter dated  2 January  2019. The letter  was addressed  to Miss D. 
But the content was general to PPI claims, in particular the approaching PPI deadline  and 
not missing out on a chance to claim. It also said GSCM  had reduced  its fee. 
But the Financial  Guidance and Claims Act 2018 (the Act) required the Claims Management 
Regulator to introduce  a fee cap for PPI claims. The fee cap came into force  on 10 July 
2018. From  this date,  claims  management companies couldnt  legally  charge  a success  fee 
of more than 20% plus VAT. So, I dont think this letter was generated specifically about 
Miss Ds claim  but as I said in my provisional decision, more of a marketing letter.
So I dont  think its fair and reasonable for GSCM to charge her for this piece of work. 
I can also see that a number of attempts were  made  to call Miss D; this was by way of an 
automated dialler  system. I can see Miss D had hung up previously when she found  it was 
GSCM calling. So this method of contact hadnt  been successful. So I dont think  its fair for 
GSCM to charge Miss D for continuing to use a method of contact that wasnt successful 
and didnt add any value to her claim.
I can understand why Miss D is frustrated by having to pay for work she doesnt think  has 
generated the success of her claim. And she has said the fee is greater than the amount she 
got in compensation for her successful claim. But I cant  hold GSCM responsible  for that. 
And in signing  the LOA in October 2018  she had agreed to GSCMs terms and conditions 
which included costs  for work it had done.
So Im satisfied GSCM can charge for the work  it had done, which is in total 15 minutes plus 
two individual  pieces  of correspondence  - £38.75  plus VAT
So Im partially upholding Miss Ds complaint as I dont think all of the fee GSCM had 
charged should be paid.
Ref: DRN74052304my final decision
For the reasons  outlined  above I require Goldman Smith Claims Management to reduce its 
fee to £38.75 plus VAT.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss D to accept 
or reject my decision before 14 November 2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7405230