K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a store  
card in 1999. Mrs M says Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold her the 
PPI.
Mrs M took out the store card and PPI in a retail store   but FICL  has taken responsibility for 
the sale, and for this complaint, so I will only refer to FICL in my decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case. Having done  so, Im not upholding it for 
reasons that Ill now explain.
Mrs M says that the application for her store card wasnt completed by her but by the store  
assistant she spoke  to then. She says it was a busy store  and she felt rushed. She thinks  
she was just asked  to sign the form in two places, which she thinks  she would have done  
without reading  it. And she doesnt  think the PPI cover  was mentioned  to her at that time, 
with the card mainly  being sold to her on the basis of the discount shed receive on the items 
she was purchasing.
Ive no doubt that this is Mrs Ms honest recollection of what happened when she was sold 
this PPI. But I need to bear in mind that this sale took place a very long time ago. Memories 
of such events do tend to fade over these time periods, particularly given that Mrs M took out 
a number of such  store cards with PPI attached  to them. And Mrs Ms recollection  of what  
happened doesnt appear to be particularly detailed or vivid,  which  is not at all surprising in 
these circumstances.
So I dont  think it would  be fair for me to conclude that the PPI was mis-sold to Mrs M based 
solely on what she thinks she remembers happening now. I cant  now know for sure what 
was said to Mrs M when this sale took place. But FICL has provided  a copy of Mrs Ms store 
card application  and I can see that the policy is presented as optional. Mrs M has signed  to 
select it and this is a separate  signature to that she gave for the card account. And as Mrs M 
was entering into a financial agreement, I would have expected her to have taken 
reasonable steps to ensure that shed read and understood what  she was signing for. So, on 
balance, I think that Mrs M would have known at the time that the PPI was optional  and that 
she chose to take it. But I can understand why she may not remember  this now.
FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs M, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. But 
it did have to make sure Mrs M was given the information she needed  for her to decide  if she 
wanted the PPI policy.  I think  its likely that the information FICL gave her could have  been  
better than it was. But she chose to take it so it seems like she valued  this type of cover. And 
from what I know of her circumstances  at the time,  I dont think better information would 
have changed  her mind  about taking the cover.  I say this because:
She appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN78351092Mrs M says she didnt  need PPI because  she was entitled to sick pay from her employer.  
She also says she had other investment  assets  and could  have relied on her husband for 
financial support  to make her card repayments  in need. But this policy would have paid 
out in addition to any sick pay she might have  received and, potentially, for longer. And it 
would have been more secure than relying  on a relative or on assets that might  take 
some time to convert into cash. So I still think that she would have valued the extra  
protection which the policy  gave her if things went wrong.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs M. And as the policys 
premiums were  paid for monthly,  she could have cancelled it if the cover it provided no 
longer met her needs. 
So whilst I know this will be a disappointing  outcome for Mrs M, having  carefully  considered 
all the information  available  to me, I dont think I could fairly  conclude that she has lost out by 
anything that FICL  may have done  wrong  when it sold her this PPI policy.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, Im not upholding this complaint against 
Financial Insurance  Company Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 September  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7835109