K820x#14complaint
Miss M complains that Northern Bank  Limited  (Northern) mis-sold her a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Miss M was sold a PPI policy with a credit card in 2009. The policy protected  her card 
repayments if she couldnt work because of an accident, sickness  or unemployment. The 
policy also provided life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  think the PPI had been mis-sold. Miss M disagreed  with the 
adjudicators view so the case  has been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Ms case. Having  done  so, Im not upholding it 
for reasons that Ill now explain.
Miss M says she wasnt aware  shed been sold the PPI policy. She says it wasnt  discussed 
with her and she didnt know it was optional.
Northern has provided a copy of the credit card agreement that Miss M signed. Theres a 
section on this dealing  with PPI. I can see that theres a printed cross in the box provided to 
indicate that PPI  described as optional   was required. And Miss M has signed in the 
place provided  at the bottom of this section. I can also see that optional card protection  has 
not been chosen. So from what Ive seen, I think Miss M would have  known at the time that 
the PPI cover was optional and actively decided to take it. But this sale took place some  
time ago and I can understand why she may not remember  this now.
Northern recommended the PPI policy to Miss M. This means it needed to ensure that it 
was suitable for her. I dont  know  all the steps  it took to do this. But from what  I know  about 
her circumstances at the time, I cant see any reason why it wouldnt  have  been  suitable. I 
say this because:
She appears to have  been eligible for the policy and not affected by any of its main 
exclusions or limitations.
Miss M says she cant remember whether she would have received sick pay from her 
employer. However,  she says she could have relied  on her parents for financial support if 
necessary and so doesnt think she needed  the PPI cover. But this policy  would have 
paid out for up to twelve months if she was unable to work because of an accident, 
sickness and unemployment. This would have  been  in addition to any other means that 
might have  been available to her at the time.  And it would have been  more secure than 
relying on her parents  to help her in need. So I still think  she would have valued the 
additional security  the PPI gave her if things went wrong.
Ref: DRN75665512Ive no reason to think the PPI was unaffordable  for Miss M. And as the premiums  were 
paid monthly, she could have cancelled the policy if it no longer met her needs.
Northern also needed to ensure that it gave Miss M enough information about the PPI policy 
for her to decide  if it she wanted to take it. I think its likely that the information Northern gave 
her wasnt  as good as it should have been.  But for much the same reasons that I dont think 
the policy was unsuitable for Miss M, I dont think that better information would have 
changed her mind about taking it. I think shed still have thought  the policy gave her useful 
benefits at an affordable  cost.
So I dont  think that Miss M has lost out by anything  that Northern may have done  wrong  
when it sold her the PPI.
This means  that Northern doesnt have  to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Northern offered to pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Miss M because  it got a high 
level of commission and profit share (more  than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should have 
told Miss M about that. Because Northern didnt tell Miss M, that was unfair.
I understand that Northern has already made  a compensation offer to Miss M in respect of 
the high level of commission and profit share it got. But Northern now says the amount it 
calculated under its original offer requires revision.  So Northern has said it will make a 
further offer to Miss M to pay the full amount  in compensation she is due  and I think  that 
this further offer is fair in this case.  
my final decision
Ive decided the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Northern Bank  Limited doesnt have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Miss M.
But Northern Bank Limited does  have to pay back to Miss M any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. So if it hasnt already done so, I 
now direct  that Northern Bank Limited pays Miss M any compensation which  remains due to 
her after the revision  of its original compensation offer. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 8 December  2019.
Simon Furse
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7566551