K821x#15complaint
A representative, on behalf  of Mr S, complaints he was given unsuitable advice  by a 
representative of Scottish  Amicable (now part of The Prudential Assurance Company 
Limited) to transfer  his occupational pension (OPS) benefits into a personal pension. 
background
Mr S was contacted in the early 1990s  by a representative of Scottish Amicable about 
transferring his existing  OPS benefits into a Scottish  Amicable  personal  pension. He 
conducted a fact find meeting and showed  Mr S some projections  based on growth rates of 
8% and 13.5% which showed fund values at 55  the age Mr S hoped to retire.
The representative recommended that Mr S should transfer his OPS benefits into a Scottish 
Amicable personal  pension. Mr S accepted this advice, and the transfer went ahead.  
Scottish Amicable wrote  to Mr S in 1999  inviting him to have his pension  transfer reviewed  
as part of the industry-wide pension review that was being undertaken at that time. 
Unfortunately the letters  were  sent to Mr Ss previous address and so he did not receive 
them and request a review.  
Mr Ss representative made  a complaint  to Prudential  in 2017. His representative said the 
advice to transfer had been unsuitable and that he had not been properly informed about the 
benefits that he would be giving up from his OPS. 
 
Prudential did not uphold the complaint. It said it couldnt be sure what  was or wasnt  said at 
the meeting between Mr S and the Scottish  Amicable representative, but the paperwork  
completed at the time stated that Mr S had been advised about  the benefits  that he would be 
giving up by transferring  away  from the OPS. Mr S was unhappy  with this response, so his 
representative brought the complaint to us. 
One of our adjudicators investigated this complaint  and concluded that it should be upheld.  
She said the Scottish Amicable representative  did not give suitable advice when giving the 
advice for Mr S to transfer away from the OPS. She said, in summary:
She had not seen  sufficient evidence to show Mr S had been made aware of the 
benefits he was giving  up by transferring away from his OPS. 
Scottish Amicable recorded very little detail about Mr Ss circumstances and existing 
pension benefits  at the time of the sale. 
What was recorded about  Mr Ss objectives  suggests he was risk averse and the 
security of the OPS  would  therefore have been important to him: 
The fact-find recorded that. Mr S said Financial Security in Retirement was 1 
when Mr S was asked to prioritise his financial  objectives on a scale  of 1 to 4, where 
1 is the highest priority and 4 the lowest priority. 
Elsewhere the representative recorded I recommended to the client that the with-
profits fund be utilised  as an investment  vehicle,  as the clients  main  wishes were  that 
the pension should be totally secure and have good guaranteed  [indistinct  word]  
growth
Ref: DRN74274162The adjudicator recommended that Mr Ss pension  transfer should  now be reviewed, as it 
wasnt in 1999,  in line with the revised pension review methodology issued by the Financial  
Conduct Authority  in October 2017.  
Prudential did not accept this view. It said, in summary:
Scottish Amicables advice should be considered in the light of the standards  of the 
time, not the current  standards.  
The fact-find document  records that Scottish  Amicable  obtained  a deferred benefit 
statement from the OPS. This suggests  the details of the existing benefits were  
known before the transfer advice was give. 
The fact-find document  also records that Scottish Amicables representative 
explained how the OPS benefits  would increase over time, and would have referred 
to the projection  for the personal  pension to show the possible benefits it would pay. 
Employees leaving the OPS of which Mr S was a member would have been given a 
leaflet setting out the benefits of remaining in the OPS.
When the transfer was completed, there was no requirement to record  a consumers 
attitude to risk. And there  is no evidence  of the risk he was willing  to take. The 
comments quoted  were from Scottish Amicables representative, not Mr S. It would 
also expect anyone  to say that security  in retirement is a priority. 
The adjudicator was not minded to change her view, so the complaint was referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I have reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, and for the same reasons.  
I acknowledge Prudentials point  about  the need  to consider what is fair and reasonable in 
the light of its regulatory  obligations  at the time, not the current  ones. But it does not appear 
to be disputed that Scottish  Amicables representative had an obligation to give Mr S suitable  
advice. And, to be clear, I am satisfied it did have  such  an obligation. So I have  focussed  on 
the question of whether it is fair and reasonable to say Scottish Amicable gave Mr S suitable 
advice. 
Like the adjudicator,  I think  the available evidence shows Mr S wanted  security and that it is 
therefore fair to say he did not want to take any risk with his pension. 
Prudential says everyone would be likely to say security in retirement was a priority  for them.  
That appears to suggest that the fact-finding exercise (or at least the part of it which  asked 
about Mr Ss priorities) was effectively  redundant. I dont  agree. The fact-find listed  a number 
of financial goals, and asked Mr S to say what was a priority for him. And I think different 
consumers in different  circumstances would have different priorities,  depending on their age, 
longer term goals, assets etc. Mr S said financial security in retirement was a top priority for 
him but gave  less priority  to equally  desirable goals. So I think this shows this was 
Ref: DRN74274163something of particular importance to him  and this was a factor  Scottish Amicables 
representative ought to have considered. 
Prudential also says that the following is not a quote made by Mr S:
I recommended  to the client that the with-profits fund be utilised as an investment vehicle, 
as the clients  main wishes were that the pension  should be totally  secure and have  good  
guaranteed [indistinct word] growth 
Strictly speaking, that may be so. But it is a contemporaneous record  by Scottish  Amicables 
representative of Mr Ss main wishes. And one of those wishes  was for total security. So I 
think a lot of weight should be attached to this, particularly  given  the record  that security  in 
retirement was a top priority for Mr S. 
The transfer from the OPS involved risk. It entailed the exchange of guaranteed  benefits for 
benefits payable  at an unknown level, dependent on investment performance. So I do not 
think it would  be fair and reasonable to say Mr S was suitably advised to make  the transfer. 
I note the adjudicator and Prudential exchanged views on whether Mr S was aware  of the 
OPS benefits he was giving up. I think there  is some  evidence that Mr S may have had a 
degree of awareness  of the benefits payable from his OPS, but I dont think  this is a critical 
point. Even  if Mr S did have some  awareness  of the benefits payable from the OPS it 
remains the case the advice to transfer  did not meet his stated objectives and was not 
therefore suitable. 
For these reasons, I think it is fair and reasonable to uphold Mr Ss complaint. 
fair compensation
Prudential should  calculate if Mr S has suffered a loss by comparing the position  he is in now 
with the position he would  be in if hed stayed in the OPS. The calculation  should be 
completed in accordance  with the regulators pension review guidance, as updated by the 
Financial Conduct  Authority in the guidance published in October 2017. 
If a loss is found compensation should also be paid in accordance  with the updated pension 
review guidance.  However compensation shouldnt  be paid into the pension plan if it would 
conflict with any existing  protection or allowance. In that case  it should be paid directly to 
Mr S, subject to an adjustment to allow for the fact that the income  that would have been 
provided would otherwise  have been  subject to income tax when in payment.
For example, if Mr S would  have  been able to take a tax-free cash sum from the 
occupational scheme,  25% of it would be tax-free and 75% would have  been  taxed at his 
income tax rate in retirement.  I think this is likely to be at 20%, so it should deduct  15% from 
the total compensation (i.e. 20% income tax on 75% of the total fund/income paid from that 
fund).
The calculation should be carried  out as at the date of my final decision, and using the most 
recent financial assumptions that are relevant at that date.
The compensation resulting from the loss assessment should be paid to Mr S within  90 days 
of the date Prudential receives notification of Mr Ss acceptance of my final decision. Further  
interest must  be added  to the compensation at the rate of 8% per year simple from the date 
Ref: DRN74274164of my final decision to the date of settlement for any time, in excess  of 90 days, that it takes 
Prudential to pay Mr S compensation.
I dont know how much compensation, if any, would be payable  on the basis  of the above 
calculation. I think it unlikely it will be over £150,000. But, for completeness,  I should point 
out that, where I uphold a complaint, I can make a money award requiring a financial 
business to pay compensation of up to £150,000, plus any interest  and/or costs  that 
I consider appropriate.  If I consider that fair compensation exceeds £150,000, I may 
recommend the business to pay the balance.
my final decision
determination and award: I uphold the complaint. I consider that fair compensation should 
be calculated as set out above.  My final decision is that The Prudential  Assurance Company 
Limited should pay the amount produced by that calculation up to the maximum of £150,000  
(including distress and/or  inconvenience but excluding costs) plus any interest set out 
above.
recommendation: If the amount produced by the calculation  of fair compensation exceeds 
£150,000, I recommend that The Prudential Assurance Company Limited pays Mr S the 
balance plus any interest due. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019.
John Pattinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7427416