K820x#14complaint
Mr T is unhappy  National Westminster Bank  Plc didnt make  a payment from his account in 
December 2018.  
background
Mr T has an account with Nat West. In December  2018 he went into branch  and tried to 
make a payment  from that account to an overseas account. Mr T says this was to pay for his 
girlfriend to visit for Christmas. Nat West didnt agree to make the payment. It believed Mr T 
had previously been the victim of romance scams (where  victims  are deceived into false 
relationships by fraudsters).  And looking at the circumstances Mr T described it was 
concerned the most recent transfer request involved the same issue. 
Our investigator didnt  think Nat West had done  anything wrong  but Mr T didnt  agree.  He 
said this wasnt a scam and he planned to get married  to his girlfriend. So I need to reach a 
final decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I appreciate Mr T has been very distressed by whats happened here. Hes told us that as his 
girlfriend wasnt able to visit then some months  later he was informed that very sadly shed 
taken her own life. I know this must all be very difficult  for him and hes been  very clear that 
this was a genuine relationship. But the issue I need  to consider isnt the nature of that 
relationship but whether Nat West did anything  wrong in declining to make the payment Mr T 
requested in December 2018. 
The starting point  is that a bank should  process payments and withdrawals that a customer  
authorises in accordance  with the Payment  Services Regulations and the terms and 
conditions of the account. But a bank might be liable to its customer  if it makes a payment 
where it has reasonable grounds to believe the payment instruction was an attempt to 
misappropriate the funds  of its customer.  And the terms and conditions of Mr Ts account 
give Nat West the right to suspend, restrict or stop access  to the account  (or to certain 
services) where  it believes its appropriate  in order to protect the account.  
Looking at whats happened in this case the circumstances of the December  transfer request 
appear, on the face of it, comparable to a number of previous incidents.  That includes one 
where funds had to be refunded to Mr T after he made  a similar request for a transfer to a 
different overseas account. 
So I can understand why Nat West had concerns about the more recent transfer request. 
And, as a result, I dont  think  it did anything wrong in declining to make this payment and 
arranging for a customer protection officer to get in touch with Mr T about it.  
Ref: DRN74618072my final decision
Ive decided not to uphold  this complaint.  Under  the rules  of the Financial  Ombudsman  
Service, Im required to ask Mr T to accept or reject my decision before 9 February  2020.
James Park
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7461807