K821x#15complaint
Ms T complains that CashEuroNet  UK LLC, trading as QuickQuid, lent to her irresponsibly.
background
I have used the information from QuickQuid  to create a table which  gives a brief summary of 
the approved  loans  for Ms T.
loan date approved amountoriginal 
repayments 
(rounded)repaid date notes
118 December 
2008£200 £50 + £25020 February 
2009repaid  on 
time
225 February 
2009£400 £100 + £500 15 May 2009 extension
3 20 May 2009 £450 unknown15 October 
2009extension
412 January 
2010£650 £162 + £813 15 July 2010 extension
5 20 July 2010 £900 £169 + £1,06915 December 
2010extension
620 December 
2010£900 £180 + £1,08015 September  
2011extension  
and 
pre-default  
repay plan
720 September 
2011£300 £60 + £360£60 repaid 
before  applying 
for top-up
7A17 November 
2011£650 £1,140 o/sadditional 
funds
QuickQuid sent us the details of the loan history and accounts. It made an offer in relation to 
Loan 7 and 7A which was to refund all interest  and charges on it which  would be offset  
against the principal outstanding and remove the loan from her credit  file. The balance 
outstanding could be repaid by an affordable repayment plan. Ms T rejected that offer.  
One of our adjudicators looked  at the complaint and thought that QuickQuid should put 
things right for Ms T for Loans 4 to 7. Ms T has not said she does not agree with the 
adjudicators opinion and so it seems  Ms T agrees  with it. And from that it seems that 
Loans 1 to 3 are not disputed. So I am not reviewing those loans.
Initially QuickQuid objected to our adjudicators view,  and since then it has said it was 
planning to make an offer to Ms T but nothing has been received.  
The complaint remained unresolved and was passed to me for a decision. 
Ref: DRN70805782my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what I consider  to be 
fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. We have set out our general 
approach to complaints about  short-term  lending - including  all of the relevant rules, 
guidance and good industry  practice  - on our website. 
QuickQuid needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out proportionate checks to make sure Ms T 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that QuickQuid should fairly  and reasonably have 
done more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These factors  
include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable. And I think that this does apply to Ms Ts 
situation. 
The overall pattern  of Ms Ts lending  history with QuickQuid has been looked at carefully  to 
see if there was a point  at which QuickQuid should reasonably  have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful - so QuickQuid ought to have  realised that 
it should not have provided any further  loans. 
Given the particular  circumstances of Ms Ts case, I think that this point was reached by 
Loan 4. I say this because:
by Loan 4 Ms T had been showing signs of difficulty repaying the earlier two loans. 
She had extended  Loan  2 once and Loan 3 four times; 
Ms T applied for Loan 4 almost  immediately after repaying Loan 3 as the email 
correspondence shows that QuickQuid was considering  her Loan 4 application on 
17 May 2009. This suggests that she needed  more cash  quickly after repaying  
Loan 3; 
the agreement  for Loan 4 included a large  second repayment which was a large 
proportion of her declared net income (£1,500);
Ref: DRN70805783from the first loan onwards Ms T was provided  with a new loan within  days of settling 
a previous one. So QuickQuid ought to have realised it was more likely than not Ms T 
was having to borrow further  to cover the hole repaying her previous loan was 
leaving in her finances and that Ms Ts indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably;
even after QuickQuid  placed Ms T on a repayment plan for Loan  6 which took her 
nine months to pay off, still it approved a subsequent loan and top-up for her;
Ms T wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amount she owed QuickQuid. The last 
loan plus its top-up was much  larger than the first loan taken three years earlier. 
Ms T had paid large  amounts of interest to service a debt to QuickQuid  over an 
extended period.
I think that Ms T lost out because QuickQuid  continued to provide borrowing  from Loan 4 
onwards because:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Ts indebtedness by allowing  her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time;
the sheer number  of loans and deferrals was likely to have had negative implications 
on Ms Ts ability  to access mainstream credit and so kept her in the market for these  
high-cost loans.
So I am upholding the complaint about Loans 4 to 7 (including 7A) and QuickQuid should  put 
things right.
I have seen on Ms Ts handwritten complaint form that she has asked for the loan or loans to 
be written off. From this I take it to mean that she is asking me to write off the principal of 
one or more loans.  This is not the approach that we take as Ms T will have had the benefit of 
those principal sums over the years and its only right that they are repaid. 
I have set out what I have  decided is the fair redress for Ms Ts complaint. 
putting things right  what QuickQuid  needs to do
refund  all interest and charges Ms T paid on Loans 4 to 7;
pay interest of 8% simple  a year* on any refunded interest  and charges from the date 
they were paid (if they were) to the date of settlement;
the number  of loans taken from Loan 4 onwards means any information recorded 
about them  is adverse. So all entries  about  Loans 4 to 7 should be removed from 
Ms Ts credit file.
If there is still an outstanding balance on loan 7 (including 7A), QuickQuid needs to remove  
any unpaid interest  and charges applied to the loan, and deduct all payments made by Ms T
towards the loan and apply them as if a reduction  of the principal. QuickQuid  can offset any 
remaining outstanding  principal against  the redress now payable  to Ms T.
If a third party owns any debt then in order to do the set off I have outlined  above, QuickQuid 
will need  to repurchase that debt. If it does not do that then it cannot do the set off and the 
full amount due will be payable to Ms T directly. And in those circumstances the third party 
Ref: DRN70805784will need  to be directed by QuickQuid to correct any adverse entries  on Ms Ts credit  file, so 
far as it is able to do so. 
* HM Revenue & Customs requires QuickQuid  to take off tax from this interest. It must give 
Ms T a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one. Any offset  needs  
to be done after tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I am upholding Ms Ts complaint in part. CashEuroNet  UK 
LLC, trading as QuickQuid should do as I have set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 November  2019.
Rachael Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7080578