K820x#14complaint
Mr Fs complaint is about the way Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays) has worked out the 
compensation for a mis-sold payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a 
credit card.
background
In April 1992 Mr F took out a MasterCard credit  card with Barclays. When  he opened the 
account he did not buy PPI. But in December  1993 he took out a PPI policy  alongside this 
card account.  
In 2018 Barclays  upheld Mr Fs complaint that he had been mis-sold  the PPI. Barclays 
calculated that compensation of £11,098.66 before tax was due in total compensation. 
However Mr F had made a number of successful claims on the PPI policy,  the total paid in 
claims being £157,536.82. Barclays said it was setting the compensation due to Mr F against 
the claims total and so nothing was left to be paid to Mr F.
Mr F brought  his complaint to this service as he wasnt happy with what  Barclays had done.  
He said Barclays hadnt worked out the compensation correctly as the interest calculations 
were incorrect. He thought he had paid a lot of APR interest to Barclays on his PPI but it was 
only giving  him back  a fixed rate of interest.  Mr F also feels  the claim paid out is irrelevant. 
Our adjudicator said they thought that what Barclays had done  was fair. Mr F remained 
unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to review his complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Barclays upheld Mr Fs complaint in 2018 that the PPI had been mis-sold. So in this decision 
I am not considering how the PPI came to be mis-sold,  Im only looking at how Barclays  has 
calculated the compensation and if what it has done  with the compensation is fair and 
reasonable. 
I am not considering in this decision any other issues raised by Mr F during the investigation 
that are not directly  associated with the mis-sold  PPI compensation on this particular credit 
card. Any other concerns he has would have  to first be taken up with Barclays and if Mr F 
remains unhappy could  possibly be brought to this service as separate  complaints. 
When PPI is mis-sold we expect a business to put a consumer as far as possible in the 
position they would have  been in if PPI had never  been taken out. 
This means  working out how much  was paid for the PPI whilst it was running and refunding 
this to the consumer.  This should include all premiums and any costs caused by the PPI 
such as interest and fees. Also if the credit card balance was cleared then the consumer 
would have paid the full costs of the PPI and be out of pocket, so compensatory interest  
should be paid.  
However by putting  the consumer as far as possible in the position they would have been in, 
also means taking into account any benefits  the consumer had because  of the PPI. So if the 
Ref: DRN75853902PPI hadnt been taken  out, any claims would not have  been  paid to cover the costs of the 
repayments for any time a consumer was unable  to work due to accident, sickness or 
unemployment. Therefore  if a claim was paid it is fair that this is taken into account when 
working out what effect the PPI has had on the consumers finances.
In Mr Fs case Barclays has worked out that the PPI added to Mr Fs credit card account  
meant he would  have paid £10,661.21 more than he should have done  over the time the PPI 
was active on the account for the premiums  charged, fees paid because of the PPI and 
interest caused, at the card APR rate, by the PPI. It has also worked  out some  
compensatory interest  at the rate of 8% simple for any times  it has deemed Mr F may have 
been out of pocket for the PPI costs. This comes to £437.45.  So in total the compensation 
comes to £11,098.66.
Normally this total compensation  would be paid to Mr F. But Mr F made a number of 
successful claims  for accident  and sickness on his PPI policy  over the years it was active. 
He was paid a total of £157,536.82  in claims whilst  the PPI was active on his account, 
between 1993  and 2018. If he had never  had the policy none of these claims would  have 
been paid. And because  the PPI had been  mis-sold, this payment of the claims has to be 
taken into account  to put Mr F in the position  he would have been in if he hadnt bought it.
I have taken note of all Mr Fs comments about  the APR interest charged to his card and the 
costs of the PPI. For the amounts Mr F spent for his own use then clearly  it is fair he should  
pay interest for the amounts he borrowed. But the interest caused by the PPI should not 
have been added and so he should  not have  to pay this part of the interest charged and it is 
being refunded  in Barclays calculation.
I do have some concerns  about the calculation  approach taken by Barclays in working out 
the amount of interest  caused by the PPI when taking into account the claims payments 
made. However this also affects the compensatory  interest calculated as due to Mr F, which 
I think may be generous.  However other calculations show  that the total interest charged on 
the full account balance  over the whole period the card was open,  would  come  to less than 
£70,000. The PPI would  form a small portion of this amount.
Credit card interest  is added  monthly  and becomes part of the balance;  the amount of 
interest charged is based on the actual card balance in any particular month. And part of the 
balance is for the PPI premium but possibly  for some PPI and interest from earlier months  if 
the balance had never been cleared. But even if all the interest charged to the card for the 
period the PPI was active was refunded, at around  £70,000, this added to the amount of 
premiums charged at just over £10,500  is far less than Mr F was paid for the claims on the 
PPI policy.
I note that Mr F feels the claims paid are not relevant to what  he was charged and paid for a 
product sold to him wrongly. But the claims paid are relevant  to this matter  as they would not 
have been paid if the PPI had not been taken out. Mr F isnt being  asked to repay any of the 
claim amounts, including any excess over and above the costs of the PPI. But setting off the 
costs calculated for PPI whilst it was active,  and some compensatory interest, against the 
amount paid in claims is fair in the circumstances of this case.
Ref: DRN75853903my final decision
For the reasons  Ive set out above  Im satisfied  that what Barclays Bank UK PLC has done in 
working out the compensation for Mr Fs mis-sold PPI policy is fair. Nothing is due to be paid 
to Mr F and I am not telling Barclays Bank UK PLC to do anything more.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 March 2020.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7585390