K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains that Virgin Money  plc reduced his credit card limit from around £10,000 to 
£1,000, without notice, causing  embarrassment to his partner. 
background
Mr H said hed had his credit card since 2003 and had always  kept up with his repayments 
and doesnt understand  why Virgin couldnt  give him warning before reducing the limit.
Virgin said it had reviewed Mr Hs account  and acted in accordance  with a term of the 
account that allows it to reduce his credit  limit and in some circumstances. It said it wouldnt  
increase his credit limit due to information held at credit bureaus.  
The investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint be upheld. He said Virgin had 
reviewed Mr Hs account and followed the correct procedures in reducing his credit  limit. He 
said Virgin had acted  in line with the terms of Mr Hs account and written to him about this.
Mr H disagreed, saying  understands that a business  can review an account but why didnt 
Virgin do so when he had a large balance  outstanding. He said Virgin had waited for him to 
clear the balance before reducing his limit. Mr H requested an ombudsman review his 
complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive looked closely  at Virgins treatment of Mr Hs credit card account to see if it has followed 
the terms and conditions of the account  and treated him fairly. 
Mr H said its unfair  for Virgin to reduce his credit  limit without  notice after so many  years of 
card use and no repayment issues. Virgin said it acted out of concern at Mr Hs management 
of his account, and its review of information held by the credit reference agencies.  
Its clear from the agreement between Virgin and Mr H that Virgin  can reduce his credit limit 
if it wishes to do so at any time and without warning. Virgin  reviewed and gathered 
information about Mr Hs account before deciding to reduce  his credit limit. Virgin  carried out 
a further review when  he complained, with the same outcome. 
I sympathise with Mr H for the suddenness of Virgins decision, but it is entitled to make 
commercial decisions in order  to manage its risk in this way. I think that Virgin has treated Mr 
H fairly.
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  given it is my final decision that I do not uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 March  2019.
Ref: DRN76211772Andrew Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7621177