K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that HSBC UK Bank  Plc mis-sold him a single premium payment  protection 
insurance (PPI) policy which he took out in January 2001 in connection with a four year 
personal loan.  The PPI was sold during a meeting. And Ive been told the loan ended in 
2002.  
background
Mr T complained to this Service.  Mr T said he didnt know the PPI had been added  to his 
account; and he could have kept up the loan repayments with help from his parents. Our 
adjudicator thought the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr T disagreed  with our adjudicators 
view and asked for the matter to be looked  at again. 
He added that he was young  at the time and nothing  was made  clear  to him when he was 
signing the documents; he says he would have questioned the PPI sum and he could not 
remember getting any policy documents from HSBC.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Ts complaint.  I know this will disappoint him, so Ill set out my 
reasons below.  
Mr T said the PPI was added without  his knowledge. So I first looked to see if the policy was 
presented to him as a separate and optional product which  he consented to have added to 
his account.
HSBC told us it didnt  have Mr Ts original documents from his personal loan and PPI - Im 
not surprised by this as the sale is quite old. HSBC sent in a sample loan agreement and a 
sample of the Creditor  Protection Declaration  (CPD) which it says was in circulation in 
January 2001,  so I think its likely  these  were the type of forms which Mr T would have seen 
in 2001 when he bought  the loan and the PPI. 
I can see on the CPD that the consumer wouldve had to sign this separate  document 
confirming he/she  had decided to buy PPI. And the consumer also had to sign this form at 
the bottom  of the declaration. Having decided Mr T was most likely  to have been shown this 
form at the time of his PPI sale, I think HSBC did make it clear to him the PPI was a 
separate and optional  product. And  because he had signed the document  - I think  its more  
likely he consented to have PPI added to his account and with his knowledge.
HSBC couldnt  say if this was an advised  sale  and Mr T cant remember   but based on 
HSBC practices at the time, I will assume it was an advised sale. For such  sales, HSBC 
wouldve had to recommend a policy which was suitable for Mr T. And looking at Mr Ts  
circumstances at the time of the sale, I do think the policy was suitable  because he was 
eligible for the cover, I havent seen  any evidence it wasnt affordable for him, and he didnt 
seem to be affected by any of the things not covered by the policy (the exclusions). 
Ref: DRN73299932Mr T said he would  get sick pay from his employer but had no savings. So I think  the PPI 
wouldve given him a useful benefit  which could cover his loan repayments if he made a 
successful claim  if he was sick. 
Mr T added he couldve  relied on his parents for financial support. But at the time of the sale,  
I dont know whether he couldve still relied on that support on some unknown date in the 
future. So I dont  think this makes the policy any less suitable for him.
HSBC also had to make sure Mr T got information which was clear, fair and not misleading  
so that he could make his own decision  about the PPI. So I looked at the main PPI policy  
features which  Mr T may have seen at the time of or shortly after the sale.
It isnt clear how or if any of the key features were explained or highlighted to him. But I dont 
think this wouldve been enough to change his decision to buy the policy  because  I dont 
think he was affected by the main exclusions.  
HSBC produced a sample of a loan agreement which wouldve been printed out only if Mr T 
had agreed for PPI to be added to his account. I saw it set out the PPI premium,  the interest  
payable on it and the monthly  amount  hed have to pay. And as he probably signed the loan 
agreement, I think  he probably saw these figures and was aware of the PPI cost.  So I dont 
think any further information about  it wouldve stopped him from buying it.
Taking everything into account,  I think the PPI was optional and that Mr T chose to have it 
added to his account. I think it was probably  suitable for him and I think he was probably  
given enough  information which was clear,  fair and not misleading. Im not going to uphold  
this complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 September  2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7329993