K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
credit card in 2004. Mrs H says Barclays Bank UK PLC mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach  to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website  and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Hs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mrs H applied for her credit card through the post in April 2003. She didnt select PPI when  
she took out the card. Barclays say that PPI was added in June 2004,  during a phone call 
with Mrs H. It no longer has a copy of the call recording. Banks often only keep  records for 
six years. Mrs H said, in summary,  she would  never  have applied  for PPI because  of the 
employment she was in and the work  based  benefits her public sector employer provided. 
She said she also had savings she couldve used to make her repayments.   
I cant know what was discussed between Mrs H and Barclays  on the phone. Ive seen a 
copy of the call script that Barclayss staff were told to use to sell PPI to customers  on the 
phone. This made it clear  that PPI was optional  and the customer  was asked to say they 
wanted PPI before it was added. On balance, I think it likely that a call script  like this 
wouldve been used  when selling PPI to Mrs H. I havent seen  anything  to make  me think  
Barclays wasnt following its usual sales processes when it sold the policy  to her.
As the PPI was added  after Mrs H took out the card, I think she wouldve understood that it 
was an optional extra and she didnt  need  to have  it to get credit.  The monthly PPI premiums 
appeared on Mrs Hs monthly credit  card statements. So I think she probably wouldve 
understood she was making a monthly  payment for this insurance. Ive also seen her 
monthly statements  from before the PPI was added  and they show  no charge for PPI. 
So, I think she wouldve noticed the difference and said at the time if she didnt want PPI.
So, overall, I think it more  likely  that PPI was added because  Mrs H said she wanted it, 
knowing she didnt have  to have it.
Barclays has worked on the basis that it recommended  the PPI to Mrs H. I have too, as that 
places an added responsibility on Barclays. Barclays also had to take steps to check  that the 
PPI was suitable for her. Based on what Ive seen, I cant see that PPI wasnt right for her. 
I say this because:
she was eligible  to take out the policy and I cant see that it was unaffordable  at the time 
she took it out;
she wasnt affected by the main  things the policy  didnt cover, so I dont think  having  
better information about  these things wouldve put her off taking out the cover;
she said she wouldve got a generous amount  of sick pay through  her public sector 
employer. But, the policy  wouldve  paid out on top of Mrs Hs work benefits, allowing her 
to use these  to meet  her other household  expenses, knowing  her credit card 
repayments could  be met;
Ref: DRN73148742she mentioned having a modest amount of savings in cash.  But, I cant  see that her 
other resources meant that she clearly didnt need  cover.
Its possible the information Barclays  gave  Mrs H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But it seems like it couldve been useful for her if something went  wrong.  So 
I dont think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover.
This means  Barclays doesnt  have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H. But 
Barclays has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs H because:
 Barclays got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs H about  that. Because  Barclays didnt tell Mrs H, 
that was unfair.
 To put that right,  Barclays has paid back the amount of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mrs H has said - but these  points  dont change  my decision, 
and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the PPI was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does not have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs H.
But Barclays Bank UK PLC does have to pay back to Mrs H any commission and profit share  
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already  done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 December  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7314874