K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them Payment Protection  
Insurance (PPI) alongside their mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs M applied for a mortgage during  a branch visit in 1999. At the same  time they 
also took out PPI designed to protect their mortgage repayments in the event they couldnt 
work because of accident, sickness of if they became unemployed.
Mr and Mrs M paid monthly for the policy and the event of a successful claim, it could pay 
out for up to 12 months (per claim) for both the accident/sickness and unemployment 
elements of cover. The policy was in Mr Ms sole name.  
The adjudicator didnt uphold the complaint.  He said he thought  Mr and Mrs M chose to take 
out PPI and there was nothing to indicate theyd lost out as a result of taking  the policy out.
Mr and Mrs M were  previously represented by a claims  management  company  (CMC)  who 
put forward a standardised and legalistic set of complaint points and arguments, which we 
responded to. Mr and Mrs M have  since left the services of this CMC and have  chosen  to 
pursue their complaint directly.
Mr and Mrs M disagree about the outcome of their mis-sale complaint, so the complaint was 
passed to me to issue a decision.  I issued  my provisional decision in May 2019, explaining 
why I didnt think the PPI was mis-sold.  Ive included  a copy of what I said at the bottom  of 
my decision.  I asked both parties to come  back with any further  information.  
Both parties  confirmed that they had received my provisional decision. BoS said it had 
nothing further  to add. Mr and Mrs M made the following points:
They confirmed Mr M was entitled  to six months  full followed by six months half pay 
for his sick pay benefits.
They provided further information around the other  means they had at the time of the 
sale.
They explained that their mortgage  was for a small amount over only a few years  so 
they didnt need  the policy. 
They dont believe they wouldve  only taken  out a policy  in just Mr Ms name. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
PPI complaints on our website and Ive taken into account whats  relevant here in deciding 
Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Having done so, I still dont uphold this complaint.  Ill explain why. 
Mr and Mrs M have  now said Mr M had six months full followed by six months  half pay for 
his employee benefits. The PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this benefit and would have 
meant they couldve used Mr Ms employee benefits  to pay for other essential costs.
Ref: DRN72249972Ive carefully thought  about everything Mr and Mrs M have told me about their financial 
commitments at the time.  However  these  points dont change my decision. Whilst I 
acknowledge Mr and Mrs M only had a small mortgage, this was still a considerable amount 
of money secured against their home.  And, whilst  its not clear why the policy they had was 
only in Mr Ms name, I still think having the security his share of the mortgage would be 
maintained if he was to lose his job or be too unwell to work would have been important to 
them. 
I note what Mr and Mrs M say about the investment  they had available  but it seems like they 
were investing for the long term so having the PPI meant they wouldnt have had to use their 
investment earlier  than they planned for. 
Taking everything into account,  I still think they agreed to take out the policy.  And, even with 
the additional information Mr and Mrs M have  given me, I still think the policy  was suitable 
for them. 
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 July 2019.  
Claire Marchant-Williams 
ombudsman
complaint
Mr and Mrs M complain  that Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them Payment  Protection Insurance  
(PPI) alongside their mortgage.
Ref: DRN72249973background
Mr and Mrs M applied for a mortgage during a branch visit in 1999.  At the same time they also took 
out PPI designed to protect  their mortgage repayments in the event they couldnt work because  of 
accident, sickness of if they became unemployed.
Mr and Mrs M paid monthly  for the policy  and the event of a successful claim, it could  pay out for up 
to 12 months  (per claim) for both the accident/sickness  and unemployment elements of cover.  The 
policy was in Mr Ms sole name. 
The adjudicator didnt uphold  the complaint.  He said he thought Mr and Mrs M chose to take out PPI 
and there  was nothing to indicate theyd lost out as a result of taking the policy out.
Mr and Mrs M were  previously represented by a claims  management company (CMC) who put 
forward a standardised and legalistic set of complaint points and arguments,  which we responded to. 
Mr and Mrs M have  since  left the services of this CMC  and have chosen to pursue  their complaint 
directly.
Mr and Mrs M disagree about the outcome of their mis-sale complaint,  so the complaint  has been 
passed to me to issue a final decision.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Weve set out our general approach to PPI complaints  on our 
website and Ive taken into account whats relevant here in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
Both Mr and Mrs M and BoS agree the policy  was sold during a meeting in branch. BoS says it 
provided Mr and Mrs M with advice and made a recommendation for the cover. This means  BoS had 
to ensure PPI was suitable for them in light of their circumstances  and needs at the time. And it also 
had to give them enough clear information about  the policy it was recommending so they could make 
an informed decision about  it. Ive kept this in mind in my consideration of the complaint.
did BoS make  it clear  that Mr and Mrs M had a real choice about PPI and did they agree  to it without 
undue pressure?
BoS should  have taken reasonable steps  to make sure Mr and Mrs M were aware they had a choice 
in taking out the policy.  
In this case the sale happened around 20 years ago and the mortgage  account has long since closed. 
Its therefore  not surprising that BoS no longer has any paperwork from the meeting in 1999  about 
PPI  businesses dont have  to keep records indefinitely.
BoS has provided us with example documents from around  the time Mr and Mrs M took out PPI, 
which would have required  the customer to indicate  whether  they wanted to accept  the 
recommendation for PPI or not. The cost would also have been  set out separately from the mortgage  
 in my view helping  to show that PPI was not a compulsory part of having  the mortgage.
So having considered things carefully, including  taking into account how long ago things happened,  I 
think its likely Mr and Mrs M completed paperwork like, or very similar to, the examples  BoS has 
shown us. So I think they chose to take out PPI. Im not persuaded its more  likely  than not that 
something different  happened and PPI was added without Mr and Mrs Ms knowledge or consent. 
did BoS properly  advise and inform Mr and Mrs M and was PPI suitable  for them?
Ref: DRN72249974I dont know whether Mr and Mrs M were properly  advised and asked  all the necessary questions  the 
adviser reasonably needed to ask to recommend  the policy as being suitable for them. But I think  the 
policy was ultimately suitable for Mr and Mrs M, which  I will expand on below.
Its also not clear  that Mr and Mrs M got all the information  they needed about  the policy and in a 
timely manner  to make  an informed  decision about it. For example Ive not got evidence  to show they 
were clearly told the cost or that the significant exclusions and limitations  of cover were sufficiently 
drawn to their attention.
So I accept its possible  BoS did not do everything it should have  when it sold Mr and Mrs M PPI.
have Mr and Mrs M suffered a loss? if so, to what extent have they lost out?
While BoS might not have fairly and reasonably done all that it should, this doesnt  automatically 
mean Mr and Mrs M should get back what they paid for PPI. I need to go on and consider if and to 
what extent theyve  lost out as a result.
Having done so I dont  think they have lost out because I think the policy was ultimately suitable for 
Mr M (as the policy was in his sole name) and I dont think  theyd have been put off taking it out if BoS 
had done more.  I say this because:
Mr M was eligible for the policy.
Mr M was employed and has said he was in good health,  so he wouldnt have been put off by the 
significant limitations or exclusions of cover  for example exclusions for existing medical 
conditions. These exclusions  didnt therefore make the policy unsuitable  for him either.
While  I dont know whether the cost of the policy  was clearly disclosed to Mr and   Mrs M, I find it 
unlikely they agreed to take it out without knowing something  about the cost. Mr and Mrs M dont 
appear to have queried things with BoS, so it must  have been agreeable to them  and not out of 
line with their expectations. In any event  it appears to have been affordable, so its cost didnt 
make the policy  unsuitable.
I dont know whether the benefit of the policy was clearly disclosed. But given the policy  was 
protecting Mr and Mrs Ms mortgage  payment,  I dont think  their expectations of the policy were 
very different to what it actually provided. 
Mr M says he was entitled  to 52 weeks full sick pay followed by a further 26 weeks  at half pay. 
Mr and Mrs M also said they had savings  they could rely on. So they didnt  need the cover. 
Ive thought carefully about  what  Mr and Mrs M have said about  Mr Ms sick pay. I think  its very 
unusual for an employer to provide 12 months (or 52 weeks) full sick pay so Id need to see 
something to show this is what Mr M was entitled to. 
I think  its likely that Mr M was entitled to some  sick pay. But in my experience  and without any 
evidence to show otherwise   I think its unlikely he would have received the level of sick pay 
theyve told us he was entitled to. 
 
In any event, the policy  would have paid out alongside any sick pay and other means - and for up 
to 12 months  if necessary  allowing  Mr and Mrs M to balance the demands on other household 
expenditure and helping them to manage the consequences if Mr M found  himself  unable  to 
work. 
Ultimately Mr and Mrs M were taking on a large and long term financial commitment which  was 
secured against their home. So the effects  of not keeping up with the mortgage repayments couldve 
been serious  for them. And I think having the security  that their repayments wouldve been made if Mr 
M was unable  to work wouldve been important to them. 
Ref: DRN72249975As the policy was a monthly regular  premium  policy,  it could  have been cancelled at any time 
without penalty, so offered flexibility if things changed or Mr and Mrs M simply decided they no 
longer wanted  cover.
Overall  and while I understand  Mr and Mrs M will be disappointed with my decision  - I think they 
agreed to take out PPI. I also think the policy  was suitable for them given  their circumstances and 
needs at the time. I know Mr and Mrs M feel strongly about this and theyve put time and effort into 
their complaint. Ive carefully considered all the points they have raised.  But for the reasons  Ive 
explained above I dont  think  they would have arrived at a different decision and declined the cover  if 
BoS had properly advised  and informed them.
Ref: DRN7224997