K820x#14complaint
Ms Y says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold her payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
Ms Y applied for a credit card in 2001  and PPI was added to her account at the same  time.
She says she was young and wasnt told by Halifax what PPI was.
The adjudicator who looked at Ms Ys complaint didnt uphold  it. Ms Y disagrees and so her 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account here.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Ms Ys complaint. Ill explain why.
It seems  Ms Y bought the PPI in a branch meeting with a Halifax adviser. Halifax  needed to 
make it clear  to her the PPI was optional  and it also needed to get her agreement to it. 
I dont know how Halifax explained the PPI to Ms Y in the meeting. But I do have a copy  of 
the credit  card application form she signed at the time. I can see it says,  under a section 
headed Product details, If you want these services please mark the relevant boxes. One 
of the boxes is for PPI (the other  is for card protection). Theres an x in the box for PPI. So 
I think Ms Y agreed to it, knowing she didnt have to. If she hadnt  wanted  it, I think  this box 
wouldve been left blank (as the one for card protection  was)  and PPI wouldnt have been 
added to her account. I also think,  as part of the discussion  about Ms Ys insurance needs, 
its likely  Halifaxs  adviser wouldve explained  to Ms Y in broad terms what  PPI was before 
she agreed to it.
Halifax says it recommended the PPI to Ms Y, so it needed to right make sure it was for her 
in her circumstances.  I dont know what steps Halifax  took to do this. But, from what Ive 
seen of Ms Ys circumstances at the time and the policy details  Halifax has given  us, I think  it 
was right for her. I say this because:
Ms Y qualified  that is, she was eligible  for the PPI. And she wouldnt have been 
affected by some  of the things the policy didnt cover  like known health issues or 
unusual employment  arrangements. So there was nothing to stop her claiming  the full 
benefit of the policy  if shed  needed to.
Ms Y says she didnt  get any sick pay from her work and didnt have anything  else  like 
savings or other insurance policies  to fall back on if things got difficult.  The 
PPI couldve helped  with Ms Ys card repayments  for up to 10 months for each 
successful unemployment claim she made  and for up to 12 months if she was off work 
sick. So I think the PPI gave Ms Y useful protection.
Ref: DRN76595022Although Ms Y says she had problems with debt later on, I havent seen anything  to 
make me think the PPI was unaffordable for her or that its cost made  it unsuitable for 
her.
As well as making sure the PPI was right for her, Halifax shouldve given Ms Y enough clear 
information about the PPI for her to decide if she wanted to buy it. As before, I dont  know 
what steps Halifax took to do this. Its possible  it didnt explain some things as clearly  as it 
shouldve done   like the true cost of the cover, what its benefits were  and what  it didnt 
cover. But, as Ive said, I think Ms Y chose  to take out the PPI and it was right for her in her 
circumstances. And so I think clearer information  would only have confirmed  this to her and 
wouldnt have made her change her mind.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Ms Ys complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms Y to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 October  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7659502