K820x#14complaint
Mr A complains that Bank  of Scotland plc has registered a CIFAS  marker against his name.
CIFAS is the UK's  fraud prevention service and Bank of Scotland in this case  trades  under
its Halifax brand.
background
In October  2016 Mr A opened an account  with Halifax. The bank was to send him a card and
PIN. Shortly after he opened the account  it was credited with two payments totalling £500.
Very soon after those  credits were made, cash machine withdrawals were made for the
same amounts, using  Mr A's card and PIN.
Halifax was contacted by the banks which sent the payments. Their customers had said  
and their banks had accepted - that the payments were fraudulent. The customers  hadn't 
made them or authorised anyone else to make  them. In effect,  Mr A's account  had received  
stolen funds.
Halifax closed Mr A's account  and placed a CIFAS  marker against his name. He said that he
hadn't received his card or PIN and that he knew  nothing about the deposits to the account.
He suggested  that someone had intercepted his card and PIN in the post. Halifax didn't
accept that and Mr A complained to this service.
One of our investigators  considered Mr A's complaint.  He didn't believe that Halifax had
provided sufficient evidence to show that Mr A had received the card and PIN. For that
reason he thought that Halifax had treated Mr A unfairly when it placed a CIFAS  marker
against his name.
Halifax didn't accept the investigator's view and asked that an ombudsman review  the case.  I 
did that and issued a provisional  decision. I thought it likely that whoever  was responsible  for 
the fraudulent  credits  paid into the account must have known that they would be able to 
withdraw the funds.  I was satisfied that the withdrawals had been made using the genuine 
card and the correct  PIN. I thought too that it was more likely than not that the card and PIN 
had been delivered to Mr As address  rather than both being  delivered to a different 
address or intercepted  in the post.  
I thought it was likely that Mr A had been involved and so concluded  provisionally   that 
Halifax hadnt treated  him unfairly. He responded to say that he thought my provisional 
conclusions had been based on assumptions, not evidence, and asked for proof that the 
card and PIN were  delivered to his address.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent however changed my overall  
view from that set out in my provisional  decision.  
Ill address first of all Mr As suggestion that I should prove  to his satisfaction  that the 
card and PIN were  safely delivered to his address.  My role is not to present evidence, its to 
consider and weigh up the evidence thats  available  to me and then to reach a decision  
about Mr As complaint  on the basis of that evidence. And that decision must be based on 
what in my opinion  is fair and reasonable.
Ref: DRN73703622The banks evidence  indicates that the card and PIN were sent separately on different dates 
to Mr As address, and Im satisfied that they were.  Given that the bank  only had Mr As 
correct address linked  to his account,  its likely too that they were correctly addressed. And 
since the vast majority  of post is correctly  delivered,  its more  likely than not as well that the 
PIN and the card were both safely delivered. Its very unlikely that neither was safely 
delivered and even less likely that they both fell into someone elses (that is, not Mr As) 
hands. 
In response to my provisional decision Mr A said that he cant have used his card because 
he never received  it. I think however that the evidence indicates that he did for the reasons 
Ive explained.  And, as Ive indicated, I believe that whoever made the payments into Mr As 
account knew as well that theyd be in a position  to withdraw that money as well. In my 
opinion that indicates some involvement on Mr As part. 
Mr A also asked where the withdrawals took place.  The banks evidence shows  they were  
made several miles from his home at the time, but in the same city. I regard that information  
as neutral however  in the sense that it doesnt make it more  likely that Mr A was involved, 
but nor does it make it any less likely.    
For these reasons I dont  believe Halifax treated Mr A unfairly in placing a CIFAS marker 
against his name. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont require Bank of Scotland  plc to take any further steps to 
resolve Mr As complaint. Under  the rules of the Financial Ombudsman  Service, Im required 
to ask Mr A to accept  or reject my decision before 17 April 2020.
Michael Ingram
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7370362