K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says that Bradford  & Bingley Plc mis-sold  her a payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy.
background
I issued my provisional decision in June 2019,  a copy  of which  is attached and forms
part of this final decision. 
In my provisional decision I explained  why I wasnt intending to uphold  Mrs Cs PPI mis-sale 
complaint, but that I intended  to Bradford  & Bingley Plc to pay back to Mrs C any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
I asked everyone to send  me any further comments and information before  I reached a final 
decision. Mrs C responded with further comments.  Bradford and Bingley responded with some 
further details  about the borrowing taken out.        
my findings
Ive re-considered all the evidence  and arguments  already sent to us to decide  whats  fair
and reasonable.  
Mrs C referred  us to a credit agreement  dated  25 November 1991. This credit  agreement is for a 
loan ending  352632 which  Bradford & Bingley have confirmed is a further advance on account 
ending 912880.  
Mrs C didnt take out a new PPI policy  with the loan (further  advance)  ending 352632. The existing 
PPI policy  on account ending 912880 was amended  to cover  the borrowing on the further  advance. 
In my opinion, this possibly explains why on the credit agreement Mrs C has provided,  in the 
section for PPI it doesnt show a cost for PPI. Mrs C was paying  £119.11  per month over 15 years  
for this further borrowing  and the increase in the cost of the PPI was paid for separately. 
The earlier further  advance application form, dated  24 October  1991  has, in the section  for PPI, 
YES recorded next to the option  to take it out. Mrs C has argued in her response to our Service 
on 26 July 2019  that Bradford & Bingley made  an amendment to the policy and it wasnt properly 
communicated to her. I cant fairly say this was the case and havent  seen  evidence  to support 
what Mrs C has said. I think  that its more likely than not that either Mrs C completed the further  
advance application  form herself or the Bradford and Bingley adviser completed it on her behalf 
and that a discussion took place  about PPI  before the yes was added. 
Ive asked Bradford  & Bingley for any communication that may have been sent to Mrs C alerting  
her to the change in cost of the PPI or change to the policy.  But due to the passage of time theyve 
been unable  to locate copies of any documents that may have been sent. Its also a possibility that 
these documents  may have been  sent by the underwriter of the PPI policy  - so they may not now 
be available.  
Ive also considered that the increased monthly cost would have shown on Mrs Cs bank 
statements and, as she had agreed to the further advance monthly repayment amount of £119.11,  
if her other monthly repayment increased without her consent  I think shed have reasonably 
questioned it - much earlier than she did. But its also a possibility that as these events happened 
the best part of 30 years ago that Mrs Cs recollections may not be as clear as they once were. 
Ref: DRN79067182As Ive not received any new evidence that changes my decision, Ive reached  the same  overall  
conclusions I reached in my provisional decision,  for the same  reasons.
Whilst I already know that Mrs C strongly  disagrees with the outcome Ive reached, I think that on 
balance it is the correct one - based  on all the evidence Ive seen. I thank  Mrs C for the extensive 
time and effort  shes  spent on her complaint and I wish her all the best for her future.
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  Plc has to pay back to Mrs C any commission  and profit share it got that 
was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  Bradford & Bingley Plc should also pay back to 
Mrs C any extra interest she paid because  of that.
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should pay back to Mrs C the extra  she paid each month because the 
commission and profit share it got was more  than 50% of the cost of PPI. 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should also pay Mrs C 8%* simple interest on each  payment (15%  on 
payments before April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs C can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay tax.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained in my provisional  decision, the PPI policy  wasnt mis-sold  so 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc does not have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C. 
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc does, if it hasnt already done so, pay back  to Mrs C any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or reject 
my decision  before 30 September 2019.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN79067183copy of provisional  decision
complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 1991. 
Mrs C says Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
For ease, Ive included  a copy of my first provisional decision below. Ill address Mrs Cs 
response points later in this decision.
my first provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It seems  that Mrs C took out the initial borrowing in January 1991 and then further 
borrowing in November 1991. Initially the PPI cost £6.00 per month with a potential 
monthly benefit of £120 and this increased to £9 per month for a potential benefit of 
£180 when the further borrowing  was taken out. Ive considered that only one sale 
took place and the change to the policy was an amendment  - as no new policy  was 
sold. 
 
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Cs case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ive seen a copy  of Mrs Cs mortgage  application form. In section  19 on the 
form there was an option to select PPI and the level of cover or an option that 
stated If cover is not required, please  indicate  with a cross  in the box.  
The option  and details for PPI have been  completed  and Mrs C has signed 
the overall form. Mrs C hasnt disputed that she took PPI with the initial  
borrowing, but has said that she only did so because she was pressured into 
taking it out. 
Unfortunately I havent seen any supporting  evidence that Mrs C was 
pressured and pressure can be subjective.  What  feels like pressure to one 
person may not to another as it is very subjective.  
For the amendment  to the policy,  Mrs C has said that a discussion took place 
about increasing the monthly repayment to pay off the first and second loan at 
the same  time and she wasnt unaware  that the PPI had been changed to 
cover the additional  borrowing. 
Ref: DRN79067184But Ive seen a copy of the further  advance application form. On the final 
page, above where Mrs C has signed  the application theres a section for PPI. 
In this section it states; Do you wish to take advantage of the Societys very 
competitive Payment protection Insurance? (Yes or No). The words  Yes 
have been written next to this option. 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc have also said that additional paperwork would have 
been sent to Mrs C following the sale and amendment, for example,  policy 
schedules and annual  mortgage statements etc. But due to the time thats 
passed, copies  of these documents are no longer  available. 
Although this wont be the answer  that Mrs C wanted, I dont think  it would 
have been unreasonable  for her to question the amended PPI when the 
increased PPI premium would have  appeared on some  of the paperwork Ive 
referred to. 
On balance based on everything Ive seen and been told, I think  that its more  
likely than not that Bradford & Bingley Plc made Mrs C aware that the PPI 
was optional before she agreed  to take the PPI and also amend the policy 
later in 1991. Im not saying that Mrs C is wrong  in her recollections, I just 
havent seen any strong  evidence  to support what shes said.
Bradford & Bingley  Plc didnt recommend the PPI to Mrs C so it didnt have to 
check if it was right for her. But it did have to make  sure Mrs C got the 
information she needed to decide if it was right for her. 
Its possible the information Bradford & Bingley Plc gave  Mrs C about the PPI 
wasnt as clear  as it shouldve been.  But she chose to take out the PPI - so it 
looks like she wanted this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her 
circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like she was affected by any of the 
exclusions to or limits  on the PPI cover  for example shes hasnt told us 
about any existing  means for making  her repayments, so it would have been 
useful for her if something  went wrong and I havent seen evidence that the 
PPI was unaffordable. 
So I dont  think better information about the PPI would have put her off taking 
out the cover. 
Which means Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt have to pay back all of the cost 
of the PPI to Mrs C.
But Bradford  & Bingley Plc will pay back some  of the cost of the PPI to Mrs C 
because: 
Bradford & Bingley  Plc got a high level of commission and profit  share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mrs C about that. 
Because Bradford & Bingley Plc didnt tell Mrs C, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley Plc has basically offered to pay back  the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI 
premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN79067185Ive thought about everything Mrs C has said - including  what shes  said about 
applying for a loan and getting a mortgage.  From reviewing all the paperwork, I can 
safely say that Mrs C initially took a mortgage and the second borrowing was a 
further advance or loan on the mortgage.  My decision  doesnt  deal with the credit 
lending decision taken  by Bradford & Bingley Plc, but Mrs C has the option of 
speaking to the business separately about  it if shes  unhappy. 
Ive also considered what Mrs C has told us about  her circumstances around 1991  
at what must have been a really sensitive time for her. Mrs C has said that she was 
told that she needed protection should  anything  happen to her. As Mrs C was solely  
responsible for the repayments, I think that she had a need for the PPI and could 
have found it useful if she was unwell and unable to work or if she was made  
unemployed  given  the potential consequences  if she was unable to keep up with 
her repayments.
  
So these points dont  currently  change my decision.
Ive noted that in her initial complaint Mrs C made reference to being made 
redundant. She still has the option of speaking to the business about  the possibility of 
making a back dated claim on the policy. 
what the business needs  to do
Bradford & Bingley  Plc has to pay back to Mrs C any commission  and profit share it 
got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. Bradford & Bingley Plc should also 
pay back to Mrs C any extra interest she paid because  of that.
Bradford & Bingley  Plc should pay back to Mrs C the extra  she paid each month 
because the commission  and profit share  it got was more than 50% of the cost of 
PPI. Bradford & Bingley  Plc should also pay Mrs C 8%* simple  interest  on each 
payment (15% on payments before  April 1993).
*Businesses have to take basic rate tax off this interest. Mrs C can claim back the tax if she doesnt pay 
tax.
Mrs C raised a number of points in her detailed responses to my provisional  decision. I wont  
address all of them  individually  as I feel my first provisional decision already has addressed, 
and made  findings  on some  of the points  that have been raised  again   but I have carefully  
considered everything  thats been said.
Specifically, on the amount of the further advance and whether it was linked to the mortgage, 
Im satisfied that it was - based on the evidence provided by Bradford & Bingley Plc. 
For example Bradford  & Bingley Plc have shown us screenshots and explained that the way 
their records  work, the two loans wouldnt show up under the same search if they werent  
linked.
I also asked Bradford & Bingley  Plc for a clearer copy of the application  has Mrs C 
questioned it. Unfortunately  no new clearer copy is available.
Mrs C has said that Yes  was added to the application by Bradford & Bingley Plc and not 
her. Shes also provided a copy of her handwriting. Whether it was Mrs C or Bradford & 
Bingley Plc that added the Yes, it remains that she signed  the application agreeing to what  
Ref: DRN79067186she was taking out. It also wouldnt be uncommon for a business  adviser  to help or assist 
completing a form during  a mortgage  application. So I cant fairly uphold  for this reason.
Ive noted what  Mrs C has said about No being  written on the further advance application 
next to Please state the total amount you wish to borrow. Ive reviewed a number of copies 
of the document in question but cant fairly  say that I can see No has been written. The 
other supporting evidence  shows that £10,000  was the value of the further advance.  So it 
seems likely that a value was entered but isnt legible  on the copies of the document  that 
have been provided. 
Mrs C has referred  to original paperwork from the sale, but Im satisfied that Bradford & 
Bingley Plc have  provided the best copies that are available. Given that this all happened so 
long ago it wouldnt be uncommon for businesses  to not hold copies of the paperwork, but in 
this case its useful that some of the paperwork is still available.
In relation to the different loan reference numbers,  its possible that the reference numbers 
Mrs C quoted are part of the longer  reference.  The business has told me that the mortgage 
reference was xxx91288008 and the further  advance was xxx35263202.  Both of these 
numbers match up with the numbers quoted by Mrs C - with the omission  of the last two 
digits.
I appreciate Mrs C taking the time to respond  to my first provisional decision, but I still dont 
intend to uphold her complaint.
my provisional decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc does not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs C.
But I do intend to tell Bradford & Bingley Plc to pay back to Mrs C any commission and profit  
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. 
If either  Mrs C or Bradford & Bingley  Plc have anything further to add, they should do so by 
11 July 2019 and Ill then reconsider the complaint.
Daniel OShea
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7906718