K820x#14complaint
Ms Bs complains  Picture  Home Loans (No.2) Limited (Picture) failed to correctly  update  
her credit file.
background
In 2007, Ms B and her (now ex) husband took out a loan with Picture  secured on her 
property by a second  charge. In 2008,  she was declared bankrupt. And, in 2014, her house 
was taken into possession and sold. This left a shortfall to Picture thats since been  settled.  
Ms B says in January  2018 she applied for a mortgage in principle to purchase  a new house, 
but it was declined. She says she checked  her credit report and found  Picture was reporting 
that her secured  loan had defaulted  in 2014.  She thought it shouldve been marked as 
defaulted in 2008 when  she was made  bankrupt.
She complained to Picture and it agreed  it shouldve  recorded the loan as defaulted in 2008 
when she was made bankrupt. So it amended Ms Bs credit file and it paid Ms B £400 
compensation to make  up for this.
 
Shortly afterwards Ms B obtained a mortgage and purchased the house. But she says the 
price had gone up in the meantime and Picture is responsible for the extra  she paid.
Picture has since told us it shouldnt have  backdated  the default on Ms Bs credit file after all, 
as it was correctly applied in 2014. It says this is because the loan wasnt part of her 
bankruptcy, as it was secured at the time and remained so until her house was later taken 
into possession. Despite  this Picture said its unable to make further amendments to Ms Bs 
credit file now. And it says shes benefitted  from it incorrectly backdating the default to 2008 
and paying her compensation as a result.   
Our investigator looked into Ms Bs complaint.  She said Picture  should have backdated the 
default to the date of Ms Bs bankruptcy. But Picture corrected this, and the £400 
compensation makes  up for its error and the distress caused to Ms B. She said there was no 
evidence Picture Home  was responsible  for the increased house  price - it could have 
increased for a number  of reasons and prices can change until contracts  are exchanged.  
Ms B didnt agree and asked for an ombudsman to consider her complaint. She said if 
Picture had updated  her credit file in a timely manner she could  have secured her home  at a 
lower price.  And shes  now paying  a higher mortgage each month than she would have 
otherwise. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not asking Picture to 
do anything further,  for largely the same  reasons as the investigator.
Ref: DRN77664552When Ms B was declared bankrupt, she was no longer liable for the debt of the secured loan 
 the lender could no longer require her to make  any payments. But because it was secured, 
and the lender did not lose the right to call in the security,  in practice she needed to maintain  
payments or risk losing her property,  which unfortunately did happen in 2014.  This means 
that the correct  date that Picture shouldve recorded  the loan as having defaulted was in 
2008. This means that it wouldnt have been showing in 2019  when she applied  for the new 
mortgage. Picture has said this is incorrect, but I disagree. That said,  Picture  has since  
corrected it so Ms Bs credit file is showing correctly and has confirmed it wont  be amending  
this. So I dont think Picture needs to do anything further with regards to Ms Bs credit file.
Based on what Ive seen,  it seems  likely  that this default being incorrectly reported was the 
reason Ms B was first unable to secure  a mortgage  and later was successful in her 
application once  this was corrected. Given that the only thing that seems  to have changed 
between applications  is the credit file correction. So Ive gone  on to consider what  Ms B has 
said about this being the reason  that she paid more for the property. 
Ms B has shown us an email from her mortgage broker explaining that the first agreement in 
principle she applied  for (which was declined) was £15,000 lower than the second which was 
accepted. But we dont have any further  information. An agreement  in principle isnt always 
specific to a property,  so its possible the applications were for different amounts because 
they were for different  properties. I havent seen  any formal  acceptance  of an offer from an 
estate agent or seller  of a property or anything from an estate agent  confirming the increase 
of property price or the reason for it. And without this, I dont have  enough to say, on 
balance, that Pictures error was the reason Ms B ended up paying more  for a property.
In summary,  this means  I dont think Picture is responsible for the additional sum Ms B paid 
to purchase her property.  So Im not asking it to refund this.
However, it wouldve  been upsetting and worrying for Ms B to find negative  information on 
her credit file. And shes had to take steps to get this information  removed. But I think the 
compensation of £400 Picture has already paid makes up for the distress  and inconvenience 
caused to her in finding this out and having to re-apply for a mortgage offer.  
my final decision
My final decision is the £400  Picture Home  Loans  (No.2) Limited has offered, along with the 
change to Ms Bs credit file, is fair and reasonable, and I dont require it to do anymore.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 September  2019
Rob Deadman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7766455