K822xcomplaint
Mr Qs complaint concerns a delay in the transfer of shares from Cofunds Limited to a new 
ISA provider.
background 
Mr Q made  the transfer request in July 2018. After  much  correspondence between the 
various parties  including Mr Q raising  an initial complaint with Cofunds about  the delay 
(that wasnt  upheld)  in August  2018  the transfer eventually completed five months later,  in 
December 2018.
He then made a further complaint. Cofunds  reassessed the matter  and acknowledged that it 
had in fact caused some delay. It offered Mr Q £150 in compensation for the trouble this has 
caused.
Mr Q didnt accept this and referred  the complaint to this service. Our investigator  felt that 
Cofunds offer was fair. She noted  that while there  had clearly  been a delay in the process 
Cofunds had been reliant upon receiving confirmation from the new provider that it was 
accepting the transfer. And Cofunds acted  promptly when this was received. 
Mr Q didnt accept this and provided a timeline from the new provider that indicated a greater 
delay on the part of Cofunds.  He also stressed that the delay had not only caused  him 
inconvenience but also a loss.
The investigator wasnt persuaded  to change her opinion, so the matters been  referred  to 
me to review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Clearly the five months that Mr Q waited for his transfer to complete was too long and there 
were unacceptable  delays. Cofunds has acknowledged that it played  some part in this and 
made an offer to Mr Q to compensate him.
Ive looked at all the information thats been provided, in particular the timeline Mr Q 
obtained from his new provider, which I asked Cofunds to comment on. It disputes that the 
timeline is entirely accurate, as it has no record of the chasers apparently sent by the new 
provider. It maintains that responsibility for some of the delay  lies with the new provider. 
As such,  I think its very difficult to determine  precisely what  went  wrong, when it went  wrong  
and how responsibility  should be apportioned between Cofunds and the new provider. But I 
dont think in any event  that a greater  degree  of understanding about what  happened would 
be likely  to lead me to direct Cofunds to do more. Its acknowledged  its part in the delays 
and offered compensation at a level that I think is fair and reasonable. 
Ive noted Mr Qs comments about a potential loss resulting from the delays. But as this was 
an in-specie transfer, meaning  that he was never actually  out of the market,  I cant  see that 
hes lost money in this way.  
Ref: DRN72975972my final decision
For the reasons  given,  my final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint, as I consider 
Cofunds Limiteds offer to be fair and reasonable. 
 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr Q to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
James Harris
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7297597