K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that CarCashPoint Limited  (CCP) mis-sold him a loan which was 
unaffordable.
background
In May 2018  Mr B took out a log book loan with CCP. He borrowed £5,500  to be repaid over 
with 36 months with repayments of £537.78.
He didnt make any repayments  and the business  contacted him to see if he wished to enter  
into some  form of repayment arrangement. In due course Mr B sent in a doctors certificate 
which showed he had condition of low mood. CCP asked him for evidence  of how this 
condition was affecting his finances.  
At that point, in August  2018 he complained and said the business hadnt taken due note of 
his mental health  and the fact he was suffering  from depression. It rejected his complaint 
and said that it had followed its processes. It said it wasnt aware of Mr Bs condition and it 
had carried out proper checks. It had relied  on the information he had provided  including  
bank statements which showed an average  monthly salary  of £4,000. It said his net 
disposable income was £1,540 which was some three  times  the monthly loan repayment. 
The business said that he had arrears of a little over £1,600 and it would agree to him 
settling the outstanding loan within 14 days.  As he didnt do so the business repossessed his 
car and Mr B says he is unable to travel for treatment. 
Mr B says he told the business of his condition when the agent called on him. The agent  
didnt ask any more  questions about his health  or his employment status. He was on sick 
leave and only receiving  a reduced salary.  
The business says he told the agent that his reduced salary was temporary and he chosen  
to take reduced  hours and would be back to full hours in May. His February salary slip 
showed an income of £5,200. He also signed  a statement to say that he didnt expect any 
changes in his financial circumstances that would  affect his ability  to repay.  CCP  said his 
statements showed evidence  of other  short term debt and a current repayment of this in the 
region of £1,000 on 30 April; but there  was no systemic evidence of failed, missed or arrears  
on obligations.
Mr Bs complaint was considered by one of our adjudicators  who didnt recommend it be 
upheld. He said CCP couldnt be held responsible  for not assessing Mr Bs health if it was 
unaware of his condition. He accepted CCP didnt ask, but the responsibility  was on the 
customer to make them aware. 
He also thought the loan had been  affordable after having reviewed Mr Bs bank statements. 
He noted Mr B was generally overdrawn,  but there  was considerable amount of discretionary 
spending. Without this expenditure the adjudicator considered Mr B had sufficient  funds to 
make repayments. However,  he chose  not to make  any payments towards  his debt. 
The adjudicator referred  to the terms and conditions state the car could be repossessed if Mr 
B didn't keep up to date with payments. He recognised the repossession has put him in a 
difficult position, but that didnt mean  CCP had done anything  wrong.  They provided Mr B 
Ref: DRN72985462with notice before repossessing the car. Because of his, they were not required to cover  any 
costs associated with the car including insurance.  
He also noted  CCP  had asked for more  information about Mr Bs health so appropriate  
action could be taken.  However they didn't receive  it in time.
Mr B had queried CCPs regulatory behaviour  and the adjudicator explained that such 
matters didnt fall within our remit. However, he didnt  consider the issue raised by Mr B had 
any impact on whether Mr B took out the loan. 
Mr B didnt agree and said he had told the agent he was on long term medical leave. He 
reiterated that he was not in a good  mental  state when he signed  the application. He also 
said his credit rating was low and to give such an expensive  loan was inappropriate. He 
accepted the comments  about discretionary spending which he had since cut back. 
However, he was still struggling and CCP  had contributed  to his poor health. He also 
challenged the income and expenditure calculation  used  when  he applied for the loan 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I have every sympathy with Mr B who finds himself in a difficult  situation. Although his 
income was still reasonable it wasnt what he was used to living on. Despite  his significant 
discretionary spending he was managing  to keep his outgoings broadly in line with his 
income and it was feasible for him to have made the repayments  CCP sought. In that sense 
I find it difficult to conclude  that he could not afford  the loan. 
The application form shows that he borrowed the money to go on holiday and that it was 
affordable. I appreciate that Mr B has now pointed out that he had other outgoings  which 
werent recorded. He says his mobile phone  costs were in the region of £200  and he was 
also paying maintenance to his ex-wife of some £600. Ultimately he was responsible for 
providing the information about his income  and outgoings. CCP did check  his income by 
reviewing three months bank statements and his salary slip. Even with his reduced income I 
dont think it was unreasonable  to have granted the loan
The area where I do have  some  concern  is Mr Bs mental state and whether CCP were  
aware or should  have been  aware of his situation. Mr B has said he was vulnerable  and not 
is fit state to make financial decisions.  He lives alone  and his comments suggest  he has little 
in the way of family support. CCPs records show nothing  that would indicate it was aware of 
Mr Bs state. It says he made no mention of his health and explained  his reduced salary as 
being due to him taking some time off by doing reduced hours. 
On the other hand Mr B says he made  reference  to his health  and this should have 
prompted the agent to probe further.  I have also noted that when he failed to make  
payments and the business contacted him he was reluctant to share details of his health.  He 
did in due course send a doctors note, but chose not to answer the follow up questions the 
business raised. It is possible he wasnt keen to share the details with CCP and that he was 
also shy of telling the agent when the loan application was made. 
Mr B applied online initially and I have seen nothing to show he was pressurised into taking 
out the loan. I have  seen  a credit report from October which how his credit  rating  as poor, 
Ref: DRN72985463though I cannot say what it was back in May. In general it would be wrong to deny people  
credit where lending is possible and on balance I consider  that CCP didnt do anything 
wrong such that I can uphold this complaint.  
That said he has my every  sympathy and I trust Mr B is able to return to work soon and to 
get himself back on an even keel. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr B to accept or reject my decision before 
3 February 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7298546