K821x#15complaint
The representatives of the estate of Mr C complains  that Portland Financial Planning 
delayed the transfer of the inheritable ISA held by the late Mr C and didnt provide the 
correct paperwork to the provider C, and this resulted in Mr Cs wife, Mrs C, losing money.
background
An adjudicator at this service  was satisfied that Portland had provided  the correct  forms and 
that it had no say over how long the product providers took to process a transfer. But she 
believed that it did not provide full documentation to provider C promptly,  and this resulted in 
Mrs C receiving less than she should  have done.
She noted that on 2 January 2018, provider F confirmed  to Portland that the inherited ISA 
allowance had been received from provider C. Portland contacted  provider F on 3 January 
2018 and said it required Mrs Cs bank  details. Portland said it contacted provider  C on the 
same day but nothing happened  between  then and 22 January 2018. 
Portland said it then phoned provider C on 22 January  2018  and was told it required  a letter  
and bank statements  from Mrs C. However, she said this information should have been 
provided with the forms.
While each provider will have its own requirements,  the adjudicator thought  the provision of 
bank details and a letter would be standard procedure.
 
She also felt Portland  shouldve  sent provider C a grant of probate  at the time the forms 
were submitted, particularly given  it charged  Mrs C a fee for this service. It was therefore  
reasonable for her to have expected  Portland  to provide all the documentation. While 
Portland said it assumed  that provider F would  provide a copy  to provider  C, but the 
adjudicator said that it had never  offered to do this. It had said that it could not send the 
grant or probate  to provider C, and if Portland  had requested when the forms were 
submitted, it would have  informed  it immediately.
She also noted that - during a phone call on 3 October 2017  provider C told Portland it 
required a death  certificate and grant of probate. So if the grant of probate  had been  sent to 
it with the original forms, there would not have  been  any further delay, in her view.
While the letter to Mrs C on 23 January 2018 did not provide her with a guarantee of the 
ISAs value, she believed  the transfer  should have completed by this time. This is because  
the transfer allowance went through on 2 January  2018 and allowing for the money to be 
processed it could have been  paid by 23 January 2018 i.e. three  weeks later.
Because of this, it was reasonable to use the valuation  of provider Cs ISA as of 22 January 
2018, this being the date when the money could have  been paid out if it had been  provided 
with the bank statement, letter of request and grant of probate at the time of the forms were 
submitted.
So Portland  Financial Planning should  pay Mrs C (the estate of the late Mr C) the difference  
between the amount paid out (£131,608.01) and the value as of 22 January 2018 
(£139,156.72) plus interest on this figure  from 22 January 2018 to the date of settlement at 
the rate of 8% per annum simple.
Ref: DRN79174312Portland did not agree, and said:
The adjudicator  did not take into account that it complained to provider F and 
provider C after the problems started to occur. Fidelity admitted failures on its side 
and paid Mrs C £250 compensation
While  provider C did not accept  any responsibility for the overall delay,  Portland  has 
experience of other cases where it was to blame  for delays,  which demonstrates its 
administration is a mess
All Inheritable  ISAs  it has completed have been very slow and terrible  to administer. 
It cannot be held responsible for other companies  slow,  poor administration  and 
conflicting information it constantly receives
It made it very clear  during the whole process  that it couldnt  move or change  the 
funds once the client had died
It accepts  it failed  to send of the Grant of Probate in the correct  time but this was not 
the whole  problem
Based  on what Fidelity paid Mrs C, it is happy to pay her the same amount  - £250
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In this case I agree with the adjudicator, and for the same reasons. I will therefore not repeat 
all the points she made.
Firstly, it is not my role to consider whether another business did something wrong, including  
whether Mr Cs estate suffered financially as a result. Instead, I have solely considered  what, 
if anything, Portland did wrong and the likely  financial consequences of any of its mistakes.  I 
recognise this is a difficult assessment in this case but I am satisfied that I have sufficient 
evidence to make such a determination.
Overall, I am satisfied that Portland  ought  to have proactively supplied provider C with the 
Grant of Probate,  bank details and appropriate  letter. Its failure to do so directly led to the 
delay outlined by the adjudicator. The fact that other  businesses  may have failed to act 
promptly or appropriately does not change this.
Further, provider C made clear to Portland, in a phone call on 3 October 2017, that it 
required a copy of the Grant of Probate, death  certificate and signed Executors instruction 
before any withdrawal or transfer could be processed  and Portland  has accepted this. I 
note that Portland claims it did not receive provider  Cs letter  of 13 October 2017 reiterating 
its requirements. However, provider C confirmed  that this was posted business  class and to 
the correct address. In these circumstances this service takes the view that such letters  are 
more likely than not to have been  delivered to the correct address.
I have considered Portlands other points and do not dispute,  on the basis of the available 
evidence, that it was not solely responsible for the overall delays. But I am satisfied that it 
Ref: DRN79174313was responsible for the specific delay the adjudicator identified. I am therefore  satisfied that, 
on the balance  of probabilities, the money could have been paid on January 23 2018 but for 
Portlands error.
So Portland  Financial Planning should  pay Mrs C (the estate of the late Mr C) the difference  
between the amount paid out (£131,608.01) and the value of the assets as of 22 January 
2018 (£139,156.72) plus interest on this figure from 22 January 2018 to the date of 
settlement of this complaint at the rate of 8% simple interest per annum.
It should also pay the £250  it has offered, and for the reasons previously discussed.
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  and instruct  Portland  Financial Planning to pay the compensation 
outlined by the adjudicator.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask the 
representatives of the estate of Mr C to accept or reject my decision before 5 April 2019.
Tony Moss
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7917431