K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out alongside a 
credit card in 2000. Mr S says American Express Services Europe Limited 
(American Express)  mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ss case.
Based on what Ive seen,  I dont  think this policy was mis-sold. Ill explain why. 
Ive first looked at whether Mr S had a choice whether to take out the policy.
American Express says Mr S applied for the policy  by post without the involvement of 
anyone from American  Express. At first Mr S said he applied for the policy by completing a 
leaflet. But after he received an assessment from our adjudicator, explaining why the 
complaint shouldnt be upheld, Mr S now says he visited one of American Expresss offices  
in person, and was told by a man in his early 40s that if he didnt apply for the PPI his 
application would likely  be unsuccessful.
So Ive thought about this alongside the other  information Ive seen,
Where theres disagreement about what happened, I have to decide  whats  most likely on 
the balance of probabilities.
American Express has sent me a copy of the application form. I see that to apply for PPI, 
Mr S needed  to tick a box next to the statement Please  enrol  me in the American  Express 
Credit Card  Repayment Protection Plan []. And Mr S has signed the agreement to confirm 
he wanted the card. I see Mr S has dated the signature on 16 April  but the application isnt 
date stamped by American Express until 5 May, which is more  consistent with a postal  
application. I think its more likely  Mr S applied for the policy  by post, without  the involvement 
of anyone from American Express. So on balance,  I think that Mr S would have known he 
had a choice about buying  the policy, and he chose  to buy it.
Its possible that the information American  Express provided Mr S wasnt clear enough. But 
Mr S chose to buy the cover  so I think he wanted  it. He doesnt appear to have been 
affected by any of the main things the policy wouldnt cover.  And based on what  hes said 
about his circumstances I think the policy would  have been useful for him if anything went 
wrong: in particular, he says hed only get statutory sick pay if he was off work sick. Though 
Mr S had some savings, this policy would  have allowed him to use his savings for other 
essential spending. So I dont think better information would have put him off buying the 
cover.
This means  American Express doesnt  have to pay back  all the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But American Express has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr S because:
Ref: DRN71205812American Express got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 50% of the 
PPI premium) - so it should have told Mr S about  that. Because American  Express didnt 
tell Mr S, that was unfair. 
To put that right, American Express has paid back  the amount of commission and profit  
share that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think  that is fair in this case.
Ive considered Mr Ss other comments. But these  points  dont  change  my conclusions.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so American  Express Services Europe Limited does  not 
have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr S.
But American Express Services  Europe  Limited  does have to pay back to Mr S any 
commission and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand 
it has already done this, so I dont award any further  compensation.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 October  2019.
Edward Hardman
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7120581