K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs G have complained that Lloyds Bank  PLC (Lloyds) mis-sold  them  a fee-paying  
joint Silver  packaged bank account.  They say that Lloyds never presented  them with the 
option of a fee-free account.
background
Mr and Mrs G opened  a joint Silver packaged  bank account on 2 September 2008 and 
remained as a Silver account until 2017 when they changed their account to a fee-paying  
Club Lloyds account.  
Our adjudicators assessed the complaint, but didnt uphold it. Mr and Mrs G disagreed with 
their assessments,  so the complaint has been  referred to me for a final decision.
As Mr and Mrs G are not complaining about the sale of the Club Lloyds account, this 
decision will only address the sale of the Silver account.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve explained  how we handle complaints about packaged bank accounts on our website.  
Ive used this approach  to help decide what to do about Mr and Mrs Gs complaint. Where 
evidence is incomplete  and matters are in dispute, as they are here, I make my decision 
based on what I think is most likely to have happened, given the evidence that is available 
and the wider circumstances at the time. 
Having considered everything  that Mr and Mrs G and Lloyds have said and provided, I dont 
uphold this complaint.  I will explain why.
Mr and Mrs G say that they went into a Lloyds  branch to open a joint account and were told 
that although they would have to pay fees for the Silver account, it came with benefits too. 
They say that the Silver  account was mis-sold  because Lloyds never  gave them the option of 
a fee-free account.
However, Lloyds says that its sales process included giving customers  a choice of accounts  
to open, including the option of opening fee-free accounts. And Lloyds has provided  
evidence that shows a fee-free sole account  was also opened  on the same day the fee-
paying joint Silver account was sold to Mr and Mrs G.
 
Given all of this, I think  its more likely that Mr and Mrs G were  aware  that fee-free accounts 
were available but, perhaps  persuaded by the member of staff at Lloyds, they chose to open 
a joint fee-paying Silver account instead, knowing they didnt have to have one. 
Mr and Mrs G say that the member of staff at Lloyds asked them how they intended to use 
the account and said that the Silver account  was the account  that they needed. Based on 
Mr and Mrs Gs recollections, its clear  that Lloyds recommended the Silver account to them. 
Mr and Mrs G appear to be saying that Lloyds  was wrong to have done this. But Lloyds can 
recommend a packaged account to consumers, providing it checks that it would be right for 
them, based  on their circumstances  at the time.
Ref: DRN72757222In September  2008, the Silver account cost £7.95 a month, and provided European travel 
insurance, breakdown  cover, mobile phone insurance and card protection cover, alongside 
other non-insurance benefits such as a travel money card and an Air Miles travel service.
Mr and Mrs G say that they travelled within Europe (albeit not very frequently)  and they 
drove a car. And it appears that they mayve had (non-smart) mobile phones as well. As 
such, it seems that Mr and Mrs G had a potential need for, and couldve made use of, the 
travel insurance, breakdown cover and potentially the mobile  phone  insurance benefits 
provided by the account. And the Silver account  was the cheapest  account that provided 
these benefits.  Because  of this, I dont  think Lloydss recommendation that Mr and Mrs G 
open a joint Silver account, rather than a fee-free  account, was unreasonable  in the 
circumstances.
As well as making sure the account  was right for them, Lloyds also had to provide 
Mr and Mrs G with the important information  about  the account  and the associated  benefits. 
Mr and Mrs G recall Lloyds telling them about the account fee and that it came  with benefits. 
And I can see they were  later able to rely on the breakdown  cover. All of which  suggests that 
they were given some information about the account benefits during the sale of the Silver 
account. 
However, I accept that they may not have been given all of the information  about all of the 
account benefits. But Ive not seen anything specific about their circumstances  at the time, 
that makes me think they wouldve been put off from agreeing to the Silver account, had they 
been given even more information  about it.
I appreciate that, with the benefit  of hindsight, the account may not have represented good 
value for money  based on how much Mr and Mrs G were paying for it, compared  to how 
many times theyve relied on or used  the account  benefits. I accept that Mr and Mrs G may 
not have ended up using the benefits  as much  as they thought they mightve  when Lloyds 
originally sold it to them. But this in itself doesnt, mean that the account  was mis-sold. 
So having  weighed everything up, I dont think the Silver  account  was mis-sold. Because  of 
this, I dont think it would be appropriate for me to ask Lloyds to refund Mr and Mrs G the 
account fees that they have paid for the Silver  account.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  1 April 2019.
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7275722