K820x#14complaint
Mr N complains as the executor of the estate  of the late Mrs N, about the handling of her 
home insurance claim by Aviva Insurance Limited for water damage to her property.
background
In March 2018 Mrs Ns property suffered a leak from a burst  water  pipe. She moved into a 
care home and Mr N made  a claim on her behalf.  Aviva arranged for an initial asbestos test 
of some tiling which came back negative. However after the contractors were appointed  in 
April 2018 further  areas  were identified as needing asbestos removal. There were delays 
caused because  the contents  in those areas werent  removed. After  the further asbestos 
removal, drying out commenced in early June. Mrs N died in July 2018. Probate  was issued 
to the executors on 10 September.
The drying out proved to be a problem  and it wasnt completed until mid-September.  The 
contractors came back on site but identified a further area of tiling in the bedroom that 
contained asbestos and needed  removal. This caused a further delay.
The works were essentially completed  by mid-December 2018,  save  for some  further  
snagging work which Mr N dealt with himself  in early June. There  was also substantial 
damage to the contents which Mr N raised  with Aviva in early June 2018. After exchange of 
lists and negotiations over the valuation this issue was resolved by a final settlement figure 
being paid to Mr N as executor in early November  2018.
Mr N complained of substantial delays and lack of communication. Aviva accepted that there  
had been some delays and a lack of communication. It offered £500 compensation. Mr N 
refused the offer, saying  in particular that as the property was to be sold,  because of the 
delays he had lost a substantial sum of money,  about £3,000.
On referral to this service  our investigator  said that he thought Aviva had offered a 
reasonable payment of compensation. He said we couldnt make awards on the basis of 
projected sales.
Mr N disagreed, saying  that he had looked  at case studies on our website and thought that 
the award should come within the severe  category, of at least £2,000.
Aviva wasnt  willing  to increase its offer and the matter has been referred to me for further  
consideration. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I must first of all point  out that Mr N brings his complaint as the executor and personal 
representative of his late mother  not in his own right.  This means  that Im limited in what  
award of compensation I can make. I cant for example make any award  directly  to Mr N for 
his distress. So although I appreciate  that he did suffer it at a difficult  time for him, Aviva 
doesnt owe him the same duty it did to Mrs N, to not cause him distress  and inconvenience, 
beyond that which arises naturally from the claim. 
Ref: DRN70395812That said I could consider an award  if inconvenience  was suffered in administering the 
estate or to Mrs N before she died.
 Mr N was dealing with the whole matter from the beginning  of the claim, so I think  the 
inconvenience was borne by him as her representative. So with that in mind I will look at the 
compensation offered, of £500,  and say whether I think  it was far.
All insurance  claims carry with them a degree of stress  and inconvenience  and 
compensation can only be considered if the insurers actions caused  additional  such  stress 
and inconvenience.  In this case I have noted  that the water leak was extensive,  affecting 
three bedrooms, bathroom, lounge, dining room and kitchen. Additionally  there was a 
substantial amount of asbestos in various areas.  So it was an extensive  claim, requiring a 
good deal of drying out and removal of asbestos.
I do think though  that there were delays in dealing with the claim. This applied in particular to 
the asbestos, which at first tested negative and then on review  of a different area tested 
positive and further removal of asbestos  had to take place.  This was delayed  because the 
contractors failed to co-ordinate the removal of the contents with the asbestos.  Then  when 
the repairs started to get under way, further asbestos removal  had to take place. Mr N 
complained of failures of communication with the contractors and I accept that this was 
difficult as he was not on site and had to complain directly to Aviva to chase matters up.
Additionally the drying out took the best part of three months.  Whilst the water damage  
affected virtually the whole property I still think this was too long.
The actual work finished around mid-December, which, although  there was then some  
snagging which Mr N resolved himself, means the claim took nine months to resolve. Mr N 
will appreciate the difficulty  of estimating just how long the claim should have taken but I will 
accept that the delays  over the asbestos  removal probably did add at least  a couple of 
months to the claim.
Mr N says there were delays in paying  out the contents claim. I see that this wasnt 
progressed until early  June although it was up to Mr N to do so. Lists were  exchanged and I 
see that there were  substantial negotiations  over the value of the items, policy limits  and 
valuations/receipts. Ultimately an offer for the contents was made which was accepted and 
paid out in early  November  2018.  I dont think, for such an extensive  contents list that that 
was unreasonable, and it was settled during the buildings claim.
Mr N has referred  to some case studies he has seen on our website but as the investigator  
pointed out every case must be decided on its own merits. Two important factors have 
limited the award   firstly that Mr N is an executor not a policyholder and secondly that, 
unlike the case  studies he has seen he wasnt living at the property. I think overall the £500  
offered is a fair and reasonable settlement  if Mr N wants to accept that offer he should 
approach Aviva directly.
Lastly Mr N refers to the delay in the claim causing a knock  on delay in him being able to sell 
the property. He estimates  that by not being able to invest the proceeds  earlier  he lost a 
substantial amount of about £3,000.
Again there are difficulties with this approach.  Firstly Mr N wouldnt have been able to put the 
property up for sale until probate was granted on 10 September 2018.  Technically  (although 
it didnt) Aviva could have  refused to continue after Mrs N died, until that date. Secondly as 
Ref: DRN70395813Ive said, its very difficult to estimate  by what date the property might have been  ready but 
for the delays. Thirdly we cant assume  that the property would have sold straightaway. 
Fourthly Mr N hasnt said on what basis he calculates the alleged loss. Overall  I dont think it 
reasonable to say that the estate made  a loss because of the delays in the claim.
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 June  2020.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7039581