K820x#14complaint
Mr W complains about U K Insurance Limited  T/A Direct Line Car Insurance  and the way it 
dealt with a claim under  his motor insurance  policy.
background
Mr W took out car insurance with UKI a few days before actually buying his car. And around  
a week after purchasing the car he alleged to UKI that hed been involved in collision  with 
another vehicle.
UKI had a number of concerns, which it explained to Mr W including;
The parties in the accident were known to each other
The vehicle had only covered just over 500 miles in a 9 month  period
His account changed in material ways about  how his damaged car was recovered 
(one version his friend collected the vehicle the other that he instructed a recovery 
firm to collected the vehicle for £168)
He then presented  a bill for £369 from a recovery  firm
Insufficient original  evidence of how the car was paid for.
UKI rejected the claim on the basis that Mr W had given misleading  and/or false information  
with the intention of making  a financial gain. And it cited the relevant part of the policy  that 
allowed it to reject the claim.
Our investigator looked into the matter and didnt think UKI had acted unfairly.  He referred  to 
UKIs investigation which also included obtaining witness  statements and a crash 
investigators report that showed the damaged claimed was inconsistent  with the explanation 
of how the accident happened.
Mr W disagreed  with the investigators opinion. He said there  was no mention of an impartial 
witness to the crash,  an impartial car collector or that the other  driver  was heavily sedated 
and coerced in his interview with the other  insurance  company.  Mr W maintains his claim is 
genuine. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
We are set up by law to resolve complaints quickly and with minimal formality. Among other 
things this means were  not bound by strict  rules of evidence that a court  is and so we can 
take evidence,  for example, in more  informal ways. Where an insurer  cites the policy  fraud 
condition as a reason  to reject a claim I think  it should base that decision on robust 
evidence. I say this because it is a serious  accusation to make  and can have consequences 
that reach beyond the mere claim decision itself. That said,  Im not making a determination 
on whether the claim was actually fraudulent or not but whether UKI has acted  fairly  and 
reasonably in all the circumstances, which include UKIs reliance  on the fraud  condition.
Ref: DRN75760762For the avoidance of doubt there  is no dispute  that the policy allows  UKI to reject a claim in 
circumstances where  Mr W attempts to deceive  UKI, or knowingly makes a fraudulent, false 
or exaggerated claim. Thats made clear in the policy under a section headed Fraud. 
The crux of this case concerns whether UKI acted  fairly in refusing to pay Mr Ws claim 
concerning an accident  he alleged occurred  on 4 May 2018.  
Im mindful of relevant case law about fraudulent insurance claims, and relevant industry 
rules (ICOBS 8.1.1 R (3)) say that UKI must not unreasonably reject a claim. The other 
driver allegedly involved  in the crash said the accident happened on 28 or 29 April whereas 
Mr W says it happened on 4 May. I note thats  nearly a week  of a difference  and could 
simply be a mistake.
He describes how he knows Mr W, the regular and recent  interactions  theyve had. He says 
the collision  was to the front right of Mr Ws car and pushed him towards a fence or wall but 
thats it. And Im aware of another witness  who said, among other things, he knows  Mr W hit 
the wall but not whether that was before or after the collision.
There is also a crash investigators report that has been authored by an expert in this field,  
which UKI has relied on. As part of any claim  an insurer is entitled  to investigate the 
circumstances of a claim as presented by a claimant. Thats what UKI did and Im satisfied 
that was fair. And where an insurer has concerns  over aspects of a claim its entitled to look 
into such issues in more  detail. Id expect a balanced and reasonable investigation and Im 
satisfied thats  what  has happened here. And it follows that where  an expert is giving  their 
opinion on particular issues,  in this case the mechanics  of the alleged accident and whether 
it occurred as presented  by the claimant,  I think its reasonable for UKI to rely on that 
evidence.
The expert gave  details of a number  of inconsistencies in the way the accident 
circumstances were  presented as compared  to the physical evidence  that strongly  
contradicted the claim as made by Mr W. Some contradictory issues include;
The damage on Mr Ws car claimed  by contact  with the wall
The gaping hole in the door
Damage profile
Mr Ws vehicle  being pushed backwards by a much lighter vehicle apparently  
travelling at the same speed as his.
I can assure the parties that Ive considered  everything weve  been sent, even though Ive 
only referred to what I consider are the main points. There are a number of other points that I 
think dont support Mr W but were set up to deal with complaints quickly and with minimal 
formality. And its for this reason that I havent  detailed every issue that I think supports UKIs 
position. 
Im persuaded by the evidence that UKI has acted fairly in rejecting Mr Ws claim. This is on 
the basis that he has presented a claim in a way that is far from being supported by the 
factual evidence of the damage, the explanation  and the surrounding environment.  The 
evidence in my view supports UKIs position  that Mr W, on the balance  of probabilities, 
knowingly provided incorrect, exaggerated  or misleading information to UKI. 
Ref: DRN75760763my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 April 2019.
Sean Hamilton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7576076