K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policy  taken out in
August 1996.  Mrs H says Yorkshire Building  Society (YBS) mis-sold her the MPPI.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs H disagreed, so the complaint has been 
passed to me to look at afresh.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Hs complaint.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why
.
YBS had to make  it clear that the policy was optional and get Mrs Hs consent  before adding 
the policy. Mrs H says the MPPI wasnt explained  to her and she wasnt aware she had it.   
As the mortgage  and MPPI were arranged during a meeting I dont  know what was 
discussed. So Ive considered Mrs Hs comments alongside the information  we have from 
the time of sale.
YBS has provided us with a copy of the mortgage  application and MPPI application form. 
The mortgage application asks the applicant if they would like MPPI and on Mrs Hs form a 
tick has been placed in the relevant box requesting  cover. The separate MPPI application 
form includes specific details about  Mrs H and the level of cover has been selected. This 
application is entirely separate to the application completed for the mortgage and it has been 
signed by Mrs H. Based on what we know  about  how MPPI was sold I wouldve expected 
the conversations with the YBS advisor  to reflect the details on this form. And if Mrs H wasnt 
sure about  the cover  I wouldve  expected  her to query it before signing and agreeing  to the 
cover. 
So based  on the evidence Ive been provided,  I think its most likely Mrs H knew at
the time that the MPPI  was optional and she decided to take it. But I can understand why 
she might  not recall this now, as the sale took place many years  ago.
YBS says it didnt recommend the MPPI  to Mrs H. Ive looked at the complaint on the basis 
that it did advice  Mrs H as this places a greater  level of responsibility on it as it wouldve had 
to check that the MPPI was right for Mrs H. Based on what  Ive seen of her circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. I say this because:
Mrs H appears  to have been  eligible for the policy.
The MPPI provided unemployment cover only. Based on what  Mrs Hs told us about 
her circumstances at the time of sale she wouldnt have been affected by any of the 
things the policy  didnt cover  like unusual employment arrangements.  So there  was 
nothing to stop her claiming the full benefit of the policy if shed  needed to.
Mrs H has told us she wouldnt have needed  unemployment cover as she was a civil 
servant. She also says if she did lose her job she wouldve received redundancy pay. 
Ref: DRN75232592The MPPI couldve been of use to Mrs H as it wouldve paid her entire  monthly 
mortgage payment  for up to 12 months  if she lost her job. There was a wait time of 
60 days, but the MPPI wouldve paid after this and the payment wouldve  been on top 
of any employer benefits she wouldve got, meaning  she wouldve been able to use 
this for other everyday  living expenses.
Mrs Hs mortgage was a significant and long-term financial commitment,  which was 
secured on her home.  So the effects  of not keeping up with the repayments couldve 
been serious for her. And I think having the security that the repayments wouldve 
been made if Mrs H was out of work  wouldve  been  important.
Ive no reason to think the policy was unaffordable for Mrs H. And as the policys 
premiums were  paid monthly,  she could  have amended or cancelled  the policy  if it no 
longer met her needs.
As well as checking the policy  was suitable for Mrs H, YBS also shouldve given her clear  
information about the policy so that he could make  a proper choice about whether to take it 
out. I dont  know  what  steps YBS took to do this and its possible some things werent 
explained as clearly as they shouldve been.  But I dont think  clearer information wouldve 
changed Mrs Hs decision.  I think shed still have bought it. I say this for the same  reasons I 
think the policy was suitable for her.
Ive also thought about everything Mrs H has said, including her comments that family 
wouldve helped her had she needed it. Whilst I dont doubt it wouldve been the intention  of 
family to help, this assistance cant be guaranteed, and it would depend on the familys 
circumstances at the time. Ive also considered her comments  about her job security.  But the 
MPPI is designed to cover  the unexpected. So these points dont change my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold this complaint against Yorkshire Building Society. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 December  2019.
Chandni Green
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7523259