K820x#14complaint
Ms A complains  that Bank of Scotland plc, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold her a mortgage 
payment protection insurance, (MPPI),  policy.
background
The background to this complaint together with my provisional findings are set out in my 
provisional decision dated 28 June 2019, a copy of which is attached to this decision.
Ms A responded to my provisional decision saying that Id only taken into account  Halifaxs 
information. She also said that she got into difficulties with her mortgage and no-one told her 
at any time that she didnt  have to pay for [the MPPI]. Halifax  didnt  comment on my 
provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection  insurance on
our website. Ive followed  this in Ms As case.
As Ive explained in my provisional decision, and above, I have considered all the available 
information and not just that supplied by Ms A, as she has suggested. And, as explained, I 
dont think that I can fairly and reasonably  say that Halifax didnt make it clear that the MPPI 
was optional.
Ms As complaint is that Halifax  mis-sold the MPPI  to her. The fact that Ms A subsequently 
got into difficulties  with her mortgage doesnt  affect my decision on this. 
So, in the absence of any other information about the sale and its surrounding 
circumstances, I see no reason to change my provisional decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out in my provisional  decision and above,  my decision is that I do not 
uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 September 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73543282Provisional Decision
complaint
Ms A complains  that Bank  of Scotland plc, (trading  as Halifax), mis-sold her a mortgage payment 
protection insurance, (MPPI), policy.
background
Ms A took out a mortgage with Halifax in 2003 during  a meeting. At the same time she took out 
monthly premium  MPPI. The type of policy she took was called a Total Payment  Protection Policy, 
(TMPP), which could  also include life and critical  illness cover. Ms A only chose to include life 
insurance. My decision only deals with the MPPI element  of the policy.
Our adjudicator didnt recommend that Ms As complaint  should  be upheld. Because  Ms A didnt 
agree with this view the matter has been passed to me to decide. For the reasons  I explain below my 
initial view is also not to uphold this complaint. But Im setting out my reasons in more detail  than the 
adjudicator. And therefore  want  to give the parties the opportunity to comment further or send us 
more information before  issuing my final decision.
Because the sale was so long ago Halifax no longer has copies of all the paperwork signed by Ms A. 
So Ive had to base my decision on the information that I do have and what we know generally about 
the way Halifax sold TMPP.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about payment protection insurance on our 
website. Ive followed  this in making my decision in this case.  
My provisional  findings are that Halifax  didnt  mis-sell the MPPI to Ms A. I explain why below.
Ms A says that she was told that, as she was taking the mortgage in her sole name, she had to take 
out the policy  if she wanted the loan. Because the sale was face-to-face I cant  be sure what  was 
said. And because of the time that has passed I dont think that I can fairly  rely just on Ms As 
memory. The paperwork weve seen in other cases  where Halifax sold TMPP in meetings is usually  
worded to show that the consumer was made aware that the policy was optional.  And in the absence 
of any more  persuasive evidence, I dont  think that I can fairly and reasonably say that Halifax  didnt 
make it clear to Ms A that the MMPI was optional.
Halifax recommended the policy to Ms A. This means that it had to take reasonable  steps to ensure 
that it was suitable for her. I dont know what steps Halifax took, but in any event  Im satisfied that it 
was suitable because, knowing what I do about Ms As circumstances at the time and the terms and 
conditions of the policy:
Ms A was eligible for the MPPI;
Ms A wasnt caught by any of the policys  main  restrictions and limitations  such as those  
affecting someone with a pre-existing medical condition;
Ref: DRN73543283Ms A has told us that she didnt  have any savings  or other insurance to help her make her 
mortgage repayments had she not been working.  But she has said that she was entitled to sick 
pay of more than 12 months. But following  a successful claim the policies would have paid out for 
up to 24 months had Ms A been  off work because of accident,  sickness or unemployment. This 
would have  been  in addition to any sick pay or redundancy package from her employment. So I 
think that the MPPI  could have been of use to Ms A;
At about £35 a month the policy  was competitively priced by reference to other similar policies 
available in the market  at the time. And initially it would have  paid out over £540 a month.  And I 
find that Ms A would most likely have thought that it was of value. I say this particularly  taking into 
account the possible serious consequences  that could have arisen had Ms A been unable to 
make her monthly  mortgage  repayments;
I havent seen anything to suggest that the premiums were unaffordable. And in any event, had 
Ms A later thought that she couldnt afford or no longer  wanted the MPPI, she could have 
cancelled it at any time without further cost.
It may well be that Halifax  didnt give Ms A all the information  that it ought  to have about the insurance 
so that she could make an informed  decision whether she wanted to take it or not. (Including, for 
instance, that the Ms A would have had to continue paying the premiums during a claim.)  But from 
what Ive concluded above, I dont think that better information would have  changed Ms As mind  and 
stopped her taking the policy. This means that I dont think that the policy  was mis-sold.  So Halifax 
doesnt need  to refund  everything that Ms A paid for it. 
Halifax has told us that the commission for Ms As policy  was less than half of what  she paid for each 
premium. Weve looked at how Halifax has been working this out and based on what  weve seen it 
looks like its right  Ms As commission was less than half the cost of the policy. As thats the case, I 
dont think it needed to tell her about the commission  it received for selling her MPPI or pay her back  
any of it. But Halifax has already offered to give Ms A back  some of the cost of the MPPI as a gesture 
of goodwill. I dont think it needs  to do anything more. I understand Halifax has already paid this to Ms 
A.
my provisional  decision
Subject to anything further comments or evidence  that I receive from Ms A or Halifax as above, for the 
reasons Ive given my provisional decision is that I will not uphold this complaint.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7354328