K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs F complain  that Bank of Scotland plc, (trading as Halifax), mis-sold them  a
payment protection insurance, (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr and Mrs F took out the monthly-premium policy in 2004 in a meeting, at the same time
as taking out a secured personal  loan. The policy covered just Mr F and the monthly
premiums were about £11.
Our adjudicator didnt  recommend that the complaint  should  be upheld.  As Mr and Mrs F
disagreed, the matter  has come to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs Fs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  this compliant  because:
Mr and Mrs F say that they may have opted for PPI but that they werent fully informed to 
make a decision. I find that they did opt for the insurance. I say this because Ive seen 
Mr and Mrs Fs signed loan agreement.  There  is a question  on it asking  if they want PPI. 
I can see that there is an X in the box to request PPI. Whereas the equally sized  box 
next to this, declining the insurance, has been  left blank. Although  the agreement  was 
printed this way, Im satisfied that Mr and Mrs F would have had the opportunity  to 
review the agreement before signing it. And I find that the way the agreement  was set 
out made the part dealing with PPI clear  and prominent;
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs F, so it had to take reasonable steps to 
check that the PPI was right for them.  Based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was. I say this because:
oAlthough Mr F has told us that he was unemployed at the time of the sale. However, 
Halifaxs records show that he told them then that he was employed.  And there is 
nothing else to suggest that Mr F wasnt eligible  for the policy;
oMr F wasnt caught by any of the policys main restrictions  and limitations  such as 
those affecting  someone  who had a pre-existing medical condition;
Ref: DRN73957432oMr F may have been entitled to sick pay from his employer. But he and Mrs M havent 
told us about any other  insurance  or savings  they may have  had to help make their loan 
repayments had Mr F been off work.  However, following a successful  claim,  the policy 
would initially have  paid out about £114  a month.  In the case of Mr F having had and 
accident or being ill, these payments would have continued  for up 60 months and would 
have been in addition to anything he got from his employment. This would have left any 
sick pay available to help meet  Mr and Mrs Fs other expenditure while Mr F wasnt 
working. The policy would  also have paid out for up to 12 months had Mr F become 
involuntarily unemployed. So I think that Mr and Mrs F had some use for the policy;
oThe PPI was competitively priced by reference  to other policies available  in the market  
at the time and it had a reasonable benefit.  And I havent seen  anything  to suggest  that 
Mr and Mrs F couldnt afford the premiums. In any event, as it was paid for monthly,  Mr 
and Mrs F could  have cancelled the policy at any time had they later felt that it was 
unaffordable for them or that they no longer  wanted  it;
oMr F was the sole earner, so I dont  find that the fact that the PPI only covered him 
made it unsuitable for him and Mrs M;
Mr and Mrs Fs loan agreement, to which Ive referred, set out the initial monthly PPI 
premiums. But its possible the other  information  Halifax gave Mr and Mrs F about the 
PPI wasnt as clear and complete as it should have been. But they chose  to take it out - 
so it looks like they wanted this type of cover. And as Ive concluded that the policy  was 
suitable for them, I dont think better information  about it would  have put them off taking 
out the cover. I say this particularly  bearing in mind  the serious consequences that could 
have arisen if Mr and Mrs M had been  unable to make their monthly repayments on the 
loan, which was secured on their home.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  my decision is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs F to 
accept or reject my decision  before  22 April 2019.
Ros Barnett
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7395743