K821x#15complaint
Mr Fs complaint arises  out of the handling  of a claim made under his central heating
insurance policy with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
I issued my provisional decision on this matter  earlier this month, part of which  is copied  
below:
Mr F held a policy with British Gas to cover the central heating  system in a property  he lets
out. On 19 October  2018, British Gas attended the property to carry out the annual boiler
service. Not long afterwards, a new tenant  moved  in who told Mr F the boiler was leaking.
Mr F contacted British Gas and it sent an engineer out on 28 October 2018. I understand a
repair was done  but this didnt resolve the leak.
British Gas apparently  told the tenant on 15 December 2018, that a new part was needed
but it was no longer  available and so the boiler would need to be replaced. Mr F therefore
had the boiler  replaced a few days later. However, he says he subsequently  found out that
the part in question was in fact available from a number of stockists.  Mr F is very unhappy
that he incurred  the expense of a new boiler  unnecessarily and asked British Gas to
reimburse him, or to refund the premiums  hes paid for the policy.
Mr F also says the problems started  following the boiler service and he thinks  the engineer
damaged the boiler.
British Gas says that none of the leaking parts  would have been disturbed as part of the
annual service. It also says the leak happened around ten days after the annual service  and
so it was not related. British Gas reiterated  that it was not able to obtain the part needed and
so could not repair the boiler.
One of our adjudicators looked  into the matter. The adjudicator didnt think there was enough
evidence to say that British  Gas had caused the leak. However, he didnt think British Gas
had done enough to try and obtain  the part needed,  and it had failed to tell Mr F that the
terms of his policy provide  that he could have obtained the part for it to be fitted. The
adjudicator therefore  recommended  that the complaint be upheld and British Gas should pay
Mr F £500 compensation.
Mr F accepted the adjudicators assessment but British  Gas doesnt. It says it gives  the best
advice to consumers  and the best advice in this case  was to replace the boiler. When  it told
Mr F the part was obsolete he had the chance to source it himself but chose to replace the
boiler instead.
As the adjudicator was unable to resolve  the complaint, it has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas was unable to get the required part from its usual supplier chain but Mr F has
Ref: DRN76035652provided evidence  that the part was widely available elsewhere for under  £200. However,  in
the meantime  Mr F had felt compelled  to pay £1,754.40 for a new boiler  based  on British
Gass advice.
Mr Fs policy includes the following term:
replacement/replace/replacing...
If were unable to provide  a boiler  appliance or part with similar functionality well Install  a
new and unused like for like alternative  that you provide, but well only accept responsibility
for our workmanship".
Ive not seen any evidence that British Gas offered this option to Mr F before he paid for the
replacement boiler  on 18 December 2018.
Even if the policy did not contain the term set out above, I think  British Gas should have tried
to get the part from other  sources and there  is no evidence that it did so. British Gas might
have its preferred suppliers but it is not reasonable to rely only on that, when  it has a
contractual obligation to carry out repairs such as were required here. The evidence  is clear
- the part was not unavailable and so the boiler should have been repaired under the policy.
I find British Gass response to the adjudicator disingenuous. Mr F was entitled  to rely on
British Gass advice  - he had after all taken this policy  out so that expert gas engineers
would repair his boiler if required. So when  his tenant was told that the boiler could not be
repaired because the required part was not available, he not unreasonably accepted  that
and replaced the boiler. I do not consider it is reasonable for British Gas to have expected
him to have  immediately  tried to find the part himself  and question what  he was told. British
Gas told Mr F the part was obsolete and therefore  repair under the policy  was not possible.
Mr F would have had no reason to believe that this simply meant that British Gass preferred
supplier didnt have  the part but that it was in fact widely available  elsewhere.
And while it might make  sense in certain circumstances to replace a boiler,  even if it is
repairable, the fact is Mr F had a policy which  should  have  covered the costs  of the repair.
British Gass failure to provide the cover it had contracted  to provide resulted in Mr F being
put to considerable trouble and expense that was not necessary.
Mr F has accepted the £500 recommended by the adjudicator as being  reasonable, British
Gas has not. While I agree that Mr F now has a new boiler, this was an expense he should
not have had to incur  at all. British Gas has said his boiler was several years old but there is
no convincing evidence  about how much longer it was likely to last. It was repairable and he
had insurance  cover  for future  repairs; there is no evidence that it was near the end of its
working life. British Gas should have repaired the boiler  and as a direct result  of its failure to
do so, Mr F was considerably out of pocket. 
Overall therefore, I consider that British Gas should  reimburse the full cost of installing the 
new boiler, together with interest at our usual rate.
my provisional decision
I intend to uphold this complaint against British Gas Insurance Limited and require  it to
reimburse Mr F the cost of replacing his boiler (i.e. £1,754.40) together with interest at 8%
simple per annum, from the date he paid for it, to the date of reimbursement.
Ref: DRN76035653responses to my provisional  decision
I invited both parties to respond to my provisional  decision with any further information or 
arguments they want considered. 
Mr F has confirmed he accepts my provisional  decision and has nothing further to add. 
British Gas does  not accept my provisional  decision.  It has said Mr Fs boiler was installed in 
2006 and production of the boiler  stopped in June 2010. The part its engineer  identified  as 
being needed was shown  as being obsolete on its parts  database. It is unfair to say that it 
has not tried to source the part from other suppliers, as it uses around thirty different 
suppliers around the country when a part is not available  on its own stock.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments again to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
British Gas had referred to two different part numbers  on this file (both hardware packs  of a 
few parts  for the make  of Mr Fs boiler). As well as evidence  from Mr F about this, the 
adjudicator did a web search  for both part numbers  and found them available  from various 
online suppliers.  
British Gas has provided a list of suppliers it says it uses if a part is not available  from its 
own stock. This has not been provided before but in any event, it doesnt  demonstrate  that 
these suppliers were approached for the part and didnt have it. Mr F was told on 15 
December 2018  by the attending engineer that the parts required were obsolete. Theres  no 
convincing evidence that these suppliers were  all contacted,  before Mr F was told the boiler  
was irreparable  because the parts could  not be found. And, as mentioned  in the provisional  
decision, Mr F was not told that he could try and obtain the part himself and British Gas 
would fit it. 
Given this, I remain of the opinion that the boiler was reparable  and that Mr F therefore did 
not have to incur  the expense of repairing it. British  Gas should therefore reimburse Mr F 
that cost.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint  against British Gas Insurance  Limited and require it to
reimburse Mr F the cost of replacing his boiler (i.e. £1,754.40) together with interest at 8%
simple per annum, from the date he paid for it, to the date of reimbursement.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or
reject my decision  before 23 April 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7603565