K820x#14complaint
Its been agreed in this case that Financial Insurance Company Limited (FICL), as the 
insurer, should  accept responsibility for the complaint. To keep things  simple, Ill refer 
to FICL as the seller in my decision.
Mrs O says FICL mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  added  to a store  card account in 2002.  FICL says 
that the policy was sold on the phone.  Mrs O thought it was sold to her in the store,  at the 
same time as she took out her store  card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mrs Os account. Mrs O disagreed.  She said, in summary, 
PPI wasnt explained  to her and she didnt  need or want  it.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As some of the evidence  is either 
incomplete or contradictory,  Ive made  a decision on what I think  is most likely to have 
happened  based on whats available.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our 
website and Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Os case.
Im not going  to uphold Mrs Os complaint.  Ill explain why.
FICL had to make Mrs O aware that the PPI was optional and get her consent before 
adding it to her account. Based on the limited information now available, I cant know  what 
was said at the time the policy was sold. 
FICL has provided us with a copy of Mrs Os store card application form. The paperwork 
isnt very clear,  so I havent placed much  reliance on this. But, I can see that the box 
selecting PPI on the form hasnt  been ticked. So, Mrs O may be right about PPI not being  
discussed in the store.
FICL says that PPI was added afterwards, during a phone call. It no longer has a copy of 
the call recording.  Businesses often only keep  records for six years  and this policy  was 
sold much  longer ago than that. So, its not surprising  that the call recording is not 
available now. 
Ive thought about what we weve learnt  about  FICLs sales processes from dealing  with 
other cases from around this time. Based on its usual telephone  sales process, I think it 
likely that PPI wouldve  been discussed and the customer wouldve been told that it was 
an optional and separate product before it was added.  I havent  seen anything to make  me 
think that FICL wasnt following its usual sales process in Mrs Os case. So, I think  it likely 
that she wouldve  been asked if she wanted PPI before it was added. I think PPI was 
probably added because Mrs O said she wanted it on the phone.  So,  I cant  fairly uphold 
her complaint on this ground.
Ref: DRN72719452FICL didnt  recommend the PPI to Mrs O, so it didnt have to check  if it was right for her. 
But it did have to make  sure Mrs O got clear  information so she could make and informed 
choice and decide if it was right for her and she wanted to buy it.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mrs O about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been, so I have gone on and consider  whether  Mrs O wouldve likely made a different 
decision if she had been given clearer information.  I currently cant see that she wouldve. 
Ill say why.
Mrs O appeared eligible  to take out the policy  and I cant see that it was unaffordable. Mrs O 
couldve cancelled the monthly paid policy at any time.
She said she wouldve  got benefits through  work  and had savings. The PPI wouldve paid 
out on top of these,  allowing Mrs O to use her work  benefits and savings to meet  her other  
household expenses at what might be a difficult time for her financially if she wasnt  
working. So, I cant see that her other resources made the policy clearly inappropriate for 
her.
I cant see that Mrs O was affected by any of the main exclusions to or limits on the PPI 
cover. As she couldve benefitted from everything  the policy offered, I dont  think having 
better information about these things wouldve affected her decision take out PPI. 
I cant see that Mrs O has lost out because of anything that FICL did wrong,  so I do not to 
uphold her complaint.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mrs Os complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs O to accept 
or reject my decision before 9 October  2019.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7271945