K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Mr S and Mrs S payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2000. 
The PPI was sold by phone before the mortgage  started.  
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr S and Mrs S disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
Ive considered carefully Mr S and Mrs Ss comments. However, Ive decided not to uphold 
this complaint. I will explain  why:
I dont have strong evidence to show  that Bank of Scotland failed to follow the proper  
practice of making  Mr S and Mrs S aware the PPI was optional;  or that it didnt ensure that 
they freely  chose to take it. Mr S has said he didnt know PPI was added.  But I think  its likely 
that, in setting up PPI, the banks system would have generated separate documents to 
inform Mr S and Mrs S about the terms of the PPI, and to explain the process of collecting 
premiums.   I  also wouldnt expect someone to recall  in detail everything that happened 
about 18 years ago when the sale was made. So it wouldnt be fair for me to rely only on 
Mr Ss clear belief he was never offered PPI as a choice, or told it was being added. I would 
need stronger  evidence before I could fairly conclude the bank acted wrongly  in the way 
Mr S believes. 
Bank of Scotland probably  recommended  the PPI to Mr S and Mrs S, but it doesnt look as if 
it was unsuitable,  based on what Ive seen  of their circumstances at the time.  Being unable 
to pay a mortgage can lead to significant  difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at the 
same time as Mr S (the person covered)  received  any employer sick pay, and potentially  for 
longer. It would have  paid unemployment  benefits in addition  to any redundancy pay. And it 
would have put off the time when  they would need  to fall back on any savings. This all would 
have put Mr S and Mrs S in a more  secure position, if they eventually lost income  due to 
long term sickness or unemployment.  
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the policy. 
But I dont anyway think full and clear information  about the costs would have affected 
whether Mr S and Mrs S took the PPI.
Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt cover.  
But its unlikely Mr S and Mrs S would have  been affected by any of these.
Ref: DRN79283422my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S and Mrs S to 
accept or reject my decision  before  27 April 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7928342