K821x#15Complaint
Miss M complains about the advice from representatives of Pi Financial Ltd to switch her 
existing pensions to a self-invested  personal  pension (SIPP) and invest  in an unregulated 
investment, which  has lost its value.
Background
In July 2008 an appointed  representative  of Pi Financial Ltd contacted  Miss M about a 
proposed investment in a company Ill refer to as Ethical Forestry. The investment involved 
overseas tree plantations. In January 2009 Pi Financial facilitated the switching of her 
existing pensions to a SIPP and arranged the investment in Ethical Forestry. From 
March 2009, £36,838.47 was transferred from four personal pension  plans (PPPs) held with 
W, L and P to the newly arranged SIPP, of which £35,938 was invested in Ethical Forestry 
on 21 May 2009.
On 4 March 2016,  the SIPP provider wrote to Miss M explaining Ethical  Forestry  had gone  
into liquidation.
On 31 October 2018, Miss Ms representative sent a complaint to Pi Financial on her
behalf. They  said Miss M had been advised  to transfer her existing pensions to a SIPP  for 
the purpose of investing in Ethical  Forestry,  which had led to losses.
Pi Financial didnt agree with the complaint. It said it hadnt provided any advice with respect 
to the SIPP  or the underlying investment  the SIPP had been arranged on an execution-
only basis and the investment  had been pre-selected by Miss M. It also said Miss M had 
made her complaint  too late as she ought  to have known about the issues  facing the 
company before October  2015.
I decided that Miss Ms complaint had been made in time, so the case  was passed  to an 
investigator to make  a finding on the merits of the complaint.
The investigator upheld  Miss Ms complaint. He thought she had asked for advice on her 
pension switch and so it ought  to have been provided by Pi Financial. And if Pi Financial  had 
provided advice,  the investigator thought Miss M shouldve been advised against  switching  
her pension benefits to a SIPP and investing  in Ethical Forestry. This was because  it was too 
high risk for her and the benefits being  switched were her only retirement provisions. If this 
advice had been given to Miss M, the investigator thought she wouldve accepted it.
The investigator recommended  Miss M be put back into the position she wouldve been in if 
her pensions hadnt been switched to the SIPP. But if the notional values of the PPPs she 
held previously couldnt be obtained,  he thought the performance of the SIPP  should be 
compared with a benchmark  and any difference paid into Miss Ms pension.  He also 
recommended Pi Financial should pay Miss M £300  and cover  five years of future  SIPP fees 
if the illiquid  funds prevented it from being closed.
Pi Financial didnt agree and asked for a final decision. It didnt think  Miss M had asked for 
advice and thought it was clear that she was being treated as an execution-only client.
The case  was passed to me to make a decision on the merits. I contacted  Pi Financial and 
explained that I didnt think it was fair to say Miss M had asked Pi Financial for advice. 
However, I didnt think Miss M was a genuine  execution-only client.  Overall, I didnt think  
Ref: DRN76668982Pi Financial had acted  in Miss Ms best interests   if it had done  so I thought it wouldve 
established she wasnt a genuine execution-only client and that she instead required advice 
to invest in Ethical Forestry. I said it wouldnt have been suitable advice to switch  the PPPs 
to a SIPP for the purpose of investing in Ethical Forestry. I recommended  the same redress 
as the investigator.
Pi Financial didnt agree. It said it had acted on instructions given to them by the Directors of 
Ethical Forestry to arrange the SIPP  and investment  for Miss M (as well as other family and 
friends) free of charge. It said it was not unreasonable for Pi Financial to expect the Directors 
of Ethical Forestry to have regard for their family and friends. It said it accepted Miss Ms 
instruction on an execution-only basis and the scope of the retainer was limited  to arranging  
the switch of her PPPs into a SIPP.  Pi Financial said to go beyond  the instruction would 
have led to advice  being given and a charge being  levied, but Miss M was not willing  to pay 
for such advice. Pi Financial said it was satisfied it had complied with its regulatory 
obligations and provided the required service.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im upholding it.
By way of background, Pi Financial has told us that Mr B and Mr H worked for an appointed 
representative of Pi Financial  for ease I will simply refer to Mr B and Mr Hs actions as 
those of Pi Financial. It says Pi Financial met with Mr P, the Managing Director of Ethical 
Forestry in 2008. Mr P was promoting  Ethical Forestry, as an alternative to conventional 
asset classes which had all suffered losses. Pi Financial says Mr B and Mr H were 
impressed by Mr Ps sales pitch and subsequently invested some  of their own personal 
pension funds into Ethical Forestry via a SIPP. 
Pi Financial says that following  Mr B and Mr Hs investments, Mr P telephoned  and asked  if 
Pi Financial would assist  the Ethical Forestry Directors family and friends in investing  in 
Ethical Forestry via a SIPP. Pi Financial  agreed  they would provide limited  assistance  on a 
pro-bono, limited period,  execution-only basis. It says it was agreed that family and friends 
would be referred  via Ms K, who was Mr Ps personal assistant.
Miss M was referred to Pi Financial via Ms K. Pi Financial  says Miss M was a close friend  of 
an Ethical Forestry Director who wished to invest funds via a SIPP into Ethical  Forestry. 
Pi Financial says Miss M was to receive  an enhanced allocation  of trees and required 
assistance in switching her PPPs into a SIPP. Pi Financial says it accepted the instruction 
from Ms K to deal with Miss M on an execution-only  basis.
This arrangement is supported to some extent by a letter from Mr B to Miss M dated 
19 July 2008,  which says:
We have recently been contacted by [Director] from Ethical Forestry regarding your 
proposed investment in the Ethical  Forestry through your SIPP. In order to complete this 
investment we require  you to sign the enclosed letter  of authority and enter  the policy 
number of your SIPP  along  with the insurance  company it is invested with.
Once we receive  the completed letter of authority  we can then proceed and put things in 
place for the investment in Ethical Forestry for you.
Ref: DRN76668983Although it wasnt referenced in Pi Financials letter of 19 July 2008, it appears an execution-
only declaration  was supplied to Miss M with this letter. I say this because Miss M returned 
the letters of authority to Pi Financial  with a cover  letter dated 10 November  2008,  and the 
execution-only declaration was signed and dated  on 10 November 2008.  The execution-only 
declaration had the details of the SIPP  provider  and the investment typed in already. But at 
this stage, Miss M didnt  have a SIPP in place, her pension  benefits were held in PPPs. So, 
I think Ethical Forestry most likely told Pi Financial in advance exactly  what  SIPP provider it 
should open an account with for Miss M and the details of the investment she would be 
making. So, I think Pi Financial most likely entered these details in the execution-only form, 
based on the conversations it had with Ethical Forestry, without consulting  with Miss M first.
The execution only form said:
I am writing to confirm that the under-noted contract  is being  arranged at your own explicit 
request on an execution only" basis.
No advice has been offered or given  with regard to any aspect of this transaction,  and 
consequently you will not receive a Reason  Why Letter. You understand that by taking the 
Execution Only route you will only be able to make  any future  complaints  regarding the 
Transaction of the business and not any advice given.
Could I please  ask you to countersign this letter and return  it to me, to confirm  that you are 
happy to proceed  on this basis.
While it appears that Miss M had not asked  Pi Financial to provide her with advice, 
Pi Financial was still required to act in accordance with the Conduct  of Business Sourcebook 
(COBS) 2.1.1R, which required the firm to act, honestly, fairly and professionally in 
accordance with the best interests of its client.
Miss M says that she was told by the promoters of Ethical Forestry that there was no risk 
attached to the investment because  wood is used in so many different products and that it 
offered good returns. In relation to arranging the pensions and investment, Miss M thinks  
she may have had one phone  call with the adviser where he was chasing  for paperwork, 
otherwise everything  was done by correspondence.  She said she was told by Ethical  
Forestry that shed  receive paperwork that would  need signing  and returning.  When asked 
about her understanding of execution-only, she said she didnt really understand what  that 
term meant.
The letter of 19 July 2008 is the first documented evidence  of contact between Pi Financial 
and Miss M. Pi Financial says that its retainer with the Directors of Ethical Forestry was 
limited to arranging  the SIPP and investment on an execution-only  basis  and to go beyond it 
wouldve incurred an advice charge. It says Miss M was not willing  to pay for any advice. 
However, it hasnt provided any evidence to that effect  I cant see any evidence  to show  Pi 
Financial asked Miss M any questions about  the instructions  it had received from a third 
party. If going beyond  the scope of the retainer and providing advice was in Miss Ms best 
interest, I dont think the agreement it had with the Directors of Ethical  Forestry  could have 
been used as an excuse not to do so.
On the face of the information Pi Financial received,  it appeared Miss M wished to be treated 
as an execution-only  client.  But I think Pi Financial needed to do more  to ensure she was a 
genuine execution-only client.  I dont  think Pi Financial can solely rely on Miss M having 
signed a statement,  which wasnt in her own words, to show that she understood the 
Ref: DRN76668984implications of being an execution-only client and that she fully understood the implications 
of the envisaged transaction.
In my view, genuine execution-only  clients are those who are clearly making their own 
investment decisions  and are capable of doing  so without advice. Given that the instruction 
to arrange the SIPP  and the investment in Ethical  Forestry had come directly from the 
investment provider, I think Pi Financial ought reasonably  to have questioned whether 
Miss M was making this decision on her own without the influence  of the investment 
provider, and whether  she was capable  of doing so. In my view,  I dont think Miss M could 
reasonably have been described as a genuine  execution-only  client as I think  she was under 
the influence of the investment provider  here  and I think  this would have been clear to 
Pi Financial.
Its also clear  to me Pi Financial wasnt acting in Miss Ms best interest  by arranging the 
SIPP and the investment.
Pi Financial knew that Miss M had spoken directly with one of the Directors of Ethical 
Forestry and this is how she had been  promoted the investment. But the Director of Ethical 
Forestry had a vested  interest in acquiring  new investors. So, I think it ought to have been  
apparent to Pi Financial that Miss M had been  influenced by the promoters of the 
investment, who wouldve  had their own agenda and motives that werent aligned with hers.  
Furthermore, Mr B and Mr H had invested in Ethical Forestry. So, I think  their judgment of 
what was in Miss Ms best interest  was skewed as they had invested their own funds and so 
they would  also have benefitted from its success.  Arguably, there was a conflict of interest 
here with either Mr B or Mr H being  involved in arranging  the transaction  for Miss M as they 
were not impartial.
Its clear that Pi Financial understood the nature of the investment in Ethical Forestry as 
Mr B and Mr H had each invested  their own pension funds in it. So, Pi Financial  wouldve  
known the investment was high-risk. It was an unregulated, overseas land investment that 
was subject to currency  fluctuations and was essentially illiquid. There  were  also other risks 
involved such as disease or fire that couldve destroyed the trees  allocated  to investors. So, 
Pi Financial wouldve known the investment  wouldnt have been suitable for most  people. 
And I dont  think it acted in Miss Ms best interest  by facilitating the transaction knowing it 
was high risk, but without  knowing anything  about  Miss Ms knowledge, experience  or 
capacity for loss. I think this shouldve  at least involved a phone call at the outset to check 
Miss Ms understanding  of the proposed  investments and the risks involved in investing all of 
her pension funds  in this way.
Pi Financial says that it was reasonable for it to have expected the Directors of Ethical 
Forestry to have regard  for their family and friends.  This statement seems to suggest that it 
was reasonable  for Pi Financial to accept the referrals in good  faith and that they wouldnt 
have been referred  if the investment wasnt suitable  for them.  But regardless of whether 
advice was being provided, Pi Financial still needed  to act in Miss Ms best interest.
If Pi Financial had acted  in Miss Ms best interest, I think it shouldve refused to transact  the 
business on an execution-only  basis. Or it shouldve asked more questions  to assure itself 
that the transaction wasnt obviously against Miss Ms best interests. Had it done  so, I think  it 
wouldve been clear  that Miss M required professional advice, and Im satisfied she wouldve 
been prepared  to pay for this to ensure the investment  was right for her. I say this because  
these were her only pension funds and she was relying on them to provide for her 
retirement.
Ref: DRN76668985So, Ive considered whether it wouldve been suitable advice for Miss M to switch  her PPPs  
to a SIPP for the purpose of investing in Ethical Forestry. For the avoidance of doubt, I dont 
think Pi Financial couldve advised on the switching of the pensions  to a SIPP without having 
regard to the investments Miss M intended  to make. The regulator (formerly the Financial 
Services Authority  FSA) has issued  a number of alerts about advising on transfers with a 
view to investing pension  monies in unregulated products  through a SIPP. The alerts  
demonstrate the regulator  took the view that, in order to provide suitable  advice,  
consideration had to be given to how a consumers funds would be invested.
An alert from 2013  specifically mentioned unregulated investments. The regulator  made  its 
position clear in the 2013 alert, where  it said:
Financial advisers  using this advice model  are under the mistaken  impression that this 
process means they do not have to consider the unregulated investment as part of their 
advice to invest in the SIPP and that they only need  to consider the suitability of the SIPP  in 
the abstract. This is incorrect.
The FSAs view is that the provision of suitable  advice  generally requires consideration of 
the other investments held by the customer or, when advice is given on a product which  is a 
vehicle for investment in other products  (such  as SIPPs and other wrappers), consideration 
of the suitability of the overall proposition, that is, the wrapper and the expected underlying 
investments in unregulated schemes.  It should  be particularly clear to financial advisers  that, 
where a customer seeks advice on a pension transfer in implementing  a wider  investment 
strategy, the advice on the pension  transfer must take account of the overall investment 
strategy the customer is contemplating.  
This wasnt a change in regulation or position by the regulator. It simply restated the 
principles that already  applied and were in place in 2008/2009 when  advice ought  to have 
been given to Miss M. So, I have to consider the suitability  of the transaction as a whole, 
particularly as its clear the only reason Miss M switched her PPPs  to the SIPP was for the 
purpose of investing  in Ethical Forestry.
At the time of the arrangement Miss M was 40 years  old and had modest pension funds held 
in four PPPs with benefits totalling  around  £37,000.  It appears  Miss M had accrued these 
pensions through  her various employments over the years. Pi Financial didnt gather any 
additional information about  her circumstances, but Miss M has told us she didnt have any 
other investments or savings, and her home  was mortgaged  on an interest-only basis.  There 
isnt any record of Miss M having  any previous  investment  experience, and she certainly 
didnt have experience in unregulated investments. If an assessment  of Miss Ms attitude to 
risk had been carried out, I think it wouldve  been medium at most, given she had a limited 
capacity for loss but she could take some  risk with her funds as she had a significant number 
of years before she was due to retire.
The proposed investment  in Ethical  Forestry was high-risk.  So, I think investing  any of her 
pension funds in Ethical Forestry wouldve been unsuitable for her. I note Pi Financials 
comments that Miss M wouldve understood the basic concept of the investment.  I dont  
doubt Miss M wouldve understood she was investing in wood, which she understood to be a 
valuable and useful  commodity.  But I dont think she wouldve understood the risks attached  
to such an investment, or that it wasnt suitable for her, without Pi Financial explaining this to 
her clearly.
Ref: DRN76668986Overall, I dont  think Pi Financial shouldve  advised  Miss M to invest  any of her funds in 
Ethical Forestry as it wasnt suitable for her.
Whilst Im satisfied  Miss M wouldnt have invested  in Ethical Forestry if suitable advice had 
been given, I also have to consider whether it wouldve been reasonable in any event for Pi 
Financial to recommend  she switch  the benefits she held in her PPPs to a SIPP.
There is an argument that Pi Financial couldve recommended Miss M consolidate the funds 
she held in her various PPPs to make things easier  for her to manage in future. But I dont  
think she shouldve been advised to open  a SIPP. This is because a SIPP is better suited to 
experienced investors with larger funds who need  access to a wider  range of investments as 
well as non-standard investments. Miss M didnt fit this criteria. I can also see the SIPP 
wouldve cost her more  than her PPPs. However,  it is clear to me that Miss Ms introduction  
to Pi Financial only came about because the Ethical  Forestry investment had been  promoted 
to her. So, I dont  think she was seeking pensions advice in general. If she had been  advised 
against investing in Ethical  Forestry,  I dont  think she wouldve decided to move her pension  
funds to an alternative arrangement at this time.
I have also considered whether Miss M wouldve  insisted on investing in Ethical Forestry 
even if Pi Financial had provided clear advice against it. But I dont have any reason to 
believe that she wouldve  done so. I say this because her personal  connection  to the director 
that had promoted the investment to her was rather tenuous  he was an acquaintance 
through a sports club that her son attended. So, I dont think she wouldve based an 
important decision relating to her pension on his advice over an independent  financial 
adviser who was clearly advising against  it and explained the risks attached to such an 
investment. And given  Miss M was a single parent on a modest salary with outstanding 
debts, I dont think she wouldve taken  any risk with her pension funds if shed been warned 
the investment  was high risk and wholly unsuitable for her.
So, overall, if Pi Financial  had acted in Miss Ms best interest and either refused to transact  
or provided  her with suitable  advice, I dont  think she wouldve switched her PPPs to a SIPP  
or invested in Ethical Forestry. On balance, I think she wouldve  kept her existing  
arrangements. Ive set out below what I think Pi Financial needs to do to put this right.
In addition, the SIPP only exists because of the investment in Ethical Forestry. And as the 
investment in Ethical Forestry has failed,  it is illiquid  and remains in the SIPP.  If Pi Financial 
cant purchase the investment in Ethical  Forestry  to allow the SIPP to be closed, I think  it 
would be reasonable for Pi Financial  to cover the SIPP fees for five years.
Fair compensation
My aim in awarding fair compensation is to put Miss M back into the position  she would likely 
have been in, had it not been for Pi Financials  error.  I think this would have  meant she 
remained invested in her existing arrangements.
Any loss Miss M has suffered should  be determined by obtaining  the notional  value of the 
PPPs from W, L and P on the basis that they had remained  in the existing funds, and 
subtracting the current actual value of the pension (see notes on how the actual value 
should be calculated  below) from this notional  value.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the notional value at the point it was actually paid so it ceases  to accrue any return in the 
Ref: DRN76668987calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi Financial totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
If the answer  is negative, theres a gain and no redress is payable.
The compensation amount should if possible be paid into Miss Ms pension  plan. The 
payment should  allow  for the effect  of charges and any available tax relief. The 
compensation shouldnt be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict  with any existing 
protection or allowance.
If a payment  into the pension isnt possible or has protection  or allowance implications, it 
should be paid directly to Miss M as a lump sum after making a notional reduction  to allow  
for future income tax that would otherwise have been paid. If Miss M hasnt yet taken  any 
tax-free cash from her plans, 25% of the loss would be tax-free and 75% would have been 
taxed according to her likely income  tax rate in retirement  presumed to be 20%. So making 
a notional reduction of 15% overall from the loss adequately reflects this.
Interest should  be added  to the settlement  at 8% simple per year from date of my decision to 
the date of settlement if the compensation is not paid within 28 days of the business being  
notified of Miss Ms acceptance of it.
I consider the comparison between the actual value and the notional  values outlined above 
is the fairest way of resolving this complaint. However if any of the providers arent  able to 
calculate a notional value, my aim is to put Miss M as close  to the position she would 
probably now be in if she had invested  similarly to the existing funds.
In the event Pi Financial isnt able to obtain notional values of her previous pension plans, it 
must:
Compare the performance of Miss M's investment with that of the benchmark  shown  
below. If the fair value  is greater  than the actual value there is a loss and 
compensation is payable. If the actual value is greater than the fair value , no 
compensation is payable.
Pi Financial should add interest as set out below. 
If there is a loss, Pi Financial should  pay into Miss M's pension plan to increase its 
value by the total amount  of the compensation and any interest. The amount paid 
should allow for the effect of charges and any available  tax relief.
Compensation should not be paid into the pension plan if it would conflict with any 
existing protection or allowance. 
If Pi Financial is unable to pay the total amount into Miss M's pension  plan, it should  
pay that amount direct  to her. But had it been  possible  to pay into the plan, it would 
have provided  a taxable income. Therefore the total amount  should be reduced to 
notionally allow  for any income tax that would otherwise  have been  paid.
The notional allowance should  be calculated using Miss M's actual or expected 
marginal rate of tax at her selected  retirement  age  likely  to be 20%. However, if 
Miss M would have been able to take a tax free lump  sum, the reduction should  be 
Ref: DRN76668988applied to 75% of the compensation.
Income tax may be payable on any interest paid. If Pi Financial deducts income tax from the 
interest it should tell Miss M how much has been  taken off. Pi Financial should give Miss M a 
tax deduction  certificate  if she asks for one, so she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & 
Customs if appropriate.
investment  
namestatus benchmarkfrom (start  
date)to (end 
date)additional  interest
SIPPstill 
existsFTSE  UK 
Private 
Investors 
Income Total 
Return Indexdate of 
investmentdate of my 
decision8% simple  per year 
from date of 
decision to date of 
settlement (if 
compensation is 
not paid within  28 
days of the 
business being  
notified of 
acceptance)
Actual value
This means  the actual amount payable from the investment at the end date. 
It may be difficult  to find the actual  value of the investment. So, the actual value should be 
assumed to be nil to arrive at fair compensation. Pi Financial should take ownership of the 
illiquid investment  by paying a commercial  value acceptable to the pension provider. This 
amount should  be deducted from the compensation and the balance paid as I set out above.
If Pi Financial is unable to purchase the investment, the actual  value should  be assumed to 
be nil for the purpose  of calculation. Pi Financial  may require that Miss M provides an 
undertaking to pay Pi Financial any amount she may receive from the investment in the 
future. That undertaking must allow for any tax and charges that would be incurred on 
drawing the receipt  from the pension plan. Pi Financial will need to meet  any costs in 
drawing up the undertaking.
Fair value
This is what  the investment would have been  worth at the end date had it produced  a return  
using the benchmark.
Any withdrawal, income or other distribution out of the investment should be deducted from 
the fair value  at the point  it was actually paid so it ceases to accrue  any return in the 
calculation from that point on. If there  is a large  number of regular payments, to keep 
calculations simpler, Ill accept if Pi Financial totals all those payments and deducts that 
figure at the end instead of deducting periodically.
Why is this remedy suitable?
Ive decided on this method  of compensation because:
If Miss Ms attitude to risk had been assessed  she wouldve most likely have been  
Ref: DRN76668989willing to accept some  investment risk to achieve  higher growth.
The FTSE UK Private Investors Income  total return index (prior to 1 March  2017, the 
FTSE WMA Stock  Market Income total return index) is made up of a range of indices  
with different asset classes,  mainly UK equities  and government bonds. It would be a 
fair measure for someone who was prepared to take some risk to get a higher  return.
Although it is called income index, the mix and diversification provided within the 
index is close enough to allow me to use it as a reasonable measure of comparison 
given Miss Ms circumstances and risk attitude.
Future SIPP  fees
The SIPP only exists because of the illiquid investment. In order for the SIPP to be closed 
and further SIPP fees to be prevented, the investment needs to be removed from the SIPP.  
Ive set out above how this might be achieved by Pi Financial taking over the investment, or 
this is something that Miss M can discuss with the SIPP provider directly. But I dont know  
how long that will take. 
Third parties are involved and we dont have the power to tell them  what  to do. To provide 
certainty to all parties, I think its fair that Pi Financial pay Miss M an upfront lump sum 
equivalent to five years  worth of SIPP fees (calculated using the previous years fees). This 
should provide  a reasonable  period  for the parties  to arrange for the SIPP to be closed.
Additional compensation
I also think Pi Financial should  pay Miss M £300  for the distress and inconvenience caused 
by them  failing to act in her best interest  and the disruption to her retirement planning.
My final decision
I uphold the complaint. My decision is that Pi Financial Ltd should pay the amount calculated  
as set out above.
Pi Financial Ltd should provide details of its calculation to Miss M in a clear, simple format.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 5 April 2021.
Hannah Wise
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7666898