K822xcomplaint
Mr H and Miss E complain about  various  errors by Lloyds Bank  PLC when they asked for a 
further advance  on their mortgage. Theyd like to know that the issues have been 
understood and their account is now correct. Theyd like Lloyds to consider  how its service 
has affected them. 
background 
Mr H and Miss E have a mortgage with Lloyds. They wanted to borrow an additional  
£15,000. They say Lloyds made  a number of errors. The main problems include: having to 
re-mortgage when  they wanted a further  advance; the mortgage term being extended; 
Lloyds lending them  about £690  more than they requested; inaccuracies in the mortgage  
documents (including the interest rate); inconsistent valuation figures; and their monthly 
payments being  reduced when theyd asked  for them to stay the same.
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. She said Mr H and 
Miss E wanted a further advance  and started  the process in the reasonable expectation that 
their request  would  be handled properly. They had to re-mortgage  instead due to a problem 
with Lloyds systems at that time. Each  time there  was a problem, Mr H and Miss E had to 
sort it out. 
Lloyds said it would  reduce the mortgage  term and, if Mr H and Miss E repaid the additional  
funds, it would adjust  the mortgage  account. It said Mr H and Miss E can increase  their 
monthly direct debit. And it offered £500 compensation plus £18 for costs.  Lloyds said it cant  
issue a new, corrected  mortgage offer and Mr H and Miss E should  retain  its final response 
in the unlikely event theres  any issues in future. 
Our investigator said Lloyds cant undo  the errors its made.  She said, in the circumstances,  
its offer was fair. 
Mr H and Miss E didnt agree. They asked for:
A full explanation  of how this situation has happened.
The correct mortgage documents  to be provided.
To be able to keep  the £692 rather than having  to return  it.
Recognition that their direct debit should  have  been  maintained at the amount theyd 
been paying. 
Miss E said theyd had problems with the direct  debit  before the re-mortgage.  Our 
investigator said this wasnt the complaint that was brought to us. And Lloyds had offered a 
solution in that they could contact Lloyds to increase the direct debit. 
Ref: DRN76889392my provisional decision
Lloyds Bank  PLC had made an offer to Mr H and Miss E before  this complaint was brought 
to us. After looking  at the evidence and what the parties  said about this matter, I thought that 
offer was about  right. However, I wanted  to set out more  detail  about  how I thought Lloyds 
should deal with any underpayments to the mortgage account due to the change of term. So 
I sent a provisional  decision  to the parties so that theyd have an opportunity  to comment  
before I issued my final decision. 
In my provisional decision,  I set out the following provisional findings:
Lloyds doesnt  dispute that it made  errors here. So I have to consider what it should do to 
put matters right. 
Lloyds says a system  problem meant  it couldnt  offer a further  advance  to Mr H and Miss 
E. It had to follow a re-mortgage process.  
Lloyds said its re-mortgage  process  requires the term to be in whole years. This meant 
the term of Mr H and Miss Es mortgage was extended by about  two months. Lloyds 
offered to reduce the mortgage term to end when it would  have  done,  before the re-
mortgage. It said because  this would increase the contractual monthly  payments, Mr H 
and Miss E would have  to agree to it. 
I think this is fair. However, if Mr H and Miss E accept this offer I think  Lloyds  should  re-
calculate Mr H and Miss Es account as it would have been if the re-mortgage hadnt  
resulted in the mortgage term being  extended.  Any underpayments from the date of the 
re-mortgage up to the date of the calculation should  be paid by Lloyds. Mr H and Miss E 
would need to pay the correct contractual monthly  payment  (plus  any overpayments they 
choose to make) from the calculation date. 
Lloyds also offered to adjust the mortgage  balance (backdated to the date of the re-
mortgage) to the amount  Mr H and Miss E asked  to borrow if they return the additional  
funds. I think this is fair. I dont think its reasonable to require Lloyds  to reduce the 
mortgage balance  if the additional money isnt returned.
Lloyds says Mr H and Miss E can increase their monthly direct  debit if they choose  to do 
so. Theyd need  to contact Lloyds. I appreciate this is frustrating as theyd previously  
asked that their monthly payment  remained  the same as they wanted to make 
overpayments. But I think its a reasonable way to resolve  the issue.
There are some matters that Lloyds  cant change.  It cant change the fact that theres 
been a re-mortgage. Lloyds says the mortgage offer cant be re-issued. Lloyds cant  undo 
the administrative errors and poor service that caused inconvenience to Mr H and Miss E. 
If Mr H and Miss E decide to take up Lloyds offer to adjust the mortgage account, term 
and monthly payment amounts  theyll  have  to contact Lloyds and I understand this is 
inconvenient. What Lloyds can do is offer compensation for the trouble and upset this has 
caused. I think Lloyds  offer of £500 plus £18 for costs is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances. 
Lloyds made  errors here. It accepted this and offered  to put matters right.  Its explained 
the reasons for some of the problems. While Mr H and Miss E would like Lloyds to 
provide a full explanation about  the cause of the errors, its not clear that Lloyds is able to 
Ref: DRN76889393do this. And I think the steps its agreed to take will, as far as possible, put Mr H and Miss 
E in the position they would have been  in if Lloyds hadnt make the errors. So I dont think  
its reasonable to require  Lloyds to provide further  information and explanations  to Mr H 
and Miss E.
Mr H and Miss E responded saying I should  request and listen  to recordings  of their calls 
with Lloyds as this would give an insight into Lloyds failings. Miss E said they were  
disappointed that after Lloyds failings theyll have to initiate another transaction in the hope 
Lloyds would adjust  their account  correctly,  despite having no confidence  it would do so. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Where the evidence is incomplete,  
inconclusive or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other 
words, what I consider is most likely  to have happened in light of the available  evidence  and 
the wider circumstances. 
After considering what Mr H and Miss E have said, I think I have enough evidence to reach a 
fair decision without  listening to their calls with Lloyds. 
Mr H and Miss E said theyre  concerned  that Lloyds wont adjust their account correctly if 
they accept its offer to put these matters right. Lloyds accepts it made errors and offered to 
put matters right where it can and pay compensation for the trouble and upset caused. 
Theres no reason to think it wont do so. I should  note here that Id expect both parties to 
take the steps required within a reasonable period of time  Mr H and Miss E to confirm 
whether they accept  Lloyds offer to put these matters right and Lloyds to make the 
adjustments to Mr H and Miss Es account.
In the circumstances, I see no reason to change my findings from those set out in my 
provisional decision.
my final decision
My decision  is that Lloyds Bank PLC should:
adjust the term of the mortgage, if Mr H and Miss E confirm  they accept  the changes  in 
the contractual monthly payment;
adjust the mortgage  balance, if Mr H and Miss E repay the additional funds;
pay the compensation;
all as set out in my decision above. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H and Miss E 
to accept or reject my decision before 11 July 2019.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7688939