K821x#15complaint
Mrs L complains  that Nationwide Building  Society merged her details about her personal 
account to a third party in error. The mistake made by Nationwide  caused Mrs L upset as 
she no longer speaks with the third party
background
Mrs L held a joint bank  account for a particular purpose with a third party.  This account  isnt 
the subject of this complaint but Mrs L and the third party werent  on speaking terms at the 
time of this dispute.   After it was brought to Mrs Ls attention that some details about  her and 
her husbands  mortgage  was sent to the third party, she contacted Nationwide  at the 
beginning of October 2018.  Mrs L was told that in error her profile  had been  merged with that 
of the third party and that she had a credit  card on the third partys account. Nationwide  said 
it would  investigate the matter and suggested that Mrs L visit a branch to have  the address 
changed. Mrs L says she was unable to visit the branch as she worked but attempted to 
change the address details via online banking. In December Mrs L also attempted  to close 
the joint account online. In order to check how these changes were  progressing Mrs L 
phoned the bank and asked for a new PIN number for telephone  banking as she had 
difficulties with her existing details. Mrs L waited for a call to update her on the investigation.  
On 21 December Mrs L was told that the address on her mortgage account  was showing the 
correct address but her cashbuilder account  and her daughters  child trust fund account still 
had the third partys  address.
Mrs L later discovered after speaking to the third party  that the telephone PIN number had 
been sent to the third party together with other correspondence that was returned to 
Nationwide. Mrs L complained and Nationwide offered  compensation of £350, subsequently 
increased to £400  in respect of all issues caused by it recording an incorrect  address. Mrs L 
felt that this was insufficient and brought the complaint to us. We separated the complaints 
into a mortgage  related  complaint and a banking related complaint. I investigated the 
mortgage complaint  and awarded compensation of £400 to Mr and Mrs L. Our adjudicator 
investigated the banking complaint and recommended  an award of £200 to Mrs L. 
Nationwide disagreed and asked for a review  saying that an award of compensation of £600  
in total was greater than our guidelines suggested. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78128022I issued a decision in the mortgage  complaint  and I recall there were very specific  issues 
connected to the information that Nationwide disclosed  that led to an award of £400 in that 
case. Although  the root cause of the complaint is the same, the failure  to record  Mrs Ls 
address correctly, this complaint is different in time than the mortgage complaint  as it 
happened in December rather than September and October, refers  to a different account  
and in fact the complainant is different being  Mrs L and not her and her husband. Also, the 
information that could have been potentially disclosed was different being personal banking  
details as opposed to the mortgage information  I set out in the other decision I issued.  So, I 
believe that I can treat these complaints  separately and assess the awards as appropriate to 
these separate  incidents.
Its unclear why the address on Mrs Ls account hadnt changed after the initial issue  with the 
mortgage product  in September/ October. I presume the mortgage department must not 
have communicated  that information  to the banking function of Nationwide.  It seems that 
some correspondence  was sent to the third party and a PIN number. I recognise the distress 
this may have caused particularly the feeling  of vulnerability of sending her telephone  PIN 
number to a person whos already  got access to some personal information  about the bank 
accounts, knew Mrs L and wasnt on speaking terms with her. In my view the amount 
suggested by our adjudicator of £200  represents a fair award  and on that basis I shall be 
upholding this complaint.
my final decision 
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Nationwide  Building Society to pay 
Mrs L £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 June  2021.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7812802