K821x#15complaint
Mrs M complains about how Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) dealt with her request for a 
chargeback. 
background
Mrs M told us that she had paid a company  specialising  in glass balustrades to make and fit 
a glass balustrade to run up the side of her stairs  and around her landing,  and also a deck 
surround for outside her house.  She said that there  were problems with both,  and shed 
asked BoS to make a chargeback request for the money shed paid for this work. 
Mrs M told us BoS said it had discussed  this with the relevant company, and it wasnt able to 
pursue the request, because the company was willing to assist  with repairing the problems.
But Mrs M said that for the problem to be fixed,  new templates would have to be made, for 
new glass pieces to be cut. And she said that the company  just wasnt  willing to do that. She 
wanted BoS to continue  the dispute. 
BoS said that it couldnt get the money  back from the company, so it had taken back the 
money that it had credited to Mrs Ms account.  It said that the company had responded to 
the claim and explained  that it was willing to assist and make the necessary adjustments.  
The company said that Mrs M wasnt allowing it to access  to the property to do this. 
BoS said that the company had defended  the chargeback in line with the scheme rules. So 
the chargeback  had been unsuccessful. But BoS did agree that Mrs M had received poor 
service and it paid her £75 for that. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold this complaint. He said that the company that Mrs M paid 
hadnt agreed to the chargeback request,  but it had said that it was trying  to work with Mrs M 
to get the building  work back on track. Our investigator said that he thought  that BoS had 
followed the chargeback rules.  He said that it processed her request, and passed on the 
companys comments.  
Our investigator said the case became  more complicated after this, because the company 
said that it was trying  to work with Mrs M to sort the problems out, but Mrs M had supplied  
independent reports  which  she thought  showed the companys proposals werent workable. 
Our investigator said that he didnt think it was reasonable to expect BoS to pursue this 
chargeback request, because of what the company  had said about being  willing  to sort 
things out. Our investigator thought that BoS had done all that it was required to do. 
Mrs M said that she didnt think that the company was willing  to work  with her. She pointed  
out that shed  sent a letter to the company, by recorded delivery, and had had no response 
at all. She said that the company had just lied to BoS, and BoS had believed it. 
Our investigator didnt  change his mind. He said that just because  the company hadnt 
responded to Mrs Ms letter didnt  mean  it wasnt willing to work  with her. It may just have 
been unwilling  to accept or agree with the statements that shed made  about  the quality of 
the work.  Thats not the same as not being  willing to work with her.
Ref: DRN72625272Mrs M didnt  change her mind. She said that she wanted her case  to be considered  by an 
ombudsman, so it was passed to me for a final decision.
my provisional decision
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint and explained why I proposed  to uphold it in 
part. This is what I said then: 
-Mrs M asked BoS to make a chargeback request  for two transactions, one of £1,250 for 
work to her staircase,  and one of £1,050  for work  to her decking  area.  BoS started this 
process, but then refused to continue with her chargeback  request,  because it said that 
the company was willing to assist her.
-I had to assess whether that was a reasonable step for BoS to take in this case, for each 
of these two transactions.
-Id read both the expert reports that Mrs M has supplied. Although those  both clearly  
concluded that something had gone badly wrong, I thought they perhaps werent as good 
at setting out, in laymans terms, what it was that had gone wrong, and what would be 
needed to put that right. But I did think that at least some  of what  had gone  wrong  was 
visible from the extensive photos of Mrs Ms stairway that she shared with us, and BoS.
-I said Im not an expert  on glass fitting. Id just looked very carefully at what  Mrs M sent 
us. I thought that before I looked at the detail of this case,  it might  be helpful  to set out a 
bit of detail on what I thought may have gone  wrong  here, and how it mightve been put 
right. Then both sides could consider and comment on my understanding of the problem.
-When the company  came to Mrs Ms house,  it made templates to cut the shapes of the 
glass that would be needed to fit her new stair balustrade,  and her decking surround. As 
part of that, the company marked the area for the holes to be cut. The glass was then 
delivered to Mrs Ms home, ready  to be fitted. 
-I understood that, once a hole is bored in a piece of glass,  thats the only place that piece 
can be fixed from. And of course,  because  glass is see-through, if the initial  fixing  into an 
area like the wooden stringer (which is the outer  wooden panel running down the outside 
of Mrs Ms stairs) was bored in the wrong place, then the glass couldnt just be refixed in 
a different place.  That would  mean both that the fixings  wouldnt be level with each other,  
and that the holes  for previous, incorrect, fixings would be visible  through  the glass. 
-Having looked  at the pictures Mrs M has sent us, the glass  on Mrs Ms stairway  looked to 
be sitting out of alignment.  That seemed to be because of where  the holes for fixings  
were cut and fixed. Mrs M has always said this cant just be repaired by fixing the 
existing glass pieces  in a different place. 
-But Mrs M seemed to have taken  a different view of the work required to fix the decking. 
-Mrs M herself  seemed  to have accepted that it wouldve been possible to repair  the 
decking area with the existing glass. She hadnt  suggested there was any need for new 
templates to be cut for this area. She accepted  in an email to the company, dated  20 
February, that your suggestion  solves some  of the problems  ie decking. But she also 
turned down the companys offer to refit both the decking and the stairway.
Ref: DRN72625273-I thought Mrs M had accepted the company had made a reasonable offer to repair the 
decking area, but she had chosen  not to accept that offer. The company repeated that 
offer to fix the decking area in its response to this chargeback request. Because Mrs M 
herself did seem to have accepted that refitting could fix the problem with the decking  
area, my provisional decision was that BoS didnt make a mistake  by refusing to process 
a chargeback request for £1,050  to cover this element of the work. 
-BoS also thought that the company was willing to work with Mrs M to fix the stairs. I 
thought it was worth pausing here,  to see what the company had offered to do, and 
whether it was reasonable for BoS to close this case in response  to the offer it made. 
-When the company  replied to the chargeback request, it said that all goods were  
delivered in good  condition with the exception of one glass  panel which  as you can see 
from our correspondence  with the client  ..  we have  offered  to replace. 
-And its letter ended by saying that the firm did try to assist  [Mrs M] in amending  her 
small issued brought  to light free of charge by paying for the fitters to return  to site and 
make the necessary  adjustments . But it said that there  was nothing else we could do 
for our client as she is not accepting a replacement panel or allowing fitters  to attend her 
property to carry out the works.
-I thought that this letter was clear about the offer being made  to Mrs M for her stairway. 
The company  was offering to replace one piece of glass  only. It was otherwise 
suggesting adjustments to the existing  glass  pieces. 
-I also thought  that Mrs M had, by this time, provided evidence  which  suggested to me 
that her stairway was probably not capable of being repaired to an acceptable  standard  
using all but one of the existing  pieces of glass. As I explained above,  the pictures that 
Mrs M sent us, and shared with BoS,  showed that the existing pieces of glass had been 
secured by drilling holes in the wood which runs alongside the stair risers. Id explained 
that, as I understood it, those couldnt simply be relocated. For those reasons, I thought 
that as refitting  was all the company had offered to do (except for one piece)  that what it 
had offered to do was unlikely to be enough to fix the problem. 
-But I also needed to consider whether the evidence  (including two independent reports) 
that Mrs M had supplied, was sufficient  to make it clear  to BoS at the time that what  was 
being offered  wouldnt  be enough  to fix the stairs. I wasnt  entirely sure it was. Id already 
noted that the two expert  reports provided  didnt seem to me to offer clear  statements 
about whether  new glass  pieces would  be required, or not. I thought  that the architects 
report suggested that refitting  might solve the problem. The joiners  report  though did 
seem to me to say that one piece of glass was damaged, and another seemed to be the 
wrong size. So that suggested replacing  one panel  wouldnt solve the problem.
-I needed to balance those reports, and the photos that Mrs M had provided, against  the 
fact that BoS arent experts in glass fitting either. I wasnt  convinced that it would be fair 
for me to say that BoS shouldve realised at this point that the offer the company had 
made wouldnt solve the problem. 
-But I did think it was fair to say that BoS shouldve realised that Mrs M didnt think  this 
offer would solve the problem. Shed said throughout that she thought new pieces  of 
glass needed to be measured up, and cut. It was also clear  that she felt strongly about 
this, as shed  already  provided two expert reports at her own expense.  But, crucially, 
Ref: DRN72625274what BoS did when  it got a response from the company was to close  this case. It didnt 
give Mrs M an opportunity to respond  to the offer that the company had made,  and set 
out clearly why it wasnt satisfactory. I thought that was a mistake.
-So I thought  that BoS made  a mistake when it closed this case in response to the limited  
offer that was made  rather than ask Mrs M for her comments on that. I thought  that a 
chargeback for that transaction, of £1,250 shouldve been pursued. 
-I also thought  it was likely that Mrs M couldve explained why this offer wasnt enough. 
And if she had been given the chance  to do that, and this chargeback had then been  
pursued, I also thought that it was more likely than not to have been successful.
-I said Id expect BoS to say that it was too late now to make  Mrs Ms chargeback request 
for this transaction. And I also noted  that, as Mrs M predicted, the company she paid for 
this work  had now been dissolved,  leaving her with few other  options  for redress.  For 
those reasons, I thought that BoS should  pay Mrs M the £1,250 that I thought she would 
have been likely to have recovered, if this element of her chargeback had been  pursued. 
I invited the parties  to make any final points, if they wanted, before issuing my final decision. 
Both sides responded to my provisional  decision.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I havent changed my mind.
Mrs M still thought BoS didnt deal with her complaint  properly. She said the company wasnt 
willing to work with her, and the existing glass couldnt just be adjusted. If the company had 
been willing  to come and make  new templates,  she wouldve allowed it to do that. But that 
had never  been  offered. 
Mrs M said that there were  also problems with the glass around the decking. Those holes 
were also in the wrong places, so the glass wasnt level and was out of alignment. Shed had 
to get the decking company to come and fix it when high winds  showed a dangerous amount 
of movement in the glass  panels. And because the holes in the glass couldnt be moved or 
recut, shed had to have several  pieces  of the decking removed  and replaced  with new 
boards. She sent us the invoice for £660 for that work. 
Mrs M was very upset by how her home  had been left after the work the glass  company had 
done. She thought she should  get a full refund. She said if BoS was unclear about  anything,  
it shouldve asked her about it. And she said the architect said refitting  the existing glass  
wouldnt solve the problem. He was happy to write  another report  making  that clear.
I know Mrs M now says that the glass on her deck also required remedial work, which  shes  
had to pay for. But, as I noted in my provisional  decision, in an email of 20 February 2018, 
she said refitting would fix that. BoS had seen this email.  So I cant say BoS was wrong to 
decide that the companys  offer to refit the decking glass  was enough to solve that problem. 
I still dont think, on what it knew at the time,  that BoS made a mistake by closing the 
chargeback for the deck surround  payment. And that means  it isnt BoS  fault that Mrs M has 
been forced to pay more,  now,  to have this area fixed. I dont think BoS has to pay for that.
Ref: DRN72625275BoS also wrote to us. It said the rules on chargebacks were very rigid. Either  a chargeback  
can be raised, or it cant. BoS said the rules were clear. Where a company says it will 
provide a service  to a customer,  there is no further scope to take a chargeback  any further.
BoS said that if the chargeback went ahead, neither the card scheme  operator  (who sets the 
rules for chargebacks and makes the final decisions) nor BoS would  look at what  is being 
offered to a customer as part of the continued service. Only the fact a service  is available. 
BoS said it wasnt able to tell if the service offered by this company was sufficient. And it 
asserted that the chargeback wouldve been  rejected. 
BoS also said it didnt  think I should  make such a large award. It said that redress isnt 
designed to cover a loss, its to be used for distress and inconvenience,  and BoS didnt feel 
that the impact  on Mrs M was enough to justify  this level of redress.
I wrote  to BoS in response, to say that it had made  a very strong statement about the effect  
of the rules that covered  chargebacks. I knew that BoS is governed  by those rules, and it 
cant change them. So I asked BoS to show me the rule that wouldve  prevented  it from 
continuing with Mrs Ms chargeback. 
I also said that my provisional decision was that, instead of closing  the chargeback when the 
company said it had offered to help Mrs M, BoS should probably have checked  with Mrs M 
whether the offer made to help her was enough to fix the problem. And I thought that Mrs M 
mightve been able to show that the service being offered wasnt enough to fix the problem. 
So I asked  why BoS didnt think that the card scheme operator  would consider that.
I also said to BoS that the rules that give our service powers to award money  to a 
complainant do give powers to make a money award to cover  financial loss.
BoS sent me the rule that it raised Mrs Ms chargeback under. It also said that the rules are 
complicated. BoS said it interprets the rules on complex cases and decides the best course 
of action based on the information from the customer, company  and the rules.
BoS re-sent its evidence  that the company would help Mrs M, but said Mrs M refused. It said 
Mrs M had to try to resolve the issue with the company before a dispute  could be started. 
BoS said that because the company clearly was still willing  to assist, this showed that Mrs M 
hadnt attempted to fully resolve the dispute with the company. It said that if Mrs M had 
allowed the company to try to fix the problem, and that still failed, and the company could do 
nothing further  to help the situation,  BoS could then have taken things further.
BoS said it wouldnt look at whether  a service offered was sufficient or not. And it said again  
that the card scheme operator wouldnt look at this either. It didnt say why it thought that. 
Ive looked carefully  at what BoS has sent us. I cant see any requirement in the chargeback 
rules it has sent that negotiations to resolve  a problem have to have ended before a 
chargeback request can be pursued. The rules seem to me to allow for chargeback requests 
to be made  while  negotiations  to solve the dispute are ongoing. 
I dont think that BoS was prevented by the chargeback rules from continuing this 
chargeback on Mrs Ms behalf. 
Ref: DRN72625276BoS also said that it wouldnt consider the service  offered. If the merchant was still offering 
something to Mrs M, then it wouldnt go ahead with a chargeback  request. I can see that this 
is the decision that BoS made, and I still think that was a mistake. Mrs Ms complaint 
suggests to me that this company had done a very poor job. Its not reasonable to require 
her to allow it to do further work that wont  solve the problem, and may make  it worse. 
I didnt decide  that BoS shouldve spotted  the problem with Mrs Ms stairway itself, and 
realised why what the company was offering wouldnt solve  the problem. I did say that BoS 
shouldve asked Mrs M about the offer made, and if it was enough to solve  the problem or 
not. I still think that its both unfair and unreasonable for BoS not to assess the offer made  
itself, and also not to give Mrs M a chance  to comment  on that offer.  
I still dont think what the company  was offering wouldve fixed the problem with Mrs Ms 
balustrade. And BoS didnt give Mrs M a chance  to tell it why she thought the companys  
offer was worthless.  Because of that, Mrs M lost the chance to get her money back. 
BoS said that even if it had gone ahead with the chargeback, it wouldnt have succeeded, 
because the card scheme operator  wouldnt have considered any evidence  about whether 
the companys  offer was a reasonable one or not. BoS hasnt offered any evidence  to 
support what it says about this. 
I dont think that I can decide this case  on the basis of an assumption  that, if Mrs M had 
provided further evidence to show  that the balustrade glass needed to be refitted  (which  she 
now says her architect would provide)  the card scheme  operator  wouldve ignored that. 
I still think that Mrs Ms chargeback wouldve been  likely, in the circumstances Ive 
described, to succeed. 
For the reasons  set out above, I still think that BoS should pay Mrs M the amount of the 
chargeback request for her balustrade.  So Ill now make the award I proposed.
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc must pay Mrs M £1,250.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 June 2019.
Esther Absalom-Gough
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7262527