K821x#15complaint
Mrs B is unhappy that Gain Credit  LLC (trading as Lending Stream) passed her loans to a 
third party who then recorded a County Court  Judgement (CCJ)  against  her. She is also 
unhappy with the way Lending Stream dealt with her after the final response letter (FRL) was 
issued. 
background
The background to this complaint was set out in my provisional decision dated  1 May 2019. 
An extract  from this is attached and forms part f this final decision,  so I will not repeat that 
information here.
In my provisional decision I set out why I was minded  to uphold the complaint. I invited both 
parties to let me have any further comments and evidence.  Lending  Stream  has told us it 
was reviewing the findings  of the provisional  decision, but it didnt have any more information  
or comments that it wanted  to share. Mrs B has given us some  additional  comments.
Ive carefully considered  everything Mrs B has told us. In summary  she said;
Mrs B would be happy to settle  the complaint should Lending  Stream  agree to 
remove the CCJ. 
Mrs B has concerns that Lending Stream will not do what  it will be directed to do.
Lending Stream failed  to follow instructions, given to Mrs B by the third party,  to 
enable it to recall the debt.  
These loans were taken out at a time that was financially difficulty  for Mrs B. 
my findings
Ive once more  considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I thought about  the comments that Mrs B has made,  especially in relation to the affect the 
CCJ will have  on her credit score. As a result, I approached Lending  Stream  about the 
actions that it may be able to carry out. And, Lending Stream  has confirmed to me that it is 
prepared to work with the third party to remove the CCJ from Mrs Bs credit  file.  
However, the concerns I have about  what Lending Stream will be able to achieve, as 
outlined in the provisional decision still apply.  Lending  Stream  may try and work to get the 
CCJ removed, but it may not be possible.  So what I have done  is amended  what Ill be 
asking Lending  Stream to do to put things right in order  to reflect  what  it has now agreed to. 
But, Ive also, kept in mind that it may need to carry out what I asked it to do in the 
provisional decision. 
I appreciate Mrs Bs concerns, about  Lending  Stream complying with any directions, and this 
is understandable considering whats happened  over the last 18 months. However, there  is 
no indication, at this point in time that Lending  Stream wont  do what it will be directed to.  
Im sorry  to hear that these loans were  taken at a time of financial difficulty for Mrs B. I didnt 
investigate this too closely as part of my provisional  decision because  Lending Stream  had 
already accepted that some of the loans shouldnt  have been given and it had already made 
Ref: DRN73747602an offer in relation to loan one. What was in dispute, and what I considered as part of the 
provisional decision was what Lending Stream should or could do to put thing right for Mrs B. 
So having  considered the additional information Mrs B has given  us, and everything I saw 
before making  my provisional decision, I still think Lending Stream has made errors while 
dealing with her complaint.  And Ive outlined  below, what I think Lending  Stream  needs to do 
in order to put things right. 
what Lending Stream should do to put things right
Lending Stream should;
 
Remove any unpaid  interest and charges  from loan 1. Then  rework this loan and 
apply all payments  made  by Mrs B as if they had been made towards the principle 
sum borrowed.  At  this point Lending  Stream should write off and end Mrs Bs 
liability for this loan. 
pay Mrs B a total of £500 for the trouble and upset caused in relation  to the service 
shes received
remove any adverse credit file information that Lending Stream  has recorded on 
Mrs Bs credit  report in relation to loans 2  4. 
Then Lending Stream should  work with the third party to remove the CCJ, as it says it would 
now do. So in addition to the above, it should do the follow;
 
Once the CCJ is removed, make  sure Mrs B repays no more than the principal sum 
Mrs B borrowed for loans 2 - 4, taking into account any repayments she may have  
made to either Lending Stream and to Company A and B. 
Liaise  with the third party to remove any adverse credit  file information Company A 
and B may have  added about loans  2  4 to Mrs Bs credit file. 
However, should Lending Stream  be unable to remove the CCJ, it will need to carry out the 
following, which is in line with the direction in the provisional decision;
make  a payment  to Mrs B or directly to the third party  who is currently  collecting  the 
balance of the CCJ. This payment should have the effect  of meaning Mrs B pays  no 
more than the principal sum borrowed on loans 3 and 4. For loan 2, the payment 
should also include any interest payments Mrs B has paid Lending Stream.  To be 
clear, the payment  Lending Stream needs to make  will include unpaid  interest  and 
charges, court fees and any third company charges.  
HM Revenue & Customs requires Lending Stream to take off tax from this interest.  Lending 
Stream must give Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
After carrying out the above, if Mrs B still has an outstanding balance, she may wish to try 
and set up a mutually  agreeable repayment plan for the outstanding balance. 
Ref: DRN73747603my final decision
For the reasons  given  above and in my provisional  decision, I uphold Mrs Bs complaint. 
Gain Credit LLC should  put things right for Mrs B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 July 2019.
Robert Walker 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN73747604background
A summary  of Mrs Bs borrowing  based on the information provided to us by Lending Stream  - is 
detailed below. 
loan number loan amount received  date actual  repayment date
1 £400.00 28/08/2013 balance outstanding
2 £200.00 17/09/2013 balance outstanding
3 £150.00 21/09/2013 balance outstanding
4 £50.00 24/09/2013 balance outstanding
All of Mrs Bs loans were instalment loans  this meant that Mrs B was required to make a number of 
repayments in order to repay  what she had borrowed. 
Mrs B had difficulty making the payments to all of her loans  and it is my understanding that to date 
none of these  loans have been fully repaid.  
Due to Mrs Bs repayment problems Lending  Stream sold loans 2 - 4 to a third party (Company A). 
But, Lending  Stream has since told us that it has repurchased  loan 2 from Company A. 
It has also been confirmed that Company A was granted a CCJ for the outstanding balances on loans  
2 -4.  
When no repayments were  received by Company  A it passed  the collection of the CCJ balance to 
another third party (Company B). It is Company B that is currently  in contact with Mrs B about 
repaying the outstanding balance. 
Mrs B complaint has been ongoing for some time, so Ive only provided a summary of what  has 
happened to this point.  This isnt an exhaustive sequence of events, but in my mind covers the key 
aspects of what has happened in this case. 
Mrs B made a complaint to Lending Stream in September 2017. And in October 2017 Lending  Stream 
issued its FRL. In the FRL Lending Stream accepted it couldve done  more at the time the loans were  
agreed and in order  to put things right, it made the following offer;
loans 2  4 had been passed to Company A but
It would  agree to repurchase loan 2 from Company  A and then it agreed to only
accept from Mrs B the principle sum borrowed  for loans 1 and 2.
Around the time the FRL was issued  Company A was granted  a CCJ for the outstanding balance  on 
loans 2, 3 and 4 (plus  additional court  costs).  For clarity  the CCJ has been granted as one total 
balance comprising the outstanding balance on all 3 accounts.  After the CCJ was granted Company A 
says it assigned the account  to Company B. 
It isnt entirely clear, but it seems that Mrs B may have accepted Lending  Streams offer  but that part 
of the problems she later experienced with Lending  Stream  were  caused by it not carrying  out what  it 
had agreed  to do. 
Following Lending Streams FRL, over a period of several months Mrs B was in communication with 
both Lending Stream and Company A. In these emails  I can see, based on what  Mrs B says, that 
Lending Stream agreed to set aside the CCJ in January 2018. I can also see a number of emails 
between Mrs B and Lending Steam where she is clearly  unhappy with the actions of Lending Stream. 
The actions she was unhappy with included,  it failing  to contact Company A or B to sort out the loans 
and having to make a number of calls that dont  appear to have been returned.  
In April 2018  Mrs B first made us aware  of her complaint.
Ref: DRN73747605 
Following our investigation, in September 2018, our adjudicator wrote to the parties explaining  that 
matters should be put right in the following  way:
Removing the CCJ
Lending Stream accepting only the sum borrowed for loans 1 and 2 and
Removing the adverse  information recorded about loan 2.
Mrs B didnt accept this offer because she wasnt confident that Lending Stream  would  remove the 
CCJ because it had been telling her for a number  of months  that the CCJ would be removed without it 
doing so. 
Then in October 2018,  following further discussions with Lending Stream, the adjudicator suggested 
that Lending Stream should;
pay Mrs B £100 compensation
remove the CCJ from the credit file
offset the outstanding balance on loans 1 and 2, leaving a total of £265.44 to be paid
Lending Stream agreed to the recommendation. However, Mrs B didnt accept the offer. She was 
unhappy that Company B was still chasing her for payment because Lending Stream hadnt recalled  
the accounts,  which is something Mrs B felt Lending Stream shouldve already done.  
The adjudicator then reviewed the complaint and recommended that further action be taken  by 
Lending Stream in relation to loans 3 and 4. Lending  Stream  didnt respond to this recommendation. 
So, when we didnt hear anything else from Lending Stream the adjudicator  arranged  for the 
complaint to be passed to an ombudsman  for a final decision. 
At a much  later date, Lending Stream confirmed with this service that the CCJ would be removed 
along with it buying back loans 3 and 4. It also told us that loan 2 had already been repurchased.  
I want  to make it clear from the outset that Im only considering the actions of Lending Stream and 
what it needs  to do to put things right. Company A and Company B are not subject to this complaint 
so I wont  be able to make a finding on their actions or ask them to take any further action in relation 
to what  needs to be done to put things right for Mrs B. If Mrs B is unhappy with the actions of 
Company A and / or Company B she will have  to contact them about  this.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable  in the 
circumstances of this complaint. Ive carefully  thought about everything Ive been given, and having 
done so, Im intending to uphold  Mrs Bs complaint and Ive explained  my reasons below. 
In the FRL Lending Stream accepted that loan 2 shouldnt have  been given.  And then when  this 
service became involved,  Lending Stream reassessed the complaint. It concluded that loans 2, 3 and 
4 may have been potentially unaffordable. And at this point, it agreed to repurchase loans 3 and 4 
from Company  A. And then accept only the principle sum borrowed for these loans  minus  any 
repayments Mrs B may have made to Company A and B. 
And Lending Stream had already agreed, in its FRL, that it would  only accept  the principle sum for 
loan 1 and 2  so the removal of interest fees and charges  and then minus any repayments Mrs B 
had made.  
So by the time our service  became  involved  in this complaint Lending Stream had already agreed that 
some of the loans shouldnt have been given and agreed that it would  only ask Mrs B to repay the 
principle sum.  Given  this has already been agreed by Lending Stream I see no reason  to revisit 
whether it was right or wrong to have granted these loans in the first place. 
Ref: DRN73747606But, Im also mindful  of the fact a CCJ has been granted for loans 2  4 and Ive had to think very 
carefully about what is and isnt within  Lending  Streams power  to do to put things right for Mrs B. 
And when  thinking about the CCJ, I have  to be aware  to the fact that it was obtained  by Company A. 
This as Ive explained above  isnt a party  in this complaint and therefore  isnt bound  by any decision, if 
accepted by Mrs B, that I may make.  
Im only able to look at the actions of Lending Stream. And Ive explained below, in the next section,  
what I think Lending  Stream  needs to do  and in fact can do -in order to put things right for Mrs B in 
relation to the loans and the CCJ.  
Ive also explained the potential  limitations of some of the actions that I know Mrs B wants Lending 
Stream to take. 
loan 2
I want  to start by addressing some concerns I have about the status  of loan 2. Lending Stream  says 
that loan 2 has been  repurchased from Company A. However, based on what Ive seen and what 
weve recently been told by Company B, I have  my doubts  that this has actually happened. And I say 
this for two reasons.
Firstly, there is an email contained within Lending Streams original submission  to this service. The 
email is dated  19 July 2018  and was sent to Lending  Stream from Company A, following a request to 
repurchase loan 2;
Please note that this account has now been legally assigned to [Company B]. Please  contact 
their office in regards to this account. 
The above email suggests to me, that at least as late as July 2018 Lending Stream hadnt 
repurchased loan 2  despite the assurances provided to Mrs B and later what it had told this service. 
Secondly, Company  B has recently told our service  that the CCJ was made  up of the outstanding  
balances from loans 2, 3 and 4. So if Lending Stream had already repurchased loan 2  then the 
balance Company  B is chasing Mrs B for would be incorrect. 
This is because the full CCJ balance would  no longer be due. But as per the terms of the CCJ,  
Company B is entitled  to collect the amount the court  says is outstanding   subject  to the judgement 
being set aside.  So this is why, even today, Im minded to believe  that loan 2 hasnt in fact been 
repurchased by Lending Stream and continued to be owned by Company B. This,  in turn, likely 
means that Lending  Stream is not able to remove the CCJ as it doesnt own the debt in question. 
Weve asked  Lending Stream for clarification  about this, and since the complaint was past to me, it 
has again said loan 2 has been repurchased.
But for the reasons Ive outlined above, Unless Im given some clear  evidence in response to my 
provisional decision  to show that this loan has been repurchased by Lending Stream, the evidence in 
the round will lead me to confirm a provisional finding that it has not.  
what Im intending to tell Lending Stream to do to put things right for Mrs B
I think  it may help for me to start by explaining that generally speaking  at this service we normally try 
and put a consumer back into the position they wouldve been in had the loans not be been  granted. 
However, this isnt always possible, for example, in short term lending complaints the consumer was 
given the funds and has long since spent  them. So its not possible to simply unwind whats already 
happened.  
Ref: DRN73747607In these circumstances, where the consumer  fully repaid a loan, wed normally ask the lender to 
refund any interest  and charges a consumer  has paid.  As its usually the (increasing) interest and 
charges that makes it difficult for the consumer to repay what they borrowed.  Wed  also normally ask 
the lender to add 8% simple interest to any overpayment  made by the consumer. An overpayment  is 
any sum a consumer may have paid the lender above  what they originally borrowed.   
And in instances where a loan hasnt been fully repaid  wed normally  ask lenders to rework the 
accounts to make sure that a consumer repays no more than the principle sum borrowed.  And this 
sometimes means that even though we fully uphold  the complaint a consumer may still owe a lender 
some money,  albeit a lower amount than before their complaint was upheld.  However, in Mrs Bs 
case, the CCJ is a complicating factor  because this means the management  of these loans is now 
no longer the responsibility of Lending Stream.  
loan 1
But, loan 1 is still the responsibility of Lending Stream  and as Ive mentioned above, it has already 
agreed to remove any unpaid interest and charges and then apply all the payments Mrs B had 
already made as if they were made to the principle sum. This is in line with what this service may 
have recommended had Lending Stream not already  agreed to carry  this out. However,  it would 
seem, based on the statement of account Lending Stream has provided  that even after doing  the 
above an outstanding balance  is likely to remain, of around £260.
I have thought  carefully about what should  happen to this outstanding balance. Mrs B took four loans 
in quick succession  and its clear from her account management at the time that she was having 
difficulties, which has ultimately resulted in the CCJ being applied.  And it seems to me that Mrs Bs 
overall financial position  hasnt improved  since the CCJ was issued. So I think  requiring her to repay  
this amount is more  likely  than not going to lead to her experiencing real financial hardship. 
In addition, Ive also seen a record of emails between Mrs B and Lending Stream  from around the 
time of her complaint in October  2017. And its clear  that Mrs B becomes  frustrated with Lending 
Stream with what appears to be a number  of broken  promises relating to not calling her back  or 
keeping her up to date with what has happened.  
Taking all of this together,  along with the amount of time that has passed since she last made any 
repayments to Lending Stream - Im proposing that Lending Stream  writes off the remaining balance, 
once the above redress has been worked  out. This will mean Mrs B doesnt need to make any more  
repayments for the first loan. Once Lending Stream has closed  down this loan,  it should also arrange 
to update  her credit file to reflect this. 
the CCJ
I appreciate that Lending Stream has agreed to remove the CCJ. But this offer appears to have been 
made some time ago. And to date it doesnt appear  to be any further forward in arranging this for Mrs 
B. And now the case has been passed to me for a decision,  I have to think  about, what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I can understand why Mrs B believed what Lending Stream told her in the FRL would prevent the CCJ 
from being  applied.  However, the original offer Lending Stream made was only in relation to loans  1 
and 2, it was silent about what would  happen to loans  3 and 4. And by the time the CCJ was 
obtained, it had been over 4 years since Mrs B had made any repayments.  So I can understand why 
Company A sought a CCJ.
It therefore  follows, that even if I did tell Lending  Stream to repurchase loan 2, (which  is in line with 
the offers  it has made),  this would still leave  a balance  due to Company B for loans  3 and 4. And as 
this is the case, I think its more likely  than not that the CCJ would  still be in place  even if Lending 
Stream had repurchased loan 2.  
Ref: DRN73747608I understand why Mrs B would like Lending Stream  to remove the CCJ from her credit file. But as, 
Lending Stream sold loans 2  4 to Company A, it was Company A who applied to the courts for a 
CCJ, and then sold the relevant debts to Company B.  
So in this instance, if I asked  Lending Stream  to remove the CCJ, or to work with Company A and B  
Mrs B could end up in a situation with the CCJ not being removed and still be chased for the full 
current balance. And that wouldnt be fair to Mrs B. So while I know this will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs B, I will not be asking Lending  Stream  to remove the CCJ,  mostly because the 
evidence doesnt  suggest  that it is currently able to.  
Instead I think  the fairest  way to resolve  this complaint is to ask Lending Stream  to pay either
Mrs B or Company  B an amount of money which has the effect of, Mrs B only having  to repay  
Company B the principle sum she borrowed for loans 2, 3 and 4 minus any repayments that she has 
already paid. To be clear, this will also involve Lending Stream having to cover the court  costs as well 
as any other charges that have been  added  to the loan balances as a result of Company A and 
Company Bs involvement. 
I also think  that any adverse information Lending Stream has reported about these  loans  should be 
removed. However,  as Ive mentioned above, I dont think Lending Stream is going to be a position  to 
ask for the CCJ to be removed. 
I accept that the CCJ has been granted on loans  that Lending Stream has agreed shouldnt have 
been given. But, I also have to consider  the fact that for loans 3 and 4 no repayments were made  to 
Lending Stream or to either Company A and B. So overall, I dont think  Im in a position  to say that the 
CCJ is an unfair reflection of the way the accounts have been managed. And, even if it is removed, as 
an outstanding balance will remain its possible  that Company A and/or  B may be within their rights to 
apply for another  one should the loans  continue to remain outstanding.  
As a result, due to the continued impact this will have on Mrs Bs credit file, the only fair option I have,  
which Lending  Stream has direct control over, is to award  a payment for the trouble  and upset  
caused.  
trouble and upset
Ive thought about the trouble and upset caused to Mrs B. And from the outset Im satisfied this is 
substantial. I appreciate that our adjudicator has recommended an award of £100, which Lending 
Stream has agreed  with. But having reviewed everything I do not believe  this amount is a fair 
reflection to take into account the trouble  and upset caused. 
To begin with, Mrs B has a CCJ recorded on her credit file. A CCJ which wouldnt have been there,  
had Lending Stream not provided these loans. However,  Mrs B will have to deal with Company  B in 
order to sort out the outstanding balance, which  will inevitably take up more  of her time. In addition to 
this, the CCJ is likely  to provide a barrier to Mrs B being able to obtain credit from high street 
providers, given how these  mainstream credit providers  view the recording of the CCJ. This will likely 
mean that Mrs B may find credit harder to come by, as well as being  more expensive. 
In addition, she has continued to receive  emails from Company B throughout the process of her 
complaint, chasing her for repayments for her outstanding loans. Indeed,  Mrs B has had to tell 
Company B on a number of occasions that she had an ongoing  complaint against Lending Stream. 
Ultimately, Company B said it was considering applying for an attachment of earnings order because 
it hadnt  received payments  from Mrs B. However,  Lending Stream  was aware of the situation, and it 
couldve done  more to prevent these emails from being sent. Indeed, given what  Ive already 
discussed above, it says loan 2 has been repurchased.  So it clearly had had some communication 
with either Company A or B about these loans and was therefore in a position to influence how Mrs B 
was being treated. 
Ref: DRN73747609Theres also been a loss of expectation on the part of Mrs B. It seems  to have told Mrs B some  time 
ago that the CCJ would be removed  yet still there has been  no movement on this. This has 
ultimately, only added to Mrs Bs concerns about the process.  In addition, to the ongoing impact Mrs 
B of having the CCJ recorded against her. 
Im also satisfied that Mrs B has had to send a significant number of emails. Its expected when a 
complaint is raised that there  would  be some inconvenience caused, but from what Ive seen Mrs B 
has had to send a number of chaser and reminder emails  to Lending Stream  on a number of 
occasions because it hasnt done what it had promised.  For example,  there are a number of emails 
where Mrs B has had to chase Lending Stream because it hadnt called  her, as promised. In other 
words, Lending Stream  has caused additional inconvenience (and no doubt distress) to Mrs B by not 
doing what it said it would.  
So I dont believe  the £100  recommended by the adjudicator adequately reflects the trouble  and upset  
caused. For the reasons  Ive outlined above, I consider a payment of £500 should be made, and I 
consider that amount to be fair and reasonable  in the circumstances. 
I appreciate that Mrs B will be unhappy with what Ive proposed to do to put things right  but I have 
thought carefully about everything  shes told us and also which business is subject of this complaint,  
and the actions  it can take. I believe what I have proposed is fair and reasonable in all of those slightly 
complicated circumstances. 
Ref: DRN7374760