K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that TSB Bank  plc didnt check for errors in his cash machine withdrawals.
background
In July 2018  Mr S used a cash machine to withdraw money from his TSB account. He 
requested £100 which was debited  from his account. But the machine  only dispensed £80. 
His account was later refunded with the £20 he did not receive.
Mr S raised a complaint  with TSB in April 2019. He asked them to check his other cash 
withdrawals in case there had been  any other  mistakes.
TSB says that Mr S was refunded with the money  he did not receive  within 24 hours  of the 
error in July 2018. When he contacted them in April 2019 about the possibility of further  
errors it wrote to him twice asking for more information  and tried to contact him by telephone  
on several  occasions too. It said that it would not be practical  to check  all his cash  
withdrawals to search for something  that may not have happened.
Our investigator  thought TSB had treated Mr S fairly. The £20 error had been refunded  and 
TSB had taken reasonable  steps  to deal with his complaint about other withdrawal  errors.  So 
she did not think it needed to do anything more.
Mr S does  not agree.  He wants TSB to check all cash withdrawals from this cash machine in 
case there  have  been other mistakes. He says that he knows there were  previous errors as 
there was an occasion  when he requested £150 from the case machine  but did not receive  
this amount.
my findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances  of this complaint. Having done so Ive come  to the same  
overall view as the investigator for the same  reasons. I realise Mr S will be disappointed by 
my decision.  And I appreciate that having  had money refunded  once for a mistake  on a cash 
withdrawal, Mr S is worried about  other occasions  when he withdrew money.  
There is no issue  that there was an error  in Mr Ss cash  withdrawal on 19 July 2018. Ive 
seen Mr Ss bank statement which shows £100  was debited from his account while the 
withdrawal slip for this transaction shows only £80 as having been dispensed. But Im 
satisfied TSB acted  fairly by refunding the difference within a day of being  told about  the 
mistake. 
Im also satisfied that when  Mr S complained about  the possibility of further  errors to TSB in 
April 2019 it took reasonable steps  to deal with his complaint and discuss  any other  potential  
mistakes. I can see TSB wrote to Mr S and tried to speak  to him on the telephone but 
without success.  So In those circumstances  I think TSB has done  what I would  have 
expected here and I would have expected  Mr S to have raised  any other  mistakes with TSB 
at the time he made the cash withdrawals.
I dont think it reasonable to expect TSB to go through every cash  withdrawal and check if 
there were  other mistakes. I also dont think it possible  to say if there was a mistake without 
the withdrawal slips which Mr S does not have. I can see that Mr S says that the problems 
were caused  by the ATM  running out of money.  If that was the case then Mr S ought to have  
Ref: DRN74760542been aware of the potential of problems and I would  have expected him to have kept the 
withdrawal receipts or not use that ATM again in those circumstances 
Overall Im satisfied that TSB dealt fairly with the main part of Mr Ss complaint and for the 
reasons Ive explained I dont require it to do anything further.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 December  2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7476054