K820x#14Complaint
Mr M complains that Santander UK Plc wont refund  payments he and his late wife made to 
a holiday timeshare club. 
Background
Mr M has told us he and his late wife paid a deposit of £13,194 to a holiday club for a 
timeshare on 12 June  2000. Mr M says he and his late wife made  payments by bank card 
totalling around £25,000 in 1999 and 2000. 
Since making these  payments Mr M says hes had lots of problems with the holiday club and 
that the timeshare  was mis-sold. Last year, Mr M tried to raise  a chargeback claim to reclaim 
the money paid to the holiday club but Santander  said hed waited too long.  As a result, it 
wasnt able to raise a chargeback claim or refund  the payments. 
Mr M complained and Santander  responded on 15 October 2018  but didnt agree it had 
made an error. Mr M referred the complaint to our service and it was passed to an 
investigator. The investigator noted  the chargeback  scheme rules give time limits  for raising  
a claim and that Mr Ms request had been  made  too late. Mr M says he is a normal  
consumer and wasnt aware of the time limits  for raising a chargeback. Mr M asked to 
appeal so his complaint  has been passed  to me to make  a decision. 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I can see Mr M has raised genuine  concerns over the timeshare he and his late wife paid for 
in 1999 and 2000. I dont  doubt any of the points Mr M has raised and can see he is very 
upset about the large amount of money  involved. But the complaint here relates to 
Santanders actions  and how it handled his request  for a chargeback  claim to be raised. I 
cant look at the actions of the holiday club or how the timeshare was sold in this decision. I 
can only look at whether Santander made any mistakes after Mr M tried to raise a 
chargeback claim in 2018. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M but I agree with Santander and the investigator that the 
chargeback claim wasnt raised within the scheme time limits. Ill explain why. 
Mr M says the payments were made by bank card from their joint account. Businesses  can 
reclaim payments made by debit  card from retailers by completing  a chargeback. But there 
are time limits which say a chargeback claim has to be raised  within a certain period from 
when the transaction was made.
In this case, Mr M says he paid £13,194  by bank  card as a deposit on 12 June 2000. Mr M 
didnt ask Santander to get involved and raise a chargeback  claim until 2018. MasterCard 
and Visa both run their own chargeback schemes  and set slightly  different time limits  for 
raising a claim. Because of the amount of time thats passed, its not clear  what  type of card 
was used to make the payments. But the most generous time limit that would  have given 
Mr M and his late wife the longest  period to raise a claim is 540 days from the date of the 
transaction. 
Ref: DRN73526502Ive looked at the latest date it may have been  possible  for Mr M and his late wife to have 
raised a chargeback claim under the rules. 540 days from 12 June 2000 would have given 
until 4 December 2001. Mr M didnt contact Santander until 2018, around 17 years after the 
540 day time limit ended. 
It may be helpful to explain  that Santander doesnt set the rules  or time limits for 
chargebacks. The rules are set by Visa and MasterCard.  So whilst I note that Mr M says he 
wasnt aware of the time limits involved with making  a claim, thats not something I can hold 
Santander responsible for. 
Im very sorry to disappoint Mr M as I can see hes spent a large  amount  of money and 
wants to get it back. But in this case,  I havent  found anything to show Santander made a 
mistake or treated him unfairly. It simply couldnt  raise a chargeback claim for Mr M because 
the transactions he was looking to reclaim occurred too long ago. 
My final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2020.
Marco Manente
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7352650