K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B complain  that National Westminster Bank Plc will not refund their payments to 
a holiday club and has said that it cant make a chargeback.
background
Mr and Mrs B first made payments to the club in 2012 and then further ones in 2016. They 
say that they were  not getting the service  and discounts promised and found out that the 
company involved  was involved in court proceedings  and has stopped operating. They 
contacted NatWest but it said it could not help them. And that their request for a chargeback  
was out of time.
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She said that:
-Mr and Mrs B had paid a deposit  of £1,501.61 by debit  card on 15 February 2012 to 
the company and then paid £6,900.00 on 5 March 2012 by bank  transfer.
-In 2016 they were  persuaded  to upgrade their membership and paid a £600 deposit  
on 9 April 2016 and £4,621 by bank transfer. She could not see that this deposit had 
shown as a debit card payment from their NatWest account.
-The chargeback  process is a voluntary  one and is governed by the strict rules of the 
relevant card scheme.
-There are time limits for making  a claim and these are usually 120 days from the date 
of the payment. It can be sometimes extend to 540 days   for example if the goods 
or services are only going  to be provided at some  future time. The potential benefits  
of this holiday club were  to be available to Mr and Mrs B straightaway.
-Bank transfers are not covered by the scheme  and the debit card payment claim was 
not brought within  the relevant time limits.
-Mr and Mrs B could  only bring  a Section 75 claim if at least  some  of the payments 
had been made with a credit card.
Mr and Mrs B did not agree and wanted their complaint to be reviewed. They said that the 
membership they purchased was not something  they constantly  used.  They only became  
aware of the breach of contract as time passed. They started to experience poor service and 
a lack of any discounts  on other goods  and services. They  gave the company involved time 
to put this right before they took any further  action. That explained why they contacted 
NatWest in November  2018. Mr and Mrs B said that they did not know  that the delay would 
prevent them making a claim. And they considered that they are entitled to protection from a 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Our investigator has correctly set out the position  here. I am looking at the type of the 
payments to consider what their rights  were here. Mr and Mrs B did not make  any payments 
using a credit card here so there was no ability for them to make  a Section 75 claim under  
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974. The payments that could be covered by the chargeback 
scheme were those made with a debit card. This unfortunately limited the potential amount  
that NatWest could help them with. And thats especially as I cant see that either payment in 
April 2016 was made from their NatWest  account  by debit card.
Ref: DRN72781522Wed expect NatWest to pursue any claim that came  within  the scope of the relevant 
chargeback scheme.  But there are strict  rules and there would  be no point  in NatWest 
attempting a chargeback that was out of time.  That would get rejected. While I accept that 
this holiday club was by nature an ongoing service to Mr and Mrs B, I still dont think  that this 
could bring their complaint in time  especially as the service should  have been available  to 
them straightway. So, I find that their claim was not made in time.
Im afraid that Mr and Mrs B not knowing about  the timescales is not a reason to depart from 
the rules of the scheme.  And nor is their patience in trying to resolve  things with the 
company first. An attempt  to resolve  things would  be something that would be generally 
expected before a claim  but again  does not alter the timescales. 
Im only looking here at the actions of NatWest and whether its made  a mistake or acted 
unreasonably. And for the reasons  Ive given I dont find it has. I know that this will come as 
a great  disappointment  to Mr and Mrs B given the amount of money at stake for them.  They 
may want to take their own advice about any legal  options open  to them - subject again  to 
any relevant time limits.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  24 August 2019.
Michael Crewe
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7278152