K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that American  Express  Services  Europe Limited (Amex) mis-sold him a 
gadget insurance  policy.
background
In 2012 Mr M took out an insurance  policy called  My Essentials through a representative of 
Amex, and its underwritten by a different insurer.
Mr M made a claim under the policy in early in 2019 for a broken tablet which  was turned 
down by the insurer. They said only items  for personal use were  covered. Because the tablet 
had been purchased through Mr Ms business, it wasnt  considered for personal use, so 
wasnt covered.
Mr M says he understands  what the underwriter is saying but feels  that Amex  shouldve 
made this clearer when the policy  was taken out. Because of this he complained to Amex  
saying the policy had been  mis-sold. 
Amex reviewed Mr Ms complaint but didnt think the policy  was mis-sold. They  said the sale 
was on a non-advised basis and that it was up to members to decide  whether a product is 
suitable for them. They also said the terms and conditions  made  clear  that items  bought  
through a business werent covered. Mr M was unhappy with this so brought his complaint to 
our service.
One of our investigators  looked into what happened. They thought the policy wasnt  mis-
sold. Mr M disagreed with this saying;  even though the phone  and tablet were purchased 
through his business, he still considers they belonged to him, as he is the business owner. 
Because Mr M didnt  agree the complaint has come to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I find myself coming to 
the same  conclusion as our investigator  for broadly the same  reasons.
We expect businesses to present  insurance policy information in a clear,  fair and not 
misleading way. They  should explain the features  and costs  as well as draw  attention  to any 
significant or unusual limitations, restrictions, exclusions or conditions.  Having looked at 
what happened Im persuaded Amex fulfilled their obligations with this.
Amex dont have  a copy of the telephone  call from 2012 when the policy was taken out. 
Given the passage  of time I dont find this unusual. They have however provided a copy  of 
the call script used at the time. We can never  be 100% sure that the script was followed 
word for word. But it does  give a strong  and persuasive indication of the what  the agent was 
required to say, and what was more than likely said in the call. 
The call script says the agent  should  explain that the My Essentials policy  provides  cover 
for loss, theft or accidental damage of eligible items. It goes on to say that the consumer will 
need to decide for themselves if the product is right for them. It also says that the agent  
wont go through full policy terms and conditions,  but all the information  will be in the 
welcome pack. 
Ref: DRN79684962The terms and conditions,  which were  sent out in the welcome pack, say on page 1 that the 
policy covers personal possessions. The definition of personal possessions is an item owned 
by you or a member of your residential  family  which could be carried  on or about the person 
in or away  from the home. They go on to define  you/your as the person named on the 
welcome letter who has purchased the agreement.  
Also defined in the terms and conditions is an insured item. This says; mobile phone, 
gadget(s) and/or personal possessions as listed under Section 2 Part C and owned by you 
or members of your residential family. 
Amex says the welcome pack  was sent to all policyholders. Mr M whilst  saying  he couldnt 
be sure the welcome  pack was received,  hasnt  said that it wasnt received. 
Ive also seen a letter from 2015 that was sent to policyholders, like Mr M, which says that 
the policy will not cover  items  purchased through a business account. Mr Ms complaint is 
about the sale in 2012.  So,  whilst  this letter  doesnt form part of the documentation sent at 
that time,  it does show that in 2015  Amex reminded policyholders about the terms and 
conditions. 
Ive also considered that the Amex account  is in the personal name of Mr M, and not his 
business. Had it been a business  account, the circumstances might be different, but theyre 
not.
Having considered the sales process,  and the terms and conditions, Im satisfied Amex did 
what they needed to do providing the information to Mr M in a clear, fair and not misleading 
way. This means I dont  think  the policy was mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  explained above, my decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 January 2020.
Warren Wilson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7968496