K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained about Vitality  Health Limiteds decision to decline Mr Cs 
claim, under Mrs Cs employers group private  medical insurance  policy, for removal  of a 
tooth.
  
background
Mrs C was a member  of her employers group private medical insurance policy, held with 
Vitality. The policy covered  her husband, Mr C, also.
Mr C felt that the gum around his wisdom  tooth was swollen and he noticed  bleeding  from 
the area when  he cleaned  his teeth. He visited his dentist who referred him to Dr A, a 
consultant oral and maxillofacial surgeon. Dr A confirmed that the tooth  was partially erupted  
and impacted with severe internal resorption  and evidence of coronal infection. He 
recommended the urgent  removal of the tooth under local anaesthetic  and warned that if this 
werent done, it was likely that a severe  jaw abscess would develop.
Mr C asked Vitality  to provide cover  for the treatment but it refused. It said that the policy 
provided cover only if Mr C had suffered repeated pain or infections.  It said Mr C hadnt 
reported either of these  and therefore  it viewed the treatment as preventative.
Mr C complained to Vitality and provided an email from his dentist emphasising the clinical  
need for the tooth to be removed.
Vitality wouldnt change  its position and so Mr and Mrs C referred their complaint  to us.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should not be upheld. In her opinion,  
Vitality had acted fairly and in accordance with the terms  of the policy.
Mr and Mrs C didnt accept the investigators findings. They considered  Vitality  had ignored 
the opinions of both Mr Cs dentist and Dr A. They believed it was absurd that Mr C should 
have to wait until his condition had deteriorated,  and he potentially was in severe pain, 
before Vitality would  provide cover  for treatment which,  by that time,  would  be more complex 
and costly. They considered that this was not how private medical insurance was intended to 
operate.
In view of the continued  disagreement, the matter has been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont uphold  this 
complaint. I shall explain  why.
The policy states  that cover is provided only for certain oral surgical procedures. It goes on 
to list these procedures,  which  include:
surgical removal of impacted teeth, or partially  erupted teeth, causing repeated  pain or 
infections, and complicated buried roots
Ref: DRN73461562The policy makes clear  that there is no cover for any oral surgical procedure which is not 
listed.
It does not seem to be in dispute that Mr C had not suffered  pain from his tooth, nor had he 
suffered repeated infections. Im therefore satisfied that Vitality was acting in accordance  
with the strict terms of the policy when it declined cover.
This doesnt mean that Vitality  ignored  the opinions of Mr Cs dentist  and Dr A. Vitality  hasnt 
disputed that there  was a clinical need  for Mr Cs treatment. But this isnt the criteria by 
which Mr Cs claim was being assessed. The policy doesnt promise  to cover  all treatment 
for which there is a clinical  need.  And in the end, it is up to an insurer  to decide the 
circumstances under which it is prepared to provide cover.
I understand Mr and Mrs Cs disappointment over Vitalitys decision. I have considered 
whether, despite  the wording of the policy, Vitality should provide cover  on a fair and 
reasonable basis. However, while  Dr A says that failure to remove the affected tooth would 
likely result in a severe jaw abscess, he doesnt say that this would be inevitable and 
imminent consequence. In view of all the circumstances, and while  recognising that the 
removal of the tooth was clinically  recommended, I think  it was fair for Vitality  to decline the 
claim.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  7 February  2020.
David Poley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7346156