K820x#14complaint
Mrs C is unhappy that Vitality Health Limited has charged her a policy  excess on top of the 
contribution shes  already  made towards  the costs  of her treatment.
background
Mrs C made  a claim on her private medical insurance policy when she needed some 
treatment. She wanted the treatment to take place at a particular hospital and agreed to pay 
40% of the costs  when Vitality explained the hospital wasnt  on her chosen list.
Mrs C paid 40% of the treatment costs but was surprised  when  Vitality  said she had to pay 
the £500 policy excess on top of this. She didnt think this requirement  was made clear in the 
policy terms and conditions. She asked us to look into his complaint after Vitality  insisted she 
must pay the excess too.
Our investigator didnt  agree that the terms and conditions were unclear  and said Vitality had 
confirmed the correct amount that Mrs C had to pay. Mrs C didnt agree, so the complaint 
has come  to me to review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I think the policy terms and conditions explain clearly that if a customer  has the hospital  list 
option then theyll have to pay 40% of the treatment costs if they go to a hospital  not on that 
list. This is also explained on Mrs Cs insurance certificate. And Mrs C doesnt dispute that 
Vitality explained  this when the claim was registered, and she was happy for the treatment 
and claim to go ahead on this basis. But she thought the £500 policy excess would be 
included in that 40%.
The policy excess is mentioned several times in the terms and conditions  but not specifically 
in the section that deals  with eligible hospitals.  Mrs C had a per person per claim excess  
which the terms explain will be deducted  from the first invoice Vitality pays. I agree with 
Mrs C that the policy terms and conditions dont expressly set out that the excess  must be 
paid on top of the 40% contribution. But nor do they say the excess  will be included in the 
40%. As Ive said, the excess and eligible hospital sections of the policy are separate.  
I havent been provided with a copy of the call recording in which  the claim and 40% 
contribution were first discussed. Vitalitys notes  say the excess and 40% were  discussed, 
but I accept it may not have been  made  clear  at that point to Mrs C that the excess must be 
paid on top. But I dont think that really  make a difference given the 40% share  of the 
treatment costs amounted  to over £16,500  (a considerable  amount  more than the excess).  
So I dont  think its likely  Mrs C wouldve  done anything different   such as choosing to use a 
listed hospital instead  just to avoid having  to pay the £500 excess.
I dont think Vitality went against the policy  terms when  it told Mrs C she had to pay both the 
excess and 40% of the treatment costs. And, from what  Ive seen, Vitality has calculated his 
share correctly. So Mrs C still needs  to pay a further  £500  to the hospital where the 
treatment took place.
Ref: DRN70834042my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7083404