K821x#15complaint
Ms R says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold her a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy. 
The store card was originally taken out in a department store,  but FICL has taken 
responsibility for the sale of PPI, and for this complaint. So Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Ms R took out in 2001.  It was added to her 
account on the telephone  after the card had been  set up.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Ms Rs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Ms Rs complaint because I dont think  FICL gave Ms R clear enough 
information about the policy. I say this because Ms R had significant savings in place at the 
time which meant she couldve maintained her repayments without the policy . So I think that 
Ms R wouldnt have  wanted the policy  if FICL had given her enough  information  to 
understand the costs and benefits of the PPI. So, I think Ms R has lost out because  of what 
FICL did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments, including what it said about  Ms Rs savings 
potentially being  earmarked for another purpose   and that it doesnt know  the source of 
such a large amount of savings. But I still think I should uphold  the complaint  nothing Ms R 
has said suggests that the savings  she held were for any particular purpose,  and I dont find 
the amount unusual  for someone  of Ms Rs age whod  had some  time to build up a nest egg 
with her husband. 
putting things right
FICL should put Ms R in the financial position  shed be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Ms R would have owed when she closed her store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Ms R owed when she closed her 
account and what  she would have owed if she hadnt had PPI.
Ref: DRN72678182If Ms R made a successful  claim under  the PPI policy,  FICL  can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.  
B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Ms R would have owed 
when she closed her account  from when she closed it until she gets the refund. The 
interest rate should  be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Ms R would  have owed each month without  PPI  Ms R 
paid more than enough  to clear  her balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Ms R paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Ms R 
wouldve owed FICL  something on her store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Ms R what  its done to work out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Ms R a certificate  
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Ms Rs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 June  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7267818