K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about two mortgage payment protection  insurance (MPPI) policies taken 
out in 2004 with their original mortgage and in 2007,  when they took out a further advance. 
Mr and Ms T say Bank of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold them  MPPI. 
The type of MPPI policies  Mr and Ms T were  sold were called Total Mortgage  Protection 
Plans (TMPP). TMPP can be split into sections, namely Mortgage Repayments Cover  (which 
is a form of MPPI), Life Cover and Critical Illness Cover (CIC).
They have only complained about the MPPI, so Ive only looked at the sale of the MPPI 
element of the packages in this decision.  The MPPI  policies provided cover  for Mr T, 
although the mortgage and further  advance were  in joint names.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mr and Ms T disagreed so the 
complaint has come  to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of MPPI on our website 
and Ive taken  this into account  in deciding Mr and Ms Ts case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why.
Mr and Ms T say that they didnt know that the MPPI policies were optional,  and they 
werent aware that they had taken  them out. But I think BoS made  it clear  that Mr and 
Ms T didnt have to take out the MPPI policies, and they chose to take it out  although I 
can understand why they cant remember this as it was so long ago. I say this because 
BoS has provided information about how it sold MPPI at the time Mr and Mrs T took out 
their mortgage and further advance,  and the kind of paperwork that wouldve been 
completed. This shows that MPPI was presented as an optional product  and that 
consent wouldve  been gained for it to be taken out. And I havent  seen  anything  to 
suggest that BoS did anything other  than its usual process when it sold Mr and Ms T the 
MPPI policies.  
BoS recommended the MPPI  to Mr and Ms T so it had to check that the MPPI policies 
were right for them   and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances, I think that 
they were. For example Mr T wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on the 
MPPI policies, and they seem  to have had a need for the cover.   
Its possible  the information BoS gave Mr and Ms T about the MPPI policies wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve been. But as I think they chose  to take them  out - it looks like they 
wanted this type of cover. And it seems like the policies would have been useful for them 
if something went wrong.  It also looks like they were affordable.  So I dont think better 
information about the MPPI policies would have put them  off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Ms T have said - but these  points dont change  my 
decision, and for the reasons set out above,  I dont think the MPPI policies were mis-sold.
Ref: DRN74798482Ive also thought about whether BoS needs to give Mr and Ms T some of the commission  
they paid back. The Supreme Court ruling and rules and guidance dont apply to certain 
types of mortgage  agreement   including a regulated mortgage. As Mr and Ms Ts 
mortgage became  a regulated mortgage  before 6 April 2008 they dont apply. So BoS 
doesnt need to refund any of the commission Mr and Ms T paid for the MPPI policies they 
had with that mortgage.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Ms T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 July 2019.  
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7479848