K822xcomplaint
Mr D has complained that PayPal Europe  Sarl & Cie, SCA has not refunded him the cost of 
an item that he did not receive.
background 
Mr D brought an item from a seller and used PayPal to pay for it. He said that he never 
received the item. So, he registered  a buyer  claim asking PayPal for a refund in April 2018.  
PayPal looked  into his claim. It rejected  it because  it said the seller had provided a valid 
tracking number showing  delivery. 
Mr D subsequently  complained to our service. PayPal looked  into his complaint.  It didnt  
uphold it and told Mr D that in accordance with its terms of use, as valid tracking was 
provided; it was obliged to close the claim in favour of the seller. It offered Mr D £250 as a 
gesture of goodwill in full and final settlement of his complaint. 
Mr D didnt accept the offer and asked our service  to investigate. One of our investigators 
looked into his concerns.  She upheld his complaint  as PayPal hadnt provided  evidence that 
the item had been delivered  to Mr Ds address. She said that tracking information only 
showed delivery to a distribution centre,  not to Mr Ds address.
PayPal said that it would  be unfair  to uphold the complaint as Mr D had made  his complaint 
aa number of months after the initial  claim. As a result, the delivery information was no 
longer available.
The case  has been passed to me for review.  On reviewing the case I could see that the 
investigator hadnt made an award  of interest  on the compensation she said needed to be 
paid to Mr D. I requested her to contact PayPal and ask it for any submissions it wanted to 
make regarding an award of interest. 
There followed an exchange of correspondence  between the investigator and PayPal. The 
investigator clarified that she was only asking for comments  on the award of interest at a rate 
of 8% simple a year that wasnt mentioned in her view. She asked for a response by 
27 January 2019.  No response was received by that date.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive decided to uphold  the 
complaint. Ill explain  why. 
PayPals user agreement  includes  protection for buyers. And among a number of situations,  
it provides for buyers to be able to claim their money back  where  goods  they have 
purchased havent  been  received.  
The user agreement also provides protection for sellers where they are able to provide proof 
of delivery. And it gives examples of suitable evidence to include online documentation from 
a postal company  that includes a status of delivered and the date of delivery, together with 
the recipients address.  
Ref: DRN78689572After Mr D first raised his claim with PayPal in April 2018, it wrote to him in May 2018  with its 
response. It said the seller had provided tracking information in response  to the claim. And it 
had used the delivery companys online tracking service, which confirmed delivery of the 
item. As a result, it closed  the claim. It also provided transaction details. These showed 
information such as the sellers  name,  the transaction date and ID together with the item 
name. 
But interestingly, the transaction details didnt show  the status of delivered or the recipients 
address which  PayPals user agreement  has as examples of proof  of delivery.  Im a little 
surprised that PayPal didnt provide this information to Mr D at the time he raised his claim 
with it in 2018. I would have expected it to have  done so to support its rejection of Mr Ds 
claim particularly  given  what  it sets out in the user agreement as examples of evidence of 
delivery. 
Pay Pal has also argued that had Mr D raised his complaint sooner than he did, then it might  
have been able to provide the delivery information. It says its now disadvantaged as the 
information is no longer available.  I think two observations are pertinent  in respect of those 
arguments. 
Firstly, as Ive said above,  PayPal could have given  Mr D that information if it was available  
when he first raised his claim. Secondly  as Mr D had raised  a claim for a refund, it seems  to 
me that it was a distinct possibility that he might  take the issue  further.  So, in my opinion,  it 
would have been sensible of PayPal to have taken a record  / screenshot of the delivery 
information it says it had. It appears  it chose not to do so. As a result, it now finds itself in the 
difficult position of not being able to evidence delivery of the item to Mr D. And for these 
reasons I dont think the criticism of Mr D is fair. Hes brought  the complaint to PayPal and 
this service within the required time limits under the dispute resolution (DISP) rules.  
Mr D has provided a copy of the tracking update he received from the delivery company in 
February 2018. But this doesnt show that it was delivered to his address. And it appears  to 
have been delivered to a service centre in the UK. The difficulty  I have, is that I simply dont 
have enough evidence to safely say that the item was delivered  to Mr D. The trail appears  to 
go cold at the UK service  centre and PayPal hasnt provided evidence  of delivery to Mr Ds 
address when he first raised the claim.  
my final decision
So, for the reasons Ive set out above,  Ive decided to uphold  Mr Ds complaint.  
PayPal should  compensate Mr D by paying him £450 for the item he purchased that wasnt 
delivered.
PayPal should  also pay interest on that amount from the date it made the decision to reject 
Mr Ds claim,  to the date of my final decision at the rate of 8% simple a year.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 February  2020.
Simon Dibble
ombudsman
Ref: DRN78689573
Ref: DRN7868957