K821x#15complaint
Ms F complains that AXA Insurance UK Plc (AXA) wont meet a claim she made  under the 
public liability part of her home insurance  for damage caused by a falling tree.
background
A tree in Ms Fs garden was blown  down in September 2018. It caused considerable 
damage to Ms Fs neighbours property, so Ms F made a claim to AXA. She wanted AXA to 
meet the cost of the repairs   which have to date been paid by her neighbours insurer.
AXA agreed to look at the claim.  It later said it wouldnt meet  Ms Fs claim because the tree 
in question had been dead for some  time,  Ms F had known that for several years and didnt, 
as it says in its final response letter to Ms F  take  all reasonable steps to protect  your 
property and to prevent  loss or damage to anyone elses .
Ms F complained. Shed already explained shed been told by a neighbour (in 2015) that a 
third party thought the tree was dead,  and provided  a quote to fell it. Ms F had also asked 
her local council for a quote  which was provided without a site visit.
Ms F says she then suffered a family tragedy which meant she forgot  about  considering  
what to do next about  the tree. She thinks its unfair of AXA to refuse her claim, which could  
leave her out of pocket  by about £18,500.
Our investigator thought AXA should meet this claim  as (in summary) Ms F had only been  
given the initial quote for removing the tree because  a neighbour thought  it cast too much  
shade. So she recommended the complaint  be upheld.
AXA doesnt  think thats fair, so Ive been asked to conclude this complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im going  to uphold  this complaint, and Ill explain  why.
AXA has considered  this claim under the Public Liability part of Ms Fs insurance. In 
summary, that means  that AXA would pay the cost of the neighbours repairs  on Ms Fs 
behalf  providing the damage was caused  by one of the things Ms Fs policy covers her for 
on her own property.
I dont know which event  in Ms Fs policy AXA considered  the claim under. The only two 
appropriate events  appear to be either storm damage or falling  trees.  Ms F says the tree 
came down in a storm, and AXAs own records show it accepted there  was a storm at the 
relevant time. A falling  tree is the sort of damage  normally associated with a storm. Ms F 
says other,  living trees  were damaged in this storm.
The falling trees  part of Ms Fs policy doesnt mention any cause  of damage. It simply says 
Ms F is covered for falling trees or branches   other  than during the process of them  being 
felled, lopped or topped. This section  of the policy doesnt mention that cover for falling trees 
Ref: DRN72766782is excluded if they are already dead. I think that if AXA thought  this important,  then it could 
have included that condition in a section of the policy specifically about trees.  
I dont think it makes  a difference to my decision which part of the insurance AXA used as 
the event as its agreed one took place, and Ms Fs claim could be considered under either.
AXA says that it need not meet  Ms Fs claim because Ms F knew  the tree was dead and that 
she should have  done something about  it. It thinks not doing so for about  three  years  means  
Ms F hasnt taken reasonable steps to protect either  her own or anyone elses property. 
The reasonable steps  exclusion is a general  one that applies to the whole of Ms Fs policy.  
If AXA wants to use this exclusion  as a reason to not meet the claim  then it must  show why 
the exclusion applies. So Ive thought carefully  about whether Ms Fs actions were 
reasonable.
Im not persuaded that AXA has shown  Ms F hadnt taken reasonable steps to protect her 
property.
Ms F doesnt dispute  that she was told the tree was probably dead  or that she got some 
quotes for its removal. I cant see that anyone told Ms F that she should  cut down the tree  
or what the consequences might be if she didnt. Instead Ms F says she was simply told by a 
neighbour that someone else thought the tree was dead. Both the neighbour and the third 
party had  potentially   an interest in the tree being  removed. The neighbour had already 
got Ms F to agree to lopping a tree next to the one that fell because  it caused shade  and 
Ms F thinks the neighbour may have wanted the other tree down for the same reason. And 
the third party  could simply have been  looking for extra  work.  
Furthermore, Ms F says the quote  she got from the council  was done without a site visit  so 
that was provided  without  anyone actually looking at the tree.
Overall, I currently think that Ms F knew the tree was dead  but I dont think  this means she 
knew that leaving it where it was could endanger  either her or her neighbours property. Nor 
do I think this is something  that would  necessarily occur to her. Ms F has also explained that 
a family  tragedy  took her mind off making further enquiries about the tree.
AXA says that whatever  her family circumstances, Ms F was responsible for running her 
home and looking  after it. It says no matter what had happened, three years is too long to 
leave the tree. Ms F has told us about  what happened, and how long her family was 
affected. I think these were exceptional  circumstances, and I can understand why she left 
things so long.  Thats especially so when it appears no-one told Ms F the tree might fall in a 
storm.
Overall Im not persuaded  AXA has shown me that Ms F didnt take reasonable steps to 
protect her or her neighbours property. Im going  to order it to meet  the claim. Id also 
suggest AXA consider compensating Ms F for the additional stress and worry its actions so 
far have  caused.
Ms F mentioned that she thought the cost of repairing her neighbours property was very 
high. That is something  for AXA to resolve  with the other insurer,  if it so wishes.  
Ref: DRN72766783my final decision
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 February  2020.
Sue Peters
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7276678