K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs C have complained that National Westminster Bank  Plc mis-sold them  a 
mortgage payment  protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr and Mrs C took out the policy in 1995.  Although it was a joint mortgage,  the PPI provided 
cover just for Mr C at that point.
Mr and Mrs C originally received a view from an adjudicator that upheld  their complaint. This 
was on the basis  that Mrs C was only working part-time and was therefore not eligible for the 
policy. However, as Ive said above, Mrs C was not added to the policy at the time that 
NatWest sold it  she didnt become a joint policyholder until 2005. A second adjudicator 
then sent out a further assessment letter that concluded that the policy hadnt been mis-sold. 
The complaint has now been passed to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint and Ill explain why.
Firstly I would like to touch on another issue that Mr and Mrs C have raised. They  say that 
when Mr C made a sickness claim,  the amount of benefit was reduced to such an extent that 
it nowhere near covered the mortgage. As I believe an adjudicator  has explained to Mrs C 
over the phone, this is likely to have been  due to how the benefit  was split. When the policy 
was first taken out, it covered Mr C only and so he would have benefitted  from 100% of the 
benefit amount  (which  was £400  at that time). However, when Mrs C was added to the policy  
in 2005 they would have  made a decision  about  how they wanted the benefit amount (which 
was increased to £500 at that time) split between them. For example, if they had split the 
benefit 50/50 between them, Mr C would have received £250 per month  if hed made a 
successful claim. NatWest were not involved in adding Mrs C to the policy or with how the 
policy was set up when  she was added. Therefore  it cannot be held responsible for this 
issue. Mr and Mrs C would need to make a complaint directly to the insurer  in the first 
instance. To be clear, this complaint is only looking  at whether NatWest mis-sold the policy 
in 1995.
Neither NatWest nor Mr and Mrs C can confirm how the PPI was sold.  NatWest doesnt  have  
any paperwork from the sale, which is not surprising given how long ago it took place, but it 
does make the complaint more difficult to decide.  In reaching my decision I have therefore 
looked at the evidence  that we do have and what I think is most likely  to have happened.
Mr and Mrs C have said they took the policy believing it was the right thing to do in their 
situation with a mortgage and a small family, so they havent alleged that they werent given 
a choice about it or didnt know it was being added. And from what  we know  about  the way 
that NatWest sold mortgage PPI at the time, I think its more likely  than not that the policy  
would have been presented as optional.
Ref: DRN77733342NatWest says it didnt advise Mr and Mrs C to take out the policy. We dont know what  the 
sales channel was or what was discussed  if there  was a meeting. But I dont need to make  a 
finding about this as it doesnt make a difference to my decision. If NatWest did advise 
Mr and Mrs C to buy the policy,  in recommending  it to the couple  it would have  had to 
ensure that it met their needs. And from what  I know  of Mr and Mrs Cs circumstances at the 
time, the policy was suitable.
As I understand it, Mr C was the main  wage earner, so it seems  reasonable that the policy 
was set up only to cover him. Mr C would  have received some sick pay through  his job, but 
the policy would have paid out in addition to this and potentially  for longer than Mr C would 
have received full pay for. And Mr and Mrs C havent mentioned having any other  means, 
such as savings, to fall back on. So I think they had a need for the policy and could have 
benefitted from it.
Its possible that NatWest  didnt provide as much information about the policy as it should 
have, particularly about the things  that it didnt cover. But Mr C wasnt affected by any of 
those things. As I think that Mr and Mrs C had an interest in the policy  and decided to buy it, 
I dont think that further information would have caused them to change  their minds.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs C paid on their PPI  and whether 
NatWest treated them unfairly.  
NatWest has told us that the commission  for Mr and Mrs Cs PPI was less than half of what 
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how NatWest has been  working  this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs Cs commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  NatWest treated them unfairly. This means  it doesnt need  to 
pay Mr and Mrs C back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  Mr and Mrs Cs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Carole Clark
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7773334