K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Ulster Bank  Ltd unfairly  refused  to capitalise his arrears. He asks that 
the arrears are capitalised  with effect from the date he requested it, so that he can repay  his 
mortgage responsibly and improve his credit  record.
background
Mr S took out a mortgage with Ulster Bank in 2007. He says he fell into arrears due to 
problems with his health and job. He returned to work and in mid June 2018 asked Ulster 
Bank to capitalise his arrears. Ulster Bank said he had to maintain a payment  arrangement  
for 12 months before it would do this. Mr S is concerned about the negative impact on his 
credit file, potentially affecting  his ability  to get credit  and insurance products and his job 
prospects.
Our investigator didnt  recommend the complaint be upheld. He said capitalising the arrears  
would mean  monthly  payments would increase. So it was reasonable for Ulster  Bank  to 
require Mr S to maintain  higher  payments  for 12 months, to show  this was affordable, before 
capitalising the arrears. He said Ulster Bank  had to report accurate information to the credit  
reference agencies,  including that an arrangement was in place.
Ulster Bank sent a letter to Mr S in mid 2019  suggesting he hadnt maintained payments. 
This was an error and the investigator said if this had led to adverse information on Mr Ss 
credit record  this should be removed.
Mr S didnt agree. He said hed wanted to capitalise the arrears in 2018, but Ulster Bank 
declined this. Mr S said as he couldnt  pay the arrears immediately he had no option other 
than to agree to the payment arrangement. He says the delay  in capitalising the arrears 
means it will take longer  to repair his credit record and he felt hes being punished.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In June 2018 Mr S contacted Ulster Bank  about capitalising his arrears. Ulster Bank declined  
to do this immediately.  It said Mr S needed to maintain payments under a payment 
arrangement for 12 months. It said it would contact  him after this to discuss  his options.
Mr S wanted  to capitalise his arrears  to improve his credit file. But Ulster Bank had to 
consider whether this was appropriate,  it didnt have to just agree to Mr Ss request.
The rules  of mortgage regulation require lenders to consider a borrowers individual  
circumstances fairly  to decide  if forbearance  should be provided.  Capitalisation  of arrears is 
a concession and lenders  typically  have  strict qualifying criteria  before theyll  consider it. The 
criteria used are a matter of commercial judgement for a business, and we wont  generally 
interfere with that. I see no reason to do so here. 
When arrears  are capitalised, theyre  added  to the mortgage balance, and so the monthly 
payment increases as a result. If the higher  payment  isnt affordable,  the mortgage will fall 
back into arrears  and the arrears will build up more quickly  than before.
Ref: DRN71784812A requirement to make regular payments for a specified period as a pre-condition of a lender 
considering a request for capitalisation of arrears  is reasonable, and not unusual.  A lender is 
looking for evidence  that a borrowers  financial difficulties are behind them and their 
circumstances have  stabilised. 
Here, Ulster Bank required  Mr S to make twelve consecutive months  of payments, in full and 
on time, before it would discuss capitalising his arrears. The payments covered the 
contractual monthly payment  and an amount towards the arrears. Mr S says he had no 
option other than to agree. I appreciate his frustration at what  he sees as a delay. But I dont 
think the requirement was unreasonable in the circumstances. It seems  Mr Ss mortgage  
had been in arrears  since  2014  and in mid 2018  the arrears were  about £12,000. Making 
higher regular payments over 12 months  would help Ulster  Bank  to establish that Mr S would 
be able to maintain  payments if his arrears  were capitalised.
In June 2019 Mr S received a letter from Ulster Bank saying he hadnt maintained  the 
agreed monthly payment, which Mr S says isnt correct. This happened after Mr S bought his 
complaint to us, so didnt form part of his complaint to Ulster Bank. Mr S says Ulster Bank 
has since sent the paperwork for capitalisation,  so the letter  didnt stop him meeting its 
criteria to consider his request for his arrears to be capitalised. If Mr S remains concerned  
about the letter, he should raise  this with Ulster Bank.
Ulster Bank has to report accurate and up to date information to the credit  reference 
agencies. Mr S says information about the arrears  and payment arrangement has affected 
his ability  to get credit and other  products. I understand he wants  to improve  his credit  file. 
But the fact is, Mr Ss mortgage  was in arrears and he wasnt in a position  to clear the 
arrears in mid 2018. I think  it was reasonable for Ulster Bank to require a 12 months period 
of regular payments.  If the arrears and the payment arrangement are on Mr Ss credit  file, 
this is an accurate reflection of his mortgage account. I dont think  its reasonable to require 
Ulster Bank to back date the capitalisation, or amend  Mr Ss credit  file as if it had done so.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 May 2020.
Ruth Stevenson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7178481