K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs K complain  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them a mortgage payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy when  they took out a mortgage  in 1998. 
Santander merged  with the business that Mr and Mrs K dealt with originally when taking out 
this PPI and it is responsible for dealing with their complaint. So Ill just refer to Santander in 
my decision.  
background
The mortgage was in joint names and the PPI covered both Mr and Mrs K for accident, 
sickness and unemployment.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold this complaint. Mr and Mrs K disagree with the adjudicators 
findings. Mr and Mrs K mainly say that it wasnt made clear  that the policy was optional and 
they didnt need PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ks complaint. Ill explain why I say this.
Santander advised Mr and Mrs K to take out the policy.  So it had to make  sure it was 
suitable for both of them, as well as giving them clear information so they could decide if 
they wanted to take it out.
On the mortgage  application Mr and Mrs K completed there  are Yes and No boxes for PPI. 
Mr and Mrs K ticked the box to say they wanted PPI  and theyve put a cross  next to the 
No box. So I think it wouldve been  clear  to them at the time that taking  out PPI was 
optional. They couldve ticked the No box instead if they hadnt wanted PPI. 
Mr and Mrs K also completed a separate PPI application in order  to take out PPI, which they 
both signed. 
I can completely understand why Mr and Mrs K mightve forgotten  some  of these details as 
the sale was so long ago. And I dont know what was discussed about the PPI. But I think  
the way information about the PPI was set out in the paperwork makes  it reasonably  clear  
that it was up to Mr and Mrs K to say if they wanted PPI. 
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs K decided they wanted to have the benefits the 
policy offered and they chose to take it out, knowing it was optional  with their mortgage.  
Looked at overall, PPI seems to have been  right for Mr and Mrs K based  on what  Ive seen 
of their joint circumstances at the time.  The policy covered Mr and Mrs K for up to 12 months 
per claim if they were  too sick or disabled  to work  or in the event  of unexpected 
unemployment. 
Ref: DRN70100382Ive taken into account what Mr and Mrs K told us about their sick pay entitlement at the 
time. PPI wouldve paid out on top of any work benefits. As Mr and Mrs K mightve also had 
some additional  costs in the event of illness or disability I think  this couldve been  a useful 
benefit at a difficult time. 
I dont know if Mr and Mrs K wouldve  always had savings they could rely on if theyd needed 
to make a claim. Repeat claims were possible under the policy  providing Mr and Mrs K with 
long term protection.  And having  PPI wouldve meant they could keep their savings intact to 
provide financial  security for the future. So, looking at Mr and Mrs Ks circumstances  at the 
time, I think the policy couldve been  useful and PPI was suitable for them.
Its possible Santander didnt point out the main things the policy didnt  cover. But 
Mr and Mrs K dont  appear to have  been affected by any of those things. So its unlikely that 
knowing more about this wouldve put Mr and Mrs K off taking  out the PPI.
I dont know how the PPI costs and benefits  were explained to Mr and Mrs K. Its possible 
that Santander couldve explained  these  better. But it appears that Mr and Mrs K chose to 
take out the PPI when they were aware they had the option to decline the cover if they didnt 
want to pay for it. So it seems they were happy to pay to have the cover they wanted at the 
time. And the cost was set out in a welcome letter which explained they could  cancel without 
any financial  penalty if they changed  their minds and no longer wanted  to pay for the policy. 
Mr and Mrs Ks mortgage was a major financial commitment, due to run for some years. 
Their home  wouldve been at risk if the mortgage  payments werent  kept up to date. PPI 
offered Mr and Mrs K protection and peace of mind  that their mortgage payments were 
covered in the event that they couldnt work. Given the benefits  it offered  them,  and their 
situation at the time, I think Mr and Mrs K wouldve still taken the policy out even if 
Santander had given them better  information. 
So, it doesnt seem  to me that Mr and Mrs K have lost out as a result  of anything  Santander  
mightve done wrong. This means  it doesnt need to do anything to put things right.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs K to 
accept or reject my decision  before  23 February  2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7010038