K822xcomplaint 
Mr and Mrs B have  complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) has unfairly 
increased the cost of their pet insurance policy each year.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In general, the cost of insuring a pet will increase each year as the pet gets older  and the 
cost of medical treatment  rises. Standard pet insurance policies also usually  wont  cover any 
medical conditions  the pet had or had received treatment  for when the policy was taken out 
or renewed.  So ongoing or recurring  medical  conditions wont be covered.
But some pet insurance policies,  like the one Mr and Mrs B took out, will continue  to cover 
any medical conditions  claimed for in previous years, provided the policy  is renewed each 
year. These are sometimes referred to as lifetime policies, as ongoing or recurring conditions 
will continue to be covered for the lifetime of the pet, if premiums  carry on being paid. The 
yearly cost of these lifetime policies  can go up significantly at renewal, particularly if a claim 
is made.
RSA should have made these longer-term cost implications clear  to Mr and Mrs B. It has 
accepted the information  it gave Mr and Mrs B about the policy  wasnt  as clear  as it should 
have been. And RSA has offered to pay them £350  compensation  for the trouble and upset 
theyve been caused as a result of this. I think this offer is fair and reasonable compensation 
in the circumstances of Mr and Mrs Bs complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have  told us theyre not happy with the offer RSA has made because it doesnt  
cover the increases in the cost of their policy. Theyve also questioned some  of the reasons 
theyve been given for the cost of their policy increasing.
But the nature of insurance is that cover is provided for things that may not happen, and so 
customers may end up paying  for cover that they didnt use. And just because a customer  
has paid out more in premiums  than theyve received in claims doesnt  mean  that the 
insurance was mis-sold.
Businesses are also entitled  to decide how much to charge for the insurance cover  they 
provide, and I dont  have  the power to tell a business what  its insurance should  cost. I would 
be, in effect, determining or telling a business how it should operate   and thats not my role. 
So I cant say the cost of Mr and Mrs Bs policy is too high, they should have been  charged 
less for the policy or that they should  be charged  less in the future.
And while Mr and Mrs Bs premium has seen significant increases, I havent seen any 
evidence to suggest RSA has treated them differently to how it would have treated any other 
policyholder in the same position.  So I cant tell RSA to charge  them  a lower  premium going 
forwards.
What RSA did wrong was to not give Mr and Mrs B the information they needed to 
understand the longer-term costs of the policy. And the compensation RSA has offered 
recognises that better information about the longer-term costs could have avoided some  of 
Ref: DRN72222992the upset and distress  Mr and Mrs B have experienced. It is a significant  award  and I think it 
fairly compensates Mr and Mrs B for the trouble and upset theyve been caused.
my final decision
I think Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plcs  offer to pay Mr and Mrs B £350 compensation is 
fair and reasonable. I dont require it to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 February  2020.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7222299