K820x#14complaint
Mr H is complaining on his own behalf and that of the estate of his late wife Mrs H. In my 
decision I will refer to the late Mrs H as Mrs H. I dont mean any disrespect by this. 
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
1997. Mr and Mrs H say Nottingham Building Society (NBS) mis-sold them PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes 
Mr and Mrs Hs circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  
limitations and exclusions  of cover, arent  disputed. So, I havent  repeated  all of this 
information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the mis-sale  complaint,  but they thought NBSs offer to pay 
back some  of the cost of the PPI because of the non-disclosure of high commission and 
profit share Mr and Mrs H paid, was fair in the circumstances.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion   they didnt raise 
any new or additional points but repeated the same complaint  points and arguments theyd 
previously made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Hs. I havent set out that detailed 
information here, but Ive taken into account  all relevant considerations in deciding              
Mr and Mrs Hs complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold the mis-sale complaint. Ive also considered  the 
issue of non-disclosure  of commission. And Ive decided NBS should  have disclosed the 
commission it received  but that NBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to 
compensate for the unfairness  caused is fair in the circumstances.  Ive summarised  my 
reasons for each  of these conclusions below.  
Ref: DRN78552172In summary,  my reasons for not upholding the mis-sale part of this complaint  are:
Mr and Mrs H say the PPI was included as part of the mortgage  package,  but I think  it 
more likely NBS made  it clear that Mr and Mrs H didnt have to take out the PPI and they 
chose to take it out. I say this because the mortgage application form says to take a 
mortgage with NBS the property  had to be insured for the full rebuilding  costs.  It doesnt 
say PPI had to be taken.  Also,  the mortgage application doesnt include a PPI application 
section so I think its likely Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have been able to take PPI without  
applying for it separately on a separate form. 
And Mr and Mrs H chose  the benefit  of the cover  for Mr H only,  rather than jointly  as per 
mortgage. So, its clear  they thought about the policy and had to decide how it could be of 
most benefit to them. Ive also seen a copy of the mortgage confirmation  document and it 
is noted on there that the PPI had been  taken. With all of this in mind, on balance  I think  
it was likely made clear that the PPI was something separate  from the mortgage and 
something that Mr and Mrs H had a choice  about  taking. But I understand why this might 
not be remembered now, so long after the event.  
NBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs H  so it didnt have  to check  that the PPI 
was right or suitable for them.  But it did have to give Mr and Mrs H enough clear and 
timely information so they could decide  for themselves if it was right for them.
Its possible the information NBS gave Mr and Mrs H about  the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that they chose  to take it out  so it looks  like they wanted 
this type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong  for Mr and Mrs H. Although    
Mr H says he had a medical condition sometime before  the policy was taken out, I dont 
think better information about  the existing medical exclusion wouldve caused them to 
change their minds about taking out the policy. 
I say this because  the medical condition Mr H told us about was a broken bone and 
occurred over ten years before the policy was taken. And Mr H didnt tell us of any 
ongoing problems  so I dont think Mr and Mrs H would have thought it likely they would 
have had to make a claim on the policy because of the condition  over and above any 
other medical condition.  There  were  also no additional  restrictions on cover for mental 
health or back problems.  It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would 
have been useful for them if something went wrong. Because  of this I dont think            
Mr and Mrs H would  have declined the cover had NBS done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr and Mrs H would  have still taken out PPI. The policy  was 
sufficiently close to what its likely they thought  they were getting, and I think  the policy could 
provide a useful  benefit in a difficult time, given their circumstances at the time. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that they would have  taken out the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has raised a number of what  I consider to be general 
complaint points, which it says apply to all PPI complaints. These  general  points include: a 
claim that the Financial  Ombudsman Service is not correctly applying  the regulators rules  
and guidance  for handling  PPI complaints; these policies represented poor value because  of 
the number of significant exclusions  and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims 
ratio; and the duty of utmost good faith meant NBS should have disclosed the poor value  
and explained  the significance of the limitations  and exclusions  and the impact  it had on the 
chances of making  a claim.
Ref: DRN78552173But Mr and Mrs Hs representative has not said how these points apply  to the specific facts 
and circumstances  of Mr and Mrs Hs individual  complaint  just that they apply to all PPI 
complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr and Mrs Hs particular 
case. But these  points dont persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint   for the reasons Ive set out above I 
dont uphold the mis-sale  element of this complaint. 
This means  NBS doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs H.
non-disclosure of commission
As I said above, Ive also considered the issue of non-disclosure of commission,  including  
whether the non-disclosure resulted in an unfair  relationship under section 140A of the 
Consumer Credit Act  and if so, what fair compensation would be to remedy  that 
unfairness.
Having done so Ive decided NBS should have disclosed the commission it received and that 
NBSs offer to refund some of the cost of PPI to compensate for the unfairness caused is 
fair. My reasons are set out below.
was there  an unfair relationship?
NBS didnt tell Mr and Mrs H about the high levels of commission and profit share  paid in this 
case. So, taking  into account: 
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin1 and the conclusion  in that case  that the non-
disclosure of commission could  lead to an unfair relationship;
-The FCAs rules and guidance for handling  complaints about the non-disclosure  of 
commission and profit share  introduced in light of the Supreme Court judgment in 
Plevin  which  requires a business to presume that the failure to disclose commission  
gave rise to an unfair relationship where the business expected commission  and profit 
share to be more than 50% of the cost of the policy; and 
-the likelihood, in my view, that a court would determine that the relationship between 
NBS and Mr and Mrs H was unfair under section 140A of the Consumer Credit Act 
because NBS didnt  tell them about the high levels of commission and profit  share in this 
case. 
I dont think NBS acted  fairly and reasonably  in its dealings with Mr and Mrs H because it 
failed to disclose  the high commission  and profit  share.
1 Plevin v Paragon Personal Finan ce Limited [2014] UKSC 61 in which the Supreme Court concluded 
that the non-disclosure of commission could lead to an unfair relationship
Ref: DRN78552174redress to remedy that unfair  relationship
Im now required to consider what is fair compensation in all the circumstances to remedy  
the unfairness I have  identified.
Mr and Mrs Hs representative has made a number of representations about this part of the 
complaint including the impact of the Plevin  judgment and sections  140A and 140B of the 
Consumer Credit Act on their complaint.
In summary  they have  said Mr and Mrs H should get back  all the money they paid for the 
policy because:  NBS failed to tell Mr and Mrs H about the high commission and profit-share 
rates paid, the low claims ratio and the restrictions  and exclusions on cover. Because they 
say that meant the policy was poor value, I should  find that Mr and Mrs H wouldnt have 
taken out the policy  had they known about  the level of commission and they should  receive  a 
refund of all the premiums  they paid.
But I dont agree. Im mindful of the following:
-The Supreme  Court judgment in Plevin  made no specific finding about  whether the 
consumer in that case would or would not have bought the PPI policy  had the 
commission been disclosed; 
-A court would have a range of powers available under section  140B  to remedy the 
unfairness caused by the non-disclosure  of commission  it does not follow that a 
court would automatically order  a return of all the premiums  paid or conclude that a 
consumer would  not have purchased the policy had the commission  been  disclosed; 
and
-The FCA considered  the matter and decided that it wouldnt be appropriate to merge  
the considerations about undisclosed commission in the existing rules  and guidance  
about mis-selling (hence the two-step  approach for firms handling PPI complaints) 
and that the impact  of any undisclosed  commission and any remedy  caused by it 
should be considered at step 2.
Taking into account relevant law and the FCAs rules and guidance,  my role as an 
ombudsman is to determine what redress, if any, would represent fair compensation for 
Mr and Mrs H in order to remedy the unfairness caused by NBS not disclosing the high 
level of commission to them before they purchased  the policy.
So, taking into account: 
-The FCAs guidance usually  requires a business to refund the amounts paid by the 
consumer in commission and profit  share  above 50% of the policys  cost, plus interest in 
order to remedy the unfairness caused  by the failure to disclose the level of commission;
-refunding some  of the money  paid for the PPI policy  in this way is an order  which, in my 
view a court could, in the exercise of its discretion, make  under section 140B of the 
Consumer Credit  Act in order to remedy any unfairness; and
-I am not, as Mr and Mrs Hs representative suggests, driven to conclude that they 
wouldnt have purchased the policy but for NBSs failure to disclose the level of 
commission for the reasons Ive given above.
Ref: DRN78552175I think it was fair for NBS to calculate compensation in line with the FCAs guidance and 
return some  of the money Mr and Mrs H paid for their PPI policy.  
I consider this fairly removes the source  of the unfairness. This is because  it leaves            
Mr and Mrs H with the policy which Ive concluded  above they would still have taken out if 
NBS had done everything it should have done  but with lower commission  and profit share 
levels.
So, I consider that NBSs  offer of payment of an amount equivalent  to the commission  and 
profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy costs (plus associated  interest where  
applicable) in line with the FCAs guidance  to firms is fair in all the circumstances.
 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  the mis-sale element  of Mr and Mrs Hs complaint or make any 
award in favour of them for this part of the complaint.
But because of the non-disclosure of commission  and profit  share, Ive decided  that 
Nottingham Building Society should  pay Mr and Mrs H an amount equivalent  to the 
commission and profit share paid in excess of 50% of the policy  cost (plus associated 
interest where applicable) if it hasnt already done  so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr H on his own 
behalf and on behalf of the estate of the late Mrs H to accept or reject my decision before 
2 October 2021.
 
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7855217