K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs W complain that Lloyds  Bank  PLC, when it was trading as Cheltenham & 
Gloucester (C&G), mis-sold them a mortgage payment protection insurance (PPI) policy.
Lloyds merged with the business that sold PPI to Mr and Mrs W and it is responsible  for 
dealing with this complaint. So from now on Ill just refer in my decision to Lloyds.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  taken  out on a mortgage account that started  in 1993. 
Lloyds couldnt  provide  any paperwork to show how or when PPI was sold to Mr and Mrs W. 
Mr and Mrs W say they went  into the branch to sign paperwork after everything had been  
discussed and agreed over the phone and by post. And they may well be right about  that.
But, to be as fair as possible  to Mr and Mrs W, Lloyds looked  at the complaint on the basis  
that PPI was sold to them  in one of its branches. And Lloyds says it wouldve recommended  
PPI to Mr and Mrs W in these circumstances.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs W disagreed  with the adjudicators 
opinion.
Mr and Mrs W mainly said they didnt know  they had PPI. Mr and Mrs W also told us that 
they had no need for PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.  
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Ws complaint. 
Ive taken carefully into account  everything Mr and Mrs W have told me. And I've no reason 
to doubt theyre  sure about everything theyve said. But what  they say about the way they 
were sold PPI isn't enough on its own for me to be able to uphold their complaint. I have to 
look at all the available information and the wider circumstances  before deciding  what I think  
is most  likely.
Its possible PPI mightve  been  discussed  when they went  into the branch. And theres a 
chance the advisor they spoke to mightve  advised  them to have  the PPI. So, given  the lack 
of paperwork showing how Lloyds sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs W, I think  the fairest  way to 
look at this complaint  is to assess it on the basis that Lloyds recommended PPI to 
Mr and Mrs W as it imposes extra obligations on the lender.  Looking at the complaint this 
way gives Mr and Mrs Ws complaint  the best chance of success. Thats  because  if a 
business makes a recommendation about PPI, it doesnt just have to give important policy  
information in a clear  way. It also has to take reasonable steps to make sure the cover  it 
recommends is suitable. 
Ref: DRN70988532I cant know precisely what  was said when Mr and Mrs W arranged this PPI. It wouldnt be 
reasonable to expect  them to recall exactly what was discussed so long ago. But Ive 
thought about the fact that their mortgage  was a major financial commitment, due to run for a 
long period of time. Mr and Mrs Ws home wouldve been at risk if the mortgage payments  
werent kept up to date.  PPI provided a dependable means of ensuring their monthly 
mortgage repayments were protected even  if Mr W couldnt work. And the policy offered 
them better protection than they had otherwise.  As it looks as if only Mr W was in paid work 
when the mortgage was taken out I think having  PPI would've given Mr and Mrs W peace of 
mind. So, I can see why Mr and Mrs W mightve  felt PPI was useful. 
Its completely understandable if Mr and Mrs W have  now forgotten the details of an 
application they made so long ago. But, on balance, I think  its likely that Mr and Mrs W 
decided they wanted to protect their home by taking out the PPI offered and they chose to 
buy the policy. 
Mr W told us he was entitled  to at least 12 months  sick pay. It would be quite unusual for 
someone to be guaranteed to receive  full sick pay for a whole year or more   and Mr W 
hasnt sent us anything to show  hes right about  this. PPI wouldve covered him for accident 
or sickness for up to 12 months each time he made  a successful claim. The policy wouldve 
paid out an amount that covered his mortgage  monthly repayments,  plus some extra, on top 
of any sick pay. This couldve been a useful benefit  at whats likely  to have been a difficult  
time if Mr W needed  to claim as he mightve had extra costs if he was ill or disabled.  
As well as this, the policy also paid out for up to 12 months per claim in the event Mr W lost 
his job unexpectedly and was out of work. 
Repeat claims were possible providing Mr and Mrs W with long term protection  whilst they 
were paying  for their home.  So I think PPI offered  Mr and Mrs W better cover than they 
wouldve had if theyd  just depended  on Mr Ws employer.
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs W had some  savings. But there was no guarantee 
when Mr and Mrs W took out this mortgage that they would always  have savings  to rely on. 
Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs W could also keep savings secure in the long term as they 
wouldnt have been forced to use this money to pay the mortgage.  
And although Mr W also mentioned having some healthcare insurance through work, this 
provided a different sort of benefit  and paid out in different  circumstances to PPI. 
So, I think PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs W.
Its possible  some of the information  Lloyds gave Mr and Mrs W about  the PPI wasnt  as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But Mr W wasnt affected by any of the main conditions  that 
mightve limited the policys  benefit  to him. So, even if these  werent mentioned, I dont think 
that knowing more  about things the policy didnt cover wouldve made any difference  to 
Mr and Mrs Ws decision to have PPI. 
Mr W was eligible for the policy. I dont know if the PPI cost was made clear to 
Mr and Mrs W when  they bought the policy. But, from what Ive seen, it doesnt appear to 
have been unaffordable for them when they took it out. 
Ref: DRN70988533Overall, its possible there  may have  been  some  failings  in the way this policy was sold. But 
I think Mr and Mrs W still wouldve decided  to buy the policy if theyd been better informed as 
it gave them worthwhile protection in their particular situation. I dont  think  better information 
wouldve put them off buying PPI given  the benefits it offered them.
Looked at overall, it doesnt  look as if Mr and Mrs W lost out as a result  of anything Lloyds 
mightve done wrong. So it doesnt  need to do anything to put things right.
In coming to my decision Ive thought  carefully about  everything that Mr and Mrs W told us, 
including the comments made in response to our adjudicators view.  I appreciate  they feel 
strongly about this complaint and I understand that what Ive said will come  as a 
disappointment. In my decision I've dealt with all the main points raised that have an impact  
on the outcome  of this complaint. Nothing  else theyve said makes  any overall difference  to 
my decision.  I hope that setting out the reasons as Ive done will help explain how Ive 
reached my decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs W to 
accept or reject my decision  before  5 September 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7098853