K820x#14complaint
Miss R is unhappy about the way in which Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc (RSA) 
handled a claim  she made on her legal expenses insurance (LEI) policy. All references to 
RSA include its claims handlers.  
background
Miss R was involved in a landlord and tenant  dispute. She sought  to make a claim on her 
LEI policy to cover the cost of her defending a legal claim brought against  her for non-
payment of rent and recharges accruing due to the condition  the property was in when her 
tenancy ended, and bringing a counter-claim.
One of RSAs panel law firms (the law firm) carried out an assessment  on the prospects of 
her succeeding  in that claim. In August 2016, the law firm advised that certain  aspects of her 
claim fell outside the period of insurance so she wasnt covered.  It also advised that the 
prospects of her succeeding in the other  parts of her claim had prospects  of below 51%.  
Unhappy, Miss R complained about the assessment. The law firm did accept that the 
assessment was prematurely made, and when not all of the information was available  to it. 
However, when it subsequently reviewed  the claim the assessment didnt change.
Miss R complained to RSA. And in around  October 2016 RSA agreed to appoint  another  one 
of its panel firms (the second law firm) to undertake an assessment. The advice it provided 
was similar  to that of the first law firm. Relying on that advice, RSA concluded that it wouldnt 
cover the claim Miss R made under the policy. 
However, it advised that if she obtained a more  favourable opinion  from a barrister (initially  
at her own cost), confirming that prospects of her succeeding in her claim were  at 51% or 
above, it would reconsider its position.  And if indemnity was subsequently granted,  it would 
consider retrospectively  covering the reasonable fees incurred preparing that advice. It also 
asked for Miss Rs legal  representative to complete a case analysis which  included  details 
about total costs  to conclusion of the case  to ensure that costs were  reasonable and 
proportionate. 
Miss R was unhappy with the second  law firms opinion  and in April 2017, provided further 
comments on the advice  provided. And after the second law replied confirming that its 
assessment remained  unchanged  she instructed a barrister. 
The barrister  provided an opinion in July 2017 and identified aspects of the claim which had 
reasonable prospects of succeeding. He also confirmed that the legal claim had been 
allocated to the small claims track, meaning that it was unlikely that the winning party side 
would be able to recover their legal costs. 
Of the parts of the claim that enjoyed reasonable prospects of success,  RSA concluded that 
there was only one aspect  which had occurred  during the period  of insurance; the non-
payment of rent in the approximate sum of £350.  It interpreted the barristers  advice to mean 
that as this sum had now been  paid,  it would fall away. And although  the overall net value of 
Miss Rs claim  totalled £1,000  this related to aspects of the claim which  took place before 
the policy was taken out, and so not covered.  
 
Ref: DRN78327342Miss R didnt think RSA had taken into account the value of her counter-claim concerning 
malfeasance, negligence and mental distress. RSA asked for her to obtain a further opinion  
from the barrister as to the value of that claim. 
In light of the further opinion, RSA concluded  that her legal costs  may exceed the value of 
the claim.  However,  it asked Miss R to obtain a breakdown of estimated costs  to the 
conclusion of a fully contested hearing  inclusive of disbursements  together with details of 
the proposed  next steps relating to the claim for £350 (as that would be the only claim it 
would consider in light of the counsels opinion).  
At the end of January  2018 RSA were  notified  that the claims against her had been  struck 
out, leaving only her counter-claim  to be determined by the court.  The claim had also been  
transferred to the multi-track. Miss R forwarded  RSA an updated estimate of costs  going 
forward in the region  of £2,500 - £3,250 plus VAT to the conclusion of the case. The barrister 
also provided a further opinion  on prospects and valued Miss Rs claim to be between 
approximately £3,450 and £6,450. 
In light of the further information, RSA notified  Miss R in early February 2018 that the claim 
still wouldnt  be covered  under  the policy. Thats because two of the issues that had now 
been identified  as having reasonable  prospects of success occurred before the start of the 
policy and another  aspect  of her complaint relating to the breach of the Equality Act 2010 
(the EqA) was dependant on whether the court allowed an extension  to the limitation date - 
and the prospects of it doing  so was advised  to be below 51% at that stage. Besides, even if 
that extension  was granted, RSA said it would  require  further  information  from the barrister  
so that it could ensue that the date of the breach  fell within the policys period of cover. 
At the end of March 2018 the Court agreed to grant Miss R permission to amend her claim to 
include complaints  of harassment under the Protection from Harassment Act 1997 (the PHA) 
and whether her claim made under the EqA was time-barred would be determined  at the 
final hearing.
In light of this information,  RSA requested  further  clarification of all relevant dates pertaining 
to the claims being brought under the PHA and whether the acts were the same as those 
being claimed under the EqA, to see whether they pre-dated  the policys  inception. 
After receiving further information, in October  2018,  RSA agreed to fund the barristers costs  
to represent her at the final hearing. It had also agreed to cover the costs of the barristers  
opinions.
Miss R is unhappy with the amount  of time it has taken RSA to confirm  that aspects  of her 
claim are covered under the policy. She says shes disabled and shes  been indirectly 
discriminated against under the EqA. She also says the unnecessary,  and constant, back  
and forth has negatively  impacted her health - particularly as shes had to act as a litigant in 
person, with the assistance of a barrister. 
Although RSA has now agreed to reimburse  her for the fees she incurred instructing the 
barrister to provide  merits assessments, she would like RSA to pay interest  on those 
amounts. 
Miss R is also unhappy  that RSAs  representative copied her barrister into an email they 
sent her on 17 May 2018, without her permission or consent. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold Miss Rs complaint. He said:
Ref: DRN78327343-we didnt have  the power  to look into some of the complaints  Miss R had raised 
because theyd been referred  to us too late and he didnt  think  there were any 
exceptional circumstances  to explain why Miss R wasnt  able to refer those concerns 
to us within six months from the date of the relevant final response letters issued by  
or on behalf of  RSA;
-any complaint about whether RSA breached her data protection rights by copying  her 
barrister into an email  it had sent her should be referred to the independent 
commissioners office  to consider; and
-in relation to the other complaints that we did have the power  to investigate,  RSA 
hadnt done anything wrong.
Miss R disagrees and has asked for her complaint to be passed to an ombudsman. She also 
requested more time to provide her comments in response to the investigators opinion.  Our 
investigator agreed to this request, and Miss Rs subsequent requests to extend the 
timeframe for her to provide more  information. However, the final deadline has now passed 
without receiving anything  further from Miss R so I need to make a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I dont uphold  it. I know  
Miss R will be very disappointed with my decision but hopefully shell understand the 
reasons for my decision, when I explain  why.
RSA issued a final response dated  3 July 2017  to Miss R (the final response) not upholding 
her concerns  about not being  able to initially choose  her own solicitor to undertake an 
assessment on the merits of her claim, the advice she received from the first and second law 
firm, and the time it had taken up to that point  to deal with her claim. If Miss R was unhappy 
with the response, she was told she was able to complain to our service within six months.  
Miss R didnt complain to us until a year later, in July 2018.
Our powers  to look into certain complaints are set out in the Dispute Resolution Rules
(DISP) of the FCA Handbook. This can be read online. DISP 2.8.2 of the FCA Handbook 
says we cant look at a complaint if its been brought more  than six months  after the date the 
business sent its final response letter.  These time limits only apply  when a business doesnt 
consent to us looking at the complaint - because it thinks its been brought  to us out of time.  
In this case, RSA hasnt  consented.
However, the six months timeline can be extended  in exceptional circumstances. But Im 
satisfied that that there arent  any exceptional circumstances here. Miss R was able to 
correspond with RSA within  the six months from the date of the final response  and so I dont 
think there was anything preventing her during that time, contacting our service to escalate 
her concerns. As such Im satisfied that we dont have the power to consider  the complaints 
Miss R brought  to us in July 2018, and which RSA addressed  in the final response.
So Ive considered her complaints concerning what happened from July 2017. Miss R did 
receive a barristers opinion around that time and RSA didnt confirm  that Miss Rs claim was 
covered until 15 months later, in October  2018.  Thats a long time.  However,  looking at what  
happened during that period, Im satisfied that any significant delay wasnt  the fault of RSA. 
Ref: DRN78327344RSA did receive various barristers opinions from Miss R during this time but I dont think  the 
stance taken in response  to each those opinions was unfair or unreasonable, based on the 
information it had at the relevant times. It follows that I dont think RSA provided  superfluous  
reasons to decline cover initially  or that its been  obstructive in the way in which its handled 
the claim made on her LEI policy, as Miss R says.
RSA is entitled  to consider the claim in light of the policy  terms. And the policy  doesnt  cover:
-any event, dispute or cause of action that first happened or started before the LEI 
was taken out;
-any claim where there is not a reasonable chance of Miss R winning the case and 
achieving a reasonable outcome; and
-legal  proceedings where  a reasonable estimate  of Miss Rs total legal  expenses  is 
greater than the amount in dispute.
Those sorts  of terms are common in LEI policies and generally we dont think  an insurers  
reliance on them is unfair. Thats because it wouldnt be reasonable to expect an insurer  to 
fund a claim, the circumstances of which the policyholder was aware  of before the policy  
was taken out. Nor would  we think it was reasonable for an insurer  to fund a claim that isnt 
likely to succeed, or where  a privately paying client wouldnt be advised to start, or continue 
with, legal action.  
The barrister  did advise  that Miss R had reasonable prospects in defending the claims 
against her and / or counter-claiming.  However, I dont think RSA unreasonably concluded 
that all but one of these  issues  had arisen before the policy  was taken  out and so not 
covered under the policy.
It then requested further guidance from the barrister about the remaining issue that did enjoy 
reasonable prospects of success, the next steps  in relation to that issue  (given that the £350 
in dispute had been paid), the value of a further  aspect of the counter-claim  and an estimate 
of costs going forward. I dont think RSA unreasonably  sought  to clarify those points before 
confirming cover in the circumstances, particularly given the amount in dispute. 
There were also times when RSA was waiting on information / further responses from 
Miss R. So it wouldnt  be fair to hold RSA responsible for delays  outside  of their control. 
As the litigation evolved, and after the claim against  Miss R was struck out, the barrister  
identified other aspects of the counter-claim that had reasonable prospects of success. But 
again I dont think  RSA unfairly  concluded  that these  took place before the policy  started or 
by asking for more  information to consider when they took place, the value  of those aspects 
of the claim and an estimate of the likely legal costs  going forward.  I think it was trying  to get 
a better  understanding about whether the likely  legal  costs were proportionate  to the likely 
value of the claim, whether those  aspects of the claim enjoyed  reasonable  prospects  of 
success and ascertaining whether they occurred  during the period of insurance. I think  thats  
reasonable. 
When making this finding, Ive taken into account that Miss R says RSA has indirectly  
discriminated against her because of her disability. Its not our role to say whether a 
business has acted  unlawfully  or not  thats a matter for the Courts.  Our role is to decide 
whats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances.  In order to decide that we have to take 
into account:
Ref: DRN78327345-relevant law and regulations;
-relevant regulators  rules, guidance  and standards; 
-relevant codes of practice; and
-(where appropriate)  what  we consider to have been good industry practice  at the 
relevant time.
So, although  itd be for the Courts to say whether  or not has been indirectly discriminated 
against by RSA, Ive taken the EqA into account  as its relevant when deciding whats fair 
and reasonable in this particular case.
Even if I was persuaded that a court is likely  to find that Miss R meets the statutory  definition  
of disabled  (which  I make no finding on), indirect  discrimination  under the EqA occurs 
where all four of the following elements are present:
-a person (in this case RSA) applies  a provision, criterion or practice to customers 
who dont have  a disability as well as to those  who do;
-the policy puts those customers with a disability at a particular disadvantage
compared to those who dont have a disability;
-the customer (in this case  Miss R) is one of those disadvantaged; and
-the person  cant show that the policy is justified   that is, that its a proportionate
means of achieving a legitimate aim.
The provision, criterion and / or practice that Miss R is unhappy about  is, in effect, RSA 
requesting that she establish that her claims have reasonable prospects of succeeding, that 
they took place within  the period  of insurance  and the legal costs are not likely to outweigh 
the value of the claim. I dont think its likely a court would find that such requirements put 
disabled customers at a disadvantage compared with those who arent disabled. And for the 
reasons, Ive explained above, I dont think such requirements are unfair or unreasonable.
So, all in all, I dont  think RSA has done anything wrong and I dont think  it shouldve  agreed 
to pay the costs of the barrister providing  his opinions until it was able to establish that the 
policy terms had been met, particularly given  that RSA had received opinions from the first 
and second law firms in 2016 which concluded that her claim didnt. It follows  that I dont 
think it would  be fair for RSA to pay interest to Miss R going  back  to the date on which  she 
paid for the barristers  opinions.
I know Miss R also says RSAs representative  has breached  her data protection rights by 
copying her barrister into an email theyd  sent to her in May 2018. We dont have the power 
to look into whether there has been such a breach and I understand that Miss R has already 
referred this issue to the information commissioners  office.
my final decision
I dont uphold Miss Rs complaint. Under the rules of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im 
required to ask Miss R to accept or reject my decision before 25 March 2020.
David Curtis-Johnson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7832734