K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy Shop  Direct Finance Company Limited (Shop Direct) registered a default  
against him in relation to a catalogue  account.  Mr A says he doesnt  believe there  is any 
evidence to show that Shop Direct  properly  notified  him of their intention  to record the 
default. And he also says the address Shop Direct  say they sent the default notice to is 
incorrect. 
Mr A therefore doesnt believe  the default  should  be recorded on his credit  file and would like 
the default to be removed.  
background
In March 2011 Mr A opened a catalogue  account with a credit facility. Both parties accept 
Mr A made his last payment towards the account in October 2015 and this payment did not 
clear the outstanding balance. 
Shop Direct said they issued Mr A with a default notice on 7 March 2016  and sent this to 
Mr A at Address A. The account was then defaulted due to non-payment and the 
outstanding debt sold on to a third party debt collector in April 2016. 
The debt collector  tracked  Mr A to Address B and let Mr A know they were  now legally 
responsible for his debt. A repayment  plan was agreed between the debt collector and Mr A 
in October 2016.  
As Mr A withheld the final payment of the plan, the debt collector and Mr A debated whether 
the debt was satisfied, partially  satisfied or removed.  The debt collector later agreed that 
rather than record the debt as partially  satisfied they would write off the last outstanding 
amount and record the debt as satisfied for Mr A. 
Our investigator said Shop Direct had done  what they needed  to do, and Mr A strongly 
disagreed as he maintained that hed not had the opportunity to put things right before the 
default was registered. 
I issued my provisional findings to Mr A explaining  why I didnt  think his complaint should  be 
upheld. Ive summarised my reasons below. 
While  it was unfortunate that Shop  Direct did not retain  a copy  of the default  notice  
which I think would have been good  practice for them to do so  I thought the notice 
had been sent.  This was because Shop Directs internal records supported that - 
070316section 87 default notice sent and 250917customer states did not 
received default  notice. Advised  default  notice sent 07/03/2016 to (Address A). No 
copy available (sic). 
Shop Direct also provided a template of the letter for the default notice  which,  while 
didnt include specific details of Mr As circumstances (and setting aside any 
accompanying documents), did include the information we would normally  expect to 
see.  
Mr A had said either Shop Direct had the correct  address, but theres no evidence  to 
support theyd sent the default  notice. Or Shop Direct was using the wrong  address  
as there  was no evidence to support  hed changed  it. As I thought  Shop Direct  had 
Ref: DRN75394262sent a default  notice,  I therefore considered whether Shop Direct had used the 
correct address to send  the default  notice to. 
Mr As submissions  were that hed never  changed the billing/ main address linked to 
the catalogue account. He said the only times other  addresses may have been linked 
to the account  wouldve been  for the purpose of deliveries. 
Shop Direct told us the address on the account  could be changed online, over the 
phone or by e-mail. And they provided us with a breakdown of Mr As online journey 
during the times in question which showed  entries  described as edit address  book  
so I considered it more  likely than not that Mr A changed his address manually 
online. 
I did also note that the edits followed entries  described as delivery options  and 
not having seen the screens Mr A would have seen, I considered  it possible Mr A 
may have  changed  address accidentally. 
I noted it would be very difficult to know for sure whether Mr A intentionally  changed 
his address, but there were  several address changes and at the time of issuing the 
default, Shop Direct used the correct address. So I didnt think  Shop Direct had sent 
the default notice to the wrong  place. 
And I also considered  these addresses would more likely than not have been known 
to Mr A for him to have had goods sent there.  So I considered it reasonable, that    
Mr A could  have been alerted to correspondence  sent there for him. 
I noted Mr As responsibilities  under  the terms of his agreement  to ensure he made  
his payments towards the account. And that Mr A had told us he monitored his 
account online to check what he owed. So I said Mr A was more  likely than not aware 
there was an outstanding  balance  on the account when  he stopped making  
payments. Mr A doesnt dispute  the outstanding  debt. Hes told us he stopped  paying  
as he was financially  stretched around  that time and he didnt approach  Shop Direct  
to discuss managing the outstanding  debt. 
I considered whether  Mr A wouldve been able to repay the outstanding  sum in 
March 2016 when the default notice was sent.  Again, it was difficult for me to know  
for sure what Mr A would  have  done. I noted that once the debt collector located     
Mr A it appeared to take several  letters (according to the debt collector)  before a 
repayment plan was put in place in October  2016. So I questioned  whether Mr A 
would have been able to repay  the whole  sum had Shop Direct sent the default  
notice to Mr A at Address  B. 
I concluded it was reasonable for Shop Direct to transfer Mr As debt to a third party 
debt collector. Mr As agreement with Shop  Direct explained  this could happen,  and 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  (CCA 1974) explained this was possible after a 
default was registered. Shop Direct registered  the default on 1 April 2016  and sold 
the debt on 6 April 2016. And I noted the debt collector then registered the default 
from 31 March 2016, six months after Mr A made his last payment. In the 
circumstances I said this would  be a reasonable time after non-payment for a creditor  
to register a default.  
I also considered whether any additional  charges or interest  were  added to 
Ref: DRN75394263Mr As debt after it was defaulted  and passed  to the debt collector.  But that it didnt 
appear to be the case and I noted  neither party had suggested otherwise. 
Mr As response to my provisional decision 
Mr A said:   
The address  linked  to the account was not changed by accident, but rather it 
happened because  of Shop Directs poor systems which he said updated  addresses  
without the customer  knowing. 
The terms and conditions required a change  of address to be in writing  within  seven 
days of a change. And there  is no evidence  that this happened. 
The terms of the agreement shouldnt be applied to favour  Shop  Direct by being 
strictly applied  in regards to missing  payments  and selling the account, but not in 
relation to consumers  personal  information. 
He had carried out a test on Shop Directs systems and provided us with current  
screenshots to show what happened with delivery addresses. 
He was moving around  at the time in question and so kept his main address  as his 
parents address  Address B. And he said this is where  the default notice shouldve  
gone. Mr A said the onus was on Shop Direct  to make sure the notice had been 
correctly served. And Shop Direct should  not have updated his address without prior 
warning.  
He did not see the relevance of whether or not he wouldve been in a position to 
comply with the default and considered this speculation. Mr A referred to another  of 
his creditors around the same  time which he entered into a repayment plan with, and 
which he settled without incurring  a default.  Mr A sent a screen shot of his current 
account balance  dated 4 April 2016  to show he could have repaid the Shop Direct 
debt. This was because he said his financial  circumstances  had changed. 
Shop Directs response to my provisional  decision 
As part of their response Shop  Direct  said: 
An online  request  to change an address could be treated  as a written  request to 
change address as they could relax these  terms for the benefit of the consumer. And 
they noted in Mr As case the address was changed  via inputting a new address on 
the website by him  so they considered  this a written request. 
Mr A had logged onto his account  using the postcode for Address A when making 
payments on 10th and 17th of September 2015,  and again on 1st October  2015.  So 
they said he was aware the account was held under Address A. 
They were able to provide  more details of Mr As online access during the periods in 
question to show the details he input at the time. And they also provided records to 
show SMS, emails and outbound calls made  to Mr A. 
my review  of the additional information  
Ref: DRN75394264I wrote  to Mr A separately to share  some  of the information received  from Shop Direct  at 
the time,  given the other available  evidence, I didnt mention the submissions about the log 
in details above as there  was no accompanying evidence around what was required to log 
in, but for completeness  to show  Shop Directs response I now include them,  but make no 
comment about them. 
I explained to Mr A Id reviewed the additional  information from both parties, but from what  
Id seen I thought  Mr As complaint should not be upheld. Ive summarised my comments  to 
Mr A below. 
I explained that where there  were two different versions of what  had happened, I 
needed to consider  things on the balance of probability to work out what most likely  
happened. 
I reviewed  the screenshots Mr A had sent,  but these showed the ability to add a new 
address for deliveries  or change/  edit the existing home address. So it seemed  it 
was possible to keep  the home address the same  and add a new delivery address 
separately  as Mr A demonstrated through his test example. 
I thought it reasonable for Shop Direct to allow a change of address to happen online 
rather than in writing as this offered flexibility to their customers. 
I reviewed  the addresses in question and noted  the properties  were situated close  to 
each other. I also noted that Shop Directs records showed  Mr A had given  names to 
each address. I said the names Mr A had assigned to each address suggested they 
were personally known to him - so he would most likely have been able to receive or 
be alerted to any post sent to Address  A. 
I highlighted the various communications from Shop Direct to Mr A. These showed 
Shop Direct sent Mr A emails  described  as Collections Arrears Email on 20 October 
2015, 3 November 2015, 10 November  2015,  17 November 2015, 1 December 2015,  
8 December 2015, 29 December 2015 and 12 January 2016. Another email  
described as Arrears  Support Info Email  was sent to Mr A on 13 January 2016.  And 
I noted the email  address is the same one Mr A provided to this service. 
I also noted Shop Directs records showed  other  attempts to contact  Mr A by SMS 
and calls to the same mobile number Mr A provided to this service. 
In view of these communications I said it was difficult to say Shop Direct  hadnt 
reasonably tried to contact Mr A prior to issuing the default notice. And I maintained 
that I thought the default notice had gone  to the right address at the time. 
I acknowledged Mr As concerns in relation to the relevance of whether or not he 
would have been in a position to pay the debt off around the time of the default 
notice. And I explained it seemed  from his submissions that hed not been in a 
financially strong position to repay the debt,  so I couldnt be sure that he would have 
cleared the outstanding sum at that time of the default notice which meant  the 
default would more likely  than not still have  been  registered. And while I was now 
aware of the sums in Mr As current account, I was still mindful that there  was a 
period of months between the debt collector contacting Mr A at his preferred address 
(Address B) and a payment plan being set up. 
Ref: DRN75394265In addition I noted Mr A himself confirmed he was aware of the outstanding debt and 
that he would check his account  online,  so wouldve seen the outstanding sum there. 
So it wasnt  clear to me why Mr A wouldnt have taken steps to clear the sum if he 
came into sufficient funds to do so. 
Mr A responded to the above comments and continued to disagree with my findings. He 
said: 
The suggestion that the addresses were personally known to him because of the 
account names given  by him was absurd  and speculating. Mr A said he didnt think  
this was fair. 
Mr A said there was no clear  indication in the screens  to show that changing the 
home address  under the delivery  tab would change  the home address. Mr A 
questioned how it could be fair to reach  a decision  when the ombudsman  considered  
the change of address was accidental as a result of a poorly designed website. 
Mr A said because  the website isnt clear, this therefore potentially exposes 
customers personal information into the wrong hands. And Shop Direct had 
responsibilities to look after their customers data. 
Whether an address  is known  or not to an individual  doesnt  matter. 
As he was aware of the debt, the mentioning of the phone  calls and emails was 
irrelevant and negates the organisations obligations to follow a process. 
While  phone calls and emails had been mentioned, there  was no mention of 
statements or mail correspondence for the time in question. And if this was checked 
then it would go some way to ascertaining if Shop Direct truly acknowledged  the 
address as Address  A. 
He was in a position to repay  the debt in May 2016 and cleared a different debt 
around that time. He attached a statement showing the repayments  which  
recognised the address as Address  B. 
How was it fair to decide  a case with little facts or evidence given the ombudsman 
service is available  to protect the consumer from unfair  practices. 
Shop  Directs incompetence was apparent given their failure to record a correct  
default date and recording the default twice on his credit report.  
He would be grateful  for some time to submit  a subject  access request to Shop  Direct 
and make a complaint  to the Information Commissioners  Office (ICO) for alleged 
breaches of personal data, after which  this would inform his next steps.  
As Mr A asked,  he was sent information that had been provided by Shop Direct  confirming 
the dates the home/ billing address  on the account  had changed. And he provided us with 
some information around the other  creditor he repaid  so as to show us his willingness to 
repay outstanding debt.  Mr A also requested that investigations be paused while he 
approached other parties in relation to this matter. As Mr A didnt provide us with anything 
Ref: DRN75394266further to consider and he has understandably been anxious for this process  to end, Im now 
reviewing this case for a final decision. 
my findings
Firstly I would like to take this opportunity to remind Mr A that this service is impartial and not 
here to act as a consumer champion  as he has suggested. 
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules,  codes and good  industry  practice to help decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable. 
I have reviewed all the submissions again and while I understand this will come  as a great 
disappointment to Mr A, based on all the available evidence, Im not upholding his complaint.  
Mr As submissions  focus on what he says is Shop Directs  failure to properly notify him of 
their intent to register a default  against him. Mr A blames this on what  he says is Shop 
Directs poor website and their inability  to demonstrate they followed the required process for 
registering the default. He maintains he made no request in writing to change  his address 
and has shown that he would have been  able to repay the debt had he been informed about 
it. 
Ive considered Mr As submissions about Shop Directs website, and Id like to point  out that 
Ive made  no comment about  Shop Directs website itself as Mr A has suggested. My 
provisional findings merely accepted  the possibility that Mr A may have inadvertently  
changed the home address when  arranging deliveries. Although it would seem, as 
evidenced by his test run to us, that he has been able to add a new delivery address 
without changing  the home address. 
And Ive already explained I think it reasonable for Shop Direct to accept changes  of address 
online, rather than in writing, so as to offer flexibility for their customers. 
In view of this I think its more likely  than not that Mr A changed his home  address. And I 
think Shop  Direct issued  the default  notice to Mr A at the correct address. 
Mr A also accepts he was aware of the outstanding debt. He had access  to the account 
online  which he said is how he would check the account. And Shop Direct tried several  
means of communicating with him about  this debt prior to the default notice. Mr A 
commented the last email  was 13 January 2016, some time before  the default  notice,  but I 
can also see that several messages were sent to Mr As mobile from 13 January 2016 until 
30 March 2016.  And theres no evidence that Mr A responded to any of Shop Directs 
communications to discuss  the outstanding debt, or that he provided  an explanation as to 
why, when he came into monies,  he didnt  approach  Shop Direct  to clear the outstanding 
sum he was aware  of. 
My considerations around what wouldve happened had the default notice been sent to 
Address B  which Mr A says wouldve been  the correct  address  are to illustrate  that I 
cant be sure Mr A wouldve  acted when the default was issued in March 2016. As Ive said, 
he knew the debt existed but took no steps  to repay  it or respond  to Shop Directs own 
communications about it. It then took some  months  before  Mr A entered  into a payment  
agreement with the debt collectors who wrote to him at Address B on 20 April 2016 to let 
Ref: DRN75394267him know theyd taken over the debt. But as I believe it more  likely than not Mr A changed 
the address linked to the account and Shop Direct issued the default notice correctly, I have 
placed less weight on these considerations when reaching my decision. 
I am sorry  that Mr A has found himself in the position of having had his credit record affected 
by whats happened   particularly, as he says he had a period  of time where things were 
more financially difficult and he has since placed  himself in a much better financial position. 
However, I have to take everything into account  to reach a decision that is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of the complaint. And based on what Ive seen,  I dont think 
its fair to uphold Mr As complaint as he wishes.  
my final decision
For the reasons  above, my final decision is that Mr As complaint is not upheld. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 September  2019
Kristina Mathews 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7539426