K820x#14complaint
Mr M complains that the money he sent to Scottish Widows Limiteds designated bank 
account in March 2019, to be credited to his pension account,  was not credited as it 
shouldve been.  He also complains about  the level of service  he received from Scottish 
Widows whilst trying  to sort this out.
background
Mr M contacted Scottish Widows as he wanted to pay some money into his pension 
fund. Scottish Widows  sent him an email  with the account number the money should 
be paid into. Mr M said hed paid money  into this same bank account before. 
He made  a payment of £2,500 into the account on 4 March 2019  and another  payment 
of £10,000 on 6 March 2019.  Both payments were to be credited to his pension  fund. A 
short while after his wife also paid money  into the same Scottish Widows bank 
account, to be credited  to her pension fund.  Scottish Widows were also emailed to say 
the money had been sent. Mrs M was notified  by Scottish  Widows  that her payment 
had not been received. Mr M then contacted Scottish Widows to check  his payments 
had been received and credited.  Scottish Widows informed him that the money  hadnt  
been received  into its designated account.
Mr M then went between  his bank, Scottish Widows  and the police to try and resolve 
things. He said he had to take time off work as a result.
Mr M says his bank told him that the money was redirected from the account  it was due 
to be paid into and credited into a dormant Scottish  Widows account. Mr M considers 
that Scottish  Widows bank was responsible for erroneously redirecting the funds. Mr M 
said he was in the middle, trying to resolve  the issue between his bank and Scottish 
Widows bank (via Scottish Widows).
Scottish Widows  arranged  for Mr Ms money  to be treated as having been received  into 
his pension fund on the day it was received into the dormant account. It also paid him 
£100 compensation for the poor service  it provided  when it failed to call him back  about  
this situation.  However, Scottish Widows didnt consider it was responsible  for the 
funds wrongly being  redirected into the dormant bank account. Scottish Widows said its 
bank had told it that there was nothing to show that the redirection was based  on 
Scottish Widows  banks  instruction.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Ms complaint. She didnt think Mr M had been treated 
unfairly by Scottish  Widows. She said that neither Mr Ms bank,  nor Scottish Widows 
bank, had accepted responsibility  for the redirection of the money  into the dormant 
account. She concluded that she could not see that the redirection was caused by 
Scottish Widows  actions.  She said she couldnt  look into the matter  as far as Scottish  
Widows bank was concerned. 
Our adjudicator considered Scottish Widows offer fair in the circumstances, given  that it 
had backdated  the payment to ensure Mr M was not financially disadvantaged and had 
offered him some compensation to acknowledge that it had failed to return  his call.
my findings
Ref: DRN70491362I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair 
and reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint. Having done so, I agree with 
the conclusions  reached by our adjudicator, and for much the same reasons. Ill 
explain why.
I appreciate that this situation must have caused  Mr M quite some worry and upset, 
particularly as money paid over to Scottish  Widows bank account  on a few separate  
occasions, within days, appeared to have gone astray and wasnt paid out of the 
dormant bank account until about a month  later. I can also see that subsequently 
Mr M has gone to some  effort to try and establish why the money was redirected. 
It seems  to me that the money Mr M paid into the correct account, through no fault 
of his own, ended up in the wrong account, a dormant  account.  Equally, based on 
what Ive seen, I cant see that the money ended up in the wrong account because 
of something Scottish Widows did wrong.  So, I cant fairly hold it responsible  for this 
situation arising. Nor do I think I can fairly  hold Scottish  Widows  responsible  for it still 
not being clear  which  bank  may be to blame.  It has obtained an explanation from its 
bank, in the same way that Mr M has obtained an explanation from his. Neither bank 
appears to be accepting responsibility.  
I think Scottish Widows  has responded fairly - by backdating the payment into 
Mr Ms pension  account to when the money was received into the dormant  bank 
account. It means that Mr M hasnt been financially  disadvantaged. The payment 
was treated as having been  received when it wouldve  been  received by Scottish 
Widows, but for the error, and in the tax year in which it was paid. 
I agree  that the level of service Scottish  Widows provided Mr M with when he 
flagged up his concerns was below  the standard he couldve  reasonably expected in 
a situation like this. Scottish Widows partially  upheld Mr Ms complaint and paid him 
£100 compensation in recognition of this. I consider that to be a reasonable 
response in all the circumstances. I dont underestimate the level of trouble and 
upset that Mr M has been put to trying  to find out why this happened. But, for the 
reasons explained above, I can only fairly  hold Scottish Widows responsible for its 
own shortcomings..
my final decision
For the reasons  explained, I do not uphold Mr Ms complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 February  2020.
Kim Parsons
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7049136