K821x#15complaint
Mr H says Financial  Insurance  Company Limited (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy taken out with a store card. 
The store card was originally taken out in a shop, but FICL has taken responsibility for the 
sale of PPI, and for this complaint.  So Ill refer to FICL in my decision.
background
This complaint is about a store card PPI policy Mr H took out in 2003.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. FICL disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Hs case.  
Ive decided to uphold Mr Hs complaint  because  I dont  think FICL gave Mr H clear enough 
information about the policy, and I think this wouldve mattered  to Mr H. I say this because  
Mr H had sick pay, some savings and an insurance policy he couldve used to make  his 
repayments if he was off work due to sickness or redundancy  for a while. And I dont think 
that Mr H wouldnt have  wanted the policy if FICL had given him enough information to 
understand the costs and benefits of the PPI. So, I think Mr H has lost out because of what  
FICL did wrong. 
Ive taken into account FICLs comments about wanting further information about  Mr Hs 
savings and insurance policy  but Im satisfied that Mr H has been consistent  with the cover 
hes told us he had, and I think its adequate  to mean  he didnt really need the PPI. So I still 
think I should uphold  the complaint. 
putting things right
FICL should put Mr H in the financial position hed be in now if he hadnt taken out PPI.
A.FICL should find out how much  Mr H would  have  owed  when he closed his store card 
account if the policy hadnt  been  added.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges. 
FICL should then refund  the difference between what  Mr H owed when he closed his 
account and what  he would have owed if he hadnt  had PPI.
If Mr H made a successful claim under the PPI policy, FICL can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes his.  
Ref: DRN77084562B.FICL should add simple interest on the difference between what Mr H would have owed 
when he closed his account  from when he closed it until he gets the refund. The interest 
rate should be 8% a year.
C.If  when  FICL works out what Mr H would have owed each month  without PPI  Mr H 
paid more than enough  to clear  his balance, FICL should  also pay simple interest on the 
extra Mr H paid. And it should  carry on paying  interest  until the point when Mr H 
wouldve owed FICL  something on his store  card. The interest rate should be 8% a 
year.
D.FICL should tell Mr H what its done to work  out A, B and C.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  FICL to take off tax from this interest. FICL must give Mr H a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if he asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Financial Insurance  Company Limited should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7708456