K820x#14complaint
Ms H complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc unfairly  closed her flexible loan account without 
notice and carried out a credit  search  on her which caused her stress  and concern.
background
Ms H says she held a HSBC flexible  loan account  which she accepts hadnt  been used over 
the previous two years but she planned  on using it in the future. She says HSBC wrote  to 
her in 2018 to tell her the account would be closed in two months. Ms H says she wasnt 
consulted about  that decision and was concerned  if it was age related. She says she was 
concerned to find out HSBC had carried out a credit search without her permission and says 
the letter HSBC  sent her contained matters that were not correct. Ms H says she accepts 
HSBC will not reopen the account but says its actions have caused her stress.
HSBC says it reviewed Ms Hs account  in line with its regulatory duties and says, as it hadnt 
been used for the previous two years, made  the decision to close it. It says Ms H asked  it to 
reconsider that decision and that is why it carried out a soft search on Ms Hs credit file. 
HSBC accepts some of the information it sent Ms H in a question  and answer  document was 
incorrect and has apologised. Its also apologised for poor service  and paid Ms H £50 
compensation.
Ms H brought her complaint to us and our adjudicator thought HSBC had dealt fairly with it. 
The adjudicator thought  HSBC had given Ms H notice that the account would close and had 
fairly made that decision  as Ms H hadnt used the account for over two years.  The 
adjudicator didnt think the soft credit search would have had any effect on Ms H and the 
compensation offer was fair and reasonable for that part of the complaint.
Ms H didnt accept that view and said in summary  that HSBC  had closed the account before 
the notice period and questions why she was subject to HSBCs regulatory requirements. 
She says the compensation was for poor customer service and not for receiving incorrect  
information in the question and answer  document. Ms H questioned again the relevance of 
her age and if there were  data protection issues.
The adjudicator looked at the complaint again and came to the same  conclusions. In 
summary the adjudicator didnt think we could  look at any age discrimination  issues  or 
possible data protection issues. And that the credit search took place due to Ms H asking for 
a review of the decision to close her account.
Ms H doesnt accept that view and has asked that an ombudsman  look at her complaint.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall conclusions  as the adjudicator  for largely the same reasons. I realise Ms H will be 
disappointed with my decision and I appreciate how strongly she feels about  whats taken 
place.
Ref: DRN79635912Im satisfied that HSBC  is entitled to exercise its commercial judgement and decide if it 
wishes to allow a customer  to keep an account  open  in these circumstances where  the 
account hadnt been used  for over two years. I also accept that HSBC  is subject  to 
regulatory requirements about these  sorts  of matters.  So I dont think  HSBC  made a mistake 
or acted  unfairly  by writing to Ms H and giving her notice that the flexible loan account would 
close in two months.
I appreciate that Ms H says she didnt receive  the full two months notice. But having looked  
at HSBCs records Im satisfied that the two months  notice period was given as the account 
closed in August  2018. It may be the case that Ms H tried to use the account during that 
period and could not. But I dont think that means the account itself had closed before the 
notice period. And I think that it would be up to HSBC  to make a business decision to allow 
lending at that time.
Im satisfied that Ms H asked HSBC to review  its decision to close the account and that is 
why a soft credit search was carried out. So I dont  think  HSBC made a mistake or acted 
unfairly by doing  so and I think it was made as a result of Ms Hs request to review the 
decision. I dont  think that soft search  would have  any affect  on Ms Hs credit file in any 
event.
There is no question here that HSBC  didnt deal with parts of Ms Hs complaint as it should 
and that it sent a document to her that contained  some mistakes.  So I appreciate  Ms Hs 
concern in those  circumstances. But Im satisfied HSBC has fairly  apologised  for what  took 
place and paid £50 compensation for its poor customer service. I think that apology  and 
compensation award fairly reflects what took place and is fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances.
I appreciate that Ms H may have  unanswered questions  and may still be concerned about if 
there were any age discrimination or data protection issues.  I can see that the adjudicator 
has provided information to Ms H if she wishes to take those issues  further.  But I make clear  
Ive not seen any evidence that there  was any age discrimination or any data protection  
breaches.
Overall Im satisfied HSBC was entitled to close the account and acted fairly in doing  so. I 
accept Ms H is unlikely to accept my decision but I think that brings  an end to what we, in 
trying to sort out this complaint informally, can do.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 January 2020. 
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7963591