K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says Bank of Scotland  plc (BoS) mis-sold  her a payment protection insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background and summary to complaint
Mrs M bought the policy in 1999 at the same time as taking out a credit card. She applied for 
the credit  card and PPI policy  through the post. At the time, Mrs M was employed in sales.  
She has told us she was entitled to between 3  6 months sick pay and certain death in 
service benefits. Mrs M has said she was in good  health at the time of the sale.  
The policy provided  cover  for accident, sickness, and unemployment as well as an element 
of life protection  subject to its exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay 10% of Mrs Ms 
credit card balance in the event of a successful  claim. At the time, it cost 78p per £100 of the 
monthly outstanding  balance.  The premium  would continue to have to be paid during  a 
successful claim  and it did attract interest.  
BoS has sent us information to show that the credit card account  closed  in 2005. Mrs Ms 
representative has made lengthy  and substantial representations on her behalf. I will not 
restate them all here,  but I have  read and considered them  all carefully.  In summary, Mrs 
Ms representative says:
BoS failed  to meet the sales standards which  applied at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mrs M wouldnt 
have taken out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mrs Ms 
representatives believe there to be no evidence to rebut that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means BoS should have told 
Mrs M about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means BoS should have explained 
the significance  of the exclusions  and limitations of cover  to Mrs M and the impact 
they would  have had on her chances  of making  a claim; and
The information Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were promoted as 
providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations on the scope of 
the cover  meant this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and 
provided their responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion for several  reasons. As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been  
passed to me for a final decision.
Ref: DRN79683812my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mrs Ms. I dont intend to set that out in 
much detail here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mrs Ms complaint.
This sale took place  in 1999 before the General Insurance Standards Council (GISC) 
published its code  of practice in June 2000  and before the sale of general insurance 
products like this became  regulated in January 2005. So, the GISC Code, the FSAs (and 
FCAs) overarching Principles for Businesses  and insurance conduct rules (ICOB and 
ICOBs) arent applicable to this complaint,  nor is the FCAs Perimeter  Guidance (PERG). 
The credit agreement itself concluded  in 2005. That means the unfair relationship  provisions 
set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme Court judgment in Plevin  about  
s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made by the FCA about the handling  of 
complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission  in light of the Plevin  judgment,  arent 
applicable. 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which Im satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The Association of British Insurers  General Insurance Business 
Code of Practice for all intermediaries  (Including  Employees of Insurance Companies) other  
than Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
I consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like BoS at the time.  So Im satisfied  I should take the ABI code and these  
other publications into account  when  deciding, what is in my opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
the circumstances of Mrs Ms case. 
 
I have also taken account of relevant law in reaching  my decision, including: the law relating 
to negligence, misrepresentation and contract (including the express and implied  duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Ref: DRN79683813Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Office of the Banking  
Ombudsman  might have been expected  to reach  in relation to an equivalent complaint. I 
note that under the Banking  Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman  was 
required to decide  complaints by reference  to what was, in his opinion,  fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances   and that the Ombudsman was required to observe any applicable 
rule of law or relevant judicial authority. 
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. This sale took place before insurance  mediation became a regulated activity, so BoS 
was required to take into account  the provisions in DISP App 3 as if they were guidance 
when considering Mrs Ms complaint. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If BoS gave advice, whether it advised Mrs M with reasonable care and skill  in 
particular, whether the policy  was appropriate  or suitable for her, given her needs 
and circumstances.  
-Whether BoS gave  Mrs M sufficient,  appropriate  and timely  information  to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing to 
her attention and highlighting  in a clear,  fair and not misleading way  the main 
provisions of the policy and significant  limitations  and exclusions.  
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mrs M, I 
must then go on to consider whether and to what extent Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage and what  I consider would amount to fair compensation for that loss or 
damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mrs M and BoS, 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mrs Ms complaint.  Ive set out my reasoning below. 
did Mrs M know she had a choice?
BoS had to make it clear  that the PPI policy was optional. But Mrs M says this wasnt  done 
and says she was told or given anything about  PPI. 
However, I was sent a copy  of her original credit card application form where  I can see Mrs 
M signed  her name  in a section  that was about PPI. By signing in the PPI box, Mrs M was 
agreeing to buy the policy and there  was an obvious  option  to leave this section blank. She 
also signed further down the form to agree to the credit card rules.
Also, whilst I understand Mrs M will have tried hard to recall  events  that are now two 
decades old, Im afraid what Ive seen  does differ substantially from Mrs Ms recollections.  
She refers  in the questionnaire we asked her to fill out about her complaint, for example, to a 
discussion having  taken  place. However, she also agreed with BoS that this was actually a 
Ref: DRN79683814postal application.  I therefore think shed have  filled out this form in her own time and without 
any direct  intervention from BoS. 
Taking everything into account,  I think theres very clear and strong evidence that Mrs M 
knew the policy was optional and she agreed to take it out without undue pressure. I was 
also sent a large  number  of her credit card statements, where  the PPI charges  were 
regularly set out for her. To me, this represents  confirmation that she had asked for the 
cover and Ive seen nothing to suggest  she challenged what  the charges were  for. 
I think BoS properly  obtained Mrs Ms consent  to add PPI.
did BoS provide advice?
Both BoS and Mrs M agree that advice wasnt provided during this sale. This means BoS 
didnt have to check if the PPI was suitable  for Mrs M. Instead, it had to give her sufficient, 
appropriate and timely information to enable Mrs M to make an informed  choice about  
whether to take out the policy, including drawing to her attention and highlighting  in a clear, 
fair and not misleading way  the main provisions  of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
the information
BoS has provided us with Mrs Ms application  form and credit  agreement showing that PPI 
had been selected. It has also referred us to a copy of the paperwork it says she wouldve 
received, including the policy terms and conditions or key facts document which I accept on 
a balance of probabilities applied to policies like Mrs Ms. 
Looking at the information provided to Mrs M at the time, I cant say BoS gave her the 
information she fairly and reasonably needed  to make an informed decision about  whether 
or not to take out the policy. 
This is because the sale took place, by post,  in 1999 which is obviously a long time ago. 
Businesses arent required to keep  all records indefinitely and the part of her original 
application form which we still seem to have access to, gave Mrs M only limited information  
about the PPI. 
In my experience however, having seen many such sales from this time period, I think its 
probable there was another part of the application  leaflet, pointing  her to more information. It 
doesnt look like we have  copies of this part anymore, but I think this part would have briefly  
explained more  issues such as the cost.  
However, I think its highly  unlikely Mrs M would have agreed to take the PPI out without at 
least having a broad understanding  of the cover  it provided  i.e. accident, sickness and 
unemployment cover, and life protection; these were indeed  briefly set out at the point she 
made her selection. I also think its highly  unlikely Mrs M would  have thought it was free, and 
again the cost aspect  was implied  directly  next to where she herself selected the PPI on the 
application form.
The information provided would have given Mrs M a broad sense of what  the policy covered. 
But it was BoSs responsibility  to draw to Mrs Ms attention the important  information   i.e. 
the key information about the nature of the cover and any significant  exclusions and 
limitations which might be relevant to her decision. 
Ref: DRN79683815Im not persuaded BoS did enough  to do this. For example, I dont think the true cost of the 
policy was made clear to Mrs M, including the need to maintain premiums during a claim or 
that the payments would attract interest.  In addition, I cant see that BoS adequately drew to 
her attention the main provisions of the policy and significant limitations  and exclusions.  
So I dont  think BoS gave Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely information to enable  her 
to make an informed choice about  whether  to take out the policy,  including drawing her 
attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not misleading way  the main  provisions of 
the policy and significant limitations and exclusions.  
I have considered how my findings interact with the FCAs list of significant  failings  in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, Im persuaded that there were significant failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mrs Ms representative has raised a number 
of general points in regards  to the requirements on a business when providing information  in 
PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mrs Ms. Ive considered  
these carefully and summarised them  as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mrs Ms representative considers to be poor 
value  and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business  rather than the 
insurer. 
-the common law duty of utmost good  faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mrs M about the limitations  and exclusions, it should have gone further and 
explained the significance of them to her. 
Im not persuaded by Mrs Ms representatives views  on this. The duty of utmost  good  faith in 
insurance law imposed a duty on both parties  to the contract  to disclose material facts  and 
not to make  material misrepresentations. While I cant be certain what  a court  would say  I 
think its unlikely a court would  find that this extended to the insurer  having  to disclose the 
claims ratio information or explaining  the significance of the limitations and exclusions in the 
way Mrs M has suggested. And taking  into account  the law, industry  codes and standards  of 
good industry practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont think its fair and reasonable to 
conclude that BoS ought to have done  either.  
what effect did BoSs shortcomings have on Mrs M? To what extent did Mrs M suffer 
loss or damage as a result?
Ive found that BoS didnt do all it should have done when it sold this policy  to Mrs M. So Ive 
gone on to consider whether it would  be fair and reasonable to conclude  Mrs M suffered loss 
and damage as a result.  To answer  this, I must  decide whether or not Mrs M would  have still 
taken out the policy,  had BoS done things  properly. 
Mrs M says she wouldnt have  taken it out and believes  that I should presume this to be the 
case given the significant failings identified  above. 
As this was a non-advised sale, Mrs M had to weigh up in her own mind the cost of the 
policy against the benefits offered and the potential consequences if she didnt insure  
against the risk of being unable to work.  
Ref: DRN79683816As Ive found above, Mrs M chose to take this policy out. So I consider that its reasonable to 
conclude she had some  interest in the benefits offered by this type of insurance. But she 
made this decision  based  on incomplete information. So what Mrs M thought she was 
getting is not exactly what she got. The extent  to which this differed is a relevant 
consideration when determining if Mrs M has suffered any loss or detriment. 
In relation to the costs, Im satisfied Mrs M ought  reasonably to have known she would  have 
to pay something for the PPI and that it would cover  10% of her outstanding balance  this 
was set out on the application. But, I accept that BoS didnt make  clear the on-going  cost 
information. So while Mrs M didnt  know some things, the ultimate position in the event of a 
successful claim  was not dissimilar to what she would reasonably have thought from the 
information she based her decision to take out the policy on and found acceptable. 
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mrs M thought  she had bought  and 
what she actually bought were the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to any sickness, disease, condition  or injury 
known of in the 12 months  before the start date;
The policy limited, and in some situations,  excluded unemployment  cover  if Mrs M 
wasnt a permanent employee.
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mrs M be unable  to 
do her own job, a similar job or any paid work  which her experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified her to do.
The cover  provided  by the policy  ended when Mrs M turned  65.
I do accept that there is a possibility the limitations  or exclusions above might well have  
caused Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have caused  her to conclude  that the policy 
was not as good as she thought  and she might have decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mrs M from taking  out the policy.  
But, the evidence  about Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the policy 
wasnt fundamentally wrong for her. She was eligible for its benefits  and it provided  cover 
that, despite its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable to her should the 
insured risks have  become a reality. I also havent  seen any evidence to suggest she 
wouldve been caught by any of the significant exclusions  Mrs M didnt have  any pre-
existing medical conditions and was in permanent employment. So, I still think she had some 
good reasons  to take the policy  out.
The policy didnt exclude back or mental  health conditions or place  any additional restrictions  
or more  onerous evidential requirements  in the event of a claim on those grounds than 
would have applied  to any other  disability  claim.  And I think  its unlikely Mrs M would have 
expected to make a disability claim on the policy without first providing some  evidence to 
support that claim.
If Mrs M had known  she could only claim for disability if she was unable to do both her job 
and any similar gainful occupation  which in the insurers view she might reasonably be 
qualified for, it might  have  played into her thinking about what  she would have done.  And I 
accept it may have given  her pause  for thought  although its possible she may not have 
been overly concerned given that if Mrs M was unable (through disability) to carry on her 
Ref: DRN79683817own occupation the chances  that she would be able to take up a similar occupation  would 
also, in all probability, be limited.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not that Mrs M would still have taken out the PPI. The policy  was sufficiently close to 
what she thought  she was getting and I think the policy  could provide a useful benefit in a 
difficult time, notwithstanding her employment  benefits. And in those circumstances, I 
consider it more likely  than not that she would have taken out the policy  in any event.  
Mrs Ms representatives say the rules about  how to handle PPI complaints (DISP  App 3) 
make it clear  that, where  a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
I have thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, I have found  it would be reasonable to conclude  there  
were substantial flaws  in the sales  process.  In those  circumstances, DISP App 3 says it 
should be presumed Mrs M would not have bought the PPI she bought unless, in the 
particular circumstances  of the complaint, there is evidence to rebut the presumption. 
I am satisfied, applying DISP App 3, it is reasonable to conclude  the presumption  is rebutted 
in the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking into account Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mrs M 
found herself in as a result of the sale was the same position  she would have been in had 
the breach or significant  failings not occurred. 
Mrs M believes the presumption may only be rebutted  when the flaws in the sales process 
were immaterial, that the flaws in this case were  highly material and we have failed to give 
proper weight to the evidence  including her own comments  that she would not have taken 
out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I dont  consider, in this case, that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mrs M in the position she would have been in if she had 
not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that she would not have taken out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that she would still have 
taken out the PPI had she been  given clear,  fair and not misleading  information about the 
policy she was buying. So Im not persuaded it would  be fair and reasonable in those  
circumstances, to conclude BoS should  pay Mrs M compensation,  as that would put her in a 
better position than she would  have  been  in if everything had happened as it should have 
done. 
Im also aware that Mrs M thinks BoS misrepresented the terms of the policy  in how it 
described the PPI.  While I accept there is a possibility a court  might  conclude some of 
BoSs statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why BoS failed to 
Ref: DRN79683818act fairly and reasonably was not because of what it did or didnt say in the information it 
provided  but because  the overall information  BoS gave Mrs M, in the way it did, was 
insufficient to meet  the standards I consider it fair and reasonable to expect it to have met in 
1999 when providing information  about an insurance  policy.  
Ive also thought about the approach Mrs Ms representative says a court might take if it 
were to find BoS negligently misrepresented  the contract to Mrs M and about  the remedy  a 
court might award if it were to find that BoS had been in breach of its duty of utmost good 
faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about what is fair and reasonable 
in all the circumstances of the complaint  including what I think is fair compensation in the 
circumstances of this case.  For the reasons Ive already set out I dont think it would be fair 
and reasonable to put Mrs M in a better  position than if everything had happened as it 
should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2021.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7968381