K820x#14complaint
Mrs B complains that Barclays Bank UK PLC trading as Barclaycard hasnt explained  what  a 
refund of interest  and charges it gave her refers  to. She also complains about the amount 
she owes Barclaycard  and the interest  shes been charged.
background
Mrs B had made a previous complaint about Barclaycard and the interest she had been 
charged. She says she received a letter from Barclaycard telling her it was refunding  about  
£115 in charges and interest.  But it hasnt  explained  what the refund relates to or how it 
affects what she originally  complained about.  Mrs B says shes  been charged  an unfair level 
of interest.  And that Barclaycard didnt tell her that her repayments could have been  lower, 
which would have avoided the interest. She would like the interest  refunded.
Barclaycard says it decided to refund  all its customers that fell behind on payments or got 
into difficulties at a certain  time. It says it didnt always  deal with those cases as it should 
have and so refunded Mrs B. Barclaycard says it has reviewed Mrs Bs case and concluded  
that in her case a mistake  wasnt made  and so will not consider any further refunds or action.
Mrs B brought her complaint to us but our investigator didnt think Barclaycard had made a 
mistake. The investigator didnt think we could look again at the issues  raised in the previous 
complaint. And thought Barclaycard had acted fairly by refunding  the interest to Mrs B. The 
investigator thought  that Barclaycard had accepted a repayment proposal by a third party 
company acting on Mrs Bs behalf.
Mrs B doesnt accept that view and says Barclaycard set the repayment  levels  and its not 
dealt fairly  with her.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator for the same reasons. I realise Mrs B will be disappointed  by 
my decision.  I also make  it clear  to Mrs B that I can only look at her most  recent  complaint 
about the refund of the interest. I cant look at the complaint that we have already looked at 
which included the complaint about the interest  charged and the level of repayment.
I can see that Barclaycard  has made the decision to refund interest and charges to a number 
of customers whom  it thought may not have been dealt with as they should  have.  And I can 
also see that Barclaycard  has looked  at Mrs Bs case individually  and decided that no 
mistakes were made in her case but it will still refund her. So I think Barclaycard has acted 
fairly by refunding  interest  here as its done so in a case where it hadnt made  a mistake.
I appreciate that Mrs Bs main complaint is about how the interest rate was set in the first 
place and that she shouldnt have paid any interest.  But for the reasons Ive explained Im 
satisfied those are matters that have been  previously looked into.
Overall Im satisfied that Barclaycard has explained why it made  the refund and has acted 
fairly by making it. As I dont think its made a mistake or acted unfairly then I cant  ask 
Barclaycard to refund any more interest or charges as Mrs B would  like.
Ref: DRN73839782my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7383978