K820x#14complaint
Mr B has complained about Advantage Insurance Company Limiteds  actions after he 
claimed on his motor insurance policy.
Reference to Advantage includes its agents.
background
The manufacturer of Mr Bs car wrote  to him to say that his car might  have  a condition that 
would pose a fire risk. The manufacturer said that Mr B should book his car into one of its 
dealers to upgrade it. Mr B tried to book his car in but the dealer didnt have the parts 
available for the upgrade. Mr B says it told him he could continue  to drive the car.
Some weeks later Mr Bs car caught  fire while on the motorway. Advantage deemed his car 
a total loss. Its independent engineers couldn't identify what  had caused  the fire to start. 
Advantage paid Mr B for the total loss of his car. It deducted Mr Bs excess  of £595 from that 
settlement. 
Mr B asked Advantage to delay disposing of the salvage as he wanted to have it forensically 
examined to see if the cause of the fire could be identified, with a view to recovering his 
losses from the manufacturer.  Advantage initially agreed to this but it later sold the car to a 
salvage dealer  and it was scrapped.
Mr B complained. Advantage acknowledged  that it shouldn't have dealt with the salvage as it 
had. So it refunded Mr B his £595  excess, recorded  the claim as non-fault  and allowed       
Mr Bs no claims  discount (NCD). Mr B didnt think that went far enough and brought  his 
complaint to us.
Our adjudicator didnt  think Advantage had done  anything wrong.  Mr B didnt agree so the 
complaint's been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I'm not going to uphold it. 
In bringing this complaint Mr B has also commented on the actions of his cars manufacturer. 
But in this decision Im only looking at the service  Advantage provided. So I dont intend to 
comment on anything the manufacturer  has or hasn't  done.   
I can understand that losing his car in the way that he did must have been both frightening 
and upsetting for Mr B. And its clear that, through no fault of his own, Mr B believes hes out 
of pocket. He clearly thinks that the manufacturer is responsible for the car catching fire. And 
Mr B believes adequate compensation would include refunding him for all the finance 
payments he made on the car. Mr B said a reasonable  compensation figure was in the 
region of £6,150.
An independent engineer  examined the car but couldnt say what had caused the fire. 
Advantage decided not to investigate the cause of the fire any further. I think  that was 
reasonable in the circumstances. Im aware  that a forensic examination of the car could have 
been a very costly action. And there was no guarantee that further investigation could  have 
Ref: DRN70332972determined the exact cause of the fire. Also I understand that there can be many reasons for 
cars to catch fire. So its not certain  that Mr Bs car caught fire because of the condition  its 
manufacturer had earlier  warned him about.  And I think Advantage had very little to gain 
from investigating the fires cause further.
Advantage told Mr B that if he wanted to arrange  a forensic  examination himself it would 
allow him to do so. But it disposed of the car before  Mr B had done that. I wouldnt have 
expected Advantage to keep hold of the salvage for any considerable length of time,  as 
salvage can incur  storage  fees. But I think it would have been reasonable for Advantage to 
let Mr B know  that it planned to dispose of his car and the likely  timescales  for doing  so.
Mr B only learned that Advantage had disposed of his car after it had already happened.  So 
he couldnt then get a forensic examination done.  I can understand that Mr B found  this 
upsetting, especially as he think that such an examination  could have provided him with 
grounds to recover losses  from the manufacturer. But I think its worth noting that, once it 
had settled Mr Bs claim, the car became  Advantages property. And from that point on it 
could do with the car whatever it wanted. So it didnt need  Mr Bs permission  to dispose of 
the car. But, as Ive said above, it should have told Mr B what  it was planning to do. Clearly  it 
didnt do so. But it acknowledged its mistake and by way of compensation refunded Mr B his 
excess of £595,  marked the claim as non-fault and allowed Mr Bs no claims discount  (NCD).  
And I think that was reasonable  compensation in the circumstances.
I understand that Mr B might think that, potentially, he could have recovered more of his 
losses from the manufacturer.  But he had numerous hurdles to overcome before he would 
have arrived that that point  including:  paying  for a forensic examination;  the outcome of that 
examination would need to indicate  the manufacturer was at fault; instigating a claim against 
the manufacturer etc. So while I can understand that Mr B is disappointed that he lost the 
opportunity to pursue the matter further, I think that compensation Advantage has paid is 
reasonable to address that disappointment.  I know Mr B doesnt agree, but it's worth noting  
that as this was a claim against his policy, in any other circumstances Mr B would have  been  
required to pay his full excess. And a fault claim marker on his record would have  led to 
higher premiums for a number of years to come. So the refund of the excess, marking  the 
claim as non-fault  and allowing  Mr B's NCD  is direct  compensation for Advantages mistake. 
And as Ive said above, I think  thats  reasonable in the circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above I don't uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 January 2020.
Joe Scott 
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7033297