K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a mortgage payment protection  insurance (PPI) policy  taken out in 
2004. Mr and Mrs R say Lloyds Bank  PLC mis-sold  them  the PPI. 
background
Mr and Mrs R applied for a joint mortgage with Lloyds in 2004. At the same time they were 
sold a PPI policy. The policy covered Mr R against being unable  to work due to accident,  
sickness or involuntary unemployment.  The monthly cost of the PPI policy  was £28.00.         
If Mr R had made a successful claim, the PPI policy  wouldve  paid a monthly  benefit  of 
£513.00. The benefit couldve been paid for up to 12 months per claim.
In 2008 Mr and Mrs R increased their mortgage  but didnt increase the PPI cover.
An adjudicator didnt think the complaint should  be upheld.  Mr and Mrs R disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion. So the complaints  been  passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Mr and Mrs R say the PPI was not discussed with them and they didnt  know it was added  to 
the mortgage.
The mortgage was applied for and the policy sold to Mr and Mrs R during a meeting  in 2004. 
Lloyds has given us a copy of the PPI application form signed by Mr and Mrs R in 
September 2004.
Mr and Mrs R were moving their mortgage to Lloyds from a different lender.  I can see that in 
section four of the PPI application  Mr and Mrs R have given details of an existing PPI policy  
that was already in place and was to be cancelled and replaced with the new Lloyds PPI 
policy. This suggests that a discussion must  have  taken place about Mr and Mrs Rs existing 
cover in order for it to be noted on the PPI application form.
I can also see that a separate direct debit form was completed. So the premiums  for the PPI 
would have been taken separately from Mr and Mrs Rs bank account and would have 
appeared on their bank  statements. The premiums  were paid for several years.  If the PPI 
was something that was not discussed  or they didnt want,  Id expect them  to have 
questioned the premiums  at an early stage. But Ive seen no evidence that they did.
Taking everything into account  I think its most  likely Mr and Mrs R were made aware  the 
PPI was optional  and they chose  to take it out. Although after so many years  I can 
understand why they might not recall this.
Ref: DRN78733272Lloyds recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs R so it had to check  that the PPI was right for 
them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time, I think that it was. 
I say this because:
The policy covered Mr R only,  and as he was the main  wage  earner this seems to be a 
suitable way for the policy to be set up.
Mr R wasnt affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover. For example he 
didnt have any medical conditions that wouldnt have been covered. And he wasnt  in an 
unusual employment  situation which might not have been covered.
Mr Rs employers wouldve paid him sick pay if hed become too unwell to work. Mr R told us 
he was entitled  to up to six months full pay followed by six months half pay. But this 
particular policy wouldve paid a monthly  benefit  in addition  to any sick pay, and for up to 
12 months. This is longer than Mr Rs full sick pay would last. So I still think  Mr R wouldve 
found the benefit useful  if he became too unwell to work, particularly if he was unwell for a 
prolonged period.
And if Mr R lost his job the monthly benefit  would  mean he could use any redundancy pay 
for other living costs.  
I cant know after all these years exactly what Mr and Mrs R were told or given at the time. 
And its possible the information Lloyds  gave Mr and Mrs R about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it shouldve been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks  like they wanted  this type of 
cover. And it seems like it would have been useful  for them  if something  went  wrong. It also 
looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better  information  about the PPI would have put 
them off taking out the cover. 
In summary,  I think its likely Lloyds made  Mr and Mrs R aware the policy was optional  and 
they chose to buy it. From what Ive seen it looks as if the policy  Lloyds recommended  was 
right for them. And I dont think any clearer or more  complete information wouldve made 
them act differently and decline it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award  against          
Lloyds Bank  PLC.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs R to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 May 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7873327