K821x#15complaint
Mr R has complained about Union Reiseversicherung AG (URV). He isnt happy about the 
way it dealt with a claim under his travel insurance policy.
background
Mr R was admitted to hospital  while on holiday in March  2014 and Mr R made a claim under 
his travel insurance policy. Initially URV turned  down the hospitals claim for medical costs 
and the hospital looked to chase Mr R for the outstanding costs.
Over the next year Mr R was in correspondence  with URVs agent and claims team and he 
was told it had passed the matter  onto the audit team. Mr R chased URV repeatedly and 
presumed that everything had been  finalised as he didnt hear anything back  from URV or 
the hospital in question.
Mr R complained to URV. It acknowledged that it had dealt with Mr Rs claim poorly  and had 
closed it in error. So it wrote to Mr R to say that he wouldnt  be held responsible  for the 
medical costs. It said that he should just forward any correspondence  from the hospital on.
Our adjudicator looked into the complaint for Mr R and upheld  it. He thought  that URV had 
belatedly acted reasonably by offering to be responsible for Mr Rs medical  costs.  But he 
thought that it should pay him £100  compensation for the clear  stress and inconvenience 
caused in having to complain to get things done.
Both Mr R and URV accepted this in August 2018. But URV failed to pay Mr R the 
compensation although it did say it sent a cheque and our adjudicator had a number of 
conversations about paying this direct to Mr Rs bank account which  was agreed. 
As this didnt  happen the matter has been escalated to me for review.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I agree that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
URV have  agreed  to be responsible for Mr Rs medical costs.  But given how it has handled 
his claim and complaint  I can understand his suspicion about whether  he will be left 
responsible for any of the hospitals  costs. As such I think that URV should write  a letter to 
him clearly explaining  that it will cover  all costs  associated with the claim from the hospital. 
In relation to the compensation I can see that our adjudicator communicated with URV on a 
number of occasions about payment. I can see that a cheque was raised  but it was later 
agreed that Mr R would be paid in euros and a value of 100 EUR  was agreed.  
However, payment  wasnt made despite  this service advancing this with URV. So I can 
understand Mr Rs frustration and mistrust. As such,  I think  that URV  should pay a further 
£50 compensation  for the continued stress caused. I would expect URV to use the present 
exchange rate and should pay the total figure in euros using the exchange rate on the day of 
payment.
Ref: DRN74040912my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require 
Union Reiseversicherung  AG to pay Mr R £150 compensation and to write out to him clearly  
explaining that it will be responsible for Mr Rs medical costs.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7404091