K821x#15complaint
Mr B complains about end of contract charges and other issues he experienced when  he 
terminated his agreement with Mercedes-Benz Financial Services  UK Limited (MBFS).
background
In November 2015 Mr B was supplied with a car and entered into a contract purchase 
agreement with MBFS. The agreement  was due to end in November 2018 but Mr B chose to 
end it early.
Following inspection of the car MBFS asked Mr B to pay damage charges. Mr B complained 
to MBFS and said the damage  should have been covered by a damage insurance policy 
hed purchased from the dealership.
MBFS told Mr B he would need to make  a claim to the insurance provided  as this wasnt a 
MBFS product. It offered to waive some of the damage charges leaving Mr B with £1120 to 
pay.
Mr B remained unhappy  and complained to this service. He felt that the damage  was within 
fair wear and tear. He was also unhappy that hed had to return the car to the dealership 
several times to have  a problem with the satnav fixed and that hed had to pay for 2 new 
tyres which shouldve  been replaced  for free as part of a recall.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint in part. He said the damage charged  were fair. He 
also said that Mr Bs use of the car had been  affected by the problems with the satnav and 
recommended that MBFS pay compensation to reflect the trouble  and upset caused  by 
having to return  the car to the dealership  on several occasions and for the impaired use.
Mr B didnt agree. He said the charges for the alloy wheels were excessive and that he 
shouldve been  given the opportunity to have  them repaired  himself. He also said he 
shouldve been  reimbursed for the 2 tyres he had been told to replace.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The terms and conditions  of the contract  purchase agreement say that Mr B must return the 
car in good  condition and that any damage  which exceeds fair wear and tear is the 
customers responsibility.
Fair wear and tear guidelines have been  issued by the BVLRA  and these guidelines are 
accepted as an industry standard  in determining whether damage exceeds fair wear  and 
tear.
Ive looked at the inspection report, including the photos. This identifies  damage which 
MBFS says goes beyond  fair wear  and tear and is therefore chargeable.
Putting aside the charges  which MBFS has already agreed to waive, Ive looked  at the 
damage to the alloy wheels,  the front left dented door, the rear right panel dent, the missing 
spare key and the V5 registration document. Im satisfied, based on the inspection  report 
Ref: DRN74773912and taking into account the relevant guidelines  that the damage exceeds fair wear  and tear. 
So I think MBFS has acted fairly in asking Mr B to pay the charges.
Ive taken into account what Mr B has said about  the V5 document  being  left in the glove 
box. The inspection  report clearly states  that it is missing and theres nothing to suggest that 
it has been found post-inspection. On balance, I think its reasonable for MBFS to charge for 
the missing document.
Ive also taken into account what Mr B has said about the costs of repair.  He says he 
shouldve been  given the opportunity to arrange  the repairs himself, which he says he can 
do at significantly less cost. It may well be the case that Mr B could have the repairs  carried 
out at less cost but once a car has been returned to the finance company its no longer 
possible for the customer to arrange for repairs. Repairs can be arranged by the customer 
before the car is returned and Mr B had the opportunity to do this. The car return standards 
are set out in documentation which was provided  before  the agreement  was terminated so 
Mr B wouldve  been  aware of the condition he needed to return the car in to avoid damage 
charges. 
Ive also considered Mr Bs comments about the 2 tyres he purchased.   I understand why 
Mr B feels  that he should be refunded. However,  Im unable  to hold MBFS responsible for 
this because it was the dealership and not MBFS who told Mr B to replace the tyres. If Mr B 
wants to pursue a complaint against  the dealership for incorrect advice he may consider a 
complaint to The Motor Ombudsman. The same principle applies in relation to the damage 
insurance policy which Mr B thought that the dealership had arranged for him.
Mr B says he had to take his car back to the dealership  several times because  of a problem 
with the satnav. Ive looked at the job sheets and I can see that the car was returned on 7 
occasions in February  and March 2016. Given that the car was brand new at the point of 
supply, I dont think a reasonable  person would expect to encounter  a fault with the satnav 
within the first 6 months. In the absence of any evidence to the contrary, it seems likely that 
there was a fault with the satnav at the point  of supply. The fault was fixed but Im satisfied 
that Mr B was inconvenienced  at having to return to the dealership several times in a very 
short space of time and suffered a loss of enjoyment  when driving the car with the faulty 
satnav system.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold the complaint  in part. Mercedes-Benz  Financial Services  
UK Limited  should  pay compensation  of £100  to Mr B for the trouble and upset  caused by 
having to return  to the dealership several  times  and £100 for loss of amenity due to the faulty  
satnav system.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 September  2019.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7477391