K820x#14complaint
Mr C has complained about how Admiral Insurance Company  Limited. He isnt happy about 
the way they treated him when he rang about  his commercial van insurance policy  and 
various issues that have  arisen since.
background
Mr C says that Admiral treated him unfairly because he was chased  for an outstanding 
balance hed paid on his account.  Due to being  chased for the money  he paid a further 
£75.74. When  Admiral realised its error he had to ask them  to get it back. He feels  Admiral 
chased him for the money he didnt owe too many times and that this was distressing. And it 
took too long to sort out.
Admirals position  is that it accepts  that things havent gone as it would have wished  and the 
customer experience  for Mr C should have been  better. As a consequence its position is:
It has refunded £75.74 and added interest  to this.
It has offered him a total of £80 compensation (some of which  has been paid) to 
reflect the problems  and costs incurred.
It has apologised for what has happened.
Mr C remains  unhappy with Admirals  position so this complaint has been  passed to me for a 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr C and Admiral  see matters differently  although  broadly the events of what  happened here 
are agreed. The adjudicator who has dealt with this matter so far has set out the events 
clearly and I see little to be gained by repeating what is broadly agreed to have  happened.
Having considered the matter in full I consider the settlement offered by Admiral fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances. I say this for the following reasons:
Mr C overpaid  and Admiral has agreed that it should refund this overpayment. And Admiral 
has added  interest to this.
Clearly Mr C was chased for money  he didnt owe. Admiral accepts this and has explained 
its internal processes failed in this regard.  It has apologised for this.
I can see that Mr C feels  the way he was chased was unfair.  But considering  the frequency  
and format of Admiral chasing him I dont think such chasing was unreasonable.
Mr C has said that he thinks the adjudicators  position is unfair. But has not given  any 
reasoning for this other  than to say he found things distressing. I appreciate that. But havent 
seen anything that persuades me that these events were particularly distressing or caused 
significant inconvenience over and above what has already been recognised.
Although I appreciate it was troublesome for Mr C to be told the wrong information. But 
having considered what hes said and what has happened I dont consider that hes been 
Ref: DRN70923522substantially distressed or inconvenienced  by what  happened. So Im not persuaded to 
change what Admiral  has offered.
I can see Admiral  has taken  action to try and prevent such failings happening again.  I think  
this is a reasonable thing to do in the circumstances. 
I cant see any significant mistake that Admiral  has made that hasnt already been rectified 
or that isnt covered by the offer it has made. So I wont  be asking it to do anything further 
once it has made these payments (if it hasnt  already done so). As a consequence I dont 
uphold this complaint.
my final decision
I understand Admiral  Insurance Company  Limited  has offered a total of £80. I conclude  
thats fair and reasonable in all the circumstances. So my final decision is that Admiral 
Insurance Company Limited  should  pay the total of £80 if it hasnt already done so. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 June  2019.
Rod Glyn-Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7092352