K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs B say Bradford & Bingley Plc (B&B)  mis-sold them  a mortgage  payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1997.
background
Mr and Mrs B took out a mortgage with B&B in 1997. At the same time they were sold a PPI 
policy. The mortgage  was in joint names  but the policy  covered Mr B only. The policy 
covered him against being unable  to work  due to an accident, sickness or involuntary  
unemployment. If Mr B had made a successful claim the policy wouldve paid a monthly 
benefit of £289 for up to 12 months. The policy was free for the first six months.
Mr and Mrs B complained to B&B about the sale of the policy. Unhappy with its reply they 
asked us to step in.
Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be upheld.
B&B disagreed with the adjudicators findings so the complaints been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided the complaint should be upheld and Ill explain why.
The policy sold to Mr and Mrs B excluded  claims for time off work  related to any pre-existing 
medical conditions.
This wouldve affected Mr B as hed been diagnosed with a medical  condition  from an early  
age. I can see Mr B noted some details  of this on the mortgage application form.
This was a significant  term of the policy sold to Mr and Mrs B and it shouldve been  drawn  to 
their attention. Looking  at the paperwork from the time I dont think it was made clear. 
Looking at the PPI section  of the mortgage application form I can see it asked Mr B if he had 
a medical condition. He ticked  the box marked yes.
The instructions on the application  form then told him to give details. Which he did. But I 
cant see on the mortgage application  form that it told him he wouldnt be covered for any 
such conditions.
B&B has pointed to a letter addressed  to Mr and Mrs B which states  that Mr Bs condition 
would not be covered  until he gone  two years  without treatment.
But the letter  also states that the application  had been  accepted. So the letter was sent after 
Mr and Mrs B had agreed to buy the policy.
Ref: DRN73485382I dont think B&B can rely on information  sent after the sale took place to correct errors  or 
missing information at the point of sale. Which is what I think  happened here.
I dont think Mr and Mrs B wouldve  bought the policy if theyd known  at the point  of sale that 
Mr B wouldnt have  been able to claim  for any time off work  related to his existing medical 
condition. So I think they lost out because  of B&Bs error.
putting things right
B&B should  put Mr and Mrs B in the position  theyd be in now if they hadnt  taken  out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled,  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already, and B&B should:
Pay Mr and Mrs B the amount they paid each  month for the PPI.
Add simple interest to each payment from when they paid it until they get it back.  The 
rate of interest is 8% a year .
If Mr B made a successful claim under  the PPI policy, B&B can take off what  he got for 
the claim from the amount it owes them.  
 HM Revenue  & Customs  requires B&B to take off tax from this interest.  B&B must give     
Mr and Mrs B a certificate showing how much tax its taken off if they ask for one.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. And I direct Bradford & Bingley Plc to pay     
Mr and Mrs B compensation  as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  26 April 2019.
Steve Thomas
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7348538