K822xcomplaint
Mr A says Bank of Scotland  plc (BOS) mis-sold him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) 
policy. 
background 
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy Mr A took out in 1999. 
Mr A complained to BOS  who didnt think the policy had been mis-sold.  Mr A bought his 
complaint to this service.
Our adjudicator who considered the complaint thought that taking into account  Mr As 
circumstances at the time of the sale, and if hed been given more information about  the 
costs and benefits of the policy, he would have concluded that the policy  wasnt  good value 
and wouldnt  have  taken  it. So, the complaint should  be upheld. 
BOS agreed to make an offer of £2,148.86  which it said put to Mr A and paid it direct into his 
bank account.  Mr A wasnt happy  with the offer and which he hadnt  accepted.  He referred  
back to us. The adjudicator who looked at the offer thought  it was fair and in line with how 
we would expect  BOS to put the matter  right.  
Mr A didnt agree with the adjudicator. He said that he had been treated poorly by BOS. He 
had asked for copies  of documents  and his credit card statements but didnt receive anything 
from BOS. He questioned why the statements were now available. He didnt agree with how 
BOS had arrived at the compensation figure and that it was too low. His recollection is that 
the credit  card balance  was a lot higher than recorded by BOS calculations and 
correspondingly so would the PPI costs.  BOS had caused him a lot of upset and he wanted 
compensation for the amount of time he had spent on the complaint. 
As the complaint remains unresolved it has been passed to me for a final decision in my role 
as ombudsman. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the complaint has already been upheld and BOS has agreed to pay redress, I will not be 
considering the merits of the PPI sale. But I will be looking at the compensation that has 
been offered,  and whether I think it is fair.
When a business  agrees  to settle  a complaint,  we expect it to, as far as possible,  put the 
customer back in the position they would have been in had they not taken out the PPI policy.  
Id expect it to refund  the premiums paid for PPI, any interest  paid on the premiums and any 
further charges  caused by the PPI. To do this, the business should compare the actual 
account balance  each month  with what the balance might have looked like each month if the 
PPI hadnt been charged.
Different businesses work out compensation in different  ways.  Not every  credit card account 
works in exactly the same  way and there isnt a set way of calculating redress  that every 
business has to follow. And even when all the statement information is available,  certain  
Ref: DRN72261222assumptions have to be made about what might have happened if the PPI wasnt added.  So, 
I must consider what a business has done and whether its offer is fair in the circumstances 
of the individual complaint. 
We asked BOS for a breakdown of its calculations and from reviewing that, I think  what it 
has done seems to be fair. 
To work out what Mr A might have owed on his credit card if he hadnt had PPI, BOS has 
looked at what  actually happened  on the account each month.  Its then tried to work through, 
month by month,  what might have happened if the PPI premiums hadnt been  added.  
BOS has been  able to give us all of the credit card statements while the account was active  
with the exception of one from November  2002. It does have the statements and account  
balances for the months either side of November 2002 and the assumptions  its made  for 
that month  dont look unreasonable.  
I know Mr A has questioned why the statements have now been made available  when he 
had already asked  for them. I appreciate this must have  been frustrating for him not to have 
had them earlier, but we do have them now which helps with checking  the accuracy of BOS  
calculations. And I have no reason not to conclude that the statements arent  a reflection of 
Mr As credit  card usage when the account  was active. 
Mr A has questioned whether the calculations  made  by BOS are correct.  
The calculation schedule refers to three  types  of data  an assumption when there is no 
data available, actual  bank data and a combined  data of assumptions and bank data. Mr A 
has referred to the combined data being  recorded as being  used where  we actually have 
credit card statements showing the cards actual  usage. I do appreciate this is confusing, but 
I dont think this affects the fairness or accuracy of the calculation. Though  there  are a 
number of months that are annotated combined  data, importantly, the figures used  in the 
calculations for those months match the available statements and reflect  what  actually 
happened. 
BOS may have made some small assumptions  when  working  out what the account  might 
have looked like without  PPI. But having  looked  at the statements and the account  
reconstruction without  PPI, I think BOS has fairly worked out what the balance would have 
looked like each month without PPI and in turn the extra  Mr A paid because of the PPI. 
Mr A has challenged the information  used  and whether it has been used correctly. Mr A says 
his credit card balance was typically around  £7,000 so the PPI costs would have been higher 
than those stated  by BOS. Having looked  through the statements I do see that the balance  
was nearer the figure given by Mr A towards  the end of his account but equally there were 
plenty of months when  the balance was a lot lower. So, the basis  for the calculation  looks  to 
be a fair reflection of how Mr A used  his credit card account. 
In conclusion I think the offer made  by BOS is fair and reasonable and in line with how I 
would expect a mis-sale  on a PPI policy to be put right. 
Ref: DRN72261223I appreciate Mr A has been very frustrated  by the complaint  process. He has put a lot of time 
and effort  into making his complaint. But I dont agree that additional compensation for this is 
warranted. I say this because any relationship between a consumer and a business  can 
potentially give rise to disagreements  or errors. Inevitably having to make a complaint will 
cause some upset and inconvenience.  And when a complaint  is made to a financial 
business, we would  expect that business  to treat the customer fairly.  
In this case, at the outset BOS didnt  think the complaint should be upheld, which it is 
entitled to do. But when  our adjudicator made  a different finding it agreed to make an offer in 
line with what we would expect it to do. And I fully understand there  have been  delays  and in 
particular because of the current pandemic. So, while I accept how frustrated  Mr A has been 
by the complaint process, I dont agree this merits an additional award.  
I am sorry  that Mr A remains so dissatisfied, but I hope that my explanation  about how Ive 
reached my decision and conclusion that the offer made by BOS  is reasonable under the 
circumstances of this complaint has been  useful. 
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, my final decision is that the offer made by Bank of Scotland  plc 
is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr As complaint. As Bank of Scotland plc has 
already paid the compensation  to Mr A, it doesnt need to do anything  further.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 February  2021.
Catherine Langley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7226122