K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as Sunny) irresponsibly 
lent to her. 
Ms B said she was in a debt spiral to the extent that loans werent affordable  and proper 
affordability checks werent done.
background
Sunny agreed  eleven loans for Ms B from November  2015 to February 2018. 
Ms B took out loans  that ranged  between  £100 and £500. The loans were to be repaid over 
six months and she always repaid these early. 
Theres a table at the end of my decision setting out loan details.
Our adjudicator partially upheld Ms Bs complaint and thought the loan taken out by Ms B on 
30/08/2016 (loan 6 in my table) and all the lending  that followed shouldnt  have been lent to 
Ms B.
Sunny disagreed so the complaint came  to me to decide. I issued a provisional decision. 
what I said in my provisional decision
Here are some of the main things I said. 
Sunny needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly.  In practice 
this means that it shouldve carried  out proportionate  checks to make sure Ms B could repay 
the loans in a sustainable manner. These  checks could take into account  a number of 
different things, such as how much  was being  lent, the repayment amounts and the 
consumers income and expenditure. With this in mind,  in the early stages of a lending 
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors include:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrates that the lending was unsustainable.
Ref: DRN79780622I think that it is important for me to start by saying that Sunny was required to establish 
whether Ms B could sustainably repay her loans  not just whether the loan payments  were 
affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation. 
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it doesnt automatically follow this is 
the case. This is because the relevant regulations define sustainable as being without undue 
difficulties and in particular the customer should  be able to make  repayments on time,  while  
meeting other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having to borrow  to meet  
the repayments. And it follows that a lender should  realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably 
to realise, that a borrower wont be able to make their repayments sustainably  if theyre  
unlikely to be able to make their repayments without borrowing further. 
Ive carefully considered  all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all means for Ms Bs complaint.
Ive also looked  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history with Ms B to see if there was 
a point at which Sunny reasonably shouldve seen that further lending was unsustainable,  or 
otherwise harmful. Thats  when Sunny shouldve realised that it shouldnt  have  provided  any 
further loans.  
I dont think Sunny was wrong to give the first three loans  to Ms B. Looking at the amounts 
Ms B needed to repay,  what  was apparent  about  her circumstances at the time, and her 
history with the lender, I dont think it wouldve been proportionate for Sunny to ask her for 
the amount of information that would be needed  to show the lending was unsustainable. 
But I think Sunny shouldve been concerned about  looking further  into her circumstances by 
the time she took out loan 4 - and again when she applied for loan 5. I say this because  
taking out loan 4, when  she was still paying for loan 3, meant that Ms B had to use a bigger 
proportion of her disposable monthly  income  to pay her Sunny lending. And she took out 
loan 5 when she was still paying  loan 4. However,  I havent seen  anything  in the information 
available to me which shows Sunny wouldve decided  not to agree these loans had it done  
further checks.
But, looking  at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending history  with Ms B, I think  by loan 6 
when Ms B borrowed another £200,  the lender should reasonably  have seen that further 
lending was unsustainable, or otherwise harmful. By now, Sunny was able to see signs that 
suggested Ms B was likely dependent on the high cost short term credit it provided. I say this 
because by the time Ms B took out loan 6 shed already  been  borrowing expensive short 
term loans for around nine months. Although loans 3 and 4 had been paid early, it looks  like 
this hadnt been something Ms B was easily able to afford to do. I say this because she then 
found it necessary  to ask Sunny for another loan (loan 6) only eleven days later.  And when 
she started loan 6 she was still paying  for loan 5. Establishing  a habit of repaying  loans  early  
and then taking  out a new loan doesnt  suggest  to me that Ms B was in a financially stable 
position.
Ive taken into account that Sunny  says Ms Bs declared income was between  £1,440 and 
£1,500 and on average she was required to use 4.11% of her monthly income  to repay  her 
Sunny loans. So it was Sunnys view that these  loans  appeared to be sustainable and 
affordable. 
Ref: DRN79780623But I think by loan 6 Sunny shouldve been  concerned that Ms B was having problems 
managing her money. 
By loan 6, Ms Bs overall pattern  of borrowing suggested that shed become persistently 
reliant on short-term loans. In my view, the pattern of lending  itself shows that by loan 6 and 
onwards that borrowing was unsustainable  for Ms B - so I dont think Sunny shouldve  given 
Ms B loans 6 through to 11. 
I think that Sunny shouldve concluded  that the lending history  alone indicated that the 
borrowing was unsustainable.  I say this because:
there werent any significant gaps between loans being  repaid and a new loan being  
granted. So I dont  think  it wouldve  been  reasonable for Sunny to conclude  that 
Ms Bs finances had moved on from whatever situation had required her previous 
loans. 
By the time Ms B asked for loan 6 shed been  borrowing from Sunny repeatedly  and 
in quick succession  and she wasnt making any inroads  into the amount she owed 
the lender. Shed first borrowed £200 and by taking loan 6 was now indebted to 
Sunny for £400. 
I think that Ms B lost out because Sunny  continued  to provide borrowing from loan 6 
onwards when:
these loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Ms Bs indebtedness by allowing her 
to take expensive credit intended  for short-term  use over an extended  period of time.
the length of time over which she took out short term credit was likely to have had 
negative implications on Ms Bs ability to access mainstream credit and so kept her in 
the market for these  high-cost  loans.
Ive thought carefully about what Sunny has said about the six-month gap between loans 9 
and 10, followed  by an almost 8-month gap between loans 10 and 11. Sunny says this 
shows Ms B took out the loans as and when she needed to and not because she became 
reliant on the credit.
But I see things differently. 
Loan 10 was taken out barely six months after the previous loan had been  repaid and it was 
for the highest  single  amount Ms B had ever borrowed  from Sunny. This doesnt suggest to 
me that Ms Bs finances had significantly improved over this period. It looks more  likely to 
me that Ms B was finding it difficult,  as she told us, to escape  from the cycle  of borrowing 
and debt that she found herself in. So although  she had managed without having to rely on 
more credit from Sunny during this period,  this only meant that she needed to borrow 
significantly more than before. So I dont think it was fair for Sunny to give Ms B loan 10 
And I dont  think it was reasonable for Sunny to think  that the gap between loan 10 being 
paid and loan 11 (a gap in lending of around  8 months) was sufficient in this case for Sunny 
reasonably to have  taken  the view that Ms B had been able to get her finances back  onto a 
more stable footing. 
Ref: DRN79780624Ive taken into account that loan 11 was just for £150  most of the loans shed taken out 
were for quite a lot more than this. But set against this, Sunny had recorded  that Ms B was 
spending £910 a month managing existing debt  an amount over 60% of her monthly 
income and almost double her living costs. Sunny could  see that this left her with £115 a 
month to repay £45 a month,  potentially over the 6 months loan term. So I dont think  Sunny 
should reasonably have  concluded that overall it looked like Ms Bs finances  were generally 
improving given what it knew about her existing debt and shrinking disposable income.  So 
I dont think it was fair for Sunny to give Ms B loan 11. 
So Im planning  on upholding  the complaint about  loan 6 through to loan 11 and telling 
Sunny it should  take steps to put things right.
what the parties said in response to my provisional  decision 
Ms B has confirmed she accepts what Ive said in my provisional  decision.
Sunny disagrees  with what Ive said in my provisional decision. Sunny asks me to consider 
that:
Ms B repaid each loan on time and was never in arrears on any Sunny loan
at the date of each  application in relation to loans 1  5 Ms B had sufficient monthly 
disposable income to make her repayments sustainably over the term of the loan(s)
Ms B wasnt required to use a significant proportion of her monthly income to make 
her contractual repayments to Sunny  even  when  repaying  more than one loan at 
the same  time
theres no evidence  on Sunnys customer system that Ms B ever had problems 
managing her money during  the period she applied to Sunny for loans.
Ill briefly  summarise here the main points Sunny mentions that seem  to me to potentially  
have an impact on the outcome of this complaint.
Sunny disagrees  in particular that it had any reason to be concerned  about  Ms Bs 
circumstances when  she applied for loans 4 and 5.
Sunny mentions  that the adjudicator didnt say there was any reason why Sunny shouldnt 
have granted loans 4 and 5 to Ms B  and it wants to know if weve  seen new evidence to 
support what Ive said about  this.
Sunny feels Ive given  undue weight to the number of loans Ms B had and her pattern of 
lending  especially bearing in mind that it assessed  affordability and creditworthiness  before 
providing each  loan.
Sunny says the regulations dont  require it to undertake any assessment of the overall  
sustainability of Ms Bs borrowing in general.
And Sunny says its incorrect to assume  that the number  of loans  granted  by Sunny alone,  in 
the absence of any other factors or evidence, necessarily impaired Ms Bs ability  to access  
mainstream credit.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Ref: DRN79780625Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Ive thought  carefully about everything that Sunny has said in response to my provisional  
decision. Ive taken  into account  the factors that Sunny relied on to demonstrate  
creditworthiness that it particularly asked me to keep in mind. 
In coming to my provisional decision, I looked afresh at all the available information   and on 
some points I took a slightly different view to our adjudicator. Ive explained in my provisional 
decision why I think Ms Bs borrowing history shouldve reasonably  started to raise  concern 
by the time she was asking Sunny for loans  4 and 5. I still think, despite what  Sunny says 
about this, that Sunny  could have  done  more or gone further in its affordability  assessment, 
to ensure it had a clear understanding of Ms Bs finances before agreeing these loans. But 
I accept that even had it done so, based  on the information thats available  to me, I cant  see 
that further checks wouldve led Sunny to decline loans 4 and 5.
So, for the reasons I explained  more  fully in my provisional decision, Im not upholding 
Ms Bs complaint about any of the first five Sunny loans. 
Ive explained  in my provisional decision that the fact Ms B repaid  some loans early isnt, to 
my mind, a positive indication that her finances were healthy   looking at her repayment 
record, I think this indicated a degree  of volatility  that suggested the opposite.  
Ive taken into account what Sunny says about the weight Ive attached to the overall pattern 
of its lending history with Ms B when coming to the view that loan 6 onwards shouldnt  have 
been lent to her. For the reasons Ive set out in my provisional decision,  I still think by loan 6 
Ms Bs overall pattern  of borrowing  suggested that shed  become persistently reliant  on 
short-term loans  leading to the conclusion that by loan 6 onwards that borrowing was 
unsustainable for Ms B.
I note what Sunny says about its regulatory  responsibilities. Ive set out in my provisional 
decision what I think Sunny ought  reasonably to have taken into account when Ms B made  
her loan applications to Sunny. 
In my provisional decision I responded to a point Sunny had mentioned about the gap in the 
lending chain after loan 10. I agree that an 8 months non-borrowing period might in some  
circumstances be a sufficient length of time for a lender reasonably to think a borrowers 
finances had been put in order. But all cases  are decided on their own particular set of facts. 
In Ms Bs case, I think Sunny shouldve already realised by loan 6 that further loans werent 
sustainably affordable for Ms B  and the gap after loan 10 didnt affect that view.
Finally, I think  it is fair for me to say that, irrespective  of her payment record, the number of 
loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information recorded about those loans will 
reflect adversely  on Ms Bs credit file.
I appreciate that Sunny  disagrees  with the way Ive reached my view. In my decision Ive 
concentrated on dealing with the main points  raised that affect  the outcome of this complaint. 
I hope that setting  out the reasons as Ive done  will help explain how Ive reached my final 
decision.
Ref: DRN79780626After taking carefully into account  everything thats  been said, including  in response to my 
provisional decision, I still think its fair to uphold this complaint for the reasons I explained in 
my provisional decision. 
putting things right
For each of loans  6-11 Sunny should: 
refund  any interest and charges  applied to the loans 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*
the number  of loans taken from loan 6 onwards means any information  recorded about 
them is adverse.  So all entries about  loans  6 to 11 should be removed from Ms Bs credit 
file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Ms B a certificate showing how much tax its taken  off if she asks for one.
my final decision
I partially uphold  this complaint and direct Elevate Credit International Limited (trading as 
Sunny) to pay Ms B as set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 10 January 2020.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Loan 
number amount  £ start date date paid
1 300 28/11/2015 21/02/2016
2 100 10/12/2015 19/01/2016
3 300 31/03/2016 19/08/2016
4 200 09/06/2016 19/08/2016
5 200 02/07/2016 19/09/2016 
6 200 30/08/2016 19/10/2016
7 100 14/09/2016 19/10/2016
8 100 15/10/2016 18/11/2016
9 200 11/11/2016 28/11/2016
10 500 06/06/2017 19/06/2017
11 150 18/02/2018 22/02/2018
Ref: DRN7978062