K820x#14complaint
Mr Gs complaint is that an adviser  with Positive  Solutions, now Quilter Financial Planning 
Solutions Limited, gave  him unsuitable advice  to transfer his existing pensions to a self- 
invested personal pension (SIPP) in order to invest in a Harlequin Property investment 
scheme.  Mr G thinks the investment was too risky for him and he should  have  been  advised 
against it.  
background
Mr G says in 2009 his brother told him about a type of investment he was considering.  It 
was in an overseas  property-based  investment with Harlequin Property through  a company I 
will refer to as the Harlequin agent.  Mr G was told he could invest with Harlequin in his 
pension, but the Harlequin agent  could not advise him about that.  He was introduced  to an 
adviser I will call Mr M, who was an adviser with Positive Solutions,  as he was authorised to 
advise on pensions.
Mr G set up a SIPP  with Rowanmoor as recommended  by Mr M and transferred  his 
pensions to it, and invested in the Harlequin  Property investment.  The investment was not a 
success.  The property  was not built, and parts of the Harlequin  group went into 
administration.
The investment was in an unbuilt studio apartment  in a development in the Dominican 
Republic.  The contract was with Promatora San Patricio SA a company incorporated in the 
Dominican Republic.  
Mr G bought a 50% share of the property on a fractional ownership basis. The property 
was part of a larger development that was to be managed by, or on behalf of, Harlequin.   
The total purchase price  was £60,000.  Mr G paid the 30% deposit of £18,000  according  to 
the contract. The balance was payable in stages  as the building work progressed.   
The target completion date for the property  was 31 March 2013.   This was subject to 
possible extension under the contract for delay caused by force majeure.
The contract allowed  the buyer to terminate the contract and request a refund within  90 days 
if the seller failed to transfer the property  to the investor  within 12 months  of the completion  
date if the force majeure clause did not apply.   The contract had a similar  provision if the 
seller failed to sell the other share  of the property within  12 months of the target  completion  
date.
In March 2013 Essex police and the Serious Fraud Office announced they had launched an 
investigation into Harlequin.
In November 2013 Mr G emailed Rowanmoor saying it looked like Harlequin  Property  would 
be going into liquidation, and that his property had not been built, so he was going to write to 
Harlequin to cancel the contract and demand the return  of his deposit.
Later Mr G complained to Positive Solutions with the help of a claims management company 
(CMC).  
Ref: DRN78848652Positive Solutions did not uphold the complaint.  It said the complaint had been made too 
late to be considered because Mr G should  have  known about problems with the Harlequin  
investment for more  than three years before he complained.
Mr G referred  his complaint to the Financial  Ombudsman Service.  One  of our adjudicators 
considered the time bar arguments.  The adjudicator  thought the complaint had not been  
made too late and could  be considered.   Positive  Solutions did not agree.  The matter was 
referred to one of my fellow ombudsmen and she issued a jurisdiction decision saying the 
complaint had not been made too late and could  therefore be considered.
Positive Solutions then said it did not think the complaint could be considered for a different  
reason.  It  said the adviser was not acting for it in this matter.  Positive Solutions said the 
adviser was appointed to give advice on its behalf but was not authorised  to give advice 
about unregulated investments like Harlequin, and Rowanmoor was not on its list of 
approved providers.
  
I issued a provisional decision in Mr Gs complaint on 6 January 2021.  I went through  the 
evidence in detail.   I explained why I thought we can consider the complaint and why I 
thought the adviser should  have  advised  Mr G not to invest in Harlequin in his pension.   
However I went on to say, in the particular circumstances of this case, I thought  it was more 
likely than not that Mr G would still have invested in Harlequin even if the adviser had given 
that advice.  
I said this because Mr Gs brother was the agent for Harlequin who introduced the 
investment to Mr G.
Positive Solutions did not make any comments in response to my provisional  decision.  
Mr G does not agree with my provisional decision.  He has made a number of points 
including:
The provisional decision is unfair.
The provisional decision explains why Mr M was at fault in the advice he gave and  
Mr G trusted  that advice form a certified IFA.
As Mr G has repeatedly explained,  he had no idea of his brothers business 
involvement in this or any other investment.
Mr G had no real relationship with his brother and would not have trusted him with 
the future of his hard-earned pension fund.
If, as suggested in the provisional  decision, Mr G would have invested anyway, why 
did he need to involve Mr M?  
Mr G was looking for the best investment  opportunity  possible for his pension fund, 
not the first one he was told about.  It was Mr Ms duty to ensure that happened  and 
he failed to do so, leading to the losses Mr G has suffered.
my findings  jurisdiction
I have considered all of the evidence and arguments  in order  to decide whether we can 
consider this complaint.
time bar
Ref: DRN78848653I agree  with my fellow ombudsmans decision  on time bar and have nothing to add on that 
point.
jurisdiction  the not acting for Positive Solutions point
Put briefly,  we can consider Mr Gs complaint if the complaint  is about  a regulated activity 
that Positive Solutions  authorised Mr M to carry on.
Mr G says Mr M gave  him advice to set up his SIPP, and transfer his pensions to it, so he 
could then invest in the Harlequin  investment within  the SIPP.  
Advising someone  to set up a SIPP and to transfer  rights in existing personal pensions  to it 
is a regulated activity.  Arranging those deals is also a regulated activity. 
Positive Solutions main  position is that if Mr M did do those things he was not acting for 
Positive Solutions when  he did so and so it is not responsible, and the complaint  cannot be 
considered against it.
was there  advice?
Positive Solutions says the adviser made  it clear he was unable to provide  any advice.  
When one of our investigators  asked  for a copy  of Mr Ms statement it mentioned that Mr M 
had provided his information on another  case.   In this case  Positive  Solutions  added the 
following from Mr M:
To give you the background  for this case my wife and I had invested in Harlequin
ourselves through  a friend. Later, around the end of 2009, I became  a sub agent  for
Harlequin within the group  [name of Harlequin  agent].  This group  was headed up by [Mr Gs] 
brother...
And in the other case when asked for more information Positive  Solutions  said:
 As I recall I became a sub agent with [name of Harlequin agent] near the end of 2009 and 
as such  it is unlikely that I would have received any commission.
I can therefore confirm  there was no conflict of interest and I acted  for [the consumer in the 
other case] as his IFA, which at that point I had been doing so for [many years]
The above  clarification was given despite the adviser having earlier  said that he had made it 
clear he and Positive Solutions  could not give advice.
In my view, its possible Mr M may have changed his practice over time.  However I do not 
think he had in his dealings with Mr G - which started in September  2009.
In my view the evidence does show that Mr M recommended  a Rowanmoor SIPP to Mr G, 
and the transfer  of his existing pensions to it, so that Mr G could invest in Harlequin.  Its not 
clear that Mr M recommended the Harlequin investment itself,  rather  that idea seems to 
have come from Mr Gs brother and/or  the Harlequin agent.
Ref: DRN78848654was the advice  given  on behalf of Positive Solutions?
Mr M was not an employee  of Positive  Solutions   he was its agent.  Positive Solutions says 
Mr M was acting  beyond the scope  of the agency agreement  between  them  and so he was 
not acting for it if he gave  the disputed advice.
The law recognises more  than one type of agency.   There is agency based on actual 
authority.  And in this case, there  was a written agency agreement  between Mr M setting  out 
the terms on which Mr M acted for Positive Solutions.  There is a general  point  in agency of 
this type that the agent is required to try to act in the principals best interests.
In this case the giving advice on investments Positive Solutions had not approved and not 
accounting to it in any way for any commission means Mr M was not acting in accordance 
with the actual authority he had been  given.
That is not however the end of the matter because there is also agency based  on apparent 
or ostensible  authority.   This arises  when the principal represents to third parties  through 
words or conduct that the agent has authority to act on its behalf,  and the third party  
reasonably relies upon that representation.
The case  law makes it clear that whether a claimant has relied on a representation is 
dependent on the circumstances  of the individual  case. So here, I must consider whether,  on 
the facts of this individual case:
Positive Solutions made a representation to Mr G that Mr M had Positive Solutions 
authority to act on its behalf in carrying out the activities he now complains about;  
and
Mr G reasonably relied on that representation  in entering into the transactions  he 
now complains about.
I need to decide whether Positive  Solutions placed Mr M in a position  which  would, 
objectively, generally be regarded as carrying its authority  to enter  into transactions  such as 
setting up of the SIPP, and transfer  existing pensions to it, in order  to invest  in the Harlequin 
investment scheme.  Put another way, did Positive  Solutions knowingly  or even unwittingly 
 lead Mr G to believe that Mr M was authorised to conduct business on its behalf of a type 
(namely, advising and arranging investments) that he was not in fact authorised  to conduct?
If I find that it did, I also need to decide whether Mr G reasonably  relied on any 
representation Positive  Solutions made.
Did Positive Solutions represent to Mr G that Mr M had the relevant authority?
The ultimate question  is whether there  was apparent authority in relation to this transaction.  
But to answer that question, it is right for me to consider whether Positive Solutions placed 
Mr M in a position which would objectively carry Positive Solutions authority for Mr M to 
conduct business of a type he did in fact conduct.
Mr G and Mr M did not have a client/adviser  relationship before the events in this complaint.  
And Mr G seems  to have been introduced  to Mr M by the Harlequin agent.  However there 
can be no question that in 2009  Mr G understood Mr M was with Positive Solutions since  he 
communicated with Mr G using Positive Solutions stationery.
Ref: DRN78848655Its not clear Mr G was given a terms of business agreement in respect  of the disputed 
advice.  If he was it would have shown that Mr M could advise on and arrange investments 
and set up SIPPs for Positive Solutions  customers. None of these activities  would be 
unexpected for an IFA firm. They are all the type of activity that IFAs are usually authorised  
to do. 
Even if Mr G did see the terms of business  agreement, any restrictions  on the authority to 
give advice on transferring existing pensions, setting  up a SIPP or using only certain 
investments would not have been visible to Mr G. So, for example, he would not have known 
that an adviser should only recommend  approved investments, should  obtain clearance from 
Positive Solutions before giving certain  types  of advice  and should  present the advice  in 
certain ways.
If Mr G did not see the terms of business  agreement, he did still know  Mr M to be an adviser  
for Positive  Solutions.
Positive Solutions held itself out as an independent  financial  adviser  that gave advice and 
offered products from the whole  of the market  after assessing a clients needs. No 
information was provided to clients  or potential clients about the agent being authorised in 
relation to approved products only. 
Positive Solutions authorised Mr M to give investment advice on its behalf  and Mr M was 
held out by it as authorised to give investment advice on its behalf.  Positive  Solutions  
arranged for Mr M to appear  on the FSA register in respect of Positive Solutions.  And Mr M 
was approved to carry on the controlled function CF30 at the time of the disputed advice.
Positive Solutions placed Mr M in a position  which would, in the outside world,  generally be 
regarded as having authority to carry out the acts Mr G complains about.
Positive Solutions provided Mr M with Positive  Solutions business stationery so Mr M could 
advise on investments. 
It was in Positive Solutions  interest  for the general  public, including Mr G, to understand that 
it was taking responsibility for the advice given  by its financial advisers.  I am satisfied that 
Positive Solutions intended  Mr G to act on its representation that Mr M was its financial 
adviser.
I further consider  that the provision of financial advice was a key part of Positive Solutions 
business. It said in its terms of business that its Partners would give impartial,  independent  
financial advice. I do not see how Positive  Solutions could have carried  out its business 
activities at all if the general public had not treated registered individuals like Mr M as having  
authority to give investment advice on behalf  of Positive Solutions.
It is my view that all of these points taken together mean that Positive  Solutions  did 
represent to Mr G that Mr M was authorised to give the investment advice he gave to Mr G.
did Mr G reasonably rely on Positive Solutions  representation?
It is Mr Gs position  that the Harlequin  investment idea was introduced to him by the 
Harlequin agent but that the Harlequin agent could not advise about pensions and so it told 
him he would  need  to deal with a financial adviser  that could.  I take this to mean  an adviser 
Ref: DRN78848656that was allowed or permitted to advise about those matters.  This was to be official  or 
proper advice meaning advice from a regulated financial adviser not just an informal chat 
with someone who happens to know a bit about pensions.
Mr G knew Mr M to be with, or from, Positive  Solutions and thought  he was acting as a 
Positive Solutions adviser when he gave the advice he complains about. Positive Solutions 
has said that Mr M made it clear  that he was not acting as a Positive Solutions adviser when 
he gave the advice. There is no evidence to support this and the point tends to be 
undermined by Mr M himself in what he has said in another case. 
I havent seen  any evidence to show that Mr G knew or should reasonably have known that 
Mr M was acting  in any capacity other than as a Positive  Solutions  adviser.  
In my view, on balance, the evidence does indicate that Mr G proceeded on the basis  that 
Mr M was acting  in every  respect as the agent  of Positive Solutions with authority from 
Positive Solutions so to act.  In other words, Mr G reasonably relied  on Positive Solutions 
representation that Mr M was authorised  to give the investment advice he gave to Mr G.
It is therefore my finding that Positive Solutions is responsible for the advice Mr G complains 
about and that we can consider his complaint.
my findings - merits
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In 2013 the Financial Services Authority issued an alert in relation to Advising on pension 
transfers with a view to investing  pension  monies  into unregulated products through a SIPP. 
In summary  it said that where an adviser  recommends a SIPP knowing the client is intending 
to invest in a certain way, the investment must also be considered  as part of the advice 
process.
Although this alert was issued after Mr M advised Mr G to take out a SIPP  and transfer his 
existing pension rights  to it, the alert was a reminder  of existing obligations and therefore  is 
relevant.
I agree  that it was not appropriate  to advise on the setting up of a SIPP and the transfer of 
personal pensions  to it without taking also into account the intended investment in Harlequin 
in this case.
The investment in Harlequin  was relatively  high risk. In my view investing  in an unregulated 
off-plan overseas property investment scheme involved a high degree of risk which  was not 
by normal standards  suitable for Mr G.  He was not a sophisticated investor.  He did not own 
his own home and his savings  were  earmarked for use as a deposit for a house.  He was not 
in such a secure financial position  that he would generally be thought to be able to take a 
high degree of risk with his pension.  And one of the pensions  transferred had the benefit  of 
a guaranteed annuity rate which was lost when  that pension was transferred.
However there is a factor in this case that makes  Mr Gs case different to what might be 
considered normal.   Mr G was introduced to the idea of investing in Harlequin by his brother 
(who he says introduced  him to the Harlequin  agent).   
Ref: DRN78848657Its Mr Gs case that he dealt with the named Harlequin agent and there is evidence of that, 
such as a letter from Harlequin in October 2010  and the copy  letter  from the Harlequin agent 
in August 2010. So there is no suggestion that Mr G dealt with a different Harlequin  agent, 
one that was nothing to do with his brother.
Mr Gs brother is shown on the Companies House website as one of the directors  of the 
Harlequin agent.  Mr M says Mr G headed  up the company.  When  we asked Mr G about  his 
brother and the Harlequin agent, Mr G did not say there had been a mistake  and that his 
brother was not a director  or was not involved.   
In all the circumstances there seems  to be no dispute that Mr Gs brother was, in effect, the 
Harlequin agent.  
Positive Solutions, in effect, says that if Mr M did give unsuitable advice,  I should  still not find 
against it because  that wrong did not cause Mr Gs loss.  And thats because he would  have 
invested in Harlequin in any event  because of his close  connection to the Harlequin agent  
who promoted the investment.
Mr G says a number of things about this, but an overarching point is the argument  that its 
not relevant.  He  went to Mr M for regulated  advice.   Mr M was under an obligation  to give 
suitable advice.   If he didnt give suitable  advice  the complaint should be upheld because  if 
Mr M had advised him not to invest,  Mr G would not have invested.
Mr G asks why Mr M was involved if he was just going to follow his brothers 
recommendation to invest in Harlequin.   The answer  to that is that the regulated adviser was 
apparently needed to deal with investments within pensions. Those pension funds must be 
in a SIPP so a SIPP had to set up and the existing  pensions  transferred to it.  These are 
matters normally dealt  with by regulated financial advisers and Mr Gs brother was not a 
regulated financial  adviser.  Thats why Mr M was involved.  And because he advised on the 
SIPP and the existing pensions, he should  have considered the suitability of the Harlequin  
investment for Mr Gs pension.  But the issue remains  whether Mr G would have invested in 
Harlequin if Mr M had said the Harlequin investment was unsuitable  for Mr Gs pension.
I have to decide disputed matters on the basis of the evidence  making  my findings on the 
balance of probabilities.  That does not mean  just accepting the evidence presented to me 
without question even  where there is little or no directly conflicting evidence.   Points  such as 
the consistency of the account  and the plausibility of the account, need  to be considered  as 
well as consistency with all other available evidence.
If, after considering  all of these matters, I think what Mr G argues  to be more  likely than not, I 
should uphold  his complaint.  If I cannot  come  to that conclusion then I cannot uphold  Mr Gs 
complaint.  That  is the case even if it does not feel fair to Mr G for me to come to that view.
I appreciate that Mr G has repeatedly said he had no idea about  his brothers business 
involvement with Harlequin.  But, as I explained  in my provisional decision, on balance I am 
not persuaded that what Mr G says is more likely than not  which is the test I must apply 
when assessing  the evidence.  There are several points that lead me to that view.   
Individually they are not all necessarily of equal value or on their own determinative.   But 
taken together  the points do mean I am not persuaded that what Mr G says is more  likely 
than not.  And Mr G has not really disputed or given an alternative  explanation for those 
points when he commented on my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN78848658As a first point I note that Mr G did not give a full and open account of matters from the 
outset.  
Mr Gs account of events to Positive Solutions  and to the first adjudicator make no mention 
of the original idea of investing in Harlequin coming from his brother.  Rather, Mr G said:
 
[Mr Ms first name] approached me with the Harlequin investment  and
I had no understanding of pensions  or investing when  [Mr M] told me about  the opportunity to 
invest in Harlequin Properties.
These points are not completely  contrary  to Mr Gs more  fully described account of events  
but they do tend to give a different impression.
It is right to say that there was amongst the documents originally sent to the ombudsman 
service by Mr G, and his CMC, a letter from Harlequin from October  2010 that referred to the 
Harlequin agent by name.  So it would be wrong to say Mr G was denying the involvement of 
the Harlequin agent at this early stage   but he wasnt  talking about it either. And what  he 
did say gave the impression that Mr M had introduced the idea of investing in Harlequin to 
Mr G.
It was only when an investigator asked about  Mr Gs relationship with the Harlequin agent  
and referred to the letter from October 2010, and asked for copies of all other  
correspondence with the Harlequin  agent, that Mr G said:
[The Harlequin  agent] was recommended  by a family  member  in 2009.  
Mr G did not provide copies of any correspondence with the Harlequin agent  in response to 
this request.  But he did later provide a copy of a letter from the agent  after the investigator 
had pointed out Mr Gs brothers relationship with the agent.  
Mr Gs reference to a recommendation by a family member  rather  than specifying the 
recommendation was from his brother, and how it came about,  leaves  an impression that 
Mr G wanted to give out as little information  as he could.  It was only after being asked more 
questions that Mr G mentioned that the family member was his brother.
Mr G did not mention that his brother had a connection with the Harlequin agent   but that is 
consistent with his case that he did not know that his brother was connected with the 
Harlequin agent.
But then if Mr G did not know his brother was the Harlequin agent  why did he not mention 
that his brother had suggested  the investment in the first place?   On its own the point is not 
fatal to his claim.  He could still say, as he does, that Mr M is the regulated adviser  and he 
should have given proper advice.  That argument  only becomes harder to make  if the 
brother was more  than just another potential investor, if he was also involved in the selling of 
the Harlequin investment.
There is also the point  about Mr G not providing  copy documents when asked and then 
providing a copy  document from the Harlequin  agent later to support  a point he was making  
at that time.
All in all I have concerns  about the lack of an open and consistent accounting for events 
from Mr G.
Ref: DRN78848659Next, there  is the issue of plausibility.  
 
I accept not all families are the same and that Mr G and his brother may not be close.   But 
according to Mr G his brother told him he was thinking of investing in a property investment 
with Harlequin  through a Harlequin  agent he named.  This was an agent he was a director of 
but did not mention that to Mr G.  This does not seem very plausible.   
I can see that Mr G might  not have known  that his brother was an agent for Harlequin before 
the conversation  started if they are not close and his brother  changes  his job often.  But  why 
would the brother not mention it when  they were talking about Harlequin  investments?  Its 
difficult to make sense of that.  The connection  to Harlequin was of interest, relevant even.  
Why not talk about  it?
It is important  not to use hindsight.  In  2009  and 2010 when these  discussions were  taking 
place Harlequin  investments  were being actively promoted to investors as attractive 
investments. They may have a poor reputation now, but they did not have  that reputation 
then.  So  its not obvious why Mr Gs brother would  be reluctant to reveal his connection with 
the investments.
One possible explanation might be that the brother  thought Mr G did not trust his judgement 
or motives.  And that Mr G would  not want to have  anything  to do with it if he knew his 
brother was involved and the brother kept quiet to ensure he got his commission  on Mr Gs 
investment. But this does  not seem to add up because Mr G trusted  his brothers judgement  
enough to express  an interest in the same non-mainstream investment his brother was 
apparently considering.  Why would that be if Mr G somehow thought his brother lacked 
judgement or was untrustworthy or irresponsible?  
And this was before the Harlequin agent had told him it was possible to invest  through  his 
pension.  Mr G had no investments - but was saving for a deposit on a house.  So it was a 
big commitment  for Mr G, and he was interested in his brothers investment  idea before  he 
knew a regulated adviser would have to be involved.
Mr G says he did not discover his brothers  connection  to the Harlequin agent until we asked 
him about it in 2020 suggesting either they never discussed the investment again after that 
first conversation and/or the brother continued to mislead him over a number of years.  And  
the brother also somehow  arranged for their mother to be registered as the company 
secretary of the Harlequin agent without her knowing (or remembering).
It seems  unlikely  that in all his dealings with both Mr M and the Harlequin agent that no one 
ever mentioned or discussed  the connection with his brother given  they have the same last 
name - and Mr M knew of the connection.
Also for some unspecified  reason the usual fee Mr M charged according to the printed 
schedule of charges  was waived in Mr Gs case.  This might seem  to suggest he was treated 
as a special case  in some way.  
Mr G emailed Rowanmoor in November 2013 after he had heard that Harlequin might go 
into liquidation.  He  asked if the payment had been  paid to Harlequin for the deposit on the 
property.  He went on to say:
Ref: DRN788486510 it looks like Harlequin property is about to go into liquidation & my property in Las Canas  
to which the Sipp relates will never even be built & therefore  my pension fund will just sit 
there & be eaten up over time with fees & expenses.  As the completion date is now more 
than 6 months overdue with no sign of the property even  being built, I am going  to write to 
Harlequin & cancel my contract with them.  If  my deposit his indeed  already been  paid to 
them they should refund  it within 90 days but I would  like you to confirm this status please.
We asked Mr G if his brother  or anyone else helped him with this email  and he said no. The 
email does seem both uninformed and quite well informed.  On the one hand it shows  Mr G 
did not understand the pension statements he received from Rowanmoor  the payment out 
of the deposit  still meant he had an asset  in his SIPP  ie the interest in the property he was 
buying.  
On the other hand, the email shows knowledge  of the right to a refund of the deposit within 
90 days of notice of termination.  Mr G could have checked this point in the contract himself.  
But if he had he would  have seen that notice to terminate could be given after 12 months 
delay not six (as Rowanmoor pointed out to him when he asked it to try to get his money 
back). It seems  like the writer of Mr Gs email has some understanding but had not checked 
the details.  And Mr G generally presents as someone who would not have an understanding 
without checking  the details (just as he was checking  with Rowanmoor whether or not it had 
paid his money to Harlequin).
Also as Mr Gs CMC  pointed out on his behalf  in the early part of this complaint when time 
bar was still in issue, his contract  was not with Harlequin Property it was with Promatora San 
Patricio SA.  And at that time Harlequin itself was not saying  the properties would never be 
built  it was saying  it was in dispute with third parties who had let it down and that it was 
hoping to turn things  around.   
Overall, I am of the view that the email shows some understanding of the position regarding  
Harlequin which seems consistent  with it having been discussed  with Mr Gs brother  despite  
what Mr G says.    
And these  points about the email to Rowanmoor in November  2013,  add to the doubts 
created by the other points  I have mentioned.  
In my view when taken cumulatively there is reason to have doubt about  the plausibility of 
Mr Gs versions  of events.
In my view it is just as likely, if not more likely, that Mr G was introduced to the Harlequin 
investment by his brother  who also told him that he was thinking of investing himself and that 
he/his company had become a Harlequin  agent.  Mr G was then referred  to Mr M (by his 
brother or one of the brothers colleagues) to consider the possibility of investing in the 
Harlequin Property through his pension.
Mr M should have told Mr G that investing  his pension  in the Harlequin property scheme  was 
a high-risk venture and not suitable for him.
The question is what would have happened  next?  Mr G says he would have accepted  that 
advice  that he would not have invested  on his brothers recommendation in preference  to 
the advice of a regulated adviser.  That is of course  possible  but is it more likely  than not?  In  
my view it is not.  
Ref: DRN788486511One of Mr Gs pensions  included a guaranteed annuity rate.  Mr M was not absolutely crystal 
clear on the point, but he did point out that this was a valuable right that Mr G would lose if 
he invested in the pension.  This does not seem to have caused Mr G any concerns despite 
it giving  the adviser  concerns even if he did not go so far as to advise against the transaction 
as he should.   
Next Mr Gs pensions were  valued at around  £24,000 - though Mr G had started to pay into 
an occupational  pension, so this was not his entire pension provision.   Even  with the 
guaranteed annuity applying to one of the funds, the pensions Mr G transferred were 
forecast to provide  a pension of only around £2,000 a year.  By comparison the Harlequin 
property investment will have seemed a very attractive proposition.  Mr  Gs brother would 
naturally have been very optimistic about the investment and may well have reduced or 
refunded commissions  to Mr G.  The idea will also have seemed attractive if his brother was 
also investing in Caribbean holiday property.   And  the adviser himself had also invested in a 
Harlequin property  apparently.   There may well have been  a fear of missing out.
Mr G says he wanted the best investment  opportunity possible for his pension  fund and so 
was not looking  to invest in the first one he was told about.  I understand the point but, in my 
view, it is just as likely, if not more likely, that Mr G would have thought  the Harlequin 
investment opportunity was the best opportunity for him in the circumstances  even if the 
adviser had said he thought the investment was unsuitable for his pension.
On balance I am unable  to conclude it is more likely than not that Mr G would not have 
invested in the Harlequin investment if Mr M had advised him not to.  If Mr M had advised 
him not to, Mr G could  still have  insisted on investing.  And in my view,  this is just as likely if 
not more likely than Mr G choosing not to invest in the Harlequin property investments his 
brother was promoting.  
I am therefore unable  to say that it is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances that 
Positive Solutions should compensate Mr G for the losses he has suffered as a result of 
investing in Harlequin.
my final decision
I do not uphold  Mr Gs complaint against  Quilter Financial Planning  Solutions  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Philip Roberts
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7884865