K820x#14complaint
Mr M complained that hes been  mis-sold payment  protection  insurance by Barclays Bank 
Plc (Barclays) that was taken out alongside his credit  card .
background
Mr M said he was mis-sold PPI with his credit card. Barclays  didnt  agree the PPI Mr M 
bought was mis-sold,  so Mr M brought his complaint to this service.
Barclays has provided a copy of a credit  card application that Mr M signed  and submitted to 
it in December 1998. On this form Mr M selected to take out the PPI policy.  
When Mr M complained about the PPI Barclays looked at Mr Ms circumstances at the time 
and said it didnt agree  the PPI was mis-sold. Barclays did say Mr M may have paid some 
excess commission as part of his premiums for the PPI and this has been refunded to Mr M. 
Our adjudicator said they didnt think the PPI had been mis-sold, so didnt recommend 
upholding Mr Ms complaint. Mr M was still unhappy and asked for an ombudsman to look at 
his complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Ms case.
Mr M has said he had PPI in place prior to 1998.  He says he took out his credit  card in 
1980/81 and he thinks the PPI was taken out at the same time.
The record  checks that Barclays has provided  do not show any PPI and card account  before 
1998. The application form that I have  seen was submitted by Mr M in in December 1998. 
Mr M has talked  about the migration  of earlier credit card accounts  into this account  ending 
1004. But there is a specific  application form, completed and submitted by Mr M, signed and 
dated December  1998 for this particular credit  card account. If Mr M had credit cards  before 
this then they may have been  for separate accounts, possibly with different  businesses.
I have seen nothing  to show Mr M had a PPI policy associated with a credit card account  
which was part of this account taken out with Barclays in 1998.  Mr M has submitted 
documents about his circumstances in 1991  but these are not relevant to a policy taken out 
with the credit card in 1998 and the documents provided do not show  that there was any 
credit card account or PPI in place  at that time. They only show information about Mr Ms 
circumstances in 1991.
In this complaint  and decision I am only considering the credit card and PPI taken out in 
December 1998.  If Mr M has any evidence about  any other  credit  cards and PPI policies 
before this date,  then he should raise separate complaints with the businesses about  these 
other PPI policies.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
Ref: DRN79074362I think Barclays made it clear that Mr M didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose 
to take it out - the application form that has been  provided was completed  by Mr M 
and shows there  was a choice.  And Mr M ticked the box to take out the PPI.
Barclays didnt recommend the PPI to Mr M so it didnt have to check  if it was right 
for him. But it did have  to make  sure Mr M got the information  he needed to decide if 
it was right for him. 
Mr M hasnt said he had any pre-existing medical conditions so he shouldnt have 
been caught by any restrictions in the policy about this. Mr M has also said that he 
had no benefits  in place with his job in 1998.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr M about the PPI wasnt  as clear as it 
shouldve been. But he chose  to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this type of 
cover. Based  on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time it doesnt look like he 
was affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover - so it would have 
been useful for him if something  went  wrong. It also looks  like the PPI was 
affordable. So I dont think better information  about the PPI would have put him off 
taking out the cover.  
Which means Barclays doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr M because: 
got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium) 
- so it should have  told Mr M about  that. Because Barclays didnt tell Mr M, that was 
unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr M has said - including what he has said about his wife 
having an income but the PPI wouldve paid out allowing this to be used for other living 
expenses. 
Also I have noted that Mr M says his circumstances were very different in the early 1980s  
when he believes he took out the credit card and PPI. But as Ive already explained Ive seen  
nothing to show this particular PPI policy was taken  out earlier than 1998. The application  
form is dated December  1998 so that is the relevant  time to look at Mr Ms circumstances.  
So these points dont  change my decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank Plc does not have to pay back  all of the 
cost of the PPI to Mr M.
But Barclays  Bank Plc does have  to pay back to Mr M any commission and profit  share it got 
that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done  this, so I dont 
award any further compensation. 
Ref: DRN79074363Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2019.
Christine Fraser
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7907436