K820x#14complaint
Ms L is unhappy that Nationwide Building  Society (Nationwide) didnt tell her that they use 
an intermediary to make payments to a country  located in a single  euro payments area 
(SEPA). 
background
Ms L contacted Nationwide using an online messaging service from May- July 2018 to find 
out how to make an international payment as she needed to do this to set up a French bank  
account. Shes explained this was to deal with her Godmothers estate. 
Ive provided a short timeline of key events below.
19 June- Ms L arranged for a SEPA payment of £268.74 (300 Euro) to be made from 
her current  account  to a bank  located in France. She paid a processing fee of £9. 
22 June- £262.01 was credited into Ms Ls account. Ms L contacted  Nationwide to 
query this credit.  
28 June- Ms L was told the credit was a return of her SEPA payment. The reason 
provided on the account was transaction forbidden on this account.
24 July- Ms L informed Nationwide  that she had contacted the bank in France and 
theyd told her that the payment  was returned because the account number didnt 
match the account number she had provided on her registration form. 
26 July- Ms L was told that Nationwide uses an intermediary bank to process SEPA 
payments. The intermediary banks account  number  would  be used to process the 
payment to the bank in France. 
27 July- Ms L went into branch and a member of staff tried to make the SEPA 
payment again,  and Ms L was charged the processing fee of £9. This payment was 
returned by the bank  in France.  
Ms L complained to Nationwide  about the lack of information given  to her about the banks 
policy in using an intermediary for SEPA payments. Nationwide didnt  think  theyd done 
anything wrong  with the information theyd provided,  but agreed  to refund £18 to Ms L as a 
gesture of goodwill. 
The adjudicator found that Nationwides response was fair, and didnt recommend any 
further compensation. Ms L disagreed with the adjudicators view,  saying  that Nationwide  
caused delays  by not telling her of the process  when  she initially enquired. Ms L requested 
Nationwide compensate her for the time and effort shed spent trying to sort out the issues  
concerning her SEPA payment.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Ms L. Having reviewed the case,  I agree  with the adjudicators  findings, 
and I wont be recommending compensation for this complaint.
Ref: DRN79708892Ms L says that Nationwide  shouldve told her from the start that they use an intermediary 
bank to make SEPA payments. She says she could have chosen to go with another bank, 
and this would have avoided any delay. 
Ive looked at the messages exchanged between Ms L and Nationwide.  I accept that 
Nationwide didnt tell Ms L that they use an intermediary for SEPA payments initially.  But I 
dont think Nationwide  did something  wrong.  
From the messages  Ive seen Ms L was given information about the process  for making a 
SEPA payment,  things  like how to do this online, and how much  it would cost.  I appreciate  
that for the SEPA payment to be received correctly, the bank  in France required that that the 
account number  for the paying  account  matched the account  number for Ms Ls account in 
the UK. This requirement  was set by the bank in France. Nationwide  had no way of knowing 
this process for the bank in France. I dont think they did anything wrong in the information 
they gave Ms L about their own processes for making an international payment. 
When Ms L questioned  whether the payment had debited her account  correctly, Nationwide  
confirmed the payment  had been taken  from her account but was returned  because it wasnt 
accepted by the bank  in France.  Nationwide had correctly processed  Ms Ls payment, and I 
think the explanation provided  to Ms L about  what had happened was fair. 
Ive seen that following Nationwides explanation, Ms L contacted  Nationwide  on several 
occasions to discuss other banking issues. Ive seen that Nationwide  responded to Ms Ls 
queries promptly each time. Its fair to say that Nationwide were unaware during this time 
that Ms Ls issue with making her payment to the bank in France  remained unresolved.  
Theres no mention of this issue to Nationwide until a message sent on 24 July. 
On 24 July Ms L told Nationwide that it was because the account number didnt match  the 
account number  she had provided on her registration form that payment couldnt be received  
by the bank in France. Ive seen that Nationwide told Ms L that the reason for the account 
numbers not matching  was because they use an intermediary.  
Although Ms L says Nationwide  is responsible for delays on the claim, I think  Nationwide told 
Ms L about using an intermediary as soon as they became aware of the reason why the 
payment was returned by the bank  in France. Whilst Ms L was dealing  with the bank in 
France throughout late June and July, Nationwide werent made aware of the issues  she 
was having until 24 July.  
Ive seen that following Nationwides confirmation about using an intermediary,  a further 
payment was attempted on 27 July in branch. I can appreciate it would have come as a 
disappointment when the payment was returned  a second time but I dont think  Nationwide 
are responsible for this. 
Ms L was made aware that Nationwide use an intermediary. It was reasonable to try and 
attempt another  payment but I think this was done  with the understanding that it may not be 
successful. This is because at the time of attempting the second  payment there  was no 
indication that the process  for the bank in France had changed.
The evidence Ive seen  shows that the information  provided by Nationwide on how to make 
an international payment was fair, and provided in good time. For these reasons I dont think 
Ref: DRN79708893Nationwide should  pay any compensation for this complaint. Ive seen that Nationwide  have 
refunded Ms L the cost of both processing  fees and I think thats fair in the circumstances. 
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 1 August 2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7970889