K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bank of Scotland plc mis-sold Miss L payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1995.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Miss L disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened about  24 years ago when the 
application was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. 
Ive also considered the comments made  in response to the adjudicators view of the case. 
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why:
Miss L has said she was not aware  that the PPI was being added to her account, or that 
it was optional. She says she didnt want  it or need it. However, I dont have strong  
evidence to show that Bank of Scotland failed to make Miss L aware the PPI was 
optional; or that it didnt ensure  that she freely chose to take it. Without stronger  
evidence it wouldnt be fair, so many years  later, for me to say that Bank  of Scotland 
acted wrongly in that way.
Bank of Scotland recommended the PPI to Miss L, but it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time. Being unable  to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits at 
the same  time as Miss L received any employer sick pay, and potentially for longer. It 
would have paid unemployment benefits  in addition  to any redundancy pay. And shes 
said she didnt have  savings to fall back on. So, this all would have put Miss L in a more  
secure position, if she eventually lost income due to long term sickness or 
unemployment. 
Its hard to know how well Bank  of Scotland explained the costs  and benefits of the 
policy. But I dont anyway think full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Miss L took the PPI.
Ref: DRN77168572Its possible Bank of Scotland didnt clearly point  out the main things the policy didnt 
cover. But its unlikely Miss L would have been  affected by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 May 2019
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7716857