K822xcomplaint
Mr A is unhappy that Santander UK Plc (Santander) changed the frequency of statements 
sent to him for a joint current account, without telling him. 
background 
Mr A is a joint account holder of a current account  with Santander. Mrs A is the primary 
account holder.
Santander says that as Mr As account  was set to paperless from 2013, he wouldnt have 
received any paper  statements.  Mr A has told this service that he was receiving monthly  
statements in 2017, and then quarterly statements. He says around June 2018  he started to 
receive monthly statements again.  He was unhappy  about this.
Santander says that any changes to the frequency of statements for the joint account would 
be made through the primary account  holders settings. 
In June 2018 Santander changed the frequency of statements sent to Mrs A from no 
correspondence to monthly. The reason for this change was because  of new regulations  that 
came into place. The regulations meant that Santander had to ensure all their customers 
were receiving communication  about their account.  Because Mrs As settings were set to no 
correspondence, this was automatically  changed to monthly. 
Mr A complained to Santander in October  2018 about why he had starting receiving  monthly 
statements when he hadnt  requested  them. Santander initially explained that this was 
because this change  was requested by the primary  account holder.  Santander  later 
explained that the change  in frequency was because of new regulations.
Mr A was unhappy with this response and brought his complaint to this service  for 
investigation. Santander said that their communication with Mr A could have been better, 
and offered £100 in recognition of this. 
The investigator agreed with Santanders response, and didnt recommend Santander do 
anything more. Mr A remained unhappy  with the investigators findings, and so the case  was 
passed to me for decision.  
Mr A provided additional comments  about  statements being sent on an inactive account, and 
other banks  offering the option  to receive  annual statements. This service  can only 
investigate complaints which a business  has had the opportunity  to look at first. The DISP 
rules set out how we do this, and are available to view on the Financial  Conduct  Authoritys 
website. For this reason,  I havent  considered Mr As new complaints as part of this decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I understand that this has been  an 
upsetting time for Mr A. Having reviewed the case, I agree with the adjudicators findings, 
and I wont be recommending Santander  do anything more.
Mr A feels  strongly that Santander shouldnt have changed the frequency  of statements for 
his joint account,  and they havent clearly explained why this was done.  Mr A also says that 
Ref: DRN76615672although his account was set to paperless,  he was receiving statements  in 2017 and 2018. 
Santander say as Mr As account was set to paperless, he wouldnt have been  sent anything  
before the new regulations came in around June 2018.
I appreciate Mr A feels that Santander  are in the wrong in the way theyve managed 
statements for his joint current  account. I think that even if I was to accept that Santander 
have been sending statements to Mr A when  he thought they shouldnt have, I cant say that 
Santanders actions  have been unfair or wrong.  I accept that if Mr A wasnt  expecting  
statements in 2017 and 2018, it may have been unusual  for him to receive them. But from 
what Mr A has told this service, whilst he wasnt expecting  statements during this time, it 
doesnt seem like he was caused any inconvenience  by receiving these statements.  
It looks like Mr As complaint is really with the decision by Santander to start sending 
monthly statements  from June 2018. The decision to send monthly  statements  was made 
because Mrs As settings were set to no correspondence. By changing this setting to 
monthly, Santander were  following the requirements which  they had to meet. They  were  
required to make this change, and it was possible for Mrs A to contact Santander at any time 
to change the frequency. 
I agree  that the communication from Santander  on why the change  happened, and informing 
Mr A of this after he complained, could have been better. Santander offered £100 in 
recognition of this. I think Santander have offered fair compensation to recognise they could 
have explained  things more clearly when  Mr A first contacted  them. Mrs A can still contact 
Santander to change the frequency  of her statements.  I think Santander have done enough 
to put things right for Mr A, so I wont be recommending they do anything more.
my final decision
For the reasons  provided I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  3 August  2019.
Neeta Karelia
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7661567