K821x#15complaint
Mrs H complains that Red Sands  Insurance Company  (Europe) Limited has declined  to 
make repairs  to her car under her minor  repairs motor insurance policy.  She wants  a refund 
of the premiums she paid.
background
Mrs H made  a claim for repairs  to her cars  bumper. This was for a dent and scratches. Red 
Sands declined the claim as the dent was deeper than 3mm. Mrs H agreed  with this but 
thought the scuffs and scratches  should  be repaired.  But Red Sands declined  this as it said 
these were part of the same incident  and the depth  was greater than 3mm. Mrs H cancelled  
her policy but she was disappointed that the refund was pro rata and a cancellation fee was 
charged.
Our investigator recommended that the complaint should be upheld  in part. She thought the 
policy exclusion was ambiguous and had confused Mrs H. She thought the policy  excluded  
damage that was more  than 30cm in diameter  and 3mm in depth. Mrs Hs damage  was less 
than 30cm in diameter, so she thought the scuffed and scratched  area should  be repaired. 
She thought  Red Sands  should pay for the cost of these repairs,  with interest. But she 
thought the cancellation  charges  and refund were fair and reasonable.
Red Sands  replied that it disagreed that the damage  had to exceed both parameters to be 
excluded. It also said it wouldnt cover repairs where a body shop was required. It said Mrs H 
couldnt cancel  her policy and receive  a premium refund  and have a claim paid.  Mrs H 
replied that the terms were ambiguous  and if shed known how they would be applied then 
she wouldnt  have bought the policy. She said Red Sands rejected the claim based on a 
photograph. 
Another investigator responded that the policy suggested in certain  sections that the 
exclusion applied where the damage exceeded both parameters. He thought Red Sands 
hadnt established that the repairs required a body shop. But he thought the policy  refund 
should be deducted from the settlement for the repairs.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
From what  I can see, Mrs H accepted  that Red Sands wouldnt repair the dent to her bumper 
as the policy  excluded dents deeper than 3mm. Mrs H complained  that Red Sands wouldnt 
repair the scratches that were caused  at the same  time as the dent. 
Our approach in cases like this is to consider whether the insurers  acted in line with the 
terms and conditions of the policy and fairly and reasonably.  Red Sands relied on the 
following to decline Mrs Hs claim:
WHAT IS COVERED:
Minor Damage: caused by everyday motoring, to be repaired using Minor Cosmetic 
Damage Repair  techniques. Any Chip, Minor  Dent,  Scratched Area and/or Minor
Scuff where the total damaged area is no larger than 30cm in diameter and 3mm in 
depth. 
Ref: DRN79615562In the case of multiple damages being caused  by the same incident or
 where Minor  Damage extends across multiple  panels,  the total size of the combined  
damaged area must also be no larger than 30cm in diameter and 3mm in depth.
Minor Dent: a dented area on the Vehicle up to a maximum of 30cm  in diameter, 
3mm in depth,  where the panel  has not been ripped, perforated, torn or damaged
the structure/alignment of the panel(s).
WHAT IS NOT COVERED:
5.1 for Minor  Damage  that cannot be defined as a Scratched Area, Chip,  Minor Scuff 
or Minor Dent;
5.3 for any damage, including  Minor Damage, that cannot be repaired by using Minor  
Cosmetic Damage Repair techniques or which require  a bodyshop;
I agree  with the investigators and Mrs H that the policy wording is unclear in some  sections.  
In some sections, including that above for minor  damage, it implies that damage is excluded 
only where both parameters are met. And, as Mrs Hs scratches and scuffs were  less than 
30cm in diameter, as shown in her photograph, but less than 3mm deep, then I cant  see 
that the exclusion applies. And so I think Red Sands unfairly declined Mrs Hs claim for their 
repair.  
Red Sands  also said the scratches were within the dent.  But I cant see that this is a policy  
exclusion. 
Red Sands  hasnt explained  on what basis it concluded that body shop repairs would be 
needed. Were not engineers. The investigator has already explained  that we dont  assess  
damage to a vehicle  as this is a matter for the experts in these situations, the insurance 
companies and engineers. Our role in these complaints is to determine whether an 
insurance company  has considered all the available evidence and whether it can justify its 
decision to not pay for repairs.  
As I cant  see that Red Sands has provided  any evidence to support this reason for declining  
the claim,  I cant say its justified its decision. And so I think it should pay for the repairs  to 
the scratches and scuffs  on Mrs Hs bumper.  
I agree  that Red Sands  applied the cancellation  terms  correctly  when Mrs H cancelled  her 
policy. I think the terms and conditions are clear  that she would be charged  pro rata for her 
time on cover and a cancellation fee would  apply. But if a claim  is made, then no refund 
would be due. This is common industry  practice  and I dont think  its unreasonable for 
insurers to retain the full annual premium where a claim has been successful and the policy  
used. 
So, to put things right, I think Red Sands should  pay for the repair  of the scuffs  and 
scratches to Mrs Hs cars bumper. And, as Mrs H has had to wait for some time for this, I 
think interest should be added to this amount. But I think the amount of the refunded 
premium should be deducted from this payment.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I require Red Sands Insurance  
Company (Europe) Limited  to do the following:
Ref: DRN796155631.Pay for the cost of the repairs of the claimed  for scuffs and scratches  to Mrs Hs cars  
bumper, up to the policy limit. Interest should be added to this amount at the rate of 8% 
simple per year from the date the claim was declined to the date of settlement.
2.HM Revenue & Customs  requires Red Sands to withhold income  tax from that interest. It 
must give Mrs H a certificate showing how much its taken  off if she asks for one.
3.Deduct from this payment the refunded premium already paid to Mrs H. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 April 2020.
Phillip Berechree
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7961556