K820x#14complaint
Mr S complains that Bank  of Scotland plc (BoS) mis-sold  him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
Mr S took out a mortgage with BoS in 2001.  At the same time it appears he was sold a PPI 
policy which  would have  covered his mortgage  repayments for up to two years  at a time if he 
couldnt work due to an accident, sickness  or redundancy. It also wouldve paid out an 
additional sum to help with other  mortgage  related expenses.
Mr S says that it wasnt made clear that it was optional. He says he didnt need it.
The adjudicator didnt think Mr Ss complaint should  be upheld.  Mr S disagrees,  so his case  
has been passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about PPI on our website  and Ive taken 
this into account  when deciding this case.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Ss 
complaint. Ill explain  why Ive reached this decision.
Mr S doesnt  dispute that he bought the policy, but he says that he was led to believe he had 
to have the PPI to get the mortgage. BoS says that it wasnt a condition  of his lending  to take 
the PPI. BoS has provided a copy of Mr Ss mortgage application form. The form explains 
that buildings insurance is essential,  but that it can be bought from anywhere. It doesnt 
mention PPI at all. I think if it had been compulsory  it wouldve been included here. 
Mr S hasnt said what was said or done to make him think he had to have it. And I havent 
seen anything to think that BoS departed from its usual sales practices.  On the limited  
information I have  I cant safely say that Mr S was told he had to buy the PPI. I think its 
more likely Mr S bought the PPI understanding he had a choice about it. Although I 
understand why he may not remember this nearly  18 years later. 
BoS say its likely they gave Mr S a personal  recommendation  to buy the PPI. So it had to 
take reasonable steps to make sure it was right for him. Looking at Mr Ss circumstances at 
the time,  I think that it was suitable. I say this because:
Mr S was eligible  for the policy and wouldnt have  been affected by any of the terms 
which mightve made it more difficult for him to make a successful claim, such  as 
those related to existing medical conditions or elf-employment;
Mr S received good sick pay from his employer. But the PPI wouldve paid out in 
addition to this and potentially for considerably longer  up to two years at a time. As 
Mr S was solely  responsible for his mortgage it would have been important to ensure  
he could continue to meet his repayments  if he wasnt working;
Similarly, Mr S wouldve had an entitlement to some redundancy pay from his 
employer. But the PPI wouldve paid out in addition to this and it potentially wouldve 
continued paying out for longer than his redundancy pay wouldve lasted;
Ref: DRN78895462The cost of the policy was comparable to other  similar policies on sale around the 
same time. It was flexible,  as it could be amended or cancelled  at any time without a 
financial penalty.
Its possible Mr S wasnt given  all the details he needed about  the cover. But I dont think 
even if Mr S had all the information  he required  that it wouldve made a difference  to his 
decision to buy it. I say this because the policy was suitable for him in the way Ive 
described.
So, I dont think Mr S lost out as a result of anything  BoS might  have done wrong.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr Ss complaint so it follows  that Bank of Scotland  plc doesnt have to pay 
any compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 August 2019.
S. Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7889546