K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs T are unhappy with the premiums charged for their home insurance by 
U K Insurance Limited, in particular that they were offered,  and accepted discounts in 2015 
but werent given  the opportunity to have these in earlier years.
background
In 2010 Mr and Mrs T had a subsidence  claim which was dealt with by UKI. Their  policy  
premium rose steadily over the years until in 2015 when Mr T contacted UKI about  the 
renewal premium for that year. He agreed  that his excess could be increased  to £250 which 
allowed a discount  in the premiums. UKI clarified that a loyalty  discount was also applied. 
After a further conversation UKI agreed  to increase the excess to £350, which  allowed for a 
further decrease in the premium. In 2016 after checking price comparison websites 
Mr and Mrs T believed  that the price  charged  by UKI was excessive but it wasnt  prepared  to 
offer a further  discount.
Mr and Mrs T were  unhappy with this, in particular that they werent  told that the discount 
was because of an increased excess,  that the premium still seemed  to be being  affected by 
their subsidence  claim after six years and that the premiums were brought down to more 
than half the previous years premium simply by increasing the excess. UKI said the discount  
had been offered on a one-off basis and that the premium was correct. Mr and Mrs T opted 
to continue with the UKI policy.
On referral to this service  our adjudicator clarified  that the discount wasnt  just due to the 
excess. Having  considered confidential pricing information provided by UKI he confirmed 
that the premium  increases were  applied fairly.  He pointed  out that Mr T had agreed  to the 
excess being increased, to bring down the premium. He didnt think UKI had acted 
unreasonably.
Mr and Mrs T didnt  agree  and pointed  out that if we were relying on information supplied to 
us by UKI, we should be prepared to disclose it to them. The matter  has been passed  to me 
for consideration.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs Ts main  issues relate to the increase in excess seemingly  having  a 
disproportionate effect on the premium,  that they werent offered the discount some years  
earlier and that the subsidence  claim from 2010 still seemed to be having an effect  on their 
premium some six years later.
We have listened  to the telephone call in 2015 and the reduction in the excess was clearly 
explained to Mr T- I believe he now accepts this. The adviser at UKI also explained to Mr T 
that another  discount was being applied  its been explained as a loyalty discount. This is 
the main reason for the large reduction in premium.  The reduction in excess did have an 
effect on the premium  but not disproportionately. As to why they were only offered the 
discount when  they rang up UKI, we are aware  that customers can find themselves locked 
into a policy  when the insurer itself is able to offer cheaper policies. And if that customer  is 
not in a position to contact the insurer  it may be unfair to keep charging a higher  rate.
Ref: DRN77742532But I don't  think  that that is the case here, I dont believe that UKI was able to offer a 
cheaper policy. Mr and Mrs T were able to consider their policy  premium  each  year and did 
contact UKI and checked price comparison websites. 
We have checked  the policy information  given to us by UKI. It has confirmed that the policy  
was only affected  directly by the subsidence  claim for three  years. After that the policy  had a 
normal loading and there were a number of factors, including  the risk of subsidence which 
affected the premium.  The information weve seen sets out the risk costs  and margins.  
Further UKI has confirmed that the policy has changed in line with its assessment of risk, no 
claims discount and risk costs. 
I understand that Mr and Mrs T are suspicious of this. But Im entitled to take a view as to 
whether the information provided  to us is accurate and Ive seen no evidence to suggest that 
it isnt. An insurer is free to charge for its policies any price it wishes,  as long as it fairly  
charges that price  to all its customers in a similar  position. I havent seen any evidence that 
UKI is able to offer the policy  any cheaper.  Its also entitled to offer a discount  but that 
doesnt mean the original price was unfair.
I note that Mr and Mrs T have found  cheaper policies on price  comparison websites. Such  
policies normally would  include  a substantial  introductory discount  so it isnt really  a fair 
comparison with Mr and Mrs Ts existing policy.
So I dont  think the subsidence claim is any longer affecting the policy.  UKI has confirmed it 
would still be responsible for the subsidence repairs  it did even if Mr and Mrs T changed  
their insurer.  And I dont think that the price  theyre  paying for their policy is unfair.
Lastly, Ive thought about Mr and Mrs Ts point about confidential information. Our 
procedures (and the rules  which govern  this service)  allow for me to accept  information  in 
confidence (so that only an edited version,  summary or description is disclosed to the other 
party) where I consider  it appropriate. I think it fair to do so in this case  as the information 
provided to us is commercially  sensitive.
 
my final decision
I dont uphold the complaint
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs T to 
accept or reject my decision  before  28 June  2019.
Ray Lawley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7774253