K820x#14complaint
Mx W complains that J.P. Morgan Europe  Limited wont  refund money  withdrawn by an 
unauthorised third party from their Post Office  card account.
background
On 11 September  2018 Mx W told J.P. Morgan that between 7 June and 26 August 2017,  
several cash withdrawals (ranging between £222.60  and £600) were  made  from their Post 
Office card account without their permission. Those  came to more  than £4,300.
J.P. Morgan  refused  to reimburse Mx W for these  withdrawals.  It said Mx W didnt dispute  
making other  transactions  themselves during that period. Those added up to more than 
£1,700. So if someone else had used  their card without permission, that person wouldve 
needed to take the card,  use it, and replace it without  Mx W realising. J.P. Morgan thought  
that was unlikely to have  happened. And it pointed out that Mx W had said theyd let 
someone else use their card in the past  something  that was against  the terms and 
conditions of their account.
J.P. Morgan  also said that 16 balance enquiries were made between 7 June and 26 August 
2017. Mx Ws balance was checked before  each  transaction Mx W says they authorised.  So 
they wouldve  known  the balance on their account wasnt what  they expected.
After this, Mx W complained to us. They told us they had substantial health problems. They 
lived alone and no-one had access to their card and PIN. Initially they said theyd allowed a 
third party carer to access  their account  in the past using their Post Office  card and PIN, but 
the carer has passed  away. They said theyd changed the PIN several times, but non-
authorised transactions continued to be made.
J.P. Morgans records show that a PIN change was made on 1 August 2017. The account 
balance was checked using the new PIN on 2 August  2017,  and withdrawals were  made  
using the new PIN after this. So if a third party had used Mx Ws Post Office card to take 
money from Mx Ws account after 1 August 2017,  they mustve  known Mx Ws new PIN. We 
asked Mx W if they got a new carer around  this time, but they couldnt  remember.
Initially our adjudicator said she understood why J.P. Morgan didnt uphold Mx Ws 
complaint. Thats because she couldnt account for what happened on the basis  of the 
information Mx W had told us. After this, Mx W told us more  about their health  problems and 
personal circumstances. They told us they were  bedbound when the disputed transactions  
were made. They never used to check the balance  on their account, and their Post Office 
card was always with them. They had no other  bank  accounts except their Post Office 
account. Mx W had given their card to a third party on around four to six occasions  to help 
them with their shopping. But Mx W wasnt clear about exactly  what  happened and when. 
They told us theyd been in hospital for a while, but they couldnt remember much 
information about that.
In February 2018  Mx W told us the non-authorised  transactions actually went  back  to June 
2016  a year earlier than theyd previously thought. They disputed nearly every cash 
withdrawal that took place  since  June  2016 and February 2017.  J.P. Morgan says these 
disputed transactions  add up to £13,200.  Mx W also went  on to dispute transactions up to 30 
November 2017.
Ref: DRN75940822More details about Mx Ws account
As stated above, Mx W told us their Post Office account was their only account.  The money 
in the account came  from two different social security benefits.
On 9 June 2016 (the date of the first disputed transaction) there was £9,117 in Mx Ws 
account. Mx Ws statements  show  that in the six months before this Mx W generally 
withdrew £600 in cash  from the account each month.
In my provisional decision I included a list of the relevant  transactions.  The table showed  that 
the pattern  of withdrawing £600  from the account  changed after June 2016. In July 2016 two 
£600 withdrawals  were made. One £600 withdrawal was made in each of August and 
September 2016. Two £600 withdrawals were made in October 2016, three £600 
withdrawals were made in November  2016.  In December 2016 another three £600 
withdrawals were made. In March  2017 seven £600 withdrawals were made. In April 2017  
six £600 withdrawals  were made, and in May 2017 four £600  withdrawals were made.
By June  2017  the balance on the account had reduced to £0. After  this the balance of the 
account was reduced  to £0 after each  withdrawal. In other words, after each benefit payment 
was credited to the account, it was withdrawn in full.
J.P. Morgan  says all the disputed transactions were made using Mx Ws genuine  card and 
the correct PIN. It says a statement was sent during this period and Mx W made withdrawals 
they dont dispute. So Mx W wouldve been aware of the transactions  they are now disputing 
at the time. Mx W didnt comment on this point.
Our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator thought it was likely that Mx W authorised the transactions  they dispute. She 
thought that because all the relevant transactions were  made  using Mx Ws genuine  card 
and PIN (including  after theyd  changed  the PIN) and because  Mx W told us theyd let 
someone else use their card and PIN. Although Mx W said that only happened on a few 
occasions, our adjudicator  didnt think Mx W had been clear  about what  had happened. She 
was also conscious  that Mx W had changed their version of events on a number of 
occasions. Bearing in mind Mx Ws health problems, and given that they couldnt remember  
much of what happened in the period when the disputed transactions  were  made,  she 
thought it was likely that Mx W gave  permission for a third party to use their card and PIN.
After our adjudicator told Mx W about  her view,  she was able to speak to Mx Ws social 
worker about this complaint. The social worker told us that theyd worked  with Mx W for 
nearly five years. He hadnt  heard of the third party Mx W told us about helping Mx W with 
their shopping.
Mx Ws social worker also told us that Mx W wasn't  bedbound when the disputed  
transactions were  made, and that Mx W had a care package  in place that meant  that a 
qualified person would go to their home  every  day for about  two hours to help them.  Mx Ws 
carers would take Mx W to a cash point and help them with their groceries. Mx Ws social  
worker didnt think it was likely that Mx Ws carers would  take Mx Ws card and withdraw 
money themselves.
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN75940823In my provisional decision I said that I dont think there was enough evidence to show that 
Mx W didnt  authorise the transactions  they say they didnt  make. So I didnt  think it would be 
fair and reasonable for me to require  J.P Morgan to reimburse Mx W for them.
I said that there was no dispute that all the disputed transactions  were made by with Mx Ws 
genuine card and correct PIN. I thought that was important, because  Mx W says theyd only 
given their card and PIN to a third party a few times in the past. But Mx W said that was 
some time ago, and the relevant person had passed  away.
I was also conscious  that Mx W said (and the evidence J.P Morgan has provided has 
confirmed) that more  disputed transactions were made after they changed their PIN in 
August 2017.  I thought it was unlikely  that an unknown fraudster wouldve been able to 
guess Mx Ws PIN correctly each time it was used   especially after theyd changed it.
I said the person  that made  the transactions Mx W disputes wouldve needed  to access  
Mx Ws genuine  card and PIN. As Mx W used the card themselves during the period in 
which the disputed  transactions were made, the person that used it wouldve needed  to take, 
use and replace the card on multiple occasions in time for Mx W to use it themselves  all 
without Mx W realising  what  had happened. I thought it was possible that someone with 
access to Mx Ws home and access to their PIN (before and after it was changed) wouldve 
been in a position to do this. But Mx W told us that their Post Office card was always with 
them apart from the few occasions when they gave it to a third party to help with their 
shopping.
Mx W told us they had no other bank accounts  from June 2016 onwards.  Given  all the 
transactions Mx W now disputes  (nearly every cash withdrawal that took place since  June 
2016 and February  2017),  its unclear to me how Mx W was paying for their living  expenses  
between June 2016 and November 2017  if they only withdrew the money covered by the 
transactions they say they authorised.
Mx W told us (amongst  other things)  that they were starved by the people  that took their 
money around this time. But they didnt  go into further detail about  who those people were,  
what happened, or why they didnt  tell us this before.  Previously Mx W told us they couldnt  
remember what happened  between June  and December 2016.  I said that if Mx W had been 
starved, or if they didnt have their card to pay for their groceries, one of Mx Ws carers 
wouldve noticed. I say that because Mx Ws social  worker told us that a carer would go to 
Mx Ws home  every day for about  two hours, and help Mx W with their groceries.
Bearing in mind everything that has been  said and provided, I thought the most likely 
explanation was that Mx W made  the transactions themselves, but cant  remember  doing  so. 
I said that because  Mx W has told us on a number  of occasions that they cant  remember  
much of what happened in the last few years. That includes the amount of time theyve been 
in hospital. I was also conscious that Mx W gave us different, conflicting  information about 
what happened on a number of occasions.
In my provisional decision I also considered other  scenarios  that might account  for what 
happened in this case. 
I considered that Mx W might have given a third party permission to use their card and PIN, 
but couldnt remember doing so. I considered  that because I was conscious  that Mx W has 
told J. P. Morgan that theyd given a third party permission to use their card and PIN in the 
Ref: DRN75940824past, but that person  has passed away. However,  I had no evidence to suggest  that could 
account for the disputed transactions in this complaint.
I also noted that it was possible that an unknown third party,  with access  to Mx Ws card and 
PIN, withdrew money  from the account  without Mx Ws permission. I said I was conscious 
that between June 2016 and June 2017  the balance on the account had reduced from 
around £9,000  to £0. The pattern of withdrawals after June 2016  was different to the pattern 
before that date,  and could indicate  that the account  was used improperly.
However, I had no evidence beyond the pattern of withdrawals and what  Mx W has told us to 
indicate that a third party took that money,  or how that person might have done so. I said 
that Mx W hasnt been in a position  to give us any information about  how that might have 
happened. In the circumstances, I didnt think it would be fair and reasonable for me to 
require J.P. Morgan to reimburse Mx W for the disputed transactions.  I think it would only be 
fair for me to do this if I could establish that Mx W hadnt authorised the transactions.
I concluded my provisional decision by saying that I didnt underestimate Mx Ws strength of 
feeling about this case. I appreciated that Mx W is frustrated  and distressed by the disputed 
transactions, and that there  are still a lot of unanswered questions  about what happened.
However, taking the matter as a whole, I didnt  think theres enough evidence  to show  that 
Mx W didnt  authorise the transactions  they say they didnt  make. In the circumstances I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me to require J.P Morgan to reimburse Mx W 
for them.
J.P. Morgan  agreed with my provisional  decision  and didnt provide me with any further  
comments. Mx W didnt agree with my provisional  decision. They  were  clear that they 
wouldnt have authorised the disputed  transactions. They also said that the money in the 
account was their security. So they wouldnt have  allowed the balance to go down to £0. 
Mx W also told us that they only used  one Post Office branch  to withdraw money  and theyd 
only go to that branch  first thing in the morning.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  And I remain of the view that I dont think  
it would  be fair and reasonable for J.P Morgan  to reimburse Mx W for all the transactions 
they dispute. I say this for the same reasons as set out in my provisional decision.
In addition, Ive considered the points Mx W made after I issued my provisional decision. 
Although I appreciate that Mx W told us they wouldnt have authorised  the disputed  
transactions, and that the money in the account was very important to them  as it was their 
security, they still havent been able to provide any explanation as to how the transactions 
couldve been made (before and after the PIN was changed) without their authorisation. 
Mx W also told us that they only used  one Post Office branch  to withdraw money  and theyd 
only go to that branch  first thing in the morning. However, the table of transactions I included 
in my provisional decision showed the withdrawals Mx W said they authorised when they 
first complained to us. That showed that when they first complained to us Mx W said they 
authorised transactions in more than one Post Office branch.  Some  of the transactions 
Mx W said they authorised were  made  later in the day.
Ref: DRN75940825I remain of the view that the most  likely explanation for what  happened  was that Mx W made 
the transactions themselves, but cant remember doing so. As I said in my provisional 
decision, I say that because  Mx W has told us on a number of occasions that they cant 
remember much of what happened in the last few years.  Im also conscious that Mx W gave 
us different,  conflicting  information about what happened on a number of occasions.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mx W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2020.
Laura Forster
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7594082