K822xcomplaint
Mr S complains about Advantage Insurance Company  Limiteds handling of a claim under 
his motor insurance policy and the fact he wasnt told the claim had been settled. He also 
complains that his no claims discount  was reduced  and the renewal premium was increased.
background 
In May 2017, Mr Ss wife had a car accident  whereby she reversed into another  car. 
Advantage accepted the claim  and sent an investigator round to inspect the damage. A few 
months later (when the policy was due for renewal), Mr S discovered Advantage had 
accepted liability  and settled the claim with the third-party  insurer without notifying him. He 
was also told his no claims  discount  had been  reduced to four years,  and the premium had 
been increased by about  £500.
Mr S complained to Advantage,  but it said its handling of the claim was fair. It explained the 
policy allowed it to accept  liability  and settle the claim with the third-party insurer  on his 
behalf. It denied  having sent someone to inspect the car, but it accepted  it should  have told 
Mr S sooner  about  the outcome of the claim and offered Mr S £40 compensation for this. 
Mr S complained to this service about  Advantages handling  of the claim. He said it didnt 
investigate his claim properly, and that the premium had been  unfairly increased. He was 
also upset it had denied  sending an engineer to inspect the car.
Advantage stated  Mr S had explained  the circumstances of the accident when he contacted  
it to make the claim and that he was told advantage would be liable as his wife had reversed 
into a stationary car. In deciding to accept  liability, it had reviewed  both versions of events 
and two engineers reports.
It also said the premium had increased due to the no claims discount being stepped back 
and the incident that happened in May. It explained  that when the insurance was due for 
renewal, a renewal  quote was provided based  on the details it held,  including  any claims that 
have happened  during  the policy period. It maintained it had followed the correct process, 
but it accepted  it had sent someone to inspect the car and offered a further  £60 
compensation and an apology for the distress and inconvenience caused  by having initially 
denied this.
Our investigator didnt  feel the complaint should be upheld. She noted the policy  allowed 
Advantage to handle  claims  on behalf  of its consumers, and that it had considered the 
accounts given  by Mr Ss wife and the driver of the third-party car. It had also considered  
engineers reports  from both parties  and the fact there was no CCTV footage. She was 
therefore satisfied  it had taken all the evidence  into consideration before deciding to settle  
the claim.  She was also satisfied the reduction  of the no claims discount was fair, as the 
policy allowed it to do that following a claim during the policy period.
Finally, our investigator was satisfied  the decision to increase the premium was fair. She 
accepted Advantages explanation  that it had based  its decision on Mr Ss claims history,  
including the no claims discount, and she was satisfied  hed been  treated in the same way 
as other  customers in the same position.
Mr S wasnt  satisfied and has asked for his complaint to be reviewed by an ombudsman. He 
maintains the claim wasnt  properly  investigated and he doesnt  think  £100 compensation is 
Ref: DRN70993322enough because  the whole situation has caused him a lot of worry, stress and 
inconvenience. Hes explained  he has to use his other car for work, leaving his wife without  a 
car to take their children to school.  This is causing tension in his relationship and his 
manager is unhappy because he has to leave work  early. Hes explained he cant  afford to 
renew the policy with Advantage,  or another insurer, and he wants  compensation in the 
region of £500 - £600 to cover the increased  cost. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint  and Ive reached the same conclusion  as 
our investigator, for broadly the same  reasons.
the claim
When he first contacted it to make  the claim, Mr S told Advantage his wife had reversed and 
hit another car. In response to this, Advantage told him it would be liable. There was no 
CCTV, but the passenger of the other  car said they were stationary and a car to their left had 
reversed out of a car parking bay, colliding with the passenger side. 
The policy states  the insurer shall be entitled to conduct the defence  or settlement of any 
claim and to instruct the solicitors of their choice to act for you in any proceedings. In 
circumstances where  it is considered appropriate, your insurer will be entitled to admit 
liability, for the costs  covered under this policy, on behalf of you or any person claiming 
indemnity under the policy. Such admissions may be made  prior to or after the 
commencement of proceedings in relation to any event likely to give rise to a claim under the 
policy.
Im satisfied the policy allowed Advantage to admit  liability on Mr Ss behalf. Its explained it 
considered all of the available  evidence  and Im not aware of any other  evidence  that was 
material to the issue  of liability which it failed to consider. In light of this, and the fact Mr S 
was told Advantage  would be liable  when he made  the claim, I dont consider its decision to 
accept liability and settle the claim was unreasonable. Overall, Im satisfied the claim was 
properly investigated  and I dont think the outcome  has resulted in any unfairness for Mr S. 
no claims discount
The policy states  if no claims  are reported during the current period of insurance, when you 
renew the policy a discount will be included in your premium. The policy  also states that 
when there  is a claim, someone with a no claims discount of nine years and over will see the 
discount reduced to four years  and to two years  if there are two claims during the policy  
period.
Advantage has explained Mr Ss no claims discount went  from nine years  to four years  due 
to the fact he had a fault claim on his record. Im satisfied this was fair and reasonable in all 
the circumstances and that it was in line with the terms and conditions of the policy.
the premium
Advantage has told us the new premium is correct and takes account of Mr Ss updated 
claims history  and the no claims discount.  Its provided a copy of its pricing screen and a 
detailed explanation to show how the renewal premium was calculated . Its also confirmed 
Ref: DRN70993323that as the rates are system driven,  Mr S has been treated the same as other  customers  in 
similar situations.
I understand Mr S is upset his premium has increased and I understand the increase is 
significant, but Im satisfied hes been  treated fairly. Advantage has explained this is due to 
the fact he had a claim and his no claims discount was reduced. While I understand the 
increased cost is frustrating and that its placed  a strain on Mr Ss finances  and personal life, 
Ive found the claim was fairly settled and the no claims discount was fairly reduced.  And Im 
satisfied Advantage  has provided evidence and a satisfactory explanation for its decision to 
increase Mr Ss motor  insurance premium. Its also explained its treated Mr S in the same 
way it would all its customers.
compensation
Even though  Im satisfied the claim  was fairly  settled  and that the decision to reduce the no 
claims discount and offer an increased  premium at renewal was fair, I accept  Advantage 
should have communicated the fact the claim had been settled  sooner to Mr S. And I 
understand why Mr S was frustrated when it denied  having sent someone to inspect his car. 
But Advantage has offered to pay Mr S £100 for its failings, and Im satisfied that this is fair 
and reasonable and that it addresses  the impact its failings had on Mr S.
I understand Mr S will be disappointed but for the reasons outlined  above I dont uphold this 
complaint.
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 January 2020.
Carolyn Bonnell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7099332