K820x#14complaint
Mr O has complained about Admiral Insurance Company Limited. He isnt happy  about the 
way it settled a claim under a commercial motor insurance policy.
background
In January 2019, Admiral was notified  that Mr Os vehicle was involved in an accident.  Later, 
in February, Admiral got in touch with Mr O to get more information about what  happened.  
Mr O said he wasnt driving the vehicle at the time of the accident, and that he had lent the 
vehicle to his friend.  Admiral got confirmation  that Mr Os friend was driving the vehicle  and 
that he was insured to do so under his own insurance policy, driving  other cars (DOC) cover.  
Admiral said the claim would be redirected  to Mr Os friends insurer.  
Mr O also has a different vehicle, which is insured by a different insurer.  In April 2019,  Mr O 
got in touch with Admiral  to let it know that this policy had been  cancelled by the insurer.  And 
this was because  of the information still showing against him relating to the incident. Admiral  
confirmed that it had updated  Claims Underwriting Exchange (CUE) to remove  the incident,  
so it shouldnt still be showing  against  Mr O.
Later in May 2019, Mr O complained to Admiral. He said that because CUE  hadnt been 
updated quickly enough, Admiral were responsible for his other policy  being cancelled.  And 
that this had caused him financial detriment, as he now had to pay a £40 cancellation fee 
and a higher premium  for his other  policy.
Admiral responded  to Mr Os complaint to say it had updated CUE to remove  the incident 
once it received confirmation that Mr Os friends  insurer was dealing  with the claim. 
Because of this, it couldnt be responsible for the cancellation of Mr Os other policy,  or the 
financial loss he suffered as a result of missing out on the cheaper premium. Admiral,  as a 
gesture of goodwill, agreed  to refund Mr O for the cancellation cost of £40 that Mr O incurred 
with the other insurer. 
Our investigator looked into things for Mr O. He thought that Admiral had acted fairly when 
dealing with the issues outlined above.  And that Admiral  couldnt  be held responsible for the 
financial loss Mr O had suffered. 
Mr O didnt agree. And so the complaint has been passed  to me to make  a decision on the 
matter.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Im not upholding Mr Os 
complaint. Ill explain  my reasons for this in more detail below.
When a claim  is reported to an insurer, they are obliged to investigate  this  and to check  
who is responsible  for paying the claim. The incident  was reported to Admiral  in January 
2019. From  the information Ive seen, it doesnt  look to me as though Mr O reported  the 
incident to Admiral after it happened. Had he done  this, Admiral could have got to the bottom  
of what happened  quicker.
Ref: DRN77588022Instead, Admiral had to chase Mr O for information about what happened. Once it got in 
touch with Mr O, Mr O confirmed it was his friend  who was driving  the vehicle at the time of 
the incident. And on 12 February 2019,  Mr Os friend confirmed that he was driving  when the 
incident took place. Admiral  told Mr O that it would still need to keep the claim open until it 
had been made aware that Mr Os insurer was dealing with it. It looks  as though Admiral got 
confirmation on 14 February 2019  that the friends  insurer was now dealing with the claim.  
It isnt clear when Admiral recorded the claim against Mr O with CUE. But I can see from 
Admirals internal records that it notified CUE that the claim should be removed from Mr Os 
profile on 1 March 2019. Mr O thinks it took too long for Admiral to update  CUE with this 
information, but given the timeline of events above, I dont think this is an unreasonable  
amount of time  given that Admiral still needed to investigate  who ought to be liable for the 
claim. And as Ive said,  if Mr O had let Admiral know about the accident as soon as it had 
happened, then this process might have  been much quicker.
Mr O was told it would take between 4-6 weeks for information to be updated  with other 
insurers. But Mr Os other insurance  policy was cancelled more than 6 weeks  after Admiral 
updated CUE  and the other insurer said that reason for cancellation  was because of the 
information on the database  it was using. Mr O thinks the delay in the information  about him 
being updated is what has caused  him financial loss and Admiral should be responsible for 
this. But I dont agree. Admiral updated CUE in a timely manner. I dont think  I can hold 
Admiral responsible for the delay in this information getting to other insurers.  Given  that all it 
was required to do was ensure that the information  on CUE was correct  and I think it did 
this.
It then follows that I dont think Admiral can be held responsible  for Mr Os policy with the 
other insurer being cancelled, or that he had to renew with his current insurer at a higher 
premium. 
In addition to the above,  Admiral gave Mr O a letter to show to the other insurer,  confirming 
Mr O was not involved in the incident. Admiral has also paid £40 to Mr O to cover the 
administration charges of his other  policy being  cancelled  and I think this is fair in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Os complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 April 2020.
Sophie Wilkinson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7758802