K820x#14complaint
Mr O says Barclays Bank UK PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1995  in one of the banks 
branches at the same  time as Mr O applied  for a credit card. It gave him accident, sickness 
and unemployment  protection. And it included  some life cover.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr O disagreed so the complaint was passed to 
me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Barclays  no longer has a copy of Mr Os 
policy so Ive relied on one from the nearest available  date.  
Our approach to complaints  about  the sale of PPI is on our website. Ive followed it here.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Os complaint, Ill explain why.
Mr Os representative says it wasnt made clear at any time that the PPI was optional. 
But on Mr Os credit card application form he marked a box indicating that he wanted to 
take out PPI. And the option to decline it was set out with equal prominence. So, Im 
satisfied Barclays made it clear the PPI was optional  and Mr O agreed to take it out. I 
can understand he might  not recall this given  how long ago the sale was. 
Barclays recommended the PPI to Mr O so it had to check  if it was suitable for him. I 
think it was based on what Ive seen about  his circumstances at the time. Mr O told us he 
was entitled to six months  full pay and six months half pay if he was sick but the PPI 
would have paid out in addition  to this for each successful accident and sickness  claim 
for up to 12 months. It also gave him up to 12 months redundancy cover.  Overall  I think  
the PPI would have been useful for Mr O if he was sick, had an accident or lost his job.
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr O about the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
should have been.  But Mr O chose to take out the policy and so appears to have wanted  
this type of cover. He wasnt affected by any of the exclusions or limitations and the 
policy was competitively priced  and apparently affordable. So I think  it unlikely Mr O 
wouldve made a different  decision if better  information had been provided.  On balance 
I think he would still have taken  out the policy.
But Barclays  has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr O because: 
Barclays got a high level of commission and profit  share (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mr O about that. Because  Barclays  didnt  tell Mr O, that 
was unfair. 
To put that right, Barclays  has paid back the amount  of commission  and profit share  that 
was above 50% of the PPI premium  - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ref: DRN72185892my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Barclays Bank UK PLC does  not have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr O.
But Barclays  Bank UK PLC does  have to pay back to Mr O any commission  and profit share 
it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done this, so I 
dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr O to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 November  2019.
Rebecca Connelley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7218589