K820x#14complaint
PLC (trading as Barclaycard) mis-sold him payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policies.  
background
Mr V bought the policies in 1995  at the same  time as taking out dual credit  cards.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr V disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaint  has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Vs case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Vs complaint and Ive set out my reasons below.
Mr V says Barclaycard gave  him the impression the PPI was a compulsory part of 
getting the credit cards, and that he wasnt given a proper choice. Ive noted 
everything Mr V has said.
The difficulty  I have is that I cant be sure what was discussed between  Mr V and 
Barclaycard when the policies were sold. Im also mindful that these events took 
place many years ago, and that exact recollections of what happened can fade over 
time.
But I note that the credit  card application  form Mr V signed was completed to show  
that he wanted the cover. The same  form included an option to decline the cover, 
which couldve been ticked  if Mr V didnt want to take the PPI.
Overall, from what Ive seen, I dont think it would be fair or reasonable for me to say 
that Barclaycard  didnt  make Mr V aware  that the PPI was optional.
Barclaycard accepts that it recommended  the PPI to Mr V, but it doesnt  look as if it 
was unsuitable  for him based on what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time. 
Mr V has told me he was entitled to sick pay from his employer, and that he had 
some savings. Hes also mentioned PPI he had in connection with his mortgage.
I can see why Mr V might consider the PPI wasnt of any use to him. But the PPI 
wouldve paid out in addition to Mr Vs employer sick pay and would do so, it seems,  
for longer. It wouldve  also paid out in addition  to any cover he had in connection with 
his mortgage.
Having the policy in place wouldve meant Mr V could use his sick pay and savings to 
pay for other  expenses  while he wasnt working. 
Ref: DRN71887452Mr V has also mentioned that he had equity in his house and a motorbike he couldve 
sold to cover his repayments. But the funds from those assets may not have  been  
readily available if Mr V couldnt work,  so Im still not persuaded that this meant the 
policy wasnt useful to Mr V.
Its possible the information Barclaycard gave Mr V about the PPI wasnt  as clear as 
it should have  been. But its unlikely Mr V would have been  affected by any of the 
main things  the policy didnt cover. And the policy was competitively priced and had a 
reasonable benefit. So I dont  think better  information wouldve stopped him buying it. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2019.
Caroline Stirling
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7188745