K822xcomplaint
Mr C complains that Western Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) was irresponsible to lend him 
money as he was borrowing from a number of payday lenders at the same time.
background
Mr C took out four payday loans with Uncle Buck  between June 2017 and July 2018. A 
summary of his loans  is below:
Loan number
Loan Date Amount Date repaid Number of 
repayments Maximum monthly repayment
1 08/06/2017 £500 29/09/2017 4 £190
2 11/01/2018 £700 05/03/2018 3 £323
3 09/03/2018 £600 29/06/2018 4 £229
4 07/07/2018 £200 N/a 2 £138
The adjudicator recommended that Mr Cs complaint be upheld. He asked  Cashfloat  to 
refund the interest and charges that Mr C had paid on the loans. The adjudicator also 
recommended that Cashfloat remove any negative information about  the loans from Mr Cs 
credit file.
Cashfloat disagreed with the adjudicators recommendation  so the complaint came to me.
my provisional findings
After considering all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint,  I agreed with the adjudicators 
recommendation in relation to loans  two to four but was minded not to uphold  Mr Cs 
complaint about  loan one.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about short-term  lending - including  all of 
the relevant rules, guidance and good industry practice - on our website. 
Cashfloat needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this meant that it should have  carried out proportionate checks  to make sure Mr C 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. 
With this in mind, in the early stages of a lending relationship, I thought less thorough checks  
might be reasonable  and proportionate. But certain factors might point to the fact that 
Cashfloat should fairly and reasonably have done  more to establish that any lending was 
sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
Ref: DRN79901982the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer has been  given  loans (reflecting the risk that repeated 
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There may even come  a point where the lending history and pattern of lending itself clearly  
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
Cashfloat was required to establish  whether Mr C could sustainably repay his loans  not 
just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict pounds and pence calculation.
Of course the loan payments being  affordable  on this basis  might be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this is 
the case. 
This is because the FCAs Consumer  Credit Sourcebook defines  sustainable  as being 
without undue difficulties  and in particular the customer should be able to make repayments 
on time, while meeting  other reasonable commitments;  as well as without having  to borrow  
to meet  the repayments. 
So it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they will need  to borrow 
more money to afford the repayments.
loan one
Cashfloat asked  Mr C for details of his income  and outgoings before agreeing loan one. 
Cashfloat also carried out some credit  checks.  
When Mr C applied for loan one, Cashfloats checks showed  that he was due to repay 
another short term lender more than £1,500. The adjudicator thought that Cashfloat  should 
have taken this as an indication that Mr C was having problems managing his money and 
therefore not agreed to lend.
Although I agreed  that the entry should have prompted Cashfloat  to ask some  more 
questions about  this credit commitment   I wasnt persuaded  that the entry in itself was 
enough to say that Mr C was having  money problems. 
The credit search didnt seem to reveal any other outstanding short term loans before 
agreeing loan one. And Cashfloat  pointed out the next credit report made it clear  that Mr C 
was repaying the £1,500 short term loan by instalments of around £400.  So even if Cashfloat 
had asked about the other loan, I considered that loan one would have still appeared 
affordable. Particularly  because Cashfloat took account of Mr Cs partners income that he 
declared as part of his loan application.
So I didnt intend  upholding  Mr Cs complaint about  loan one.
loans two to four
Although there was a break of just over three and half months between repaying loan one 
and taking out loan two, Mr C asked to borrow £200  more than before. So I didnt consider 
Ref: DRN79901983that the break was enough  to suggest that Mr C had moved on from whatever circumstances 
had prompted  him to ask for the earlier loan.
The credit checks that Cashfloat  carried out before loan two, showed that he had open  loans 
with at least three other short  term lenders.  Regardless of the amount that Mr C had to repay 
on the other loans;  I thought that the number of open accounts  indicated that Mr C was 
experiencing pressure on his finances. 
If Mr Cs financial  difficulties had been  temporary  as Cashfloat suggested, then I wouldnt 
have expected him to need  to take out another high interest loan. Particularly as on the face 
of things  Mr Cs income was relatively high.  
I considered that the pattern of borrowing from multiple short term lenders all at the same 
time shouldve alerted  Cashfloat to the fact that Mr C was having problems managing his 
money and that taking  on more debt wasnt sustainable.
I couldnt see that the situation improved over the remaining time that Mr C borrowed from 
Cashfloat. Mr C continued to borrow from other short term lenders. Although  the amount that 
Mr C was borrowing from Cashfloat  reduced  over time  loan three was still for more than 
loan one. 
I appreciated that when Mr C took out loan four, he borrowed  less money than for his 
previous three loans.  But Mr C took out loan four within  a week  of repaying loan three.  So I 
still considered that this showed Cashfloat  that it was likely  that Mr C had to borrow  further  to 
cover the hole repaying his previous loan was leaving in his finances.
Overall, I considered that Mr Cs indebtedness  was increasing unsustainably. So I didnt 
think it was reasonable  of Cashfloat to agree loans two to four.
Cashfloat said that loan four was included as part of a debt management plan (DMP) that   
Mr C entered in to in October 2018. As Mr C had the benefit of the money lent, it seemed fair 
to allow  Cashfloat  to apply the refund against  any remaining principal balance due. But if 
after doing  this, Mr C still owed money  on loan four, Cashfloat shouldnt look to increase     
Mr Cs current  repayments unless he or the business managing his DMP agreed otherwise.
further submissions
Mr C agreed with my provisional  decision and Cashfloat didnt reply.
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Mr C accepted my provisional decision 
and Cashfloat  didnt ask me to consider anything further. In the circumstances, I think  its fair 
to make my final decision along  the same lines as my provisional decision.
Ref: DRN79901984to put things right,  Cashfloat should:
refund  all interest and charges that Mr C paid on loans two to four;
 
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum  to each  of these amounts from the date 
they were paid to the date of settlement*;  
write off any unpaid interest and charges on loan four; 
if it chooses to, apply the refund  against  any outstanding principal balance  on loan four 
before paying  the remaining balance (if there is any) to Mr C**; and
remove any negative information  about loans two to four from Mr Cs credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Cashfloat to take off tax from this interest. Cashfloat must 
give Mr C a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if he asks for one. If Cashfloat 
intends to apply the refund to reduce  any outstanding  principal balance,  it must do so after 
deducting tax.
**If after carrying out the above steps there is still an outstanding balance,  I remind  Cashfloat 
of its obligation  to treat Mr C reasonably  and sympathetically if he or the business managing 
his DMP wants to agree a repayment plan. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint part. In full and final settlement, I direct  Western  
Circle Ltd (trading as Cashfloat) to put things right as detailed above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 February  2020.
Gemma Bowen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7990198