K821x#15Complaint
Mrs V has complained that Bank  of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) unfairly  applied  
increased charges  to her overdraft, as a result of changing its charging structure, when she 
was experiencing financial  difficulty.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  at this complaint and thought that Halifax  should have 
realised that Mrs V was experiencing difficulty in January 2018 and so it needed to refund all 
the interest,  fees and charges it added to Mrs Vs overdraft  from this point. 
Halifax didnt respond to our adjudicators view. It simply  said that it had already refunded 
some of the fees concerned. Miss V disagreed  with this and so the case  was passed for an 
ombudsmans decision.   
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   
Halifax will be familiar with all the rules,  regulations and good industry practice we consider 
when looking at whether a bank  treated a customer fairly and reasonably  when applying  
overdraft charges. So I dont consider it necessary to set all of this out in this decision.
Having carefully considered everything  provided,  I also think Halifax acted unfairly when it 
continued charging overdraft interest  and associated fees from January 2018. By this point, 
Halifax appears to have been  told Mrs V was struggling financially as a result of the charges 
to its overdraft charging structure, as it appears to have refunded some.  
While Halifax  did refund the fees for a period, I dont  think that this went far enough  as it 
started charging Mrs V again without establishing  that her position had improved and that 
she was able to manage.  Indeed her account statements actually show little material change  
to her financial position. In these  circumstances, Halifax should have treated Mrs V with 
forbearance rather than add even more interest, fees and charges to an overdraft  it had 
already been told Mrs V was having  difficulty repaying. 
As this is the case, Im satisfied that Halifax should have stopped providing the overdraft on 
the same  terms, in January 2018, and treated Mrs V with forbearance rather than adding 
even more fees and charges on the overdraft. As Halifax didnt react  to Mrs Vs overdraft 
usage as well as what it was told and instead  went back  to charging in the same  way, I think 
it failed to act fairly and reasonably towards her. 
Mrs V ended up paying additional interest,  fees and charges on her overdraft at a time when 
she was already experiencing difficulty.  So I think  that Mrs V lost out because  of what  Halifax  
did wrong and that it needs to put things right.
Fair compensation  what  Halifax needs  to do to put things right for Mrs V.
Having thought about everything, I think that it would be fair and reasonable in all the 
circumstances of Mrs Vs complaint for Halifax to put things right by:
Ref: DRN74271992Reworking Mrs Vs current overdraft balance so that all interest,  fees and charges 
applied to it from January 2018 onwards, which havent already been refunded*, 
are removed.
AND
If an outstanding  balance remains on the overdraft once these  adjustments have 
been made Halifax should contact  Mrs V to arrange a suitable  repayment plan for 
this. If it considers it appropriate to record negative information on Mrs Vs credit 
file, it should backdate  this to January 2018.
OR
If the effect of removing all interest,  fees and charges results  in there no longer 
being an outstanding balance, then any extra  should be treated as overpayments 
and returned to Mrs V along with 8% simple  interest on the overpayments  from 
the date they were  made (if they were) until the date of settlement. If no 
outstanding balance remains after all adjustments  have been made, then Halifax 
should remove any adverse information  from Mrs Vs credit  file. 
* In the event  there  are any fees which Halifax doesnt remove, on the basis  theyve already 
been refunded,  it needs to provide Mrs V with of evidence  of any refund having  already  
been made to her.
 HM Revenue & Customs requires Halifax to take off tax from this interest.  Halifax  must 
give Mrs V a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if she asks for one.
My final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, upholding Mrs Vs complaint. Halifax Bank PLC to put things 
right in the way Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 24 July 2021.
Jeshen Narayanan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7427199