K820x#14Complaint
Mr L has complained  that Hargreaves Lansdown  Asset Management Limited (Hargreaves) 
didnt inform him earlier of changes in its business  procedures in relation to his self-invested 
personal pension  (SIPP)  which prevented him from accessing his tax-free lump sum. Hes 
also complained  that Hargreaves Lansdown  Asset  Management Limited delayed in 
transferring his holdings to another provider thereby causing him financial loss.
Background
Mr L had been  a client of Hargreaves since 2006. He held a SIPP  with it on an execution 
only basis. In 2009 he retired  and moved  to live abroad.  In 2017 Mr L requested  a drawdown 
illustration in preparation for starting the drawdown from the SIPP  as well as taking the 25% 
tax free lump sum available to him.
Mr L completed and returned  the necessary forms to Hargreaves after which time he was 
told that he couldnt proceed  with the transfer or access his tax-free cash. Hargreaves said 
this was because  he lived outside  of the European  Economic Area. He was initially told this 
was due to a change in legislation, but this was incorrect. Hargreaves later confirmed  the 
reason was because  of an update  to its overseas  policies which  meant it chose not to obtain 
regulatory permissions  from the relevant authority in said overseas country.
As Mr L couldnt access his SIPP he decided to transfer it to another provider, which  I will 
refer to as Business B. In line with its normal procedures  as part of the transfer  process 
Hargreaves asked Mr L for certified copies  of identity documents  in order to satisfy anti-
money laundering procedures. As Mr L had already  provided this to Business B he asked 
Hargreaves to obtain the documents from it which it did but after some unnecessary delay.
As well as this at the time Mr L decided to transfer to Business B, Business  B had set up an 
initial public offering (IPO) of its shares  for its qualifying clients.  This allowed a limited 
number of shares to be bought at a favourable  price.  Mr L has said that he was intending to 
invest the full amount  that he could into this IPO but because of the delays he missed out on 
this opportunity.
In its final response letter  Hargreaves  accepted  it had delayed  in processing the transfer and 
also agreed that Mr L didnt have to pay any of its fees whilst this matter  was ongoing. It 
therefore arranged  for the fees for the sale to be reversed  and reimbursed all management 
charges since December 2018.
It also waived its usual  transfer fees and accepted  that Mr L would have taken part in the 
IPO of Business B had the transfer been  completed  in time. It therefore decided  that Mr L 
would have bought 527 shares in the IPO at a cost of 160 pence so therefore  offered him 
£560.07 in relation to this. This information  was based on information from its dealing desk. 
Hargreaves offered to add this amount  to Mr Ls SIPP as a restitution payment so it 
wouldnt affect his annual allowance. 
It also offered Mr L £500 for the time he had spent  on trying to resolve the matter himself  as 
well as the level of service Hargreaves had given him.
Mr L wasnt happy with these offers. He didnt think one years  refund of fees was adequate 
as he reasoned that he had been paying for a service for over a decade which Hargreaves 
was no longer able to fulfil. He also stated that the information Hargreaves had that he would 
Ref: DRN78531732have only have bought 527 shares  in the IPO was wrong and he would have bought more 
shares had there been no delay. He therefore  felt this part of the offer should be increased  to 
reflect him buying the total of 4927 shares which was the maximum he could buy at that 
point in time.
In response Hargreaves  offered  to remove the sale and repurchase from the account at no 
cost and also stated  it would clear any shortfall if one arose from this action. Mr L didnt 
accept this. He wanted  £5,000 in compensation for the distress and inconvenience as well 
as recompense for the amount of shares he says he missed  out on buying as part of the 
IPO.
The complaint was assessed  by one of our investigators who didnt feel the complaint should 
be upheld. She was satisfied that Hargreaves refund only the fees and charges for one year 
as opposed to all the time Mr L had been  a client as he wanted.  She also felt the rationale 
behind Hargreaves offer in relation to the amount of shares Mr L would have bought in the 
IPO to be reasonable. And she felt the £500  was also fair for the distress and inconvenience 
to be fair.
Mr L didnt agree with the assessment and was adamant that he would have bought the full 
number of shares that he would have in the IPO  4927. He explained he planned  to invest  
£20,000 and keep the rest in his SIPP.
While the investigator considered his comments, she wasnt persuaded to change  her initial  
outcome.
As no agreement could be reached  the complaint has been passed  to me to review.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont think  the 
complaint can be upheld.
Regarding Hargreaves decision  to not proceed with Mr Ls drawdown  request, while  I 
understand this would have been  disappointing  for Mr L to hear and for him to not be told in 
advance, I cant  say that Hargreaves  did anything  wrong. The change  to Hargreaves 
overseas policy  and the decision  to not obtain  regulatory permissions from the relevant 
oversees equivalent to our industrys  regulator  was a commercial  one which  Hargreaves was 
entitled to make and isnt something this Service can involve itself in. So this isnt something 
I can comment on apart from to say changes to overseas policies isnt so unusual  in light of 
changes to financial regulations and any business is entitled to change its policies as an 
when it feels appropriate.
Turning now to the delays Mr L suffered in making  his transfer to Business B, Hargreaves 
had accepted the delays  were unnecessary and has provided  a refund of various  fees and 
charges to compensate for that. I am satisfied with what Hargreaves has offered  in this 
respect. I know  Mr L doesnt agree but this type of compensation must be reasonable and 
proportionate to the affect the errors  have had on an individual. Hargreaves has accepted  its 
errors and, in my view,  has provided  a refund  of charges and fees that Mr L would normally 
have paid as recognition  of this. This is sufficient in my view.
Ref: DRN78531733However, the point  which remains  unresolved is what would  Mr L have done  had the delays 
not happened. Would he have taken part in the IPO of Business B and if so would he have 
bought the full amount  of shares he could have,  4927, as he asserts.
While I am certainly not questioning Mr Ls honesty its important to make  clear that I need to 
be satisfied that this is the action he would have taken based  on all of the information  
provided to me.
Normally in situations like this I would  expect a business to put a consumer who has lost out 
into the position he would have been had the error  not occurred. In some situations, its quite 
easy to conclude what the alternative path would have been  but for the error.  This is 
sometimes based on the previous investment behaviour of the individual  or set plans made  
at the time of what the next actions would have been. But sometimes,  in a situation  like this it 
isnt. So I need  to decide what  the position  is to put Mr L back  into, while  being fair to both 
parties.
Theres no doubt the IPO was a good investment  opportunity. The full amount Mr L could 
have invested  in this was only a small proportion of his overall SIPP value  and I agree that it 
was only due to the delays caused by Hargreaves that meant Mr L wasnt a qualifying client 
for the IPO. 
However, I am mindful  of the fact that throughout  all the time Mr L was liaising with 
Hargreaves about his complaint he took no action to find another way of raising the required 
monies to take part in the IPO. The transfer was in specie  so from his actions there is no 
indication of how he was planning to fund his application for the IPO which had to be in cash. 
During this time Mr L could have requested HL to sell his Lindsell Train shares and transfer 
the £20,000 required to Business B if he was concerned that he would have missed the 
deadline. Its likely this could have been  carried out within the required timeframes as cash  
transfers are much  faster than in specie transfer and Mr L would have been  aware  of this. 
But I cant see any evidence that Mr L asked to do this. And while Mr L will argue that he 
didnt know about  the deadline for the IPO because  he wasnt a qualifying  client  it still 
remains that he doesnt seem to have mitigated any losses by taking different action apart 
from stating what he would have  done after the event.
I know Mr L feels he would have incurred  further charges by encashing some  or all of his 
SIPP to enable him to take part in the IPO but the fact remains  this was still an option open  
to him and any extra fees could have been  clawed  back at a later date. 
Its also worth pointing  out that while Mr L wasnt  able to take part on the IPO due to 
Hargreaves actions he remained fully invested throughout this time and therefore would 
have benefited  from the growth of funds within his SIPP. 
So while there is no doubt that HL caused delays there just isnt enough for me to safely  
conclude that Mr L would  definitely  have  invested  £20,000 into the IPO of Business B. I 
therefore think that the offers made by Hargreaves to be a fair way of compensating Mr L for 
the errors  occurred and sufficient to put him back into the position its likely he would  have 
been in had these errors  not happened.
My final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint and I make no award.  I think  the offer 
from Hargreaves Lansdown Asset Management Limited to be sufficient in this regard.
Ref: DRN78531734Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2021.
Ayshea Khan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7853173