K820x#14complaint
Mr H complains about Loan Logics Limited  starting  possession proceedings against him and 
its failure to negotiate  with him about  the arrears  on his accounts.
background
Mr H has two secured loans with Loan Logics. Mr H took these out in 2011  with another  
lender and the accounts transferred to Loan  Logics.  Mr H lost his job in February 2017 but 
continued to make his monthly payments until February 2018 when he was unable to 
maintain those and reduced his payments to £50 per month on each account. Mr H says that 
he issued legal proceedings  for unfair dismissal but these were unsuccessful  at the initial 
hearing and on appeal in December 2018.
Loan Logics defaulted the account through its solicitors in May 2018  but came  to an 
arrangement to accept  the token payments of £50 per month for a period on each account. 
At the turn of 2018/19 it asked Mr H for his proposals in respect of the arrears and in the 
absence of these  issued legal proceedings to recover possession  of the property in March 
2019. When Mr H contacted this service  he hoped to sell his property  to pay off the debt but 
then got another job and emailed Loan  Logics to say that he hoped  to reinstate his 
payments on the two loans beginning in July 2019.  
our investigators view
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint as he believed that on balance  that Loan Logics 
had treated Mr H fairly. He said that the tone of some communications  with Mr H should 
have been better but he didnt think that this was reason enough to say that he wasnt  
treated fairly. Mr H disagreed saying that he had to correct errors in communication  with 
Loan Logics and after that the lender issued direct insults to him on a personal  basis.
my provisional decision
I reviewed this complaint  and issued a Provisional Decision. I summarise  my findings below:
Firstly. I said that Mr H had two secured  loans  with Loan Logics and was contractually 
obliged to pay those.  Mr H said had lost his job in 2017 and was in financial difficulties which  
meant, for a period,  that he couldnt pay these  accounts in full each month. 
I then set out the history of the interactions  between Mr H and Loan  Logics  thereafter:
I noted that Mr H contacted Loan  Logics at the turn of 2017/18 telling the lender he 
had lost his job. Mr Hs accounts went into arrears shortly after that. There was a 
contact note on 7 June 2018 that an adviser  from Loan Logics had spoken to Mr H 
and said that the lender wouldnt be taking any further action at that time but would  
allow him further time to find employment.
I noted that in the meantime Mr H had agreed  to pay £50 per month on both 
accounts. Mr H said there was to be a hearing of his unfair  dismissal  claim on 3 July 
2018 and on 3 July Mr H phoned to say that his claim  had been successful and that 
he was looking at a substantial payment. But this claim wasnt  in fact successful. Mr 
H told me that there was a hearing on 18 July which had gone in his favour but the 
Ref: DRN72472242case proved eventually unsuccessful in December  2018. I noted that Mr H has been 
unable to provide  me with any documents related to the progress  of his case
I recorded that Mr H had told Loan  Logics  in October of the upcoming  hearing in 
December but not of the outcome. At that stage Loan Logics  was getting reduced 
payments from Mr H for about a year and in late 2018 and the early  part of 2019 tried 
to make contact with Mr H by email and letter.
I then dealt with the email correspondence  beginning  with Loan Logics email of 12 
February 2019 when  the lender asked Mr H about his intentions in respect  of clearing 
the arrears of £4,563.08 on one account and £1,452.24 on the other  account. That 
was followed by a letter on 20 February  2019,  followed  by an email of 1 March saying 
that if Mr H didnt  put forward proposals  to clear the arrears  by 7 March  that solicitors  
would be instructed to apply to the courts to seek repossession  of the property
I said that Mr H replied on 4 March to the effect that the email  address that Loan  
Logics was using  was incorrect - as indeed it was - so he hadnt got the emails  of 12 
February and 1 March  but had got the letter of 1 March to which he was replying. Mr 
H complained that he hadnt been  invited to enter  dialogue to resolve matters  and 
wished to make a complaint. 
I then referred to Loan Logics email reply on 4 March. I said that the tone was set 
from the beginning by the writer and I quoted  from the email:
            I  have absolutely no idea what you are talking about in your email. Perhaps  you are             
suffering from memory loss 
That email then gave  a brief history  of the interactions in 2018  and said that Loan 
Logics had shown  great assistance  in accepting reduced monthly  payments of £50 
per month and that Mr H hadnt  been in contact with Loan  Logics since  July 2018.  I 
noted that this was incorrect  as the contact  notes show contact in October 2018.  In 
relation to Mr Hs request to enter into dialogue,  Loan Logics replied:
            You state that we have not entered into dialogue to resolve matters  prior to sending 
the emails. Why would we?
            The  dialogue  you will find is in my posted email asking you to put forward your 
payment proposals to start to clear the arrears. I am still awaiting your proposals 
I noted that in regard  to the incorrect email  address, Loan  Logics  blamed  that firmly 
on Mr H this was the email address provided by you that we had on the file. How are 
we to know you have  since changed it?  I said that in my experience  it wasnt 
unusual for a clerical  error to result  in an email address being recorded incorrectly 
and Id seen no evidence to support the assertion  that Mr H gave Loan Logics an 
email address and then changed it without informing the lender.
Mr H had indicated that he was liaising with the Banking Ombudsman (sic). As 
regards that point, Loan Logics  replied that I am more  than happy  to provide the 
Banking Ombudsman(sic) with all our file notes  in regard to previously assisting you 
when we were actually under no legal obligation to do so. Obviously, that is not 
something I will be making the mistake of doing so again  as you obviously havent  
appreciated anything I have  done  for you in the past
Ref: DRN72472243I said that in this email  of 4 March, Loan  Logics wanted Mr Hs proposals  to clear the 
arrears by 7 March otherwise the matter  would proceed to court. In reply Mr H said 
that there were  a number of lies in Loan Logics email as he hadnt changed his 
email address and had been  in contact  in December 2018 and asked for a final 
response letter so that he could go before the Ombudsman.
I noted that Loan Logics replied that it would give Mr H until 18 March to make his 
proposals and gave Mr H some  advice about taking the matter to this Service  Just 
so you are aware the Ombudsman has no legal jurisdiction to alter your contractual 
monthly payments  on your Credit Agreements. In passing I said that this wasnt a 
correct statement of what this service can and cannot do.
This was then followed by Loan Logics final response letter  to Mr Hs complaint dated  
12 March 2019. I noted that the person who investigated the complaint was the 
person Mr H had been complaining about  whom he says had failed to enter a 
dialogue with him about  the arrears  and whose email I had quoted  from above.  In this 
letter he was referred to as the Customer Complaints Manager. The writer didnt 
uphold Mr Hs complaint about  his own actions.  Although he did say I still dont 
actually understand  what  your initial email complaint relates  to. I suggested  that if 
that was the case  the writer might have clarified this with Mr H before he decided not 
to uphold the complaint.
I noted that in the absence of Mr Hs proposals,  Loan Logics through its solicitors  
issued legal proceedings to recover possession.  On 22 April Mr H offered to put his 
home on the market  and said he had two upcoming  job interviews.  On 23 April the 
lender wrote to Mr H to say that it wanted to go ahead with the possession hearing 
and that if it was granted possession it would  agree to a three  month stay to see if 
the property sold.  It appeared that Loan Logics then received notice from ourselves 
that Mr H was continuing with his complaint because on the 24 April it wrote to Mr H 
and said:
I emailed  you yesterday  to advise that we would be willing to assist you in whatever way we 
are able to and then this letter arrives.  (i.e. the letter from this service  advising of the 
complaint) 
Obviously should  you wish to still proceed  with this complaint then unfortunately I will have to 
withdraw the offer of help previously given
Please can you therefore either email or write  to confirm  whether you wish to proceed with 
this complaint or not, so we know where  we are going forward.
I said that the actual  assistance that Loan Logics offered in his previous 
correspondence was to give Mr H three  months  stay on repossession  hearing. The 
clear message of this correspondence is that this assistance now dependent on Mr H 
withdrawing his complaint  to us. Mr H thought this was bullying him into dropping his 
complaint. Loan Logics in its letter to us of 9 June 2019 disagreed  as it said:
Far from it. I made it very clear in my letter that I would obviously not try to help him if he 
wants to make a complaint. Why would I? Again a fact. Have your cake and eat it comes to 
mind. I am very annoyed that after all of his lack of cooperation  in this matter and all the help 
that we have provided that he still thinks that he has something to moan about. One thing is 
Ref: DRN72472244very clear and that is that if he requires any further  help from us in the future I will be thinking 
long and hard before offering it
I said that the clear  message I took from that was that if Mr H exercised his rights to 
make a complaint  to us that Loan  Logics was entitled to desist from its duty to act 
sympathetically and positively towards  him in his financial  difficulties. I said that I 
didnt consider that to be fair or reasonable.
 I noted that Mr H on 29 April emailed  Loan Logics to say that he had got an offer of 
work beginning 6 May 2019 and would resume  making payments on 1 and 12 July. 
In its reply on 29 April 2019 Loans  Logics said that it would  adjourn/suspend the 
hearing if it got the monthly payments and an additional amount to start clearing the 
arrears. I noted that it didnt ask what Mr Hs income would be or about his overall  
financial position to assess what he could afford. The letter  also advised Mr H on the 
role of the judge at the hearing:
The Judge is very unlikely to make comment on other issues that you may wish to bring  up 
as this does not form part of the terms and conditions of the Credit  Agreement  that you have 
broken and is why we have brought the case in front of them  in the first instance. 
His role is to make an order for you to pay your CMI every month and then he will tell you 
what you must pay every month in addition to start to clear  the arrears.
So, we can either  agree this between ourselves or we can leave it to the Judge.
Obviously should  we attend court then there  will be further substantial solicitors  costs which 
will be again  be added to your loan balance.
I noted that this was a misstatement of the role of the judiciary and appeared to be 
for the purpose  of preventing Mr H presenting  his case  in court.  The letter  ended  by 
asking for Mr Hs proposals by 2 May.
After setting out the relevant interactions,  I then summarised my findings to date. 
I said that our expectation  was that a creditor should be positive and sympathetic to a 
customer in financial difficulties. But In this case, although I believed that Loan Logics 
was at times sympathetic to Mr H that I didnt consider that it dealt positively with him 
and then eventually  it was clearly unsympathetic to him. I said that Loan  Logics  had 
failed to engage positively in a dialogue  with Mr H to see what  his prospects were  for 
repaying his arrears. There had been  no attempt to assess his ability to pay the 
arrears or to carry out a simple income and expenditure assessment. It seemed that 
through 2018 Loan Logics was content  with Mr Hs hope that his unfair dismissal 
would be successful  and with his token payments. 
But I said that there had been  no investigation of what the prospects of success  were  
except to accept  what  turned  out to be Mr Hs over optimistic  assessment. There had 
been no discussion of what  would happen  if he was unsuccessful in the litigation and 
how was he proposing to pay the arrears in those circumstances. I wondered 
whether Mr H could have afforded to pay any more at that time and noted that this 
was never tested. I said that the problem with Loan Logics  simply accepting  the £50 
Ref: DRN72472245per months payments on the accounts  without a further discussion is that the arrears 
would get worse as would Mr Hs financial position. 
I noted that Mr H seemed to have had a positive attitude to pay the arrears although 
an inability to do so. He appeared to have continued to make  the regular payments 
for a year when  unemployed and then token payments  for the period thereafter.  
There was a period  when he didnt  respond in late 2018 and early 2019  when  he told 
us that he was dejected after he lost his unfair  dismissal case. But I noted that when 
he did engage shortly  afterwards and the opportunity was there  for dialogue, Loan  
Logics began its correspondence in the hectoring and aggressive manner I had set 
out earlier.  
I said that Loan Logics had dismissed the opportunity for dialogue  but had asked for 
proposals without  trying to engage  to get some inkling of what Mr Hs present  
situation was. My view was that to assist Mr H it should have been talking to him to 
find out his income and expenditure and what were his job prospects? Was selling 
the house the only alternative and did that require time?  I said that Loan Logics 
process had been to require proposals,  throw  down deadlines  for these  proposals  to 
be made and when not made it issued legal  proceedings to repossess. 
I didnt believe that Loan Logics achieved  the standard  we or the regulator would 
have expected of a creditor dealing  with a customer in financial difficulties. It hadnt 
dealt positively with Mr H throughout. In June 2018  it had accepted token payments 
whilst he looked to obtain employment. I said that showed a level of sympathy  but 
that changed in early  2019. It then refused to enter into a dialogue. It had told Mr H 
about the powers of the Ombudsman which were incorrect. It had told him that it 
wouldnt make  the mistake of being sympathetic to him again. It had told him that the 
judges function is to stamp  approval  for Loan Logics requests.
I said that I didnt accept that Loan Logics had engaged with Mr H and that its 
process appeared to be to demand proposals  without investigating the feasibility of 
those proposals. I felt that the process  should have been to engage with Mr H to 
assess what his financial capabilities were  of paying off the debt and assisting him in 
coming to a proposal if possible. But this should have been based  on a realistic  
assessment of the prospects  of whether the proposal could be implemented. I said 
that merely asking  for proposals without engaging with the customer gave him no 
assistance and would  lead to unrealistic  proposals being made  and created ill-will 
when they are not met. 
I said that my view was that Mr H wanted dialogue and Loan Logics only wanted 
proposals. I noted that the only income/expenditure form on file is the Court Defence 
Form submitted by Mr H. Loan Logics had simply never engaged with Mr H to the 
extent of asking  him to complete an income/expenditure form. It seemed that the 
lender didnt regard this as a usual procedure in dealing with clients in financial 
difficulties although such forms are invariably used  by other  lenders. My view was 
that Loan Logics had the opportunity to enter dialogue with Mr H before it issued 
legal proceedings in March but ignored  the overtures from Mr H. I believed it should  
have responded  positively  to Mr H but didnt do so. 
I noted that instead it had issued legal proceedings to recover  possession of Mr Hs 
home which of course should  have been  a last resort. I considered  that issuing such  
proceedings was premature and unfair. I said that I intended to uphold  this complaint 
Ref: DRN72472246and that Loan Logics  should withdraw the legal proceedings and remove from Mr Hs 
account any related  costs  and charges and that Loans Logics should also meet  those 
costs. 
In addition, I said that Mr H should be compensated for his trouble and upset which  I 
assessed at £750.  I then set out how I came  to that assessment. Clearly from March  
2019 after the issue of the legal proceedings he has had to suffer the very real 
possibility of his house being repossessed  but Mr H would always under some stress 
as he was unable  to pay his monthly  instalments.  But he should have expected a 
positive and sympathetic engagement  with Loan Logics. 
I noted that although Loan Logics showed some initial sympathy, this evaporated, 
and I didnt consider  that the engagement  was positive. I recorded that in his email to 
Loan Logics of 24 April 2019,  Mr H had said I have been bullied by yourself, I have  
been ridiculed  by yourself, you are stressing me out as each day changes  with your 
email to me. My view was that it was reasonable for Mr H to feel that way and 
should be compensated as a result. 
More seriously I felt that Loan  Logics put Mr H under pressure to believe that if he 
sought to exercise his legal rights such as complaining  to us or airing his case in 
court that would be to his disadvantage. I said that Loan Logics had put him under 
pressure to withdraw his complaint  from us and he was told that the court  wouldnt 
listen to him. 
On the other side, I said that Loan Logics  complained about  Mr Hs behaviour and 
referred us to a phone call on 1 June 2018  when a member  of its staff recorded that 
she had to terminate  the call because Mr H wasnt listening and raised his voice. I 
said that this behaviour was regrettable, but I noted that on 6 June 2018 Mr H asked  
to pass an apology  to that staff member as he said he was a little stressed  and on 3 
July he apologised  to that member of staff directly.  I noted  that a similar  level of 
regret hadnt been shown by the lender. In those circumstances  I believed  that 
compensation of £750 was appropriate. 
So, my Provisional Decision was that I upheld this complaint and that Loan Logics 
should withdraw the legal  proceedings  that it brought against Mr H, remove any fees 
or charges related  to those proceedings from his account and to pay his legal costs  
(if any). Loan  Logics should also pay him compensation for his trouble and upset  of 
£750.
I issued my Provisional  Decision and invited Mr H and Loan Logics to submit  any further 
evidence or make further submissions in the light of that. Mr H accepted my Provisional 
Decision. Loan  Logics made  a number of submissions which I considered  further and are 
referred to in my decision below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Loan Logics disagreed with my Provisional Decision and made the following points:
Mr H has been negative and aggressive towards  the whole situation.
Ref: DRN72472247I had said that an Income/Expenditure review was not attempted  as it wasnt 
mentioned in the notes. Loan Logics says that it has looked  through  a file and sent 
me a copy of a letter 13 June 2018 relating to an Income/Expenditure  form sent to Mr 
H. Mr H didnt reply  to that letter which also asked for correspondence related to his 
court case. 
Although I said that at the turn of 2018/19  Loan Logics asked for proposals in respect 
of the arrears, I didnt  detail each attempt by Loan  Logics to make contact with Mr H 
between December 2018 and February 2019
Ive looked at these points  in turn. I did note that Mr H caused  upset to a member  of Loan 
Logics staff back in June 2018  which I said was disappointing. The contact  note from the 
Loan Logics employee says that he would  not listen and raised his voice. But I noted that 
Mr H had indeed apologised on two occasions for that. I also noted  that on occasion Mr H 
hadnt been responsive to Loan  Logics contact  but I believed that there may have been 
understandable reasons for that. The problem is that when he did respond Loan Logics 
failed to engage with him. 
Loan Logics has produced the letter of 13 June 2018 to Mr H which  refers to enclosing an 
Income/Expenditure account  for Mr H to complete. This wasnt referred  to in the contact 
notes although  other  letters are. Before coming to my Provisional Decision, I did specifically 
ask Loan Logics on 24 February  2020  whether it had ever gone through  an income and 
expenditure form with Mr H and to provide  us with a copy. Loan Logics initial response was 
Looking, through the file there doesnt appear to be an income and expenditure form . The 
author of that reply seemed to think I was referring  to such a form in relation to the original 
affordability of the borrowing.  So, I asked the question again and the response was An 
income and expenditure form was not completed . I wasnt  told that one had been sent out 
and Loan Logics seem  to have been unaware of it until recently. 
But the letter  of 13 June 2018 does fit the sequence  of events  at that time and it appears that 
after the director of Loan Logics agreed  to continue the token payments on 7 June 2018 that 
this letter  followed.
Loan Logics also says that I didnt  record the full extent of its attempts  to contact Mr H in late 
2018/2019. I concede that I dont refer to its voicemail messages, but I believe that I fairly 
record that at that period it was attempting  to make contact with no response.  I also recorded 
the background to Mr H not doing  so.
I accept that Loan  Logics  sent Mr H an Income/Expenditure form on 13 June 2018. The 
object of such a form is to assist a lender  to come to a fair assessment of what a borrower 
can afford to pay. But Loan Logics had already agreed a payment schedule on the 7 June 
without that information so that form appears to have been  redundant when it was sent out. 
If Loan Logics  had considered the information  requested in that letter significant to its 
decision-making process, it presumably would  have been sent out before Loan Logics came 
to a decision. Or Loan Logics could have completed the form on the phone with Mr H on 7 
June, prior to a decision being made.  
But Loan  Logics  came to a decision about what Mr H could afford to pay without the 
assistance of such  a form, didnt send out a reminder, and had difficulty recalling whether 
there was an Income/Expenditure form on his file. It also failed to send one out again when 
Mr H indicated that he wanted to engage  with Loan  Logics. So, although I accept  that such  a 
form was sent out and that Loan  Logics looked for further information from Mr H, I dont 
Ref: DRN72472248believe that conducting a proper assessment of what Mr H could afford to pay played the 
role it should  have done in Loan  Logics decision making.  
My view was that Loan Logics failed to engage  with Mr H in the manner we would expect  of 
a creditor dealing with a customer in financial difficulties and the further  submissions from 
the company dont  alter my view about  that. I have reviewed my Provisional Decision  in light 
of these further submissions, but my view is that it represents a fair outcome to this 
complaint and so I uphold  the complaint. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint and require Loan  Logics:
To withdraw the legal  proceedings that it brought against Mr H and remove  any 
fees or charges related to those proceedings from his account and to pay his 
legal costs (if any).
Pay Mr H compensation for his trouble  and upset  of £750.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 September  2020.
Gerard McManus
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7247224