K820x#14complaint
Mrs M says she was mis-sold a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy  for her store card.  
Allianz Insurance Plc, as the insurer, have taken  responsibility for the sale. To keep  things 
simple, Ill only refer to Allianz  in this decision,  rather than any other business.
background
Mrs M bought the policy in 1998 at the same time as taking out a store  card using a paper 
application in the store.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ms case.
Having done that, I dont  think  this PPI policy was mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mrs Ms store card application had a section for PPI. It looks like it gave an outline of what  
the policy was for and what it cost. It said it was something Allianz  recommended.  This was 
only a recommendation,  which Mrs M was free to accept or decline; it wasnt a requirement.
There was a box that could be ticked if Mrs M wanted PPI, or which  could be left blank if she 
didnt want it. The box was ticked,  and below Mrs Ms name was written to confirm it was her 
that the cover was for. Mrs M signed the form to confirm  her choices.
Mrs Ms representatives have suggested that the staff member may have filled in the form 
for Mrs M. But the form contained Mrs Ms personal  details, employment details, financial 
details, and so on. So even if the staff member  was the person writing things down, its clear 
they discussed the form with Mrs M in order to get that information.  And so I think its most 
likely they discussed  the section for PPI, too. I think it wouldve been clear to Mrs M that she 
was being offered a choice about buying  PPI. And ultimately, Mrs M did have a responsibility  
to read and understand what she was signing.  Overall, I think  its most  likely that Allianz 
made Mrs M aware  she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she chose to take it at 
the time  though I can understand if she no longer recalls doing so after so many  years.
Allianz didnt give Mrs M tailored personalised advice  about buying PPI, so they didnt  have 
to check if it was right for her. They did have to give Mrs M enough  information  to decide if 
the PPI was right for her.
Its possible that the information Allianz  gave Mrs M about PPI wasnt  as clear  as it shouldve 
been. The question, then,  is whether I think better information was likely to have changed  
her mind. Here, it looks like Mrs M chose to take out the policy, which implies she wanted  
this type of cover. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, it looks like she 
was eligible for the cover  and wasnt affected  by any of its main exclusions or limitations.
Ref: DRN72346332While Mrs M may have  had some benefits through work, her sick pay reduced to just a 
fraction of her normal pay after six months.  And at the time of the sale,  Mrs M wouldnt have 
had a very large redundancy entitlement given her role and short length of service.  Whereas  
the PPI wouldve paid out on top of Mrs Ms work benefits, and it offered her more 
comprehensive cover. It also meant she wouldnt have to ask her partner or family to cover 
her store card payments  if she was off sick or lost her job. Further,  the policy had a relatively 
low cost and high benefit compared to similar policies. And while  Mrs M may have felt 
secure in her job, redundancies can and do happen,  even in jobs that feel secure.  So it looks  
like the PPI couldve been useful for Mrs M in case something went wrong.  And it was paid 
on a rolling monthly  basis, so Mrs M could cancel the policy at any time without a penalty. 
Overall, I dont  think that better information  about  the PPI was likely to have put her off taking 
it out. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mrs Ms complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2020.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7234633