K821x#15complaint
Mr S complains Santander UK Plc took too long to process an international payment to a 
family relation (Mrs A), who currently  studies in another country. 
Santander has offered  compensation  for providing incorrect information  about timescales to    
Mr S, but he doesnt think this is enough. He would  also like more information  on payment 
restrictions in relation to the country where  his Mrs A lives.
background
In late July 2018 Mr S went to a branch of Santander to transfer a sum of money  to Mrs A. 
He says Mrs A needed the funds for medical treatment and tuition  costs.  Mr S says he was 
told there may be some restrictions on payments to the country she resides  in, so the 
transfer could  take up to for four days.
Mr S rang Santander on 2 August 2018.  He asked why the payment had yet to credit Mrs As 
account. He was told international payments may take up to 5 days  and this timescale was 
still in effect. He rang again on 7 August 2018  and was offered £60 for being told incorrect  
information about the length of time the payment could take.
Mr S rang several more times  on different days. He said the delay was causing him and Mrs 
A difficulty,  so he was going to withdraw  the funds  in branch and travel  to Mrs A.
Santander says they were  complying with their regulatory and legal responsibilities  and this 
caused the delays. It says a team tried unsuccessfully to contact Mr S on three consecutive  
days from 1 August 2018. The team  needed further information about the payment.
The funds eventually credited Mrs As account on 15 August 2018.
Unhappy with Santanders actions and in response to his complaint, Mr S brought  his 
complaint to us. 
Our investigator thought Santander shouldve  done  more in Mr Ss circumstances. They  
found:
-Santanders team couldve  left a voicemail for Mr S to get in touch with them.  This 
shouldnt have  affected their responsibilities.
-Mr S couldve been passed  through to the team on 2 August 2018  to discuss the 
further information they wanted. 
-Had Santander done more, Mr Ss payment  wouldve likely credited Mrs As account 
sooner. They thought  Santander should  pay £200 to reflect the impact this had on Mr 
S.
Santander disagreed with our investigators  findings.  It says:
-Mr S has been inconsistent about the reason for the transfer.
-He was aware there could be restrictions affecting his payment when he made the 
payment.
Ref: DRN72315042-The team that rang Mr S didnt  leave a voicemail as it isnt part of their process to 
leave voicemails. 
As both parties disagreed with the outcome reached by the investigator the case  has been 
passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, my review of the 
evidence has led me to the same overall conclusions as the investigator  previously  set out 
and for much the same reasons. 
was the delay reasonable?
Santander has important  responsibilities they need to meet when it comes to customer  
payments. And sometimes  the nature of these responsibilities means payments are delayed 
or they need  to ask for further information from a consumer. But Santander also has a 
responsibility to ensure  it doesnt cause any unnecessary delays. 
 
Mr S says he thought  his payment would  take up to four days because  this is what  the staff 
at the branch told him. Santander offered him £60 in light of this. It now says Mr S shouldve  
understood the payment  could take longer when he was told there  may be some  restrictions. 
But I dont agree. Mr S wrote the following about  when  he was in branch.
The bank manager said there  were some restrictions to the (country), but the transfer would 
arrive in about four days.
I dont think this suggests Mr S ought to have understood the transfer could take much  
longer than four days. And even if he was aware  delays could take longer, this doesnt  mean  
Santander shouldnt  have done  more  to limit how long things took.
Santander say they tried to get in touch with Mr S to ask for some more information.  They  
say a team tried to ring him three times  on consecutive days from 1 August 2018.  This isnt 
unreasonable. But they also says no voicemail was left for Mr S and no record  was left on 
their system to allow  other  staff members to put Mr S in touch with the team if he called 
back.
I understand what Santander has said about  leaving voicemails  and not providing notes on 
its system. But I think these are reasonable steps they couldve taken to try and get the 
information they needed sooner.
If Santander had done more, I think the transfer wouldve reached  Mrs A sooner. Mr S was 
very concerned by what was happening early  on, and I think  hed have acted  quickly  to give 
Santander the information it wanted. I see that during  one call he in fact asks whether he can 
provide further  documentation.
what was the money needed for?
Santander says Mr S has been  inconsistent in explaining the purpose of the transfer. And I 
recognise that at different points hes said different things about  its purpose. But I dont think  
Ref: DRN72315043its unusual for there to be multiple reasons why someone might want  to send money  to a 
family relation. This also doesnt change my finding  that Santander shouldve  done more to 
get in touch with him.
putting things right
Santander should pay Mr S £200  for the inconvenience hes been  caused.
my final decision
I uphold Mr Ss complaint  and direct Santander  UK Plc to pay Mr S £200.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr S to accept or 
reject my decision  before 28 September  2019.
Liam King
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7231504