K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a credit  card payment protection insurance (PPI) policy taken out in 
2005. Mr A says Barclays Bank UK PLC (Barclays)  mis-sold him PPI.
background
The background and circumstances leading  up to this complaint, which includes Mr As 
circumstances at the time of the sale as well as the PPI policy  benefits,  limitations  and 
exclusions of cover, arent disputed.  So, I havent repeated all of this information here.
Our adjudicator did not uphold the complaint.
Mr As representative disagreed with the adjudicators opinion  they didnt raise  any new or 
additional points  but repeated the same  complaint points and arguments theyd previously 
made. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, I am required to take into account relevant: 
law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, 
where appropriate, what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time.  
Weve set out our general approach to PPI mis-sale complaints on our website and 
published some  example  final decisions  that set out in detail how these relevant 
considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr As. I havent  set out that detailed  information 
here, but Ive taken  into account all relevant considerations  in deciding Mr As complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint and Ive summarised  my reasons 
for this conclusion below:
I think Barclays made it clear that Mr A didnt have to take out the PPI and he chose to 
take it out. I say this because Mr A took out the credit on 1 June 1999. Barclays  told us 
that the policy was sold during an inbound  telephone  call on 2 February 2005. We have 
not had access  to the actual telephone  call, but we have seen sufficient  evidence  to think  
that the optional nature of the cover would have  been clear  to Mr A. And I have  thought 
about that Mr A had access to the credit  for six years before he added the cover to the 
account. So, considering all the submissions  made in this case,  and in the absence  of 
detailed testimony from Mr A to the contrary,  I have  seen  insufficient  evidence to be able 
to uphold the complaint on this point. 
Barclays told us the policy  would have been  sold with advice. Mr A has provided no 
testimony about whether advice was given.  So, as it places a higher responsibility  on 
Barclays, whilst making no difference to the outcome of this complaint, I have treated this 
sale as if it were  made with advice.  As I have  found  that Barclays  recommended  the PPI 
Ref: DRN71354122to Mr A, it had to check that the PPI was right for him. And the evidence  about Mr As 
circumstances at the time, shows that the policy wasnt fundamentally wrong or 
unsuitable for him. For example,  Mr A was eligible for the cover  and although  he had 
existing means he still seems to have  had a need for cover. I say this because the policy  
would have paid out in addition to Mr As sick pay and for longer than his employer would 
have paid him at his full rate of pay. And whilst Mr A said hed have received a payment 
if he were made redundant, this cover  would have reduced his reliance  on that payment. 
And Mr A told us he had no other means  he could have relied on if he was too ill to work, 
or if he lost his job.    
And there was nothing  about Mr As employment  or occupation which would have made 
it difficult for him to claim. Although Mr A says he had a medical condition from birth, I 
dont think it was wrong for Barclays to have recommended it. I say this because Mr A 
told us this condition  had not caused  him problems until many  years  after the policy was 
sold to him. So, I dont think that Mr A would have, most  likely,  thought  that the existing 
medical condition  would  have been the main reason he would have needed  to take time 
off work at the point of the sale in 2005. Although Mr A would have needed to be free of 
symptoms for mental health and back pain for longer than the standard period of time for 
pre-existing medical conditions, before  a claim for one of them could  be considered, Mr 
A has not mentioned ever suffering from either condition.  And as there  were  no 
additional restrictions on cover for mental health  and back problems, I dont  think  any of 
this made  the policy unsuitable for him. 
Its possible the information Barclays gave Mr A about  the PPI wasnt  as clear  as it 
shouldve been. But Ive found that he chose to take it out - so it looks like he wanted this 
type of cover. The cover wasnt fundamentally wrong for Mr A as I concluded above, or 
too dissimilar to what he reasonably  thought he was buying  from the information  he was 
given. It also looks like it was affordable  so it seems like it would have been useful for 
him if something went wrong.  Because of this I dont think Mr A would have declined the 
cover had Barclays done anything more.
Overall, I consider that Mr A would have  still taken out PPI. I think the policy  could provide a 
useful benefit  in a difficult time, given his circumstances at the time. I also think  the policy  
was sufficiently close to what  its likely  he thought he was getting. And in those 
circumstances, I think  that he would have taken out the policy  in any event.
Mr As representative has raised a number of what I consider to be general complaint points, 
which it says apply  to all PPI complaints. These  general points include: a claim that the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service  is not correctly applying the regulators rules and guidance 
for handling PPI complaints; these policies  represented poor value because of the number of 
significant exclusions and limitations of cover  coupled with the low claims ratio; and the duty 
of utmost good  faith meant Barclays should  have disclosed the poor value and explained  the 
significance of the limitations and exclusions and the impact it had on the chances  of making 
a claim.
But Mr As representative  has not said how these points apply to the specific facts and 
circumstances of Mr As individual complaint  just that they apply to all PPI complaints.
I have thought about these things and how they might apply in Mr As particular case. But 
these points dont  persuade me to alter my conclusions about  what  is fair and reasonable in 
all the circumstances  of the complaint  for the reasons Ive set out above I dont uphold this 
complaint. 
Ref: DRN71354123This means  Barclays doesnt  have to do anything to put things right.
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  Mr As complaint  so I make no award.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 September  2021 .
Douglas Sayers
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7135412