K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs P have  complained that, because of delay by The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc 
(RBS) in issuing their mortgage offer, they incurred additional expense which they are asking 
the bank to reimburse.
background
The issue  in this case is fairly straightforward. Mr and Mrs P were  buying a property and 
applied to RBS for a mortgage. Because of an internal  issue (which RBS was aware of), 
there was a delay  in issuing the mortgage  offer. Mr and Mrs P say that, as a result  of this, 
they were forced into a bidding war and had to pay an additional £15,500 for the property, in 
addition to which they had to pay a further £775 in Stamp Duty Land Tax (SDLT).
RBS paid compensation of £500 but Mr and Mrs P didnt think  this was sufficient so they 
complained to us. An adjudicator recommended the complaint should be upheld and that 
RBS should cover the additional costs incurred by Mr and Mrs P.
RBS disagreed. It said that it was under no obligation to provide a mortgage offer within  a 
certain period  of time.  RBS also says that Mr and Mrs P shouldnt have committed 
themselves to the purchase until the mortgage offer was received. The bank also says that 
the other interested purchaser made  a cash offer the day after the mortgage offer was 
issued and so Mr and Mrs P had evidence of their mortgage before that happened.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusion as the adjudicator, for largely the same  reasons.
Having reviewed the timeline of events, Im satisfied  that, but for the errors by the bank (of 
which it was fully aware), the mortgage offer could,  and should, have been  issued  on 
24 January 2018,  or, at the very latest, by 15 February 2018.
The vendor  instructed the agent  to remarket the property, which is not surprising, given the 
delay in Mr and Mrs P being ready to proceed due to the lack of the mortgage offer.  In fact it 
wasnt issued until 6 March 2018. But even then it wasnt  emailed to the solicitors until the 
following day  at which point another interested party put in a bid for the property. 
Although RBS suggests Mr and Mrs P had committed themselves to the purchase before the 
offer was issued, that is not the case  contracts  had not been exchanged  at that point. If 
they had been, then there could not have been a bidding war with another  purchaser.
There was a specific need for Mr and Mrs P to buy this property so I dont criticise them  for 
increasing their bid. I find that, but for the banks mistakes, the mortgage offer would have 
been issued on 24 January 2018,  and Mr and Mrs P would not have been  left in the position 
of having to increase their offer.
In the circumstances, Im satisfied that the additional amounts Mr and Mrs P had to pay for 
the purchase price  and SDLT are entirely  as a result  of the banks delay. It follows that I 
think it is fair and reasonable that RBS reimburses  them for this. I think the £500 paid for 
trouble and upset  is fair, so I dont intend  to make  any further  award for this.
Ref: DRN76716092my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. In full and final settlement The Royal Bank  of 
Scotland Plc must  pay Mr and Mrs P £15,500  for the increase in purchase price and £775  for 
the increase in SDLT. RBS should apply interest at 8% per annum simple from the date 
when the expenses were incurred to the date of reimbursement.*
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 June 2019.
Jan OLeary
ombudsman
* If RBS considers it should deduct income tax from the 8% interest element of my award it may do so, but should 
give Mr and Mrs P the necessary certificate, if they ask for it, so that they can reclaim the tax from HMRC  if they 
are entitled to do so.
Ref: DRN7671609