K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs G complain about Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance plcs (RSA) decision to cancel  
their home and contents insurance policy.
background
Mr and Mrs G held a home and contents insurance  policy provided by RSA. Mr G contacted  
RSA to add a valuable item to their cover. When he did this, RSA reviewed the policy  and 
said the amounts  that were being  insured  meant the risk was too high for it to insure.  It told 
Mr and Mrs G it would cancel their policy  in 14 days,  to give them time to seek alternative 
cover.
Mr and Mrs G said theyd accept no longer being  covered  for all their valuable items,  even 
those previously covered,  if it meant the policy  could  be continued. But RSA said it couldnt  
do this. It would leave  Mr and Mrs G in a position where they werent properly insured for the 
value of their items.
Mr and Mrs G complained  to RSA. It rejected their complaint. It said theyd been  correctly 
informed that because of the high value of their items it couldnt continue providing  cover.
They brought their complaint to our service. Our investigator reviewed the complaint.  He 
thought RSA hadnt done anything wrong.  He thought the terms and conditions  allowed RSA 
to cancel the policy if the value of items being covered was increased.  
Mr and Mrs G didnt agree. They disputed that RSA were entitled  to cancel their policy. And 
they also said they had been  prepared to forgo cover for the item theyd  originally asked for. 
Theyve asked for an ombudsmans  decision.
my provisional decision
In my provisional decision,  I said:
I can see from RSAs terms and conditions  that RSA can re-assess the cover and premium 
payable where  theres  an increase in the value of a policyholders items. And the policy can 
be cancelled  in such situations. 
Mr and Mrs G wanted  to add another valuable item to their policy. They  did what  their policy  
required and contacted RSA. But the reason  RSA cancelled the policy  was that the total 
value of all of the items being insured was above  what it was willing  to cover. Its said that 
even if Mr and Mrs G didnt want to have  cover for this specific  item, it wasnt willing  to 
continue insuring them. Its said their staff member who renewed the policy  shouldve  sought 
further advice  before agreeing to the cover  because of the value of items  being insured. If 
that had happened,  it would not have  provided the cover. It said it should not have renewed 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy, regardless  of the additional  item which  they now wanted to insure.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  Mr and Mrs G had added any items or increased the value  of 
any items since the renewal. The value of specific items is listed on their schedule of 
insurance. So Im satisfied RSA was aware of these  values when it agreed to provide cover 
under the policy.  I dont  think  it was fair for RSA to cancel the policy  because  it essentially 
made an error when  it agreed to provide the policy. It would have been entitled  to not offer 
Mr and Mrs G a further renewal of the policy having identified that it no longer wanted to 
Ref: DRN78568912insure this level of risk. But I dont  think it was fair to cancel  the policy part way through the 
period of cover.
Mr and Mrs G had to arrange alternative insurance having been  told RSA intended  to cancel 
their policy.  The cost of their new policy was £763.14 more than it had been with RSA.  Im 
satisfied that Mr and Mrs G are out of pocket by this amount. They  paid for the new policy  in 
one lump sum. They would not have needed  to do this if RSA hadnt unfairly cancelled their 
policy. But I can see that the limits and what  the new policy covers are different to the RSA 
policy. The new policy  covers things the RSA policy didnt. And the limits for what it will pay 
in the event of a claim are different. The additional  benefits of the new policy should be taken  
into account. I think RSA should reimburse  Mr and Mrs G £508.76. This is two thirds of the 
additional premium  that has been  paid. RSA should also add 8% simple interest a year to 
this amount from the date Mr and Mrs Gs policy was cancelled  to the date of settlement.
This would also have caused upset  and distress to Mr and Mrs G. They were told they had 
two weeks to arrange insurance for a number  of high value items,  and their home,  before  
RSA cancelled the policy. So I think this should  be recognised. RSA should pay 
Mr and Mrs G £100  as compensation  for the distress and inconvenience caused to them.
the response to my provisional  decision
Both Mr and Mrs G and RSA responded to my provisional decision.  Mr and Mrs G agreed 
with my suggested outcome and said theyd accept  this if the final decision was in line with 
this.
RSA disagreed with my provisional decision.  It said it hadnt acted unfairly in cancelling 
Mr and Mrs Gs policy. It said its reason for cancelling the policy  was because  of the 
increased risk presented  to it when Mr and Mrs G requested cover for the additional items, 
and that the policy was no longer suitable. 
RSA acknowledged  it had told Mr and Mrs G that it shouldnt have renewed the policy prior 
to the additional cover being requested, but that the actual reason for cancelling  the policy  
was that it was no longer suitable  for Mr and Mrs Gs needs and represented too high a risk 
for RSA. It said it hadnt made an error in its administration of the policy.
It also said it didnt agree with my suggestion it should pay a proportional amount of the 
additional premium  paid by Mr and Mrs G for their new policy. It argued that even if the 
additional items had been  covered, as they are on the new policy, an additional premium  
would have been payable to RSA.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I dont accept RSAs  argument that the reason for cancelling the policy was because  of the 
increased risk it was presented with when Mr and Mrs G asked to cover additional items. Ive 
listened to calls made to RSA by Mr and Mrs G and its clear from these that RSA 
acknowledged it shouldnt  have offered the renewal of the policy several months  before 
Mr and Mrs G asked to add the items. 
Ref: DRN78568913I take this view in part because Ive been able to listen to a call made by RSAs advisor to 
the underwriters,  and in that call the underwriter says they believe that a review which 
should have taken place at the time of renewal wasnt carried out, and if it had been, then 
the renewal wouldnt  have been offered. They said this was because the value of the items 
insured even before Mr and Mrs G asked to cover the new items was beyond what  RSA was 
willing to cover. This was what the advisor then told Mr G. 
So Im satisfied that RSAs reason for cancelling the policy  was because it realised it had 
offered the renewal  in error. Its clear to me that, without Mr and Mrs G asking to add items, 
the cover  would have  remained in effect. Theres no evidence that RSA was seeking to 
cancel the policy because the risk was too high without this contact from Mr and Mrs G. 
Im satisfied from the evidence available to me that RSA cancelled the policy because it 
realised it had offered  the renewal in error. And as Ive said, it would have been entitled to 
not offer any further renewal. But it wasnt fair to cancel the policy  at a time when 
Mr and Mrs G accepted  theyd need to find alternative cover for the additional items, and so 
the risk to RSA hadnt changed.  
I note RSAs point  regarding the suggested settlement. I accept that if it had provided cover 
for the additional  items, an extra premium would  have been payable.  But Ive already taken 
into account that the new policy provides additional cover, beyond what was already 
provided by RSA. This will obviously include the fact that more items are now being  covered. 
I think the suggested settlement is fair in the circumstances.  
my final decision
Its my final decision to uphold the complaint. To put things right,  Royal and Sun Alliance 
Insurance plc should:
Pay Mr and Mrs G £508.76. 
Pay 8% simple interest per annum  on this amount from the date RSA cancelled  the 
policy to the date of settlement. If RSA considers that its required by HM Revenue  & 
Customs to deduct income  tax from that interest,  it should  tell Mr and Mrs G how 
much its taken  off. It should also give Mr and Mrs G a certificate showing this if they 
ask for one, so they can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue  & Customs if appropriate.
Pay £100 compensation to Mr and Mrs G for the distress  and inconvenience  caused. 
RSA must pay the compensation within 28 days of the date on which  we tell it 
Mr and Mrs G accept my final decision.  If it pays later than this it must also pay 
interest on the compensation from the date of my final decision to the date of 
settlement at 8% a year simple.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs G to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2020.
Ref: DRN78568914Ben Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7856891