K820x#14complaint
Mr R complains that Atlanta1  Insurance Services Limited, a broker,  provided him with poor 
service after he arranged  a motor insurance policy through it.
background
Mr R completed  the policy details on a comparison website and they were  passed to Atlanta. 
The policy was due to start on 17 April 2019,  but when Mr R got the statement of fact from 
Atlanta on 6 April 2019 he noted that there were errors in it. Mr R had to call Atlanta  several  
times to ask for them  to be corrected.
One of the errors was that an accident Mr R was involved in in 2017 showed as a multiple 
vehicle incident.  The record  also showed there was £3,500 of own damage (to Mr Rs car). 
Mr R advised Atlanta it was a single vehicle incident. When Atlanta sent Mr R the revised 
statement of fact, a covering  letter  said there was no change in premium for the amended 
claim description. 
On 30 April 2019 Mr R was surprised  to be told by his finance  company that as his premium 
had risen by £128,  his monthly payments had increased. Mr R called Atlanta to query the 
issue. It said it had told him the previous day that the insurer  had said the 2017 incident  was 
a fault claim. Atlanta  said the insurer told it to amend the premium. Mr R said he hadnt 
received Atlantas letter. And he thought it should have advised him as soon  as he amended 
the incident details on 6 April 2019 that his premium  would  rise. He said hed then have had 
a reasonable amount of time to look for another policy. He thought Atlanta had omitted to do 
so deliberately, so hed be locked-in  to the policys  higher  premium.
Atlanta offered to cancel the policy on 30 April 2019 (the last day of the policys 14-day 
cooling-off period).  It said Mr R would  only be charged £13 for time on cover. But he said 
there was now no time to look for other insurance.  After he made a complaint to it, Atlanta 
said it had emailed Mr R on 29 April 2018  to advise him of the rise in premium.  It apologised 
for any inconvenience caused,  but said it thought it had administered his policy  correctly.
One of our investigators  considered the complaint Mr R then made  to us. She said Mr R 
hadnt said the 2017 incident was a fault claim. She said Atlanta became aware of that within  
the cooling-off period and Mr R was advised of the premium increase within  that time. She 
noted that Mr R had already looked at other  quotes when he called  Atlanta  on 30 April 2019. 
Mr R said Atlanta knew the 2017  incident was a fault claim when he corrected the record  to 
single vehicle on 6 April 2019, as it couldnt have been anything else, with no other  insurer 
involved. He said if Atlanta  had even told him of the increase on 25 April 2019 (when the 
insurer contacted  it) hed have  had all weekend  to look for quotes.      
As there was no agreement, the complaint was passed to me for review. I issued a 
provisional decision as follows:
I think Mr R provided  the correct details about  the 2017 claim to Atlanta as soon as he saw 
that the recorded details  were wrong.  I havent seen anything to show  that he was asked to 
say if it was a fault or a non-fault claim. He just set out a factual account of the incident.  
I think there was some  confusion on Atlantas part on 6 April 2019.  It told us recently  that 
when Mr R changed the details, he said a cyclist hit his car. The details previously said TP 
(third party) hit driver in a multiple  vehicle incident.  I can see why that may have been seen 
Ref: DRN74923662as a non-fault claim; the other  party might  have caused the accident. But that doesnt seem  
to be the account  Mr R provided  originally, as when he saw it he corrected it immediately. 
After Mr R said it was a single vehicle incident,  the record said Unknown TP. If only 
Mr Rs vehicle was involved  and an unknown other party   it isnt clear how Atlanta 
interpreted the incident as non-fault.  If it was in any doubt, Atlanta could have asked  
Mr R to clarify the issue. He has since confirmed  that a cyclist (carrying a bike) stepped out 
in front of his car and then left the scene. If thats  the case, although Mr R wasnt  to blame 
for the accident,  it was still a fault claim.  Mr Rs previous insurer paid for the damage to his 
car - and there wasnt another known party for it to recoup its outlay  from. 
Atlanta told Mr R by email on 6 April 2019 that there was no change to his premium as a 
result of the amended claim description. So presumably Atlanta would have advised Mr R of 
a change in his premium had it realised  the incident  led to a fault claim. I think the 
correspondence from the insurer to Atlanta shows that Atlanta has the capacity  to amend 
premiums on the insurers  behalf.  But as Atlanta had assessed  the claim as non-fault, it 
didnt apply an extra premium at the point  that would otherwise have been done. 
Atlanta says its system transfers  all the details it gathers to the insurer. So the insurer  would 
also have known about the incidents revised details soon after Mr R corrected them.  But it 
didnt carry out its own checks  until 25 April 2019. The email to Atlanta from the insurer on 
that date says the insurer has noted an undisclosed claim. This was the claim following the 
2017 incident. So Mr R had disclosed it, but Atlanta had reported  to the insurer as non-fault. 
The insurer  found  it was recorded on the insurance  central database (the Claims and 
Underwriting Exchange,  known as CUE) as a fault claim. So the insurer  told Atlanta to 
apply any extra premium  that may be generated by its (Atlantas) system.
Several of the details that transferred across to Atlanta  from the comparison website were 
wrong. It isnt possible to be sure how that happened, but theres nothing to show  that the 
errors were caused by Atlanta.  Its clear that Mr R wanted Atlanta and the insurer  to have all 
the right details, as he made every effort to correct  them on the same day. He had to contact  
Atlanta several  times, as the corrections were only partly done  and one error was made 
when another  one was corrected. I think that must  have been very frustrating for Mr R.  
I can see why Mr R thinks that Atlanta  should  have noted on 6 April 2019 that the 2017  claim 
was a fault claim when  he corrected the incidents details. We asked Atlanta to clarify why it 
didnt recognise  the fault claim at that time.  Its response didnt make the situation any 
clearer. In the absence of a clear  explanation,  I think  Atlanta should have noted the fault 
claim and acted accordingly. I think Mr R would then have looked for cheaper policies, taking 
into account the fault claim. Theres no guarantee hed have found one that was cheaper  
and equivalent  in all respects to the one Atlanta had arranged. But I dont think  I can say 
there was no reasonable prospect of it. Unfortunately,  Mr R didnt get the chance to find out 
at the point when he would have  had ample time to check the market.  
Failing an early recognition of the fault claim, Mr R thinks  Atlanta should  have contacted  him 
on the day it heard from the insurer that the premium was going  to increase. I think  it would 
have been preferable had it been  able to contact him shortly after that. But bearing in mind 
that Atlanta  would have been dealing with numerous other issues at the time, I think  it was 
reasonable for it to email  him within two working  days. I think its unlikely that Mr R got 
Atlantas email, as I think he would  have responded to it straight away.  But I dont think 
Atlanta can be blamed  for that, as it can show the email  was sent. 
Ref: DRN74923663When Mr R called Atlanta on 30 April 2019  there was still time to cancel the policy  within the 
coolingoff period.  He would only have been charged £13 for time on cover.  Mr R says the 
problem was that he was left with very little time to look for competitive  quotes. We know  that 
hed already found one cheaper quote  online that day, as thats shown by Atlantas  call notes 
with Mr R. But I think its fair to say that Mr R wasnt able to consider quotes at his leisure. I 
can see why he didnt  want  to be rushed  into finding other suitable insurance.  
In my opinion, Atlanta  should have provided Mr R with better service overall. I dont think  
hes shown that it deliberately delayed  telling him about the rise in premium. But based on 
the details Ive seen so far, it did miss the chance to give him reasonable warning of it.  
Its hard to estimate what extra sum in premium  Mr R paid over and above  what  hed have 
had to pay another insurer  for a similar  policy with a fault claim taken into account.  And he 
doesnt have a record to show exactly how much extra time and money he spent on calls to 
Atlanta. But I think its clear that Mr R had to contact it far more than he should have needed 
to do. I think Mr R faced a modest financial loss, and he was also inconvenienced - as well 
as frustrated - by Atlantas poor service and the lack of time he had to research the market.
Taking everything into account,  in my opinion, it would be fair and reasonable for Atlanta to 
pay Mr R £150 compensation for distress and inconvenience.  
I asked the parties  to comment on my provisional findings. Mr R accepted  them. Atlanta 
provided evidence  of the details Mr R put on the comparison website. It appears to show that 
he said the 2017 claim was non-fault. Atlanta also said that in the call to it on 6 April 2019,  
Mr R said a cyclist had hit him, as opposed to a vehicle, but the issue of whether or not it 
was a fault claim wasnt discussed.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Even if Mr R made an error on the comparison website, I dont think  it makes  a difference to 
the outcome in this case. Later on, he had to correct various errors that appeared in 
Atlantas documents  and in particular, the facts  of the 2017  incident.  Mr R did so promptly, 
and ensured the 2017 record was changed to a single vehicle incident  with a bike.  
I think when Mr R told Atlanta a cyclist had hit his car it was for Atlanta to check  (as it now 
knew no other vehicle  was involved) whether the claim was a fault claim. The amended  
record says the third party was unknown. So even  if that person  had insurance,  a claim 
couldnt have  been made on it. And cyclists arent required to have insurance  anyway.  
I think the circumstances Mr R described made it clear enough that his former insurer  would 
have had to pay for the repairs to his car. So I still think Atlanta should have noted  the claim 
wasnt non-fault (or at least queried the situation) rather  than leaving the record  as it was, 
when that couldnt have  been correct. 
Mr R had to spend  time and money contacting Atlanta to correct the various errors in the 
documents  as well as not having  enough  time to consider other policies once the premium  
on his existing policy rose. He was inconvenienced  and frustrated by these issues. He 
shouldnt have had to contact Atlanta so much, in my opinion, and it should have understood 
Ref: DRN74923664the nature  of the 2017 incident once Mr R corrected the details.  So I still think  would  be fair 
and reasonable for Atlanta to pay him what I think is a modest  sum in compensation.  
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. I require Atlanta 1 Insurance Services  
Limited to pay Mr R £150 for distress and inconvenience. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 August 2020.
 
Susan Ewins
ombudsman
   
Ref: DRN7492366