K820x#14complaint
Mr H complained because  National Westminster Bank Plc refused to refund him for 
transactions which he said he didnt authorise. 
background
On 1 February 2019, Mr H used  his debit card to make a contactless payment at a bakery at 
7.42 am. At lunchtime  that day, he went to the gym at a hotel where  he had a long-term 
membership, where he left the card in his locker at about 12.20.  Mr Hs locker  had a four 
digit PIN, which was the same as the one he used for his debit  card.
Mr H said that he checked his balance online that evening,  and discovered that six 
transactions had been made  which he hadnt  authorised. These were:
-a cash machine withdrawal for £250,  timed at 12:51;
-an over the counter cash withdrawal for £1,500, timed  at 13:06;
-a currency payment  and a travel agent payment,  each for just under £500, timed at 
13:12 and 13:18;
-two retailer payments,  for around 600 and £800, timed at 13:27  and 13:30.
The total amount  involved  was £4,140.10.
Mr H rang NatWest and cancelled his card at 18.21.  He tried to speak to the fraud team but 
the phone  lines were busy. He rang again the next day and went  through what had 
happened. When asked about the cash withdrawal, the adviser asked him if that was a 
branch hed use. Mr H said it was his local branch, but he rarely  went  to a branch because 
he mainly did online banking now. Mr H said it was worrying  because  nothing had happened 
to his card in over 30 years. He asked if hed get the money back and the adviser said the 
team would investigate.
Mr H also went  to his branch on Wednesday 6 February,  because  he hadnt  heard back.  He 
said they told him hed get a refund. But the next day he had an email  turning down his claim 
for a refund.  The letter said this was because the genuine card was used, and the PIN had 
been entered correctly at the first time. And NatWest  said the pattern  of the withdrawals 
wasnt typical of fraud.
Mr H rang and wrote to NatWest and complained.  He said that hed have expected the 
£1,500 cash withdrawal to have requested identification  and if it had, the other  five 
fraudulent transactions might have been  stopped. He pointed out that hed been  a long-term 
customer and had never had any previous issues with the bank. Mr H also said that the 
locker at the hotel gym had the same four digit code as his debit card. He had also reported  
the theft to the police.
In its final response,  NatWest said that it refused to refund  Mr H because there was no clear 
indication that Mr Hs PIN had been compromised  in other  words,  that the number had 
been obtained fraudulently by someone unauthorised,  probably at a previous transaction. 
NatWest said that a balance enquiry had been  done shortly before the first withdrawal. It 
replied to Mr Hs question  by saying that the £1,500 withdrawal  in the branch had been 
verified using the PIN, which was sufficient to authenticate the transaction. NatWest said that 
no further transactions had been attempted since the card had been stopped, which  wasnt 
what a typical fraud  pattern would be.
Ref: DRN79711182NatWest also said that it couldnt  take account  of the fact that Mr H had been a customer for 
35 years  in its decision, but it apologised that it hadnt replied to Mr Hs letter. 
Mr H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.  He also followed  up his contact with the 
police, asking for CCTV. The police viewed the CCTV and took still images  of the person  
making the withdrawals.  The police said that they thought  the person may have been  a 
guest at the hotel,  and that staff had been shown the image  of the person withdrawing  the 
money and making  the transaction at the retailer. But the hotel staff hadnt been able to 
identify the person on the CCTV. The police email also said that theyd  checked  the hotel 
register for people who had signed in, but that had proved unfruitful.
The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint.  He agreed that it was plausible that 
someone could  have seen Mr H enter his code for the hotel gym locker.  The thief could then 
have used this code to take the card from the locker, and might well have tried this same  
code as the PIN for the card.
But the investigator said that the last of the disputed transactions had taken place  at 13:30. 
So hed have  expected the thief to continue  making withdrawals until the money ran out of 
the card was blocked. So the investigator considered it was unlikely that someone else had 
his card and had been carrying  out the transactions.
Mr H didnt agree. He said that NatWest had twice told him hed get a full refund, but then 
declined it. He still didnt  agree that hed authorised the transactions, because  hed taken 
steps to secure  his card while at the gym,  by keeping it in a locked locker. The card had 
been taken from there  without his consent.  Mr H was also disappointed that the bank had 
allowed £1,500  to be taken out in cash without requiring any identification.  Mr H said he 
thought the criminal stopped at 13.30 because  that would have been around an hour from 
when Mr H had arrived at the gym  so there was a chance Mr H would then discover the 
theft and stop the card.  Unfortunately he hadnt realised till late afternoon.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Relevant regulations
The relevant  regulations  for disputed transactions taking place on 1 February 2019 are the 
Payment Services Regulations 2017.  These say that the payment service provider (here,  
NatWest) must show  the payment was authenticated.  Thats  the technical part, and here,  Mr 
Hs genuine card with its chip, and the correct PIN, were  used.  So the disputed payments 
were authenticated.
The regulations also say that its necessary to look at whether the card holder authorised the 
payments. In general terms,  the bank is liable  if the customer  didnt authorise  the payments, 
and the customer  is liable  if he did authorise  them. The regulations also say that account 
holders can still be liable for unauthorised  payments under certain circumstances  for 
example if theyve failed  to keep their details secure to such an extent that it can be termed  
gross  negligence.
Ref: DRN79711183Whether or not Mr H authorised the disputed payments. 
Its possible that, as Mr H says, someone  at the hotel gym saw Mr H enter his locker code, 
and used this to open the locker and remove  the card which Mr H told us was in his jacket  
pocket. NatWest doesnt think this is very likely, on the basis  that Mr H would realise  he was 
being watched. But I think its still possible  for example the thief might have been someone 
Mr H knew well. And the thief didnt have to have found out about  the number that day. Mr 
Hs bank statement showed that hed been using that gym for a long time.  So someone 
might have seen the locker code entered on an earlier occasion, but only had an opportunity 
to open the locker unobserved  on 1 February.  
I also think its quite possible that any such thief would then guess that Mr H would use the 
same number for his PIN as for the locker. 
Ive gone on to look at the transactions themselves. The first was at a cash machine, for the 
maximum amount which could be withdrawn in one day. Its not difficult to find out  for 
example on NatWests website  what  the daily limit is for cash  withdrawals.  The next was 
inside the branch. This was Mr Hs nearest branch, so it could be argued that any thief was 
taking a risk, because Mr H might be known there. I dont consider this is inevitable though. 
It was a large city-centre branch where  there  would be a large number of customers  and few 
would be known individually. And if the thief was someone at Mr Hs gym, Mr H might  well 
have commented  at some point,  as he did to NatWest, that he rarely used the branch but did 
most of his banking online  these days. 
The new two transactions were  at a travel agent,  and one or both was for the purchase of 
foreign currency. Mr Hs bank statements show that hed used the currency firm before, in 
early September 2018. But again, it was his local area and a city centre location. So I dont  
consider that proves conclusively that it was Mr H who carried out the transaction.  Similarly, I 
note that Mr H told the police investigator  that he would be out of the country between 16 
and 25 March. That makes it possible that Mr H was the person who bought  the currency, 
but again its not conclusive.
So far, the evidence is inconclusive.  But there are two pieces of evidence  which  are more 
significant.
The first is the police email to Mr H, which Ive referred to above.  Mr H had actively asked  the 
police about CCTV,  which they obtained. The police showed hotel staff a still photos of the 
person on the CCTVs. None of the hotel  employees  recognised the individual.  Mr H had 
been paying a gym membership through his NatWest account since at least September 2018  
(the earliest statement  I have). So its likely that if the person on the CCTV  had been  Mr H, 
the hotel staff would have  said But thats  Mr H  hes been coming to the gym for years.
On the other hand, its perfectly true that thieves dont stop trying to withdraw money. And 
the disputed transactions on Mr Hs account stop at 13.30. In fact that ties in with the 
working hours which Mr H put on his original letter to NatWest, where he gave  his hours as 
M-F 8-12, 1.30-3.30. Whoever carried out the balance checks  on the account at 12.51 and 
12.55, would  have known how much money  was still in the account. And I dont consider 
theyd have stopped when  there was still more than £3,000 in Mr Hs account.
Ref: DRN79711184Its rarely  possible  to have concrete evidence in these cases. And these  last two facts  point  
in opposite directions.  But I really  dont think theres any chance  that a thief would have 
stopped withdrawing money  when there was £3,000 still in Mr Hs account. I certainly dont 
accept Mr Hs argument that the thief might have  stopped in case  Mr H had finished  his 
break and might have  stopped the card. And it is possible  that hotel reception staff might not 
have known Mr H  for example they might  have been new staff, or there might have been a 
separate gym entrance  so they wouldnt have seen Mr H regularly, and so they wouldnt 
have known him when the police asked them about the CCTV. 
So I think its more likely  than not that Mr Hs disputed transactions  werent carried out by a 
third party. This means I dont require NatWest to refund  him.
Finally, Ill deal with two other points which Mr H has raised:
-Mr H said that NatWest  twice told him hed get a full refund. I dont know what Mr H was 
told in the branch,  because such conversations arent recorded. But Ive listened to the 
call recording  from when Mr H spoke to the banks fraud  department, and although Mr H 
asked if hed get a full refund, the adviser  didnt  promise  this. She just said that the bank  
would investigate.
-I understand  Mr Hs argument  that NatWest should have asked for identification  when 
the £1,500 cash  withdrawal was made  inside  a branch.  Its a lot of money. But banks 
are entitled to determine  their own procedures, and this service doesnt generally  
interfere with those.  I note that in NatWests letter to Mr H in March  2019, NatWest said 
that its procedure  was that the card and PIN were  sufficient for this withdrawal amount. 
It was entitled to take that decision.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 23 May 2020.
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7971118