K820x#14complaint
Mr K says Financial Insurance Company Limited  (FICL) mis-sold him a payment protection 
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a PPI policy  Mr K took out with a store  card in 1996. Its been  agreed 
that FICL,  as the insurer, should take responsibility for the complaint. So, for clarity,  Ill refer 
to FICL in my decision.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr K disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ks case.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mr Ks complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, FICL had to make it clear to Mr K that he had a choice about it. But 
Mr K says he wasnt aware PPI had been  added to his account.
FICL has sent us a copy of Mr Ks application  form for the store  card. This included a section 
on PPI, with a box to be ticked if he wanted  to take it out. There is a tick in this box and Mr K 
has signed the end of the form to say he agrees  with it.
Based on this, I think FICL did make it clear to Mr K that he had a choice about  the PPI. And 
that Mr K chose to take it, knowing he didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that FICL  gave  Mr K any personalised advice about the PPI. 
So I dont  think it recommended it to him. This means FICL didnt have to check  if the PPI 
was right for Mr K. But it did have to make sure he got the information he needed to decide if 
it was right for him.
Its possible the information FICL gave Mr K about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he doesnt appear to have been  affected  by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the cover. The policy  couldve  paid out for longer  than, and in addition  to, the sick pay Mr K 
says he wouldve been entitled to. And it wouldve meant he didnt need to rely on any 
savings or other means he had to make his repayments if he wasnt earning. So it looks  like 
the PPI couldve  been useful to him if something went  wrong.  And so I dont think better  
information about the PPI wouldve put Mr K off taking it out.
Mr K has said he was in secure employment at the time, and has been ever since, so he 
didnt need the PPI. But peoples financial  circumstances can change and Mr Ks 
employment could  have become less secure than he thought.  So I still think the protection  
the policy offered  could  have been  useful to him. And just because Mr K didnt end up using 
the insurance, doesnt mean it couldnt have been  useful to him.
Ref: DRN79762382my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 August 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7976238