K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Brooks Macdonald Asset Management Limited failed  to action his 
request to take some profits and/or de-risk  his investment portfolio held within  his Self-
Invested Personal Pension (SIPP)  and that, as a result, the portfolio dropped  in value by 
approximately £100, 000. Mr K wants compensation of £50,000.
background
Brooks Macdonald  act as the discretionary fund manager for the investments held in Mr Ks 
SIPP. Mr K also has an independent financial adviser (IFA). 
Over June and early July 2018  there were emails between Mr K, Brooks Macdonald and his 
IFA about Mr Ks risk profile  and the state  of the markets. Mr Ks IFA was away  for a time, 
and unavailable to meet. Mr K had several  conversations directly with Brooks  Macdonald in 
the IFAs absence.  But there was no change in his formal risk profile. 
Mr K met with his IFA in mid-October 2018. The next day the IFA emailed  Brooks Macdonald 
indicating Mr K was a little concerned about recent  falls in the markets.  The IFA said that 
due to the possibility of Mr K drawing down at 55, he wanted  to know  if thered been a fall 
across all asset classes, or were some assets  still showing  gains. Brooks Macdonald  replied, 
saying thered been a fall across all asset classes, but some  investments were still showing 
gains since purchase.  The Brooks Macdonald representative also said that when hed 
spoken to Mr K recently about possible drawdown,  hed told him that it was best to speak to 
the IFA about that and about moving  his high-risk profile down a notch or two closer to the 
time. 
Towards the end of October Brooks Macdonald  called Mr K to discuss the portfolio. After this 
the IFA sent Mr K the IFAs earlier exchange  with Brooks Macdonald concerning  the 
performance of asset classes. The IFA indicated that Brooks  Macdonald and the IFA had 
discussed de-risking  the portfolio when the markets recovered. Mr K wrote to Brooks 
Macdonald and his IFA in response to this email, setting out (in summary) emails  over June 
and July 2018 concerning  comments from Mr K about de-risking the portfolio and profit 
taking when the FTSE 100 hit certain  levels. He said it was a shame  hed lost out badly (due 
to the fall in value of his investments) in the circumstances.  Brooks McDonald treated that 
email as a complaint, although Mr K expressed some surprise  about that. 
In its response Brooks Macdonald said that following a telephone  call with Mr K it 
understood his concerns to be that profits werent  taken when the markets were  strong,  that 
he was left fully invested  before the decline  began,  and that he was urged to consider selling 
off at a low point. It said that his financial  adviser  was responsible  for advising him on the 
suitability of his investment  portfolio  in the context of his circumstances.  It said it was his IFA 
who shouldve assessed his attitude to investment  risk and capacity for loss. Brooks 
Macdonald were responsible for managing  his portfolio in line with the risk profile  selected      
The complaint response  enclosed  a copy of the 2015 Portfolio  recommendations and 
proposals report (the Report) which identified his chosen risk profile as high. Brooks  
Macdonald also said that the risk profile  explanation  was contained on the application form 
signed by Mr K, who also confirmed by signing  that hed received  a copy of the 'Client 
Investing Guide'  which  detailed  Brooks Macdonalds investment  framework.
Brooks Macdonald  said that in order  to uphold his complaint it would have to find that it 
hadnt managed  his portfolio in line with the agreed  risk profile and its terms and conditions. 
Ref: DRN78823392It had reviewed his portfolio over the period  from September 2017 to 29 October 2018 and it 
confirmed that the asset allocations were within the allowable range, trades  were  in line with 
its investment governance framework. The portfolio outperformed the indices except for two 
periods, one of which was the period ending 29 October, when it slightly underperformed the 
indice. However, Brooks  Macdonald didnt think this was significant since the indice didnt 
include fees. In conclusion, Brooks Macdonald didnt think  it had done anything  wrong.  It 
said the responsibility for changing the risk mandate lay with Mr Ks IFA.
After some further correspondence  Mr K remained unhappy so he came  to our service.  He 
said his complaint was that from mid-2018 onwards hed expressed his concern to Brooks  
Macdonald that the markets were riding  high and he wanted to take profits/de-risk his 
portfolio  Brooks Macdonald absolutely knew this. Mr K said that it took three  months for 
him to meet  with his IFA and by then the markets had dramatically fallen. Only then did 
Brooks Macdonald  contact him. Brooks Macdonald  had known what he wanted but either 
failed to act or failed  to obtain  the form which wouldve allowed it to act. His portfolio dropped 
by £100,000 from its high and Mr K believed that half of that fall couldve been  avoided if 
hed been able to lower  his risk. 
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He explained that Brooks Macdonald wouldve 
required instructions  from Mr Ks IFA to de-risk the portfolio as its the IFA who would make 
sure that was appropriate for Mr K. He didnt think the communications between  Mr K, 
Brooks Macdonald, and Mr Ks IFA were  enough for Brooks Macdonald  to start re-allocating  
the portfolio without further instructions. 
Mr K didnt agree. He asked for a decision from an ombudsman.  He said there was no way 
Brooks Macdonald  didnt know he wanted  to de-risk  at the top of the market and that Brooks 
Macdonald did nothing to secure  the form from the IFA it said it needed  before it could act. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I can see Mr K feels very strongly that 
Brooks Macdonald  shouldve acted on his communications with them and that hes lost 
money as a result. Thats understandable.  But Im afraid  Im going  to have to disappoint him, 
as Im not upholding  his complaint. 
The essence  of Mr Ks complaint is that he was clear with Brooks Macdonald that he wanted 
his investment portfolio de-risked and profits taken, and this didnt happen before the 
markets fell.
Ive looked very carefully at all the information on the file. Having done so, Im not persuaded 
that Brooks Macdonald  were able to act on instructions  from Mr K. Even if Im wrong  about  
that, Im not persuaded that Mr K gave  clear instructions that Brooks Macdonald couldve 
acted on. Ill explain  why. 
As our investigator indicated, Brooks Macdonald  provide  a discretionary investment 
management service. The application  for the Brooks Macdonald SIPP completed by Mr K in 
2015 shows that Brooks Macdonald were responsible for managing  his portfolio in 
accordance with his investment profile. The completed application shows  that Mr K had an 
investment objective  of growth, with a time horizon of 5 to 10 years, and a high-risk profile. In 
late 2017 Mr B transferred  further  assets into the SIPP, and those investments had a 
medium risk profile. 
Ref: DRN78823393The application indicates  that the financial adviser is responsible,  among  other  things, for 
carrying out a suitability assessment of Mr K for the services and advising him on investment 
objectives and risk profile. 
The SIPP application forms describes high risk as being:
you aim to maximise  your investment returns over the long term
you are prepared to be fully invested in equities  or other  higher risk investments to 
achieve the highest possible  investment returns
you are willing to sustain and can afford substantial investment losses  over a 
prolonged period of time
In late 2017 Mr B transferred further assets  into the SIPP, and those investments had a 
medium risk profile with a time horizon of 10 years. The additional account form signed by 
Mr K indicates that advice  on investment  objectives  and risk profile was the responsibility of 
the professional  adviser (the IFA). 
Medium Risk is described as being:
you aim to achieve a greater investment return from the portfolio
you are prepared to own a significant proportion  of higher risk investments  in order to 
try to produce a higher investment return
you are prepared to accept that the value of the portfolio may fluctuate significantly  in 
order to achieve  potentially greater investment returns over the longer term
equity exposure is likely  to range between 55-75%
In practice, Brooks Macdonald implemented the investment  and risk profile by asset 
allocation within specified ranges. For example, high risk required 90  100% investment in 
equities. But it needed instructions from Mr Ks IFA to change the risk profiles,  and thus 
enable changes in asset allocation outside  the bands for high risk and medium risk profiles.  
It follows from what Ive outlined above that Brooks Macdonald couldnt act on conversations  
with Mr K in relation  to the risk profile  of the portfolios.  It was the role of the IFA to do so. It 
appears that Mr Ks IFA was unable to meet with Mr K for a period of some months, but I 
cant say that was the fault of Brooks Macdonald. 
I see that Mr K, in conjunction with the IFA, has since completed  a form to change  the risk 
profiles of his portfolios. He is unhappy  that Brooks Macdonald didnt  say to him at the time 
(in June  and July 2018)  that such a form was needed. I dont doubt Mr K when he says that 
Brooks Macdonald  didnt do so. But Im not persuaded that it would have  made a difference  
if it had, given that Mr Ks IFA was unavailable, at that time, to complete the form with Mr K.  
It seems  to me from the evidence Ive seen that there was a recognition that Mr K might wish 
to change his risk profile, and that this would be discussed with his IFA but that there  was no 
immediate need  to do so. 
I appreciate that Mr K says he was very clear that he wanted profits taken at the top of the 
market. He gave  some  indications of what  that might be in terms of the FTSE 100. I note that 
those FTSE 100 levels were never  reached. And the bulk of Mr Ks portfolio wasnt  invested  
in FTSE 100 assets. So, Im not persuaded that Mr K gave  clear  indications of what  he 
expected, or that Brooks Macdonald agreed to act on those, or couldve been expected to, 
prior to the anticipated discussion with Mr Ks IFA, which Ive referred to previously. 
Ref: DRN78823394Taking all of this into account,  Im not upholding Mr Ks complaint. Im sorry to disappoint Mr 
K. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 September 2020.
Helen Wheatley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7882339