K821x#15complaint
Ms B complains  that she was unable to use her Wirecard Card  Solutions Limited account 
card whilst on holiday at the end of 2018.
background
Ms B says she loaded  her Wirecard  account card with £3,000  in December 2018 before her 
foreign holiday.  She says she asked if her account  card was working and was told it was but 
whilst on holiday  she was unable to use the card. Ms B says she spoke to the card provider 
and was told both cards she had were  previously cancelled as they were reported  lost. She 
says as a result the holiday was ruined and she and her partner were  caused significant 
levels of stress and so would like compensation of £8,000.
Wirecard says the cards were reported lost and it issued replacement  cards.  It says it offered 
Ms B emergency money whilst she was on holiday but she refused. Wirecard has refunded  
Ms B the loss caused by the currency exchange back to sterling  of about £248.
Mrs B had brought her complaint to us and our investigator issued his first view in which he 
didnt think Wirecard had made a mistake. He thought the problem was caused by Ms B 
reporting the cards as lost but loading  one of those lost card with the money. He also 
thought the cashier wouldnt have known the cards had been lost and thought Wirecard had 
fairly offered emergency money.
Ms B then provided further information and says she was told again that if the card wasnt  
active then it would  have  shown that when  it was loaded with money. She also provided a 
receipt that didnt correspond  with the card number and says the emergency money would 
have meant  her searching for the place to collect it from in a foreign country.
The investigator issued  a second  view upholding Ms Bs complaint. He thought  Wirecard  
was unable to explain the card number  difference or why a suspended card could be loaded  
with money. He recommended Ms B be paid £350  compensation.
Ms B says that offer is degrading and insulting and doesnt reflect  the stress she was caused 
by the ruined holiday. Wirecard hasnt replied to the investigators view.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator and for similar  reasons. I realise Ms B will be disappointed by 
my decision  and I appreciate how strongly  she feels about whats  happened.
I accept that there are unanswered questions here that simply cant  be answered.  I dont 
think its clear  why the account card could be loaded with money  if it had previously been 
cancelled or replaced.  I also dont  think Wirecard  has explained why the receipt Ms B has 
given us contains a reference to a different card number. So I agree with the investigator that 
in the absence of a clear explanation  from Wirecard  I think that it hasnt given Ms B an 
appropriate level of service. And I agree  that it should pay Ms B compensation for what  has 
happened.
Ref: DRN79600422Im satisfied that the compensation recommended  by the investigator is fair and reasonable. 
And reflects what has taken place here,  the difficulties Ms B was caused on holiday and the 
time she would  have spent trying  to sort matters out. I also think  that award reflects the fact 
that I think Wirecard ought  to have been clearer in explaining to Ms B that any refund  of her 
money was likely to have taken some  time and that the emergency  money  option was more 
appropriate. I appreciate Wirecard did offer that option and it was Ms Bs choice not to 
accept it but I dont think she fully appreciated how long that process would take.
I appreciate that Ms B says she should  be awarded a far larger  amount of compensation. 
But I can see that her partner was able to use his money to pay for the accommodation  and I 
think Ms B ought to take some responsibility  for what took place. I think on balance having 
looked at Wirecards records  and listened  to the call recordings that Ms B did report the 
cards as lost and that contributed to the problems she experienced.
I also think that Wirecard acted fairly by refunded the exchange  rate loss.
I appreciate that Ms B says that compensation offer is insulting and I can see that she is 
considering alternative  action in any event. So I will leave it to Ms B to decide  if she wishes  
to accept my decision or pursue alternative  action.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint and order  Wirecard  Card Solutions Limited to 
pay Ms B £350 compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 7 March 2020.  
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7960042