K821x#15complaint
Mr C complains as a partner in A, a partnership, that The Royal  Bank of Scotland  Plc 
(RBS) opened their safe deposit box without  their consent, knowledge or presence.
background
Mr C brought complaint  to us as he was unhappy with the response received from RBS in 
relation to his concerns. All current partners in A consent in Mr C bringing  this complaint to 
our service.  
RBS investigated  and upheld the complaint.  They agreed theyd opened As safe deposit 
box without the partners consent.  The complaint handler personally apologised for this and 
that RBS hadnt  contacted A prior to the box opening. RBS confirmed theyd provided 
feedback to the branch  in relation to the issue and thanked  Mr C for bringing this to our 
attention.
Our investigator upheld  the complaint. She thought RBS hadnt  dealt  with Mr Cs complaint  
fairly. She thought RBS should compensate A by paying them  £300 for the distress  and 
inconvenience caused by opening their box. But she didnt think  it was reasonable for RBS 
to pay the legal costs A had incurred in moving to a new bank as that had been the choice of 
the partners. And she didnt think RBS couldve reasonably been  aware  that A would close 
their accounts as a result  of this incident.  So, she didnt  think it would be fair to hold RBS 
accountable for these  costs.
Neither party agreed with the view entirely.  Mr C on behalf of A told us it wasnt the rate of 
compensation offered that they disagreed with but the fact RBS only accepted that it 
shouldnt have opened the package  without consent. He said it was the comments made by 
RBS to justify the opening  of the box and their response to the complaint that he disagreed 
with. RBS said although opening the box wasnt appropriate - as they didnt have consent to 
do so - theyd acted with the partners interests at heart. RBS said they felt the compensation 
to be slightly excessive  particularly as there  had been no breach of data or financial impact  
on the partners.  And they asked for explanation  of how the compensation figure of £300  had 
been reached. RBS said they felt a lower amount of compensation as a gesture of apology 
may be more reasonable.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive come to the 
conclusion that I should uphold this complaint.
The investigator has given a full summary of the background to this complaint in the letter 
giving her opinion  so I shant repeat that here.  Im afraid theres not a great  deal I can add to 
what shes already  told the parties here.  I think shes covered most points quite clearly and I 
agree with her analysis  and overall  conclusions.
Firstly I should make it clear that its the role of the Financial Ombudsman  Service  to resolve 
individual complaints and to award  redress where  appropriate.  So although Mr C has raised 
concerns to ensure what happened  to A doesnt happen to any other  clients with packages  
in safe security at RBS,  Im unable to look at or comment  on this. Im dealing with just As 
individual complaint against RBS here.
Ref: DRN79104612Mr C told us he strongly believed there  was a breach of As privacy  rights whilst RBS feel the 
compensation is excessive as theres been no breach of data. I should make  it clear that its 
for the Information  Commissioners  Office (ICO)  to decide if theres been a breach of data 
regulations which means  I cant make  a finding  on that point.
I dont think it matters  who amongst the staff at RBS breached procedure and whether the 
reasons theyve given  for doing  so - and the history behind that - is correct.  Thats  not going 
to make any difference to my overall  findings here as RBS accept they made a mistake. Its 
clear RBS didnt have consent and shouldnt have opened the box. I dont doubt that there 
was no malicious intention on the part of the bank staff. But as the investigators said those  
intentions dont detract from the fact that a package  that the partners in A had never  seen 
the contents of - was opened  without  their consent, knowledge or presence.  And I think  the 
figure of £300  reflects  the distress and inconvenience suffered by A here.  Its the sort of 
award Id have made if the investigator  hadnt already suggested it.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint. The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc should pay 
£300 compensation to Mr C on behalf of A.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C on behalf  of 
A to accept  or reject  my decision before 30 April 2020.
Annabel OSullivan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7910461