K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs A complain  that Santander  UK Plc mis-sold them a monthly premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy in 1992 when  they applied for a joint mortgage.
background
Mr and Mrs A complained to this Service. Our adjudicator thought the complaint should  be 
rejected. Mr and Mrs A disagreed with our adjudicators view and asked for the matter  to be 
looked at again. They added they both worked and received employee benefits  so they 
conclude they did not need  PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the PPI wasnt  mis-sold because:
 I think Santander made it clear on their mortgage application form that Mr and Mrs A 
didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose  to take it out  although I can understand 
why they may not remember this.
 Santander recommended  the PPI to Mr and Mrs A so it had to check that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  
that it was. For example they were  not affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on 
the PPI cover and they seem to have had a need for the cover.  
 Its possible the information Santander gave  Mr and Mrs A about the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But they chose to take it out - so it looks like they wanted this 
type of cover. And it seems like it would  have been useful for them  if something  went  
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the 
PPI would have  put them off taking  out the cover.  
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs A has said - including what  they have said about 
both being in employment and entitled to employee  benefits. But these points dont change 
my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Mr and Mrs A paid on their PPI  and whether 
Santander treated  them  unfairly.
Santander has told us that the commission for Mr and Mrs As PPI was less than half of what  
they paid for each  premium. Weve looked  at how Santander has been working this out and 
based on what weve seen it looks like its right  Mr and Mrs As commission  was less than 
half the cost of the PPI. As thats the case,  I dont think it needed to tell them about the 
commission  so I dont  think  Santander  treated them unfairly. This means it doesnt need to 
pay Mr and Mrs A back any of the commission they paid for the PPI. 
Ref: DRN71544942my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  13 April 2019.
Amrit Mangra
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7154494