K821x#15complaint
Miss M complains that Ferratum UK Ltd gave her loans  that she couldnt afford to repay.
background
Miss M took out a total of nine loans with Ferratum between  October  2016 and April 2018.
Loan Borrowing date
Loan amount
Repayment date
1 20/10/16 £300 30/11/16
2 07/01/17 £400 24/01/17
3 13/03/17 £150 21/03/17
4 22/03/17 £130 22/04/17
5 27/04/17 £200 05/05/17
6 09/0517 £300 07/07/17
7 08/07/17 £300 22/09/17
8 26/01/18 £150 03/02/18
9 14/04/18 £70 27/04/18
Miss M believes  that Ferratum didnt  carry out sufficient affordability  checks  before granting 
the loans. She says that if it had done  so, it would have seen that she couldnt afford to 
repay them, and that she was stuck  in a cycle  of borrowing to repay previous loans. 
In its final response to Miss Ms complaint, Ferratum explained  why it didnt agree that it had 
lent irresponsibly to Miss M. But it offered to refund £160 to her as a gesture of goodwill. 
Miss M wasnt  happy with Ferratums offer. So one of our adjudicators  considered Miss Ms 
complaint.
Our adjudicator recommended  that the complaint should be upheld. In summary,  she 
thought that Ferratum hadnt carried out detailed enough checks before making any of the 
loans. And she thought  that if it had done  so, it would have realised that Miss M couldnt 
afford them. So she said Ferratum should  refund all interest and charges that Miss M paid 
on the loans, with interest on the refund. And she said it should  remove  any negative 
information about loans one to four, and all information about loans five to nine from 
Miss Ms credit file, since by the time Miss M took out loan 5, the number of loans shed 
taken meant  that any information recorded  about  them automatically had an adverse effect.
Ferratum disagreed with the adjudicators view, so the complaints been passed  to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive also taken into account the law, any 
relevant regulatory  rules  and good industry  practice  at the time the loans were  offered.
Ferratum was required to lend responsibly.  It needed to make  checks  to see whether Miss M 
could afford  to pay back the loans before it lent to her. Those checks needed to be 
proportionate to things such as the amount Miss M was borrowing, and her lending  history,  
but there was no set list of checks Ferratum had to do.
Ref: DRN79023152The Financial Conduct Authority was the regulator throughout the time that Miss M was 
borrowing from Ferratum. Its regulations for lenders  are set out in its consumer credit 
sourcebook (generally referred to as CONC). These regulations require lenders to take 
reasonable steps to assess the customers ability to meet  repayments under a regulated  
credit agreement in a sustainable  manner  without the customer  incurring financial difficulties 
or experiencing significant adverse consequences.  They define sustainable as being able 
to make repayments without undue difficulty. And explain  that this means borrowers  should  
be able to make their repayments  on time and out of their income  and savings without 
having to borrow  to meet these repayments.
Ferratums pointed out that all the loans were paid back on time. And it says it wasnt  alerted 
to any financial difficulties.  But the fact that the amounts borrowed and the interest  paid 
might have been low in comparison with Miss Ms income, or that she managed to repay the 
loans in full and on time, doesnt necessarily mean the loans were affordable for her, or that 
she managed to repay them  in a sustainable  manner.
Ferratum has told us about the checks it did before lending to Miss M. It says it carried  out a 
credit check  and its own internal credit  policy checks to assess  the affordability  of the loans. 
And it asked  Miss M for details of her regular monthly income,  which she told it was just over 
£2,250 per month.
The repayment due on loan 1 was a significant  enough proportion  of Miss Ms declared 
monthly take-home pay that I think that as a responsible lender, Ferratum should  have  
asked her about her regular monthly  living costs and regular financial commitments.  This is 
to check that she had enough disposable  income  to repay the loan without having to borrow 
further. Miss Ms told us about her regular  living  expenses and financial commitments during 
the time that she was borrowing from Ferratum. And Ive looked at her bank statements from 
the time.  I can see that Miss Ms regular  monthly living  expenses  and regular financial 
commitments together took up the whole  of her monthly salary. 
Miss Ms regular monthly outgoings remained largely the same over the following months. 
And I think that if Ferratum had asked about  Miss Ms regular outgoings when she applied 
for loans  1 to 4, that information alone  would have  been enough to make it clear that she 
couldnt afford to take on further  borrowing. 
Loan 5 was the fifth loan Miss M had applied to Ferratum for in just over six months. 
Ferratums pointed to the gaps between  the dates on which Miss M repaid  some of the loans 
and when she applied  for the next one. But Miss M applied for loan 5 just a few days after 
repaying loan 4. And I think  that by this stage, a pattern  of repeated  borrowing was 
emerging, which I think should have prompted  Ferratum to question  whether Miss M was 
dependent on short-term loans, and whether  she was borrowing sustainably.  So I think  that 
at this stage, Ferratum should have taken steps to independently check  the true state  of 
Miss Ms finances. 
Ive looked at Miss Ms bank statements and what shes told us about  her financial situation 
to see what better checks would have shown Ferratum. Miss Ms regular monthly financial 
commitments remained  substantially unaltered. Whats more, I can see that Miss M was 
frequently borrowing from a range of other short-term lenders, and was spending significant 
amounts of money  on gambling. 
Ref: DRN79023153Taking everything into account,  I think that if Ferratum had carried out what  I consider to be 
proportionate checks when Miss M applied for loan 5, as a responsible  lender, it would have 
realised that she was in no position  to take on further borrowing. And Miss Ms financial 
position didnt  improve significantly throughout the rest of the time that she was borrowing 
from Ferratum.  So it shouldnt have  agreed  to make  any of the loans. This means that 
Ferratum needs  to pay Miss M some compensation.
putting things right
I dont think Ferratum should have agreed to give Miss M any of the loans. So Ferratum 
should:
refund any interest and charges applied to all the loans;
add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum to each of these amounts from the date 
they were  paid to the date of settlement*;
remove any adverse  about loans 1 to 4 from Miss Ms credit  file; and
remove all information about loans 5 to 9 from Miss Ms credit file.
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Ferratum  to take off tax from this interest. Ferratum must  
give Miss M a certificate showing  how much  tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint. I require Ferratum UK Ltd to put things right by 
doing as Ive set out above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss M to accept 
or reject my decision before 13 March 2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7902315