K821x#15complaint
Miss T complains that Bank of Scotland  Plc (BoS) rejected  her claim under Section 75 
Consumer Credit Act 1974  (s75) in respect of a holiday she paid for using her Halifax credit  
card.
background
Miss T booked an adventure boating holiday for herself,  partner and young  daughter. She 
says apart  from the itinerary,  the holiday was mis-sold as she was led to believe it was family 
friendly, catered  for children, and the boat and accommodation were  of a high standard. She 
says if shed known  the conditions and restrictions she wouldnt have booked  the holiday as 
the issues ruined  the holiday.
Miss T said she checked with the supplier before booking the holiday as to the suitability of 
the holiday for young children. And she said she was told that as her daughter  was a 
non swimmer she would be allowed in the water  but wouldnt be able to take part in the 
snorkelling and diving  activities. Miss T complains that:
her daughter wasnt allowed to go into the sea, despite having had to pay for a 
suitable wetsuit for her daughter  to be able to go into the water;
the boat wasnt  child friendly as there  were dangerous hazards and
the accommodation was of unsatisfactory  quality as the cabin smelt strongly  of damp
and sewage and the cabin door was broken.
BoS didnt uphold Miss Ts s75 claim as it didnt agree  there had been a breach of contract 
or misrepresentation of the holiday.  It said the suppliers website didnt  state it catered for 
children. And it was at the crews discretion,  for safety reasons, who would or wouldnt be 
allowed into the water. The supplier had explained the smell was due to humidity, which 
wasnt unusual for the climate. And there were restrictions it had to comply with as to which 
waters it could empty its sewage tanks in. The supplier  also said the cabin door was fixed on 
its return. The cost of the hire of the wetsuit for Miss Ts daughter had been refunded by the 
supplier.
BoS did accept  in handling  the complaint that Miss T had received poor customer service
and arranged for a payment of £60 in compensation to be made.
Miss T wasnt  happy with BoS  response  and referred her complaint  to us. Our investigator  
didnt think the holiday had been  misrepresented. But as the supplier  had said the cabin door 
had been repaired  on its return, she said BoS should pay Miss T £50 for the distress  and 
inconvenience this had caused during the trip. Miss T disagrees  with our investigator,  she 
said:
the smell had nothing to do with the tanks  as it was evident  on arrival when the tanks 
would have been empty;
the cabin door was hanging off for the entire trip; and
the boat was more suited  to a budget trip catering for back  packers  not for a family
with a young child.
Miss T asked for an ombudsman to review her complaint.
Ref: DRN77540402I issued a provisional decision in April 2019  which said:
It is always disappointing when a holiday isnt as expected. Im required to decide what, if 
anything, BoS should  do to resolve Miss Ts complaint. In doing  that, I must decide  what  I 
think is fair and reasonable, having regard  to (amongst other things)  any relevant law. Such 
as s75 which  provides that, under  a very specific set of circumstances, a consumer may 
seek to recover money  paid under a contract with a supplier from their credit card provider.
There can only be a valid claim under s75, however,  if it can be shown that the supplier has 
breached or misrepresented  the contract. When considering misrepresentation I need to 
establish not only that something was said that wasnt true. But it was the untruth that 
induced the consumer to enter into the contract.
Miss T said she had been misled  about  the holiday as the boat wasnt fit for purpose and 
didnt cater for a small child. I can see Miss T did check with the supplier, and it confirmed 
that the boat accepted all ages. But in accepting all ages I havent  seen anything to show the 
holiday would cater in any specific way for children or infants.  I do think the nature of the trip 
is clearly aimed at adults,  the pictures  and promotional adverts dont feature children. And
Miss T had to pay the full fare for her child, who would usually be classed as an infant as she 
was under two years  of age. But there wasnt any price reduction offers for children as her 
child was taking a full spot.
Also I havent seen anything that would suggest the boat had child safety measures  in place 
such as gates and protection against  sharp corners. I cant see that Miss T asked about this 
before she booked the holiday, and I think it was up to her to be satisfied about this before 
she paid for the holiday.
I can see Miss T was told that as her child was a non-swimmer they wouldnt  be able to take 
part in the specific  activities  of snorkelling  and diving, which Miss T accepted. But I cant  see 
that Miss T asked whether they would be allowed in the water.  The terms and conditions
say:
Non swimmers on the trip are able to disembark the boat and take part in activities; 
however for safety reasons you must  be able to swim if you wish to snorkel and dive
This doesnt specify what the activities are, whether this is to go into the water or part of the 
itinerary of visiting the islands. Miss T has said shed had to pay for a wetsuit for her 
daughter, but having read the terms and conditions of the holiday it does say that the 
wetsuits are mandatory for all guests. As Miss Ts child wasnt allowed in the water during 
the trip, the supplier has since refunded the cost of hiring the wetsuit to her.
While I have sympathy for Miss T I cant conclude that she was misled by the supplier as to 
the trip being  child friendly or what activities the child could take part in. So I dont think  there 
has been any misrepresentation  about  the trips suitability for a child.
But its clear that the boat itself didnt live up to Miss Ts expectations. She says the facilities 
werent as the supplier  promised theyd be. She says the cabin wasnt of a satisfactory 
standard and there was a pungent smell throughout the trip.
Miss T has sent photographs which do show  the state of her cabin. The supplier said around 
the time of the trip the humidity  caused the wooden doors to swell and start jamming and not 
closing properly. But the photographs sent by Miss T show  the wood around  the doorframe 
Ref: DRN77540403hadnt simply swelled  but was rotten,  with a visible hole in the frame.  It also showed  the 
hinge was exposed which supports Miss T when  she said the door was half hanging off the 
wall. The photographs  also show a lack of cleanliness and staining  to the cabin carpets.
I have looked  at the description the holiday  provider  has made,  top quality trip a true mega  
yacht and a high standard operator. I appreciate that terms like this are subjective.
But I wouldnt expect, looking at this description,  to see a rotting  doorframe, stains  and the 
grime which was evident. The supplier  has said the door was repaired on its return. All of 
which I think shows that the cabin wasnt of a satisfactory quality.
Miss T said the boat smelt of sewage  and damp, the supplier has provided  an explanation as 
to the cause of this. Whilst  I agree  humidity  can generate a damp smell I find Miss Ts 
account persuasive in that the smell was noticeable  on arrival when the sewage tanks would 
have been empty.  Miss T also says that the smell continued through the trip, suggesting the 
sewage tank wasnt the cause of the smell.  However its difficult to say objectively how bad 
the smell was.
So, on the balance  of evidence I have seen I find a breach of contract has taken place as the 
quality of the cabin and conditions on the boat didnt  meet the advertised description. The 
usual remedy for this is for the supplier  to offer a suitable alternative  to allow  the contract to 
be fulfilled. But I dont  have any evidence of this being asked for, discussed or offered during 
the trip.
In considering what, if anything, BoS is required to do I have to take into account  that Miss T 
and her family did have  a holiday and while it wasnt to the standard  she wanted she did 
benefit from it. Because of this I dont think that a full refund is reasonable.
Miss T paid £867.37 for the three  day/three night  holiday.  I have considered the benefit she 
and her family had from the holiday including the itinerary,  food and accommodation  and, on 
balance; I think that a refund of approximately 20% (£175) would be reasonable in this case.
As outlined  above  s75 only covers  breach  of contract and misrepresentation so I cant  ask
BoS to pay for any trouble and upset  caused  to Miss T by the supplier.  But BoS has 
accepted it gave a poor level of customer service when it didnt call back Miss T at a time 
when it had promised  to. BoS has paid £60 compensation in recognition of this which  I think  
is fair and reasonable.
responses to my provisional  decision
Miss T agreed, in the main, with the provisional decision but asked for further  consideration 
to be given to: 
the lack of facilities for her daughter even though Miss T had paid full price  for her. 
Miss T said she knew her daughter wouldnt be able to snorkel or dive but thought 
theyd have been able to spend  some time in the water  together  as a family. 
Miss T again reiterated how bad the smell on the boat was. And that had she been 
aware of the conditions she wouldnt  have  taken this trip, especially with a young 
child.
Ref: DRN77540404She agreed  there had been some  benefit  from the trip but disagreed with my decision that 
this would equate to 80%. She said any benefit was nearer to 20%,  giving her reasons as: 
a)the majority of the trip was spent on a boat that stank of damp and sewage; 
b)the cabin was dirty and not suitable in its layout (other cabins where) due to the 
toilet, shower and bed layout;
c)the lack of any privacy  due to the door hanging off and a hole in the wall; and  
d)the food was nothing like that advertised  in the marketing  material.
Miss T also added that the issues had been  brought to the captains  attention during the trip 
but she said hed been very rude and unapproachable. She said shed been told to complain 
to its head office  once  shed gotten  off the boat as there was nothing that could be done  
during the trip as the boat was full. Miss T said she was supposed to speak with the owner 
when she disembarked but they never turned up. And shed  been  there  for 2-3 hours as she 
was waiting on a transfer back to the airport.
BoS hasnt made any other comments for me to consider.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  But I havent  been persuaded to change  
my decision  - for the reasons given below.
I sense the disappointment  and frustration Miss T has about the poor quality of the trip and 
the enjoyment shed  hoped  to experience with her family. So I hope she has assurance that I 
have considered fully all of the points she has raised within  my provisional decision.
Additionally Miss T said she tried to get the matter sorted  while on board but had been  met 
with rudeness and the owner had failed  to meet with her. But as I outlined  in my provisional 
decision s75 only covers breach of contract  and misrepresentation so I cant  ask BoS to pay 
for any trouble  and upset caused to Miss T by the supplier.
Miss T has said the level of compensation should  be more than the 20%. But I have 
considered the nature  of the trip being a tour for divers and snorkelers wanting to 
experience the Outer  Great Barrier Reef. And Miss T hasnt raised any concerns about  the 
itinerary of the trip. So I think my decision reflects  the breach of contract for the quality of her 
cabin and the conditions on board the boat.  So, I think that a refund of approximately  20% 
(£175) would be reasonable  in this case.
Ref: DRN77540405my final decision
So, my final decision is that I uphold Miss Ts complaint and I require Bank  of Scotland Plc 
to: 
reconstruct Miss Ts card account as if the transaction  (when  it was applied to the 
card) was worth £692.37 rather than £867.37.
This should take into account any extra interest  or associated charges that Miss T was 
charged. If, after doing this Miss T has a credit balance, it should pay 8% simple interest per 
year from when she first has a credit  balance until this is paid back  .
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 June 2019.
Anne Scarr
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7754040