K820x#14complaint
Mr B complains that TSB Bank  plc wont refund £5,910 that he lost when he fell victim to a 
scam.
background
I issued a provisional decision in May 2021  to explain  why I thought Mr Bs complaint 
shouldnt be upheld. And I said Id consider anything else that anyone wanted to give me.
This is an extract from that provisional decision:
Mr B had been looking for a car online when he came across  an advert on an auction site 
for a vehicle he thought met his requirements.  He contacted the seller to confirm hed be
interested in buying it. Mr B had savings  available in his TSB account to fund the purchase
of the car.
The seller  of the car told Mr B he would have the car delivered to him, by a third-party
delivery company,  as he was abroad  at the time sorting out the sale of the car on behalf of a
family member who had recently  passed away. The seller provided  Mr B with the name of
the delivery company and he invited Mr B to search  for them  online to have a look at the
type of service they provided. He also sent Mr B a number of photographs  of the car
alongside a DVLA  issued certificate  that showed  proof of ownership.
Mr B used the information provided on this certificate to carry out a check  online  which  didnt
raise any concerns or suspicions.  It appeared that the vehicle was as described  by the
seller. He also searched for the third-party shipping company and it appeared to have good
reviews. He also spoke  with someone  who purported  to be from this company, who told Mr B
that they had received the vehicle and it was in good condition. Mr B has said the company
sounded very professional and he was convinced by what  he was told and that both the
seller and the third-party shipping company were legitimate.
So, on 17 May 2018, Mr B logged  into his online banking  and transferred  the total cost of the
car to the third-party shipping company, amounting to £5,910. It was Mr Bs understanding
that this payment would  be held in trust for 10 days and once he had confirmed the car had
been received  and was as described, it would be released to the seller.
Eventually, when  the car didnt arrive, Mr B became suspicious  and realised hed been
scammed. He called  TSB but was unable to get through and so he went into branch but was
told the branch  could  not help him either.  He eventually  got through to TSB on the telephone
on 23 May 2018. Mr B has told us that he had seen  online that it would be beneficial for him
to tell TSB that he had made the payment by mistake - as this was more  likely to get him his
money back than telling TSB he had been the victim of a scam.
TSB has sent me a recording of this conversation  and in it, I can hear Mr B tells TSB that he
hadnt meant to make  the payment - the wrong  account number or sort-code had been used
and the payment had been made by mistake. The result of this conversation was that TSB
recorded the payment as an error not as fraudulent, and because of this, no fraud claim
was instigated and the bank where the funds were transferred to was not contacted  to see if
any of Mr Bs remained in the payee account.
Now satisfied that the payment was made as a result of a scam,  TSB has declined  to offer
Mr B a refund of the amount he has lost. It said it had carried  out Mr Bs instructions in
Ref: DRN70663902making the payment. The payment had been  made online and there had been no direct
contact between Mr B and TSB and there wasnt anything  about the transaction itself that
would have prompted further checks from TSB before it was processed.  TSB acknowledged
it hadnt contacted the beneficiary bank  to attempt to recover  Mr Bs funds but it said this
was because Mr B hadnt told them he had been  the victim of scam  and so it wasnt aware at
the time that the indemnity process shouldve been started.
Mr B brought his complaint to our service  and one of our Investigators looked into things.
Our Investigator  thought  Mr Bs complaint should  be upheld. He thought  TSB shouldve
contacted Mr B before it allowed the payment to go through and if it had, the scam couldve
been prevented.
TSB didnt  accept our Investigators  findings and asked for an Ombudsman  to look into
things, so the complaint was passed  to me.
My provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
In deciding whats fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account relevant: law and
regulations; regulators  rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; and, where
appropriate, what I consider to be good  industry practice at the time.
Im really  very sorry to hear about  whats happened  to Mr B and I have  a lot of sympathy for
the situation he has found himself  in. I can understand  why he feels so strongly that his
money should be returned to him. But having thought very carefully about what  hes told us
happened at the time and TSBs actions, I dont think it would be fair and reasonable for me
to hold TSB liable for his loss.
So, having  considered everything, Im not currently minded to uphold  Mr Bs complaint. I do
appreciate how disappointing  this will be for Mr B, but I dont think I can fairly say that TSB
should reimburse him with the £5,910 he has unfortunately lost to the fraudsters. Ill explain
why.
In broad terms, the starting position in law is that a bank is expected  to process  payments
and withdrawals that a customer  authorises  it to make, in accordance  with the terms and
conditions of the customers account.  And I have taken that into account when deciding  what
is fair and reasonable in this case.
However, taking into account  the law, regulators rules and guidance, relevant codes of
practice and what I consider to have been  good industry practice  at the time,  I consider TSB
should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter 
various risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, 
and preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that 
might indicate that its customers were  at risk of fraud (among other things). This is 
particularly so given  the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years, 
which banks are generally more familiar with than the average customer.
Ref: DRN70663903In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken 
additional steps, or made additional checks, before processing a payment, or in 
some cases  declined  to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers  from 
the possibility  of financial harm from fraud.
For branch transactions, those steps may include following the Banking Protocol 
where appropriate.
This means  that, particularly with the increase of sophisticated fraud and scams  in recent
years, there are circumstances where a bank should  fairly and reasonably  take additional
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases decline to
make a payment  altogether, to help protect  customers from the possibility  of financial harm.
So, in this case, I need to decide whether TSB acted fairly and reasonably in its dealings
with Mr B when he transferred £5,910  to a fraudster and when he later spoke  to TSB about
the transfer, or whether  it should have done more than it did.
It is not in dispute  that Mr B authorised the transfer himself. Because  of this, TSB had an
obligation to follow his instructions. But there  are some situations in which  it should
reasonably have had a closer look at the circumstances  surrounding  the transfer - as Ive
explained above. I consider that as a matter of good  practice  TSB shouldve  been on the
lookout for unusual  and out of character  transactions.
So, Ive first thought  about whether the transfer Mr B made could be considered out of
character and unusual  when compared  with his usual account activity.  And, having  reviewed
Mr Bs statements  for the months leading up to the scam, Im satisfied a payment of £5,910
was unusual for Mr B and uncharacteristic for this particular  account - there  had been no
comparable legitimate payments in recent times.  The transfer is also made  to a new payee.
And so, Im satisfied TSB ought fairly  and reasonably, and as a matter  of good practice, to
have done more here. I think  it ought to have  made  enquiries about the purpose of and the
circumstances leading  up to the payment before it processed it.
Because Im satisfied  TSB shouldve  called Mr B to discuss  the payment before it processed
it, Ive then had to think about  whether  any further  intervention wouldve ultimately made a
difference or not. It is impossible for me to say exactly how any conversation  between  Mr B
and TSB would have  unfolded. And so, I must  base  my decision on what I think is most likely
to have happened had TSB intervened further. Ive done this by considering the usual types
of questions I wouldve  expected TSB to ask Mr B had they contacted  him - alongside what
Mr B has told us about the circumstances that led to him making the transfer. Having done
so, I dont think further intervention from TSB wouldve made a difference.  Im persuaded its
most likely Mr B wouldve  still gone  on to make  the payment  regardless.  Ill explain why.
Had TSB contacted  Mr B, it seems likely he wouldve explained the purpose of the payment
was to purchase a vehicle  hed seen advertised online.  At this point, Im satisfied TSB
shouldve probed  further, and Ive thought  about  the type of questions  TSB shouldve been
asking given what Mr B had already told it. I wouldve expected  TSB to ask questions  along
the following  lines:
Have you seen the car in person,  if not, why is this not possible?
Have you completed any independent  checks to ensure  the car exists/is  legitimate?
Are you satisfied that the third-party shipping company  is legitimate?
Ref: DRN70663904Are you happy  to continue with the purchase  of the vehicle having  not seen it in 
person?
Ive then thought about  Mr Bs likely responses  to these  questions.  Im satisfied Mr B
wouldve told TSB that he was satisfied  the car would be delivered by a reputable  company.
Hed researched the company independently  himself and had spoken to them on the
telephone. Mr B has also told us that some of his colleagues had cars couriered to them
before and had reassured  him that this was a viable option. Mr B thought his money would
be held by this third party until he had confirmed receipt of the car and so his money didnt
appear to be at risk or appeared to have,  at least, some protection.  Hed also have  been
able to tell TSB that there appeared to be a plausible reason for this  the seller of the car
was abroad and selling the car on behalf of a deceased relative.
Crucially, I would have  expected TSB to direct  Mr B to carry out some independent checks
on the vehicle  he was purchasing and to warn  him about the risks attached to purchasing a
vehicle he hadnt  seen himself. A common feature of this type of scam  is that the vehicle
doesnt exist.  But Mr B had already been provided  with a copy  of a DVLA  issued certificate
which hed used to carry out an independent  check and on the face of it, everything  looked
legitimate. Mr B would  also have  been  able to tell TSB that he had bought numerous
vehicles in the past without seeing them. Hed done  this on at least  four occasions previously
and only had some  minor issues  with one vehicle  that were minor. And so I think its 
unlikely that any of Mr Bs answers wouldve put TSB on notice  that he was at risk of falling  
victim to a scam.
TSBs role is to satisfy  itself that the payment their customer is requesting appears to be
legitimate based  on the information they have. It is not to interrogate their customer  or carry
out an investigation into the product being  purchased. Even if TSB had asked Mr B
reasonable questions about  what the payment was for, I dont think the scam wouldve been
exposed. And whilst theres no denying Mr B has been the victim here, I dont think  it would
be fair and reasonable to hold TSB liable for his losses. The fault here lies with the
fraudsters.
Ive then gone on to consider whether it was possible for TSB to have done any more  than it
did when Mr B first contacted it to discuss the transfer. Ive listened  to a recording of this
conversation and Im satisfied Mr B tells TSB that the payment has been made by mistake
and because of this the payment in error process  is started. This later turns out to be
unsuccessful when  TSB realise no payment  error was made. And so, having listened  to this
call, Im satisfied that the reason the indemnity process wasnt  started  and the receiving
bank not contacted was because TSB werent aware that Mr B had been the victim of a
scam at this point. But even if I assume TSB were able to, and shouldve, contacted the
receiving bank following  Mr Bs earlier visit in branch, I still think its unlikely Mr B wouldve
had any of his funds returned  to him. It seems  more likely to me that they were already gone.
I say this because  Mr B had been told to wait a number  of days  for the car to be delivered
after he made the transfer. And it was only once  the expected delivery date passed that Mr B
realised he had been the victim of a scam. This wouldve provided the fraudster with a
number of days to remove the funds before Mr B even realised he had been  a victim. And so
I think its more likely than not that the funds wouldve been removed by the time Mr B
contacted TSB in the first instance and so there  wouldnt have been anything  further  TSB
couldve done by this point to retrieve Mr Bs funds.
I am very sorry  that Mr B has lost out, and I appreciate this is a lot of money for him to have
Ref: DRN70663905lost especially given  that it was funded by his personal savings. I also understand this whole
experience was very frustrating and upsetting for him. But in the circumstances,  I dont think
I can fairly say TSB couldve  done  more to help him and should  now refund him the money
he lost as part of the scam.
my findings
Ive re-considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
TSB responded to say it accepted what I had said in my provisional decision. Mr B 
responded to say he did not agree and he asked me to consider some  additional 
points which  I have  summarised below:
Mr B disputes that he would have gone  ahead with the transfer had TSB 
intervened. Mr B felt this was a theoretical conclusion  and any final decision 
should be based on the facts of the case.
Mr B drew  my attention to the British Standards Institute's Code of Practice 
(the BSI) which sets out that banks should have measures in place to detect 
suspicious activity, such as a large  increases in spending and payments made  
to a new payee. Mr B highlighted  that the payment he made during the scam 
met these criteria  but TSB failed to adhere  to the principles  set out in the code 
but failing  to contact him and offer him a warning. 
Mr B said that had a warning been  issued it was in his character carry out 
further checks and he was unlikely to have  continued with the transfer.
Ive thought carefully about the additional  points raised by Mr B but I have reached the
same conclusions as I did in my provisional decision. Ill address each point in turn and Ill
explain why.
I want to assure Mr B that when reaching my final decision I took into account the law, 
regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of practice and what  I consider to have been 
good industry practice at the time. This includes the BSI which he has referred to in 
response to my provisional  decision. Having done so, and as set out in my provisional 
decision, I agree with Mr B that the scam payment was unusual and out of character for his 
account and that TSB shouldve discussed  the transaction with him before  it allowed it to 
leave his account. 
However, I then have to go on to consider  whether I think this intervention wouldve made a 
difference. In other words,  would  a conversation with TSB stopped Mr B proceeding with the 
payment. 
I understand that Mr B is unhappy  that my conclusions are based on what  I think  is most  
likely to have happened during this conversation.  However,  its important that I stress here 
that it is impossible for me to say exactly how this conversation would have  unfolded. So I 
have to base my decision on what I think is most likely to have happened had TSB 
Ref: DRN70663906intervened further.  And Ive done  this by considering the usual types  of questions I wouldve 
expected TSB to ask and what Mr B has told me about his circumstances  at the time. 
I appreciate that Mr B now feels that he wouldve completed more verifications checks and 
he wouldnt  have agreed to proceed  with the payment.  But, ultimately, this is with the benefit 
of hindsight and Mr B has told me that at the time he was persuaded the sale of the vehicle 
was legitimate - hed spoken to friends  who had vehicles delivered before. He was an 
experienced car buyer and had bought  numerous  vehicles without seeing  them  with virtually 
no issues. Hed also carried out a verification  check and spoken to someone he believed 
worked for the delivery company independently. And he had been happy,  based on all of the 
above, to proceed  with the payment. And so, Im not satisfied that any further  questioning  on 
behalf of TSB wouldve  made a difference here. And Ive based this on what Mr B has told 
me about his circumstances  of the time. Im satisfied  that its more  likely than not that Mr B 
wouldve continued to make the payment in the belief that he was purchasing a legitimate 
vehicle. And so I dont  think  it would  be fair and reasonable for me to hold TSB liable for his 
losses. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint against TSB Bank  plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr B to accept or 
reject my decision  before 11 July 2021.
Emly Hanley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7066390