K820x#14complaint
Miss J complains  that First Response Finance Ltd (FRF)  mis-sold  her the following in 
conjunction with a hire purchase (HP) agreement:
a single premium payment protection insurance  (PPI)  policy;  and
a guaranteed asset protection (GAP) insurance policy
background
Miss J entered into a HP agreement when she bought a car in 2009. At the same time, FRF 
sold her a PPI policy and a GAP  policy.
The cost of each  policy was added to the amount Miss J was borrowing and interest  was 
charged on it. The PPI covered Miss J in the event she wasnt  working  due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment  and it would have provided a monthly benefit equal to her loan 
repayments following  a successful claim.
The GAP  policy covered Miss J for any shortfall  between her motor  insurers  settlement and 
the outstanding balance  on her HP agreement  if her car was written off.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Miss J disagreed  so the 
complaint was passed to me to review afresh.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
PPI sale
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website. And 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Miss Js case. Having done so, Ive decided the policy  
wasnt mis-sold.  Ill explain  why.
Miss J says she was led to believe she had no option about taking PPI. I havent been able 
to listen to a call recording of the conversation between Miss J and the FRF adviser as one 
isnt available. But from the sales script  information provided Im satisfied that the adviser 
likely explained that Miss J had a choice  about purchasing the PPI. I think the adviser was 
prompted to ask Miss J if she was happy to proceed  with PPI and that she chose to take it.
The HP agreement  Miss J signed also refers to the optional  nature of the PPI  its referred  
to as Optional Payment Protection Insurance. On this agreement  a tick has been placed 
next to the option for PPI and Miss J signed  separately to agree to take it out. 
Taking all of this into consideration, Im satisfied that FRF gave Miss J a choice about 
purchasing PPI and that she agreed  to buy it.
The parties agree that FRF recommended  the PPI to Miss J. So it had to check  that the 
PPI was right for her. Based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time, I think that it 
was right for her because,  for example:
 
Ref: DRN74684472Miss J was eligible  for the cover. And she wasnt affected  by any of the exclusions to, 
or limits on, the PPI. 
Miss J seems  to have had a need for the cover   she had no other work benefits  or 
other means that she could have relied on if she wasnt  working  due to accident, 
sickness or unemployment. On the other  hand,  the PPI benefits were considerable 
and would have  paid out for a significant period of time if needed.
Ive seen nothing  to suggest  the PPI was unaffordable for Miss J. Although Miss J 
would have got back only a limited refund of the PPI premium if she cancelled the 
loan early, I havent seen  anything  to suggest  she intended to repay the loan before 
the end of the term. So I dont think this meant the policy  wasnt right for Miss J.
FRF also had to ensure it gave Miss J clear information about the PPI to allow her to make 
an informed decision about  whether  to take it. As Ive said, I think that Miss J chose to take it 
out  so it looks like she wanted this type of cover. And it seems like it would have provided 
useful and affordable protection for her if something  went wrong. So I dont think better  
information about the PPI would have put her off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything else Miss J and her representatives have said, but these points 
dont change my decision.
Ive also thought about the commission Miss J paid on her policy   and whether FRF treated 
her unfairly. 
FRFs told us that the commission for Miss Js policy was less than half of what she paid for 
the premium. Weve looked  at how FRFs been  working this out and, based on what  weve 
seen, it looks like its right  Miss Js commission was less than half the cost of the PPI. As 
thats the case, I dont think it needed  to tell her about the commission  so I dont think  FRF 
treated her unfairly. This means it doesnt need  to pay Miss J back  any of the commission  
she paid for the PPI. 
GAP sale
Miss J hasnt  given a detailed explanation as to why she believes this policy  was mis-sold.  
Nevertheless, Ive considered all of the evidence surrounding the sale.
Having done so, I dont believe the GAP insurance was mis-sold. I say that because, for 
instance, it seems FRF identified that Miss J had a need for protection  against  there  being  a 
shortfall between any settlement in the event  of the car being written  off and the amount 
shed have owed  under the finance agreement. The GAP policy appears to have met that 
need.
As with the PPI policy, Im satisfied FRF told Miss J how much  the premium  for the policy  
was, the interest  payable,  the total shed pay for the PPI with interest  over the term of the HP 
agreement, and the monthly instalments. And I havent seen anything to indicate that the 
policy was unsuitable  for her.
Ref: DRN74684473claim
When she initially brought her complaint to us, Miss J said that shed tried to claim on her 
policies after she was made redundant but she didnt receive a pay out. So she doesn't  think 
they were suitable  for her. 
As I've said above, her GAP policy only provided  cover in the event that her car was written  
off. That didn't happen. And it didn't provide cover for life events such  as redundancy. So I 
don't think  the fact that Miss J was unable to make  such a claim on her GAP  policy  after 
redundancy means it wasn't suitable  for her.
I dont know the circumstances surrounding the decline of her claim on the PPI policy   
which did include unemployment cover. But its open  for Miss J to get in touch with the 
insurer (rather  than FRF,  which sold the policy) to try and take that matter further if she 
wants to.
my final decision
For the reasons  given,  I dont uphold Miss Js complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 22 April 2019.
Nimish Patel
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7468447