K820x#14complaint
Mrs P has complained that National Westminster Bank Plc (the bank) has failed  to 
compensate her duly for allowing a fraudster to open a current  account  in her name. 
background
Mrs P is unhappy with the bank because she doesnt think it exercised due care and 
diligence when a current account was fraudulently taken out in her name.  
Mrs P has said the bank told her the incorrect date of birth and email address were  used and 
her middle name wasnt used, when the application  was made online. So Mrs P argues the 
bank has been  negligent.
Mrs P has also said shes  unhappy with the bank  because, as a result of the fraudulent 
application, her credit  score fell, and she was declined credit  for a new phone.
Mrs P would like the bank to pay her compensation for her time dealing  with the issue  and 
the complaint.  Shed  also like the bank  to provide an explanation for what happened,  an 
apology accepting that it was the banks error, and to look into its policies and procedures.
The bank has declined to do these things.
Our investigator didnt  uphold the complaint. He thought that, in the circumstances of the 
case, the bank  hadnt  been negligent  in opening the account in Mrs Ps name. He also 
concluded there was no evidence the phone credit had been refused because  of the 
fraudulent account.
The investigator explained the ombudsman  service doesnt ask a financial business to 
change its policies and procedures. 
The investigator asked  the bank to ensure Mrs Ps credit file was updated  so that the banks 
credit searches regarding  the account application  were removed. 
Mrs P has asked  for an ombudsmans review  of the complaint. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Im sorry to disappoint Mrs P, but I too 
have concluded  her complaint doesnt  succeed.
Mrs Ps argument rests largely on the Money Laundering Regulations and HM Governments 
guidance on them on its website.  The ombudsman  service  takes  account  of the law and 
regulations, although ultimately we have to decide, as Ive just stated, what  we think  it fair 
and reasonable in all the circumstances of the case.
I think its relevant to bear in mind that the main  purpose of the Money Laundering 
Regulations is to combat  financial crime. They impose obligations on banks. I dont think  
they bestow legal rights on customers, nor do they impose a legal duty of care on banks  
towards non-customers like Mrs P. Indeed, with or without the Regulations,  I think  the courts  
would be slow to impose a duty of care on banks towards the whole world,  to protect all 
Ref: DRN78624902individuals from identity  theft. I dont think its appropriate to treat the Regulations and the 
Governments guidance on them as the key to dealing fairly  with this complaint. 
As Ive said,  the ombudsman service doesnt have  to take a strictly legalistic approach.  What  
Ive done is to consider whether I think its fair and reasonable, on the facts of this case, to 
expect the bank to compensate Mrs P as shes asked.
Ive concluded  the bank  shouldnt have to. I think the bank reached the reasonable 
conclusion that Mrs P had applied for a current account. The bank referred to credit 
reference agencies  and the electoral roll to confirm, among other things, Mrs P as living  at 
her address,  and it wrote to Mrs P accordingly about  the account, which is how Mrs P 
discovered the fraud. 
I also think the bank  acted appropriately  when  Mrs P told it the account  had been  opened  
fraudulently. It made the account  non-operational and closed it. It removed reference  to it 
from Mrs Ps credit  file and undertook to remove the record of the credit  searches. 
I dont think theres enough evidence to show Mrs P is financially worse off because of what 
happened. 
my final decision
I dont uphold Mrs Ps complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs P to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 March  2020.
Roger Yeomans
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7862490