K820x#14complaint
Mr J complained about Ageas Retail Limiteds charge for cancelling his motor insurance 
policy.
background 
Mr J cancelled his policy with Ageas. They refunded him his outstanding annual  premium 
less their policy cancellation charge. But Mr J didnt  agree with that charge. Ageas said that 
theyd applied it correctly  and in line with the terms and conditions  hed agreed when he 
bought his policy. So Mr J brought his complaint to us.
The investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
Ageas cancellation charge was fair, and theyd told him about it before he took out the 
policy, so it was reasonable for them to charge it. 
Mr J disagreed and so his case has been passed  to me to decide.
 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  In doing so Ive taken into account 
relevant consumer law.
Mr J cancelled his policy when he sold his car, about 10 months into his annual contract. 
Ageas refunded the premiums he was due but charged  him £50 for the cancellation. He said 
that was too much and more than other businesses charged. He wanted  Ageas to justify 
what extra  administration was involved in cancelling  his policy.  He also felt that the charge 
was in breach  of consumer law.
I have to look at whether  the cancellation  charge  was fair and brought to Mr Js attention  
when he took out his policy.
Mr J wants Ageas to give detailed justification of the costs involved in their cancelling his 
policy, but Ageas arent required to provide this, as its a part of their commercial decision-
making. And I dont  think its necessary to ask them to do that anyway, because we accept 
that there  is administration involved in cancelling  a policy before its agreed term and that 
businesses are entitled to charge a reasonable fee for it. In this case  the fee isnt so high as 
to deter  or penalise  a consumer and its a standard charge, which  Ageas apply consistently 
to consumers. I think that £50 is not out of line with the rest of the industry and that its a 
reasonable amount. 
Ive looked at Ageas Terms of Business  Agreement. It says that We may charge a 
cancellation fee of £50.  I think that this is clear, so I have to look at whether Ageas pointed  it 
out to Mr J when he bought  the policy.
He took out his policy online and as part of the process he could view the Terms of Business 
Agreement including information on fees and charges.  About a week before the policys start 
date Ageas also sent a welcome  pack to his online account. It showed the charges include 
the cancellation charge. So I think that Mr J did have the chance, before he bought his 
policy, to go elsewhere  if he thought  Ageas cancellation charge was too high. But he didnt, 
and instead he agreed to the policys terms.
Ref: DRN74707132I do see that Mr J feels strongly that Ageas shouldnt have charged him for cancellation. But 
I think that Ageass  cancellation charge is not unfair and as they brought  it to Mr Js attention 
before purchase, I dont think that theyve been wrong to charge him it. And so I dont ask 
them to do anything else.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 March  2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7470713