K820x#14complaint
Mrs K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc rejected her claim for a refund under section 75 of 
the Consumer  Credit Act 1974.
background
Mrs K and her husband owned a timeshare they were keen to get rid of. In 2015  they were  
approached by a third party,  a company which I will call A, which  offered to dispose of it for 
them and to obtain a refund of what they had paid. There  was a charge of over £6,500 for 
this service. Mrs K paid about  £1,400  on her HSBC credit card,  and paid the rest by 
automated bill payment.  The service  was never  provided, and it is not in dispute that A was 
in breach of its contract with Mr and Mrs K. The sole issue in this case is whether HSBC is 
jointly and severally  liable  for the breach under section 75.
In 2018 Mrs K asked  HSBC for a refund  of what she had paid.  But HSBC said that it was not 
liable, because section  75 did not apply to her credit card payments. The payments had not 
been made to A, but to another company, which I will call R. So Mrs K brought this complaint 
to our Service. (Her husband is not eligible  to bring this complaint because  it was not his 
credit card.)
Our investigator did not uphold this complaint. She agreed with HSBC that section 75 did not 
apply, and for the same reason. Mrs K did not agree. She said that as A and R occupied the 
same office,  and argued that A had obviously set up R as a separate  company to take 
payments in order to circumvent section  75. The investigator said that sharing  the same  
office was not enough   the two companies  would  have to be controlled by the same  people, 
and there  was no evidence that this was the case. Mrs K asked for an ombudsmans  
decision.
my findings
I have considered all the available evidence  and arguments to decide what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  I regret that my decision will come as a 
disappointment to Mrs K (and to her husband),  but I cannot uphold  it. I will explain why.
I accept that A breached its contract with Mr and Mrs K. That has never  been  in doubt. 
HSBCs reason for not refunding Mrs K was that it is not liable in law for what  A did. My role 
in this complaint  is to decide whether HSBC was right or mistaken when  it came  to that 
conclusion. If section  75 does not operate to make HSBC liable for what A did, then I dont 
think it could ever be fair and reasonable of me to still order  HSBC to refund  Mrs Ks money 
anyway.
Section 75 makes HSBC  jointly and severally  liable to Mrs K for a claim of breach of contract 
against a third party  referred  to in the Act as the supplier  as long as that claim relates  to 
a transaction made with her HSBC credit card.
One might  naturally expect the supplier to mean the party who is supplying  the service 
being paid for. But actually the phrase the supplier has a technical legal meaning. Section 
75 refers to section  12, and in relation to credit cards the definition of supplier is to be found  
in section 12(c).  The supplier means the party the credit card payment  is made  to.
Ref: DRN72317842It is not in dispute  that although Mrs K was paying  for a service which was to be provided by 
A, her credit  card payments  were made  to R. That means R, not A, is the supplier 
mentioned in section  75. That in turn means that HSBC would only be liable for any breach  
of contract  by R. It is not liable for anything A did, or failed to do.
Since all R had to do was pass on Mrs Ks money  to A, and there is no suggestion that it 
failed to do that, it follows that I cannot require HSBC to do anything. It reached the only 
conclusion which was open to it.
I realise that this situation will seem  unfair.  But it would also be unfair if I made HSBC pay for 
something which was not its fault,  in circumstances where the law does not make HSBC  
liable for it.
There is an exception to this rule. If A and R are associates, within  the meaning of section  
184 of the Act, then  under section 187  they can be treated as one and the same  
company for the purposes of sections 12 and 75. Then that would make HSBC  liable for 
what A did after all.
Two companies are associates if they are both controlled by the same  people, or if the 
people who control  each company are related. But I have seen no evidence that this is the 
case for A and R. I have considered whether  I could  safely  infer that they are controlled by 
the same  people from the fact that they share an office. I think  that would not be an 
unreasonable inference to draw, but it is not the only inference which can be drawn, and 
I dont think it would  be safe to reach that conclusion on the balance of probabilities.  It does 
not necessarily follow.  And so for that reason I cannot find that HSBC is liable for what 
happened.
my final decision
My decision  is that I do not uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 March  2020.
Richard Wood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7231784