K822xComplaint
Mr F, a director of Company C, is complaining  on behalf of C. The complaint, in summary, is 
that due to misinformation by National  Westminster  Bank Plc, the company proceeded to 
switch its account  to another bank and that led to several difficulties  to C, resulting in a 
substantial financial loss.
Background 
The background to the complaint is set out in my provisional decision,  a redacted copy  of 
which is attached.  My provisional decision  forms part of this decision. In summary, I said:
I consider it more likely that the Relationship Manager (RM)  at NatWest gave incorrect 
information at the outset. This caused  C to start taking steps to switch  its account to 
Bank A.
However, subsequently, there was adequate information to C that suggested what RM 
said might  not be accurate. At that time C could have paused the switch  and not 
proceeded until it obtained  full clarification. Indeed, C raised a complaint  at the time 
about the potential misinformation  by the RM and NatWest responded to it clarifying  
what RM said wasnt  accurate. C says that it did not receive  the response but there is no 
evidence either that it followed up on the complaint further at that time with NatWest. 
Essentially, in my view,  C proceeded  with the switch without fully clarifying the matter 
with NatWest. 
Bank A initially provided  a loan of £20,000 with a view to increase it to £35,000. That was 
helpful to C. However, in July 2018,  Bank A declined  to provide the further £15,000.  It 
seems to me that this in turn may have led to the subsequent difficulties for C. I havent 
seen any evidence  to show  that C contacted NatWest during  this period for funding  and 
that it was unfairly rejected. 
C says that it did seek  NatWest help with funding,  but the bank conflated  Cs request for 
funding with its complaint. That appears  to have happened around September / October 
2018. Nevertheless, I see that NatWest did respond to its loan request in November  and 
said that it wouldnt offer a loan as Cs credit rating  had been  affected (by then).
Overall, I concluded that NatWest should  pay C £500 for the inconvenience caused  to it 
initially due to RMs misinformation. However,  I did not think that NatWest could fairly be 
held responsible for subsequent difficulties  caused due to C proceeding with the switch .
NatWest accepted my provisional decision.  Mr F did not. In summary,  he reiterated that the 
RM gave inaccurate advice and took no subsequent steps to rectify his advice regarding the 
postponement of the Switching System. He also reiterated his unhappiness  over how 
NatWest treated Cs complaint and how it conflated Cs request for a loan with the complaint. 
Mr F also felt that NatWest had used  our service to prolong and therefore  cause  the 
damage in a case where it could have apologised, explained that the advice was incorrect  
and helped C to recover its position  in April or May 2018.
Ref: DRN78034932my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, I see no reason to depart from my provisional decision. I appreciate that 
this entire  sequence  of events caused  considerable difficulties to C. But I remain of the view 
that though C may have been  provided with incorrect information at the outset, I cannot fairly 
attribute all of Cs subsequent difficulties to it. C need not have gone ahead  with the switch 
without fully clarifying the matter.
 
I fully understand  Cs unhappiness over how the bank dealt with its complaint in 
October/November 2018 as well as the subsequent issues such as its failure to produce the 
call recordings  to enable C evidence what the RM had said.  As I said in my provisional 
decision, I have  accepted  Cs version  of events  as to what it was advised  by RM. However, I 
consider that much  of Cs unhappiness about what happened since  October 2018 related to 
the way NatWest handled its complaint and that is not something this service  is able to 
consider. 
my final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be partly upheld for the reasons already given. 
In full and final settlement  of the complaint, National Westminster Bank Plc should pay C 
£500.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2021.
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN78034933Copy of the provisional decision
Complaint
Mr F, a director of Company  C, is complaining on behalf of C. The complaint, in summary, is that due 
to misinformation by National  Westminster Bank Plc, the company proceeded  to switch its account  to 
another bank,  and that led to several  difficulties resulting in a substantial  financial loss.
Background
The background  to the complaint is well known to both parties and so I wont repeat that at
length here. Briefly, as I understand it:
In February 2018 C was in discussion with its relationship  manager  (RM) in NatWest about a
new loan or overdraft arrangement for £35,000.
It says the RM advised  that because it was a customer of Williams & Glyn, it would  be asked
by NatWest to move  its accounts to a challenger bank under a pending switch  scheme. It
was told that the deadline  for the switch was 1 June 2018 and therefore  if C were to take a
loan from NatWest before, it may be required  to repay the loan when the switch happened.
This was because the challenger bank would  not be obliged to take on the credit terms
NatWest would extend  to C.
C says that the RM also advised that if it stayed with NatWest,  it would  be a telephone
banking customer with no access to Management Support or Business Hall support. This is
something C did not prefer.
Because C was in need  of urgent funds, it decided  to go ahead quickly  with the switch with
the intention that after the switch it could  contact NatWest  for a loan. It chose a challenger
bank (Bank A) to switch its account.
Bank A initially provided a loan of £20,000 to cater to about 50% of Cs funding requirement,
with a view to increase it to £35,000 when  C received the letter from NatWest  confirming the
switch.
C says that because it could only get partial funding, it had to use its operating capital to stay
afloat. It says that this diminished its operating capital  which led to it losing its credit rating.
Meanwhile the switch scheme got delayed. Also, in July 2018, Bank A declined to provide
further funding. C says all of this led to a series of difficulties, resulting  in substantial  financial
loss.
C is of the view that all of this was caused by incorrect information  provided to it by the RM.
It says that had correct  information  was given by the RM in the first instance, it wouldnt have 
switched to Bank A and instead obtained funding from NatWest which  the bank was
agreeable to at the time. And none of the subsequent problems would  have occurred.
Further, Mr F is unhappy with the way NatWest dealt  with this issue over a period of time. In
particular, he is unhappy  that NatWest initially acknowledged  that the RM gave wrong
information but later said that would have been unlikely.
Our investigator reviewed the complaint and was of the opinion that the complaint could  not
be upheld.
In summary, he said that he had no reason  to doubt what C says was told by the RM.
However, C was aware that further correspondence from NatWest on the details of the
scheme was expected. But before it received any formal  invitation  to participate in the
Ref: DRN78034934scheme, it proceeded to open account and seek funding from Bank A. Had C awaited further
information from NatWest about the switching scheme, it would have been reassured  that it
did not have to move its account if it did not want to. It would also have been told that it
would be able to transfer any lending with NatWest if it moved.
Mr F did not agree  with the investigator. He said, in summary,  that it was reasonable for C to
act upon the advice from the RM. The situation was time critical and so it had to act swiftly. In any 
case, Bank A confirmed  by end of April that the switch  scheme had not commenced
and that the scheme may not proceed. So it was still within the power of the RM to have
explained this to C and renegotiated its requirements.
He explains that NatWest  refused to discuss Cs attempts to arrange a workable facility
subsequently as it conflated its lending requests with the complaint concerning the
misinformation about the switch. When C requested NatWest to provide a £40,000 loan, the
bank treated the request as related to Cs complaint about the misinformation  and so wasnt
prepared to discuss  the loan requirement  unless  C made a formal  complaint.  So C had to
make a complaint which  was answered  in October 2018 and again in November 2018. But C
was informed that its damaged  cash flow meant that it was ineligible to get any loan from
NatWest. Eventually NatWest agreed to provide  some funding  in April 2019 by way of
overdraft of £30,000 but by that time substantial damage had already been done.
my provisional  findings
Ive considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
C has provided detailed submissions to support its complaint, which I have read and
considered in their entirety. However,  I trust that it will not take the fact that my findings focus
on what I consider  to be the central issues, and that they are expressed in considerably less
detail, as a discourtesy. The purpose of my decision  is not to address every point raised in
detail, but to set out my conclusions and reasons for reaching them.
There has been a lot of reference to C switching its current account from NatWest to
Bank A. Generally, switching a current account refers to situation where the existing current
account is closed and a new one opened with all payments moved to the new account. In
this case  what happened was slightly different. C opened a current with Bank A but its
current account with NatWest remained. It wasnt closed. I think it would be helpful to bear
this in mind  where there  is reference to a switch.
Period to April 2018
It was Cs call with the RM in February 2018 that appears to have triggered the events that
followed. In relation that call, it is difficult for me to know now with certainty what the RM told
C. However, I find Cs submission credible  and consistent. I think  it is reasonable to
conclude from the subsequent  actions taken by C that the RM may have led C to believe
that the switch  of its account was due to happen soon, C would become a telephone banking
customer and that it may be better to apply for loan with NatWest after the switch.
As it turned out this was not accurate. However, that is not the end of the matter.  I also need
to have regard to what  happened since RMs conversation with C.
C was told by RM that it would get a formal communication about  the switch scheme from
NatWest. That did not happen. C says that it contacted NatWest several times  during March
2018 about this formal  communication but didnt get any response. But C initiated the switch
anyway without  waiting for the letter.
During the third week  of April the RM wrote to C to say that he was advised that the initial
Ref: DRN78034935batch of letters  were sent on 9 April, but he could  not confirm  whether C was included  in the
batch.
Mr F called NatWest on 20 April. I have listened to that call. I know there is some concern
from Mr F whether NatWest  had provided only part of the recording.  Nevertheless, from what
I have heard, I think there was enough  indication that ought  to have created some doubt
about what the RM had said.
For example, earlier in the call the NatWest  staff who initially spoke to Mr F said that all the
Williams & Glyn customers were coming back to NatWest and the switch was something
we are not looking to proceed with. Mr F insisted that this was contradictory to what  the RM
said and so to get a better perspective he was transferred to a specialist team.
It is possible that he may have spoken  to another staff member in between, it is not very
clear. Nevertheless  the staff to whom Mr F finally  spoke, said that he couldnt give a date as
to when  the scheme would go live. He said that C will get a letter  and before getting  the
letter it was not ideal to start the switch.  He was unsure why the RM mentioned  the date of 1
June and offered to raise  a complaint about it.
I think  all of this presented  with adequate indications  that what the RM advised  C may not be
quite accurate, especially about the 1 June deadline. In fact when  the staff explained as
above, Mr F said: What  you are suggesting is that I have been given wrong information from
the beginning, but itd seem coincidental why would  somebody mention 1st of June when
everyone in the department is being made redundant on 31st May.  we didnt have  to do
any of this  I have spent 6 weeks chasing everybody ..
The staff ended the call by saying that he would refer Cs unhappiness  about what RM said
to the complaints department and someone would get in touch with Mr F within 48 hours.
It does not appear  that the complaints department called C as promised. However NatWest
has given us a copy of its final response letter dated 26 April 2018. This letter  states that
there was no need for C to close the NatWest account before or during the switch process
and it would all be done by NatWest. It also confirmed  that C should not have been advised  to switch 
as that would  be the customers decision. So C should not have been advised to switch  by 1 June.
Mr F says that C did not receive this letter and it is only recently  the letter  was mentioned
first time by NatWest or by us. He also noted that the letter referred to the RM as previous
RM. He doubted  the accuracy of this because this letter was dated 26 April whereas the RM
didnt leave the job until 31 May.
I note that NatWest provided this letter  to us at the outset and not recently. Indeed at the
time NatWest  argued  that because this final response letter was issued in April 2018 and C
did not complain to us until a year later, the complaint was time-barred. I also see that our
investigator mentioned  this letter to Mr F when  they investigated the time bar issue.
I agree with Mr F that the letter confusingly refers the RM as former  RM but I think it was an
error. Having reviewed the submissions, I am satisfied that it was more  likely  that the letter
was produced  and issued in April 2018.
I am unsure  why C did not receive the letter as it appears to have been addressed correctly.
Nevertheless, it seems to me that had Mr F seen  this letter it was more likely that he would
have contacted  NatWest  / RM on receiving it, to seek further clarification but there is no
evidence he did. So I am inclined to accept Mr Fs contention that C may not have received
the letter.
However I think it is essential to bear in mind that from NatWests perspective Cs complaint
had been answered by then and there was no need for it to take any further action unless C
Ref: DRN78034936contacted it again.
Then on 27 April,  Bank A wrote to C:
It is true that RBS are planning to incentivise  their W&G  customers to switch out and rebank
with other banks. But this process  has not yet commenced.
RBS will be writing to all eligible customers in the coming  months  The letter will also
provide instructions on how to switch  and which  banks are taking part. [Bank A] is going  to
be one of these banks.
But for now we cannot do anything as RBS has not commenced  the switching programme
and we do not yet know if this customer is eligible.
However if you do not hear from them by mid-May then I believe this will mean that the
incentive scheme will not be going through and I do not want  you to miss out on switching
your accounts  information  across therefore we will process  the switch and will have to forget
about the incentive
I think  this once again  casts  doubt on what the RM told C, and this was another  opportunity
for C to pause  and investigate the matter  further but there is no evidence  it did. C continued
with the switch.
I appreciate Cs point  that it was entitled  to rely on what the RM said. I can also see why it
wanted to take action swiftly given its urgency to secure funding. However, C has said that it
had been with NatWest for over 20 years and it really didnt want  to leave NatWest if
possible. In such circumstances, it would be reasonable to expect  that it awaited the formal  
information from NatWest before proceeding with a big change like switching the bank or sought  
further clarification  especially after the call on 20 April.
I consider that had it pursued this issue further,  it would have  come to light that there was no
need for it to switch at that time and that would have allowed it to renew  its discussion with
NatWest about its funding.
Therefore I do not think that NatWest could fairly be held responsible for subsequent
difficulties caused  due to C proceeding with the switch. As I noted  earlier, from its
perspective it had addressed Cs complaint at the time.
However, it is clear  that the RMs advice resulted  in C engaging in activities to start the
switch of its account. As noted earlier,  Mr F told NatWest  that C had to spend six weeks on
this and during that call he explained  the various things C had to do in that regard.
Thus, though I think C could have paused the switch following the telephone call on 20 April,
it was put to those inconveniences  until then by RMs advice. So I think  it is fair that NatWest
compensate C for the inconvenience caused by RMs initial advice. Taking  into account  what
Mr F told NatWest during  the call as to what the company  had to go through  as a result, I
think a payment of £500 would be fair and reasonable in relation to this matter.
May 2018 to September  2018
Soon after the account was opened with Bank A, it appears that C got a £20,000 loan from
Bank A but it says this wasnt  sufficient to its needs.
C says that the lack of funding  during  this period  meant that it had to use operating  capital to
stay afloat and that in turn affected its credit rating leading to a series  of difficulties. It says
that it sought  funding  from NatWest during  this period,  but the bank conflated its request with
the switch misinformation  complaint. It says NatWest said that it wouldnt consider further
Ref: DRN78034937funding when  the complaint  is being considered, and by the time it responded  in October /
November 2018, NatWest  said that Cs credit  rating has been  affected and so it wouldnt
offer a loan.
I havent seen any evidence of C approaching NatWest  for funding during this period. Also,
the situation from NatWests perspective was that there was no open complaint as it had
already answered the complaint on 26 April 2018. So it is not clear to me why, if after the
switch C had approached  NatWest for a loan, the bank would say that it couldnt consider a
loan as a complaint was ongoing.
So based on available information I am unable to conclude that there  was any error or
omission on part of NatWest  during  this period.  That said if C is able to produce any
evidence to show that it did contact NatWest  for additional  funding soon after it switched the
account with Bank A, I am prepared  to review it.
October 2018 onwards
There is a final response letter to Cs complaint  from NatWest in October 2018. It is
unclear when  the complaint was raised. The letter  explained that the switch scheme will only
launch in February 2019 and if C did not want  to switch  it could remain  a business customer
of NatWest. It apologised for any incorrect advice  given to C by either  branch or telephony
staff.
Another final response letter  was sent in November  2018.  It said that based on new
information provided  by C, NatWest had reactivated  the complaint. It once again  explained
the position in relation to the switch scheme. It went on to state that it was unlikely that C
would have been advised  by RM to make a switch to a challenger bank prior to the Business
Banking Switch start date of 25 February 2019. As regards the funding, it said that C could
apply for it and that would be subject to the usual criteria. Further letters were sent in 
March and April 2019 by NatWest along similar lines.
Mr F is clearly unhappy  with NatWests response that it wouldnt have been possible for the
staff to know the names of the participating  challenger banks until December 2018.  He says
there is clear and substantial evidence  to show that the names of the challenger banks were
known as early as 2017.
Mr F is also unhappy  that the bank upheld  his complaint in October  2018 only to retract  from
it in November.  In my view this relates to the way NatWest handled his complaint  and that is
not something this service is able to consider. The rules governing which complaints  we can
look at are set out in the Dispute  Resolution:  Complaints (DISP) section of the Financial
Conduct Authoritys (FCA) handbook. DISP 2.3 sets out which activities fall within our
compulsory jurisdiction.  Complaint handling isnt a regulated or otherwise  covered activity.
So we cant investigate a compliant that is solely about complaint handling.  However, though
I cannot consider  how NatWest handled the complaint,  as can be seen earlier,  I have
accepted Cs version of events  as to what it was advised  by RM.
In summary
1. I consider it more  likely  that the RM gave some incorrect information  at the outset.  This
caused C to take steps to switch its account to Bank A resulting in avoidable
inconvenience. NatWest should pay £500 to C for this.
Ref: DRN780349382. However, there was adequate  information  to C that suggested what  RM said might not
be accurate. C could  have paused the switch and sought more clarification. Had it done
so I think  any confusion created by RM would have been resolved and C may have got
the funding it needed from NatWest. But it failed to do so and carried on with the switch.
So, I dont think it is fair to hold NatWest  responsible  for subsequent difficulties that
arose to C.
3. I have also seen no evidence to show that C contacted NatWest soon after the switch for
funding and that it was unfairly rejected.
my provisional  decision
I appreciate this will come as a disappointment to C, but my provisional decision  is that this
complaint should be partly  upheld and in full and final settlement of the complaint,
National Westminster Bank Plc should pay C £500.
Raj Varadarajan
Ombudsman
Ref: DRN7803493