K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that Capital Cash Limited  trading as Cash Converters mis-sold  a pawn 
agreement. He feels the pawned items  were  undervalued. He wants compensation.
background
Mr K tells us he visited a Cash Converters shop in order to sell some unwanted jewellery. He 
says he asked how he could obtain the highest price and was advised to enter a buy back 
agreement. He said he was told that this would allow  him to buy back the items in due 
course. He says he received £1,000 against the items and was told that if he didnt reclaim 
the jewellery the company  would  make very little profit - if they was lucky  they would get 
about £250 on top - if it sold the items.
He says hes received  a letter saying  the items are to be sold in order to repay the loan.  Mr K 
says the letter states the items  will be sold for £3,050 which  he says is much  more than hed 
been led to believe. He wants  to know why - if the goods are worth £3,050 - he was only 
offered £1,000. He feels he should  have been  offered somewhere  around  the £2,300 mark. 
Cash Converters told us Mr K entered the agreement in April 2017. And the nature of the 
agreement was explained to him beforehand - and he signed it to confirm  his understanding.  
It said it wrote to Mr K in September 2017 to advise that the agreement would expire in 
October. It said Mr K hadnt responded until November - by which time the agreement  had 
expired. It said that Mr K had contradicted himself by first claiming he wanted  to enter a buy 
back agreement but later saying he wished to sell the items. Cash  Converters said that, as a 
gesture of goodwill, it had held the goods  and offered Mr K the chance to repurchase  his 
goods at the agreed price together with accrued  interest. But in February 2018 - as interest  
was still accruing and Mr K had not tried to redeem the items - it determined  to go ahead  
with the sale.
Cash Converters explained that the sold items  had realised £1,850 - with two items  
(estimated value £450) being sent to auction  as they remained unsold in the shop. And as 
the loan had accrued interest  of £1,900  this meant  £2,900 was owed on the agreement.  As 
there was a shortfall of £600 it said there would be nothing to return to Mr K - but it would 
write off the deficit.
Our adjudicator did not recommend the complaint should be upheld. He said he thought  Mr 
K had been  aware of the contract he was entering into as hed signed the agreement.  He 
said Cash Converters had the right to decide  what it would lend in exchange for the items - 
and it was for a customer to decide if they wished to accept the offer.  He felt Cash 
Converters had acted  fairly in holding the items and giving Mr K the time to buy them back.  
But if theyd  continued  to hold them this would have  meant Mr K incurring further  interest 
charges.
Mr K didnt agree with this outcome and said he wanted an ombudsman  to make the final 
decision. The case has now been  passed to me and Ive set out my final decision below.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN78647562Im sorry  Mr K feels  disappointed over the way things turned out after hed entered into the 
agreement related to his jewellery. Its obviously difficult to know exactly  what  took place in 
the shop at the relevant  time and I accept  Mr K thinks he was misled regarding  the nature  of 
the agreement.
In trying to resolve complaints, we listen to what the parties tell us, and we look to 
documentary and other evidence to help us reach a decision. This is in combination with our 
fair and reasonable remit. Where evidence is unclear, incomplete or contradictory  - as some 
of it is here - I make  my decision on the balance  of probabilities.
Mr Ks complaint amounts to an allegation  of misrepresentation. A misrepresentation is a 
false statement of fact which induces a customer to act upon it. In his original complaint 
letter to Cash Converters,  in November 2017, he refers to believing he was entering  into a 
buy back agreement.
I understand the buy back option  allows a customer to raise  money  - with the guarantee 
that they will be able to repurchase the goods  they deposit as a security  for the same  
amount. This is subject  to a facility  charge  and the money usually has to be repaid within 28 
days or an extension requested - which would come at an additional  cost.
In this case Mr K signed a pawn agreement in the form of a fixed sum loan.  This loan was for 
£1,000 and was repayable after six months together with £600 interest.
Ive seen the Standard  European  Consumer Credit  Information (SECCI) form - which  
appears to have been completed before the agreement was made.  This lists the terms and 
conditions of the agreement as well as the items which are being deposited. And Ive seen a 
copy of the agreement, in Mr Ks name, which bears  what appears to be his signature. Both 
documents clearly  state they relate to a pawn agreement.
So I think its more probable than not that Mr K knew he was entering into a pawn broking 
arrangement. Im supported in that view as Ive seen no evidence  he made any attempt  to 
buy back the items  after the first 28 days or seek an extension to the agreement. And 
whilst hes referred to being told the items could be bought  back in due course,  I dont  think  
its plausible that he would think this would be an open-ended option.
I can see Cash Converters wrote to Mr K in September to alert him to the need to repay the 
loan and to warn that the goods could be sold if he didnt  do so. And this was followed up by 
a letter  in October saying that - as Mr K had not redeemed  the goods  and repaid the loan - 
the items  would now be sold.
When Mr K complained, in November,  Cash Converters  replied  on 12 December explaining 
the agreement  was a pawn broking agreement and setting out a calculation  based on an 
intended sale price  of £3,050. But it explained this was valid only on the date of the letter 
and that interest  would accrue daily. It also explained that once a true value of sale was 
known it would inform  Mr K of the actual figures  and it reminded him that he could redeem 
the goods at any time prior to their being sold. 
Im satisfied that Cash Converters gave  Mr K every opportunity  to redeem the goods  and 
repay the loan.  As he didnt so, it was entitled - in accordance with the terms and conditions 
of the agreement - to sell the items  in an attempt to cover the amount outstanding on the 
loan.
Ref: DRN78647563Regarding the valuation  of the goods, thats simply a matter  between the business and the 
customer. The business states  the amount it is prepared  to lend using the goods  as a 
security. Its then open to the customer to accept or refuse that offer. Theres  no obligation 
on the business to offer a loan which is commensurate with the value  of the goods. And I 
would think it would  be apparent that a business would wish to ensure that - in the event it 
needed to sell the goods- that it would  be able to cover the amount of the loan together with 
any interest and charges  incurred.
Most of the items deposited by Mr K have now been sold. And a shortfall  in the amount  
owing under the agreement has arisen.  Ive seen no evidence  that the items have been sold 
at any undervalue  - and it wouldnt be in Cash Converters interest to have done so. Whilst 
its recovered the cost of the original loan and interest - it hasnt covered the amount of 
additional interest which was incurred when  Mr K failed to redeem the loan. But as its 
written off this amount  I cant say its acted unfairly.
In summary,  I do not think there was any mis-selling or misrepresentation of the agreement.
And I think Cash Converters acted fairly in holding the goods for longer than was required - 
in order to allow a Mr K further  chance to pay back the loan and repossess his jewellery. Its 
acted fairly  in writing  off the shortfall  when the sale price failed to cover  the balance  
outstanding on the loan.
So whilst I know it will come as a disappointment to Mr K Im not upholding this complaint.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 26 July 2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7864756