K820x#14complaint
Mr T, on behalf  of L Limited,  complains that British Gas Insurance  Limited wont  pay for a 
replacement boiler  at a property  L Limited owns.
background
L Limited has a HomeCare insurance policy with British Gas Insurance  Limited (BG) to cover 
a tenanted property which it owns. 
The policy covers the propertys boiler and central  heating system, amongst other things. 
And it includes an annual  service of the boiler.
In September  2018, a BG engineer attended the property  as the tenants were having  
problems with their heating and hot water. 
The engineer said the heat exchanger in the boiler  had been damaged  by sludge and scale 
in the central heating  system. He said the boiler was beyond  economical repair  and advised 
L Limited to replace it.
Mr T says he contacted BG to complain. And when he wasnt happy with the timescale  they 
gave for resolving the issue, he had the boiler replaced  at a cost of £1,800. He also 
refunded a months rent to the tenants,  who were without heating  and hot water  for a period 
of time.
Mr T asked  BG to pay for the replacement  boiler   and to recompense him for the lost rent 
(£1,700).
BG refused and pointed out that the policy  doesnt  cover replacing boilers above a certain 
age and that it doesnt cover damage  caused  by sludge and scale.  They  admitted Mr T had 
received some poor service and offered him £50 in recognition  of this to conclude his 
complaint to them.
Mr T believes that any issue with sludge and scale should have  been  picked up at the 
annual services BG carried out on the boiler. He wasnt happy with BGs response and made 
a complaint to us.
Our investigator looked into it and didnt think BG had done anything wrong. Mr T disagreed 
and asked for a final decision from an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
When Mr T complained to BG after the engineers visit in September 2018, he was offered a 
second opinion  on his boiler.  He said he didnt want to take that up. Hes also said hes 
happy to accept BGs view that the boiler was beyond economical repair and the damage 
was caused by sludge and scale in the system.
So, theres no argument here about the nature  and cause  of the damage to the boiler.
Ref: DRN77896342The policys  terms and conditions directly  address  what happens when the boiler  and/or  
central heating systems  are damaged by sludge and/or scale. Under the heading Whats not 
covered, they say:
Damage  caused  by limescale,  sludge  or other  debris  if weve told you before that 
you need to carry  out repairs,  improvements or a British Gas Powerflush, or a similar  
process, but you havent done so. 
BG say they had previously advised  Mr T that the boiler needed replacing. Ive seen a copy 
of their system  contact  notes which record visits to the property since 2012. There  are over 
30 visits recorded in all. 
On seven occasions between October  2012 and June 2018, the visit records include a 
Code 5. BG tell us this code indicates  that the engineer  recommended that the customer  
replace the existing boiler.
Theres also a further visit record in November 2012 which says ADV SCALE AND 
SLUDGE NOT COVERED. 
I dont doubt the truth of the visit reports completed by BGs engineers.  However, the notes 
arent detailed  enough  to record who specifically  was given  the advice or recommendations 
offered by the engineer.  And I bear in mind that this is a tenanted property.
The paragraph quoted above, from the policy terms & conditions, clearly says damage from 
sludge and scale  wont be covered  if BG have told you (and I assume that to be the 
policyholder) that repairs, improvements or flushing were  required.
Whilst the visit reports give some  evidence of what went on at the various  visits, I dont think 
they provide definitive proof  that Mr T was ever told that his boiler and/or central heating 
system needed attention.
However, I dont think thats crucial  to my decision in this case, because the policy terms and 
conditions also say, under  the heading Whats covered :
A replacement for your boiler  if we cant repair it and:
Its less than seven  years old
Or its between  seven and ten years old, we installed it and its been 
continuously covered by British Gas
Or it caught fire or exploded.
BGs engineer estimated  that Mr Ts boiler  was at least ten years old (their visit report notes 
suggest the system  was installed in 1990). Mr T hasnt suggested that isnt the case. He 
bought the property in 2012 and took out the policy with BG at around  that time.  So, I dont 
think theres any evidence  here that would contradict the engineers opinion.
So, its reasonably  clear under the terms and conditions  of the policy  (as set out above) that 
BG arent obliged to replace Mr Ts boiler, because its more  than seven  years  old (and the 
other criteria  dont  apply).
Ref: DRN77896343Mr T says BG should nonetheless pay for the replacement in this case because  his boiler 
wouldnt have been damaged beyond  repair if BG had carried out the annual service  
effectively. His point  being that it would   or should  - have been evident  that there was 
sludge, scale or debris in the system when it was serviced.
The policy terms and conditions relating to the annual service say:
One of our engineers  will visit your home once a year to check  that your appliance,  
boiler or central heating and ventilation is working  safely and in line with the relevant 
laws and regulations.  Well  also test the gases  your appliance or boiler produces.  If 
these tests show that its necessary to take your appliance or boiler apart  to adjust or 
clean it, well do so.
During the visit, our engineer will fill in a checklist that shows  you exactly what weve 
looked at.
If we find a problem  or fault that needs to be fixed,  well tell you about it.
Theres no evidence in this case to suggest  BGs engineers  at any of the annual  services  
failed to carry out the tests BG promise.  And theres no undertaking, in the terms and 
conditions (as above)  that BG will test for sludge or scale in the system, unless this in some 
way causes the gases produced by the boiler  to appear abnormal.
So, I cant see that BG have acted  unfairly or unreasonably towards L Limited in the way 
theyve carried out the annual service  of the boiler.  I also bear in mind that boilers do have a 
shelf life  and no matter how well they might be maintained or serviced, they will need  to be 
replaced at some point.
In summary,  L Limiteds policy  clearly says BG will not replace boilers  above  a certain age. 
L Limiteds boiler  in this case is older than that. And Im satisfied BG met the obligations set 
out in the policy in terms of annual servicing of the boiler.
Mr T has also raised issues  about customer service. And in particular, hes concerned about 
the distress and inconvenience  suffered by his tenants, who had young children in a property  
without heating and hot water for a period of time.
BG have  sent Mr T a cheque for £50 for his trouble and upset   and theyre  also dealing with 
a separate complaint from the tenants. The outcome of that separate  complaint isnt my 
concern in this decision. 
In terms of the poor service Mr T says he received  and which BG have admitted  much of 
this is about the way they handled  Mr Ts complaint  after the engineers visit in September  
2018. 
Mr T seems to think  that the response  times for the complaint were  inappropriate because 
this delayed the replacement of the boiler  and so impacted  his tenants. 
But thats not the case, in my view. BG had already made it clear to Mr T that the boiler was 
beyond economical  repair  and that they wouldnt be paying  for a replacement.  At that 
point, he was free to take whatever action he saw fit to ensure the property had heating  and 
hot water.
Ref: DRN77896344Complaints handling  is not a regulated activity,  but even if it were,  in the context set out 
above, I dont  think its unreasonable for BG to pay Mr T £50 for the inconvenience he 
experienced.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold L Limiteds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T (on behalf of 
L Limited) to accept  or reject my decision before 15 February 2019.
Neil Marshall
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7789634