K820x#14complaint
Mr D says Bank of Scotland plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold him a mortgage payment  
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
Mr D took out a PPI policy with a mortgage  in 1998. Mr D paid for the PPI with a regular  
monthly premium, which didnt attract interest.  It covered his mortgage payments in case 
Mr D was off work sick or lost his job.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr D disagreed with the adjudicators opinion, 
so the complaint has been passed to me to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr Ds case.  
Ive decided that Mr Ds PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  Ill explain why.
Mr Ds mortgage application  had a section for PPI. It briefly  explained  what  it was for and 
only recommended  he thought about  it. It offered him more details if hed like. Then there 
was a box Mr D could  sign if he wanted PPI, or which could be left blank if he didnt want  it. 
Mr D signed for PPI, separately  to signing the mortgage application as a whole.  He also 
signed and submitted a separate application specifically for PPI, which set out its cost 
separately to the mortgages cost, rather than as something that was necessarily included 
for instance. So I think that Halifax made  Mr D aware he had a choice  about  buying the PPI, 
and that he chose to take it  even if, understandably, he no longer remembers doing  so.
Halifax recommended  the PPI to Mr D, so it had to check  it was right for him. And based on 
what Ive seen of his circumstances at the time, I think it was. For example, Mr D wasnt  
affected by any of the policys main  exclusions or limitations. While he had some sick pay 
through work, the PPI covered him for more than twice as long and paid out on top. And he 
doesnt seem to have  had any other  cover in case he lost his job, which  was always  a risk no 
matter how secure it seemed. Its worth bearing in mind that the mortgage  was a large, long-
term commitment  and was Mr Ds sole responsibility. And if he fell behind on his payments, 
he risked losing his home.  So the PPI couldve really been useful for Mr D in protecting  his 
home and giving some peace of mind. 
The PPI application  set out the policys cost and benefit clearly, and I can see Mr D was also 
given its cost on his mortgage quotation. So I think Mr D wouldve understood how much  he 
would need to pay for PPI if he took it out. 
Lastly, its possible that Halifax didnt point out all the main  things the policy wouldnt cover. 
But as I said above,  Mr D doesnt appear to have been affected  by any of those things. 
Ref: DRN74795202my final decision
For the reasons  I explained above, I dont  uphold Mr Ds complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 April 2019.
Adam Charles
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7479520