K821x#15complaint
Mr G says Elevate Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, irresponsibly lent to him. 
He is also unhappy  that Sunny didnt respond  to his emails when he was suffering  financial 
difficulties.
background
This complaint is about nine short term loans Sunny provided to Mr G between  
May 2018 and September 2018. The loans were repayable  by six instalments to be paid 
every four weeks. All the loans have been  repaid. Mr Gs borrowing history is as follows:
Loan number  Date of 
loanRepayment date Loan amount 
1. 3/5/18 17/7/18 £150
2. 7/5/18 17/7/18 £100
3. 10/5/18 10/8/18 £100
4. 14/5/18 10/8/18 £100
5. 9/8/18 25/1/19 £100
6. 17/8/18 25/1/19 £100
7. 25/8/18 25/1/19 £150
8. 28/8/18 3/9/18 £100
9. 14/9/18 25/1/19 £100
Mr G is also unhappy that Sunny didnt respond to his emails when he was experiencing 
financial difficulties. He first sent an email  to Sunny on 16 October 2018 to ask for a 
repayment plan for his four outstanding loans. Mr G wanted to reduce the repayment  
amounts and repay over a longer period. This was because  he was receiving up to £300 a 
month less income  due to strike action at his employer. Mr G didnt receive a response  to his 
email. Nor did he receive a response to his follow up email which he sent 12 days later.  As 
he didnt receive  a response  to the email  dated  16 October 2018, he said that he got 
desperate and took out a loan for £250  with another lender to aid his repayment plan. It was 
repayable over three months. He is seeking compensation for the hardship caused by 
Sunnys failure  to respond to his request.
our adjudicators view
Our adjudicator recommended  that Mr Gs complaint  should be upheld in part. She said that 
Loans 4 to 9 shouldnt have been given to Mr G. By Loan 4 Mr G had three other  
outstanding loans with Sunny. And the lender ought  to have been alerted to the possibility 
that Mr G might have problems managing his money. By Loan  6 the overall  pattern of 
borrowing suggested that Mr G was persistently reliant on short  term loans. The adjudicator  
didnt deal with Mr Gs complaint about Sunnys failure to assist  with his financial difficulties.
Sunny disagreed and responded to say that Mr G only used on average 1.96% of his income  
to repay  each loan.  Sunny  said that it allowed consumers to take up to four loans with it at 
any one time and it also took other  loans into consideration when it made  its assessment. It 
said that it used  information obtained from Mr G about his income and expenditure (including 
other short term loans) and from credit  reference  agencies to assess  the loans. 
my provisional decision
Ref: DRN75277062After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr G 
and to Sunny on 25 February 2020.  I summarise  my findings:
I noted that when  Sunny  lent to Mr G the regulator  was the Financial  Conduct  Authority 
(FCA) and relevant regulations and guidance  included its Consumer Credit Sourcebook 
(CONC). The CONC contained guidance  for lenders about responsible lending. 
I said that Sunny needed to take reasonable steps to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. 
In practice this meant that it should have carried out proportionate  checks to make  sure Mr G 
could repay  the loans  in a sustainable manner.  These checks could take into account a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I thought  less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.   
But certain factors might  point to the fact that Sunny  should fairly and reasonably  have done 
more to establish that any lending was sustainable for the consumer. These  factors included:
the lower a customers income  (reflecting that it could be more difficult to make 
any loan repayments  to a given loan amount  from a lower  level of income);
the higher  the amount  due to be repaid (reflecting that it could be more difficult to 
meet a higher repayment from a particular level of income); 
the greater  the number  and frequency of loans, and the longer  the period of time 
during which  a customer had been  given loans (reflecting the risk that repeated  
refinancing may signal that the borrowing had become, or was becoming, 
unsustainable).
There might  even come a point where the lending  history  and pattern of lending itself clearly 
demonstrated that the lending was unsustainable.
I thought it was important  to say that Sunny was required to establish whether  Mr G could 
sustainably repay  his loans  not just whether the loan payments were affordable on a strict 
pounds and pence calculation. 
I explained that the loan payments  being  affordable on this basis  might  be an indication a 
consumer could sustainably make their repayments. But it didnt automatically follow  this 
was the case.  This was because the CONC defined sustainable as being without undue  
difficulties and in particular the consumer  should be able to make repayments, while meeting 
other reasonable commitments, as well as without having to borrow  to meet  the repayments. 
And it followed that a lender should realise, or it ought fairly  and reasonably to realise, that a 
borrower wouldnt be able to make their repayments  sustainably  if they were unlikely to be 
able to make  their repayments without borrowing further. 
Id carefully considered all of the arguments, evidence  and information  provided in this 
context and what this all meant for Mr Gs complaint.
Sunny made a number of checks before it lent to Mr G. It had asked him for details  of his 
income and expenditure. Mr Gs declared  income for all the loans was £1,690. Mr G had 
declared his expenditure as between £955  and £1,184 for Loans  2 to 9. Sunny didnt appear 
to have recorded any expenditure for Loan  1 although it had noted  Mr Gs disposable 
Ref: DRN75277063income as £1,130 for that loan. So it appeared to have made an assessment  of expenditure 
for that loan. 
Sunny also said that it had checked Mr Gs credit file before agreeing to the loans. It hadnt 
provided us with the results of its credit  checks.  So I couldnt say there  were  any adverse 
matters on its checks  that should  have caused  it additional concerns. But it did note that 
Mr G wasnt bankrupt or in an individual voluntary arrangement or in a debt management  
plan at the time he took out the loans. 
Wed not received a credit  report from Mr G so I couldnt say there was any adverse 
information on his credit report that I thought  should  have  caused  Sunny additional 
concerns. 
But I was aware that when a lender carried out a credit search,  the information it saw didnt 
usually provide the same level of detail that a consumers credit search would and it wasnt  
necessarily up to date. A lender might  only see a small  portion of a borrowers credit file, or 
some data might be missing or anonymised. I was also aware that not all payday  and short  
term lenders reported to the same credit  reference  agencies. So this might have explained 
any differences between the information  provided  by Sunnys credit checks and Mr Gs 
actual situation.
Mr G needed to make total monthly  equivalent  loan repayments of around £41 to £121.65 to 
Sunny for Loans 1 to 4. Loans 1 to 3 were still outstanding  when he took out Loan  4 eleven 
days after hed borrowed Loan  1. I thought the total monthly repayment  amounts for all four 
loans would have  appeared  relatively  modest compared to Mr Gs declared  income.  And 
although Mr G had up to four outstanding  loans with Sunny, I didnt think  the repayment  
amounts on Loans  1 to 4 were so large  that it was obvious they wouldve  caused Mr G 
financial difficulty.
So given Mr Gs repayment  amounts, what was apparent about his circumstances  at the 
time, and his history  with the lender, I didnt think it wouldve  been  proportionate for Sunny to 
have asked him for the amount of information  that would have been needed to show  Loans 1 
to 4 were unsustainable.  
And there wasnt anything  in the information  Mr G provided before Loans 1 to 4 or the 
information Sunny shouldve  been aware of, which meant it wouldve been  proportionate to 
start verifying what he was saying.  So I didnt think Sunny was wrong  to give Loans 1 to 4 to 
Mr G. 
But when Mr G borrowed Loan  5, he still had Loans  3 and 4 outstanding. Id also noted that 
Mr G had repaid both Loans  1 and 2 early.  I thought  this behaviour  might  have  caused  
Sunny some  concerns. I also thought that as Mr G was borrowing his fifth loan from Sunny in 
just over three months,  Sunny might have been  concerned that Mr G was becoming reliant 
on its loans. So I thought all this should  have  prompted  Sunny  to do some  additional checks  
such as gathering more  information about  his other short term borrowing. As far as I could 
see it didnt do this.
I would normally have  looked at the borrowers  bank statements to see what proportionate 
checks would likely  have shown. Id reviewed Mr Gs bank statements and could see that 
Mr G had at least two outstanding short term loans from other short term lenders. I thought  
Sunny wouldve found out similar information if it had made proportionate checks.  
Ref: DRN75277064So as Mr G would have  had at least five outstanding short  term loans in total when he took 
out Loan 5, I thought it would have been clear to Sunny if it had made  proportionate  checks  
that Mr G was facing problems managing his money and unlikely to be able to repay Loan 5 
in a sustainable manner. So I didnt think Sunny should have provided Loan 5 to Mr G.
Mr G took out Loan 6 eight days after taking out Loan 5. He had repaid Loans  3 and 4 early 
but Loan 5 was still outstanding. The loan amount was again £100. Even though Mr G would 
have had two loans from Sunny to repay, I thought  Sunny should still have been concerned 
that Loan 6 was Mr Gs sixth loan in around three  and a half months  without any break  in the 
borrowing and that his first four loans had been  repaid early. And there  wasnt  any sign of 
Mr G getting to grips with his borrowing. So again I thought this should have prompted  
Sunny to do some additional checks such as gathering information about  Mr Gs other short  
term loans. As far as I could see it didnt do this.
Again I would have  normally  looked  at the borrowers  bank statements to see what 
proportionate checks would likely have shown. Id reviewed Mr Gs bank statements and 
could see that Mr G had at least two outstanding short term loans  from other short term 
lenders. I thought Sunny wouldve found out similar  information if it had made  proportionate  
checks.  
So as Mr G would have  had at least four outstanding short  term loans when he took out 
Loan 6, I thought it would have been  clear  to Sunny if it had made proportionate checks that 
Mr G was facing problems  managing his money  and unlikely to be able to repay Loan 6 in a 
sustainable manner.  So I didnt think Sunny should have provided Loan 6 to Mr G.
Id looked at the overall pattern of Sunnys lending with Mr G to see if there was a point at 
which Sunny  should  reasonably have seen that further lending was unsustainable, or 
otherwise harmful. And so Sunny should have realised that it shouldnt  have provided any 
further loans.  
Given the particular  circumstances of Mr Gs case, I thought that this point was reached by 
Loan 7. I said this because:
Loan 7 was Mr Gs seventh loan in nearly four months. His first five loans had been 
repayable over a period of six months.  But Mr G always paid those loans off earlier 
than planned.  All the loans (except Loan  1) had been taken out whilst  Mr G still had 
at least one other loan outstanding  with Sunny. I thought that pattern of frequent  
borrowing and repaying early should have  indicated to Sunny  that Mr G was most 
likely having significant problems  managing his money.
Mr G wasnt  making  any real inroads  to the amounts he owed Sunny. Loan  7 was for 
the same  amount  as hed taken on Loan 1 and higher  than his previous five loans. 
And Mr G had paid large amounts of interest to, in effect, service  a debt to Sunny 
over an extended period.
Sunny  ought  to have realised that Mr G wasnt likely  borrowing  to meet  a temporary 
shortfall in his income but to meet an ongoing need. 
Ref: DRN75277065I could see that as Sunny didnt stop lending at this point, Mr G went on to take out another 
two loans whilst Loans 5 to 7 remained to be paid. I thought that Mr G lost out because 
Sunny continued  to provide borrowing from Loan  7 onwards because:
These loans had the effect of unfairly prolonging Mr Gs indebtedness by allowing 
him to take expensive  credit intended for short-term use over an extended  period  of 
time.
The number of loans  was likely to have had negative implications on Mr Gs ability  to 
access mainstream credit and so had kept him in the market for these high-cost 
loans.
The fact that all of the loans were  repaid didnt mean that they were  repaid 
sustainably, or without causing Mr G undue difficulty. 
Id noted that Sunny  had said that Mr G was paying an average  of 1.96% of his monthly  
income to repay the loans. This wasnt accurate as Mr G was often  paying  more than one 
loan back to Sunny so the total repayments were a larger percentage of his monthly income.  
And I thought Sunny  would (or ought  to) know from previous decisions (as well as whats set 
out on our website)  that there were cases where  this service considered the overall lending 
pattern and not just the affordability of each loan.  And there would  be times when the pattern 
of lending alone was enough to indicate that a consumer was likely to be in financial difficulty 
 or would otherwise be harmed should relending  have continued. 
And when  a consumer  borrowed numerous loans over a long period of time, it was most 
likely that the loans werent being  used for their intended purpose of temporary cash  flow 
problems. As Sunny  knew,  the FCA made it clear in a recent letter  to CEOs of high cost 
lending firms that a high volume of relending..might be symptomatic of unsustainable  
lending patterns. And I thought that was the case here.
Mr G had also complained that Sunny didnt respond to his three requests for help with his 
financial difficulties. Id seen two of his emails  and had asked the adjudicator to ask Mr G for 
a copy of the third email  which  he didnt have. 
As Id said above  Mr G had emailed  Sunny  to extend his repayment period and reduce his 
repayments as his monthly  income  had reduced  due to strike action being taken at his 
employer. He said that he was struggling  to repay his priority bills. In his complaint letter to 
Sunny, Mr G referred to Sunnys FAQs. These said that if a borrower was experiencing or 
anticipating problems  in making their payments on time, they should contact Sunnys 
Customer Service team by phoning or emailing them.  It said that it would  do everything it 
could to help the borrower  to get back on track.
I couldnt see that Sunny had responded to Mr Gs emails nor did Sunny respond to this 
aspect of Mr Gs complaint in its final response letter. I could  see from Mr Gs bank  
statements that his income was lower in October  2018 than the previous month  and I could 
also see that he had at least four other  short term lenders to pay. Mr G had outstanding 
loans with Sunny to the value of £450. Hed wanted to reduce his repayments from £133 to 
£75 per month  repayments he was due to be making for around another five months. So I 
thought that leaving him in limbo might  have caused him considerable upset and stress, and 
also increased his interest  burden since it would be likely that Sunny would have been 
expected to show forbearance  at that time and freeze or reduce the interest payable. So I 
Ref: DRN75277066didnt think that Sunny had acted appropriately here. It had a responsibility to treat its 
customers in a positive  and sympathetic manner in such situations. So I thought  that Sunny 
should pay Mr G £150 compensation  for the distress caused by its failures.
Mr G said that he had to take out another loan to repay his four loans with Sunny which  
caused him further hardship. I had asked  the adjudicator to ask Mr G for details of the loan 
hed taken out. Mr G said that hed taken  out another  loan for £250  on 16 October  2018.  I 
could see the loan on his bank statements, although  it wasnt  from the lender hed 
mentioned to us. I could  see that Mr G took out another short term loan with another lender 
six days later. But I couldnt be sure that the loan on 16 October 2018 was taken out solely 
for the purpose  of paying Sunny as Id noted that Mr G had four other  short term lenders to 
pay. So I didnt  think I could also order Sunny to refund Mr G the interest hed paid on that 
loan.
Subject to any further representations by Mr G or Sunny my provisional decision was that 
I intended to uphold this complaint in part and say that Sunny should put things right as 
follows.
putting things right  what Sunny needs  to do
Pay Mr G compensation of £150;
Refund all interest  and charges Mr G paid on Loans 5 to 9 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were paid to 
the date of settlement*;
Remove all adverse entries  about Loans 5 and 6 from Mr Gs credit  file; and 
Remove all entries about Loans 7 to 9 from Mr Gs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Mr G responded to my provisional decision to say that he had nothing to add.
Sunny responded to my provisional decision at length. It said,  in summary:
Compensation for hardship caused  by alleged failure to respond 
According to its customer  system records, Sunny received one email from Mr G on 
28 October 2018 although he stated  in that email that he had sent an earlier email to it. It 
had no record of receiving  that earlier email. In any case, its system  shows that it responded 
to his email of 28 October on 5 November 2018  asking  him to get in touch so it could help 
him further.  Its system showed  the email was delivered successfully to Mr Gs email 
address. It had no record of him contacting it until Mr G made repayments towards two 
Sunny loans on 25 January 2019.  On the basis of the information it held, it did respond 
appropriately to Mr Gs request for assistance  and if he had contacted  it, it would have taken 
the actions set out in its email. 
Loan 5  proportionality of checks 
Ref: DRN75277067Sunny referred  to my saying that it should have  done more checks  before Loan 5 such as 
gathering more information  about  Mr Gs other  short term borrowing. Sunny said this wasnt  
correct. It took into account any other credit commitments he had, including other  short term 
borrowing, via the credit reference agencies  (CRAs).  This was in addition to asking him to 
tell it about his other credit commitments  in his application. It used the higher  of what he 
declared and his credit commitments that were  reported to the CRAs. It also took into 
account what he was repaying in connection with his outstanding Sunny loans. 
Repaying early
Sunny referred  to my saying that Mr G repaying  Loans 1 and 2 early  might have caused it 
concern. Sunny said that this wasnt automatically  the case. Repaying loans early  wouldnt 
have caused it concern  in Mr Gs case because it had carried out proportionate affordability  
checks each time he had applied for a loan which demonstrated the repayments he was 
committing to were  sustainable. Further, its interactions with him and his repayment record 
collectively didnt suggest he was experiencing problems. The motivations for a customer 
repaying early couldnt be automatically  said to be due to them having problems managing 
their money.
Method of verification 
Sunny referred  to my looking at a borrowers  bank statements  to see what  proportionate 
checks would likely  have shown. It said that reviewing bank statements wasnt a reliable 
method of understanding someones true financial  situation and might not reveal their real 
income or expenditures.  It did take into account all other credit commitments which were 
reported to the CRAs as well as the amounts  Mr G was repaying Sunny  when  it assessed  
his application.  Sunny said its customer records and Mr Gs repayment  record up to that 
point didnt indicate he was having problems. And it asked for any information  this service 
had that evidenced he was having  problems. Sunny also said that how and when a lender 
verified financial information provided  by a customer as part of its affordability assessment 
wasnt prescribed by law or regulation, and the requirement in CONC 5.2A.4 was that 
lenders must undertake  a reasonable assessment  of the creditworthiness of a customer 
before granting  credit. 
Other short term borrowing
Sunnys records didnt show that Mr G had five other  outstanding short term loans before 
Loan 5, otherwise he would have been  declined  for Loan 5. 
Loan 6
Sunny said that it wasnt automatically the case in every instance that a pattern of borrowing 
alone was evidence of problems as individual customers  would necessarily  manage  their 
finances in different ways. From its review  of Mr Gs complaint, there were no other factors in 
his case that suggested  he was having  problems before or by the time he applied for Loan 6:
Overall pattern of borrowing from Loan 7 
Sunny said that whilst the number of loans and pattern of borrowing might indicate someone  
could be having  significant problems managing their money,  it was only one factor and 
without other  evidence to support this, it wasnt automatically the case. The fact that Mr G 
was repaying more than one Sunny Loan at the same  time, would not of itself, indicate that 
Ref: DRN75277068he was experiencing difficulties or that lending to him was unsustainable. There  were also no 
other factors in Mr Gs case to suggest  the loans he was granted were  unsustainable. 
Sunny said that the FCA Dear CEO letter which Id quoted clearly provided that a high 
volume of re-lending may be symptomatic of unsustainable lending  patterns, but the FCA 
also said that robust affordability  assessments  were  key to minimizing harm  to consumers 
who chose to reborrow. The FCA did not state that a lending  pattern or number of loans 
alone was determinative of unsustainable  lending. 
Sunny also noted  that Id concluded  that after a period  of just three months, that Mr G was 
not borrowing  to meet a temporary shortfall  in income but to meet  an ongoing need. Sunny 
said that it was unclear  how Id established  that within this timeframe, Mr G had an ongoing  
need for credit, particularly as the FCAs definition of high cost short term credit in CONC 
contemplates that short  term credit  can include  repayments under an agreement up to a 
period of 12 months. 
Effect on Credit Rating
Sunny said that it was incorrect for this service to assume that the number of loans granted 
by it alone, in the absence  of any other  factors or evidence, necessarily impaired Mr Gs 
ability to access mainstream credit. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Ive thought carefully about everything that Sunny has said in response  to my provisional 
decision. Ive dealt with its main  points below.
Compensation for hardship caused  by alleged failure to respond 
Ive seen Sunnys  response to Mr Gs email dated 28 October  2018  asking for help. I note 
that Sunny sent its response on 5 November 2018. It said that it hadnt received Mr Gs 
earlier email dated  16 October 2018.  But even if it hadnt received Mr Gs earlier email, it 
would have seen  that Mr G referred  in his later email  to an earlier email having been sent. 
So I think it would have  been reasonable for it to respond quicker to Mr Gs request than it 
did. Sunny  took 8 days to response to Mr Gs second request for help, knowing that an 
earlier request had been made. So in these circumstances  I still think  that Sunnys delay 
here would have caused Mr G considerable upset  and stress, even if Mr G had received 
Sunnys email dated 5 November 2018. So I still think it would be appropriate  for Sunny to 
pay Mr G £150 compensation here for its failings.
Loan 5  proportionality of checks 
Ive explained  in my provisional decision why I think Mr Gs borrowing history  shouldve 
reasonably started  to raise concern by the time he asked Sunny for Loan 5. And I note that 
Sunny took into account any other  credit  commitments Mr G had, including other short term 
borrowing, via the CRAs.  This was in addition  to asking him to tell it about his other  credit  
commitments in his application. Sunny hadnt provided us with the detailed results  of its 
credit checks so I dont know what it would have seen on its credit  check.  And as Ive said 
Ref: DRN75277069above, Im also aware that not all lenders reported  to all credit reference agencies.  I also 
note that Sunny asked Mr G for his credit commitments. I cant be sure that he would have 
understood from this that he had to tell it about  his short  term loans. So I think it would have 
been proportionate for it to have gathered specific information from Mr G about his short 
term loans before Loan 5. I cant be sure that Sunnys checks  achieved  this.
 
Repaying early
I note that Sunny said that the motivations for a customer  repaying early cannot be 
automatically said to be due to them having  problems  managing  their money.  But I think  that 
a borrower repaying  some  loans early isnt necessarily a positive indication  that his finances 
are healthy.  It may also be the sort of behaviour that would indicate  that someone  was facing 
problems managing their money and needed to refinance loans on a regular  basis. So I took 
this behaviour into account when looking at whether Sunny should have granted  its loans. 
Method of verification 
My reference to bank  statements above  was with regard to gathering  information  about 
Mr Gs other  short term loans  which I felt was a proportionate check before Loan 5. I needed 
to think about  what Sunny would have seen if it had carried out proportionate checks.  I 
would normally rely on a borrowers credit report or bank statements to show what  Sunny 
might have seen at the time. As I didnt have Mr Gs credit report, I thought the use of bank 
statements was a reasonable method to use to check  what  proportionate checks would have 
shown at the time. I wasnt  using bank statements here to understand Mr Gs financial 
situation but merely  to check what other short  loans  he had. 
Other short term borrowing
I think if Sunny had made what  I consider to be proportionate checks it would have seen the 
extent of his other borrowing.  
Loan 6
I think if Sunny had made what  I considered  to be proportionate checks it would have seen  
the extent of his other borrowing before Loan  6. As Mr G had at least  four outstanding short 
term loans when he took out Loan 6, I thought it would have been clear to Sunny if it had 
made proportionate  checks  that Mr G was facing problems managing  his money and unlikely 
to be able to repay Loan 6 in a sustainable manner. 
Overall pattern of borrowing from Loan 7 
I still think its reasonable to conclude that theres  a point at which the pattern of lending, in 
itself, indicates  that the lending isnt sustainable.  Im satisfied that point is at Loan  7 in this 
case. By then, Mr G had taken out seven loans  in just under  four months, and Loan 7 was 
his third loan in 16 days. Although I appreciate the amount of each  loan was relatively  small,  
he hadnt even  started  to repay Loans  5 and 6. Mr G had been indebted to Sunny for the 
whole of the period of almost four months during which hed been borrowing from it and was 
making no significant inroads into his outstanding debt.  
The purpose of short term loans was set out in guidance from the Office of Fair Trading 
(OFT) (Section 6.25 referenced  by CONC Section 6.7). They are a short term solution to 
temporary cash flow problems . The FCA defined what is meant  by this short term solution 
Ref: DRN752770610(credit due to be repaid  or substantially repaid within 12 months of advancement) but it 
doesnt define what is meant by a temporary cash flow problem. Its reasonable to consider 
that this could mean different things  for different consumers depending on their 
circumstances. And in this case, I think by the time Mr G asked for Loan 7 he wasnt likely to 
have been borrowing to solve a short term problem but rather to meet  an ongoing  need.
Effect on Credit
 Im not concluding that Mr G was unable to access any form of mainstream credit because  
of Sunnys loans.  But I think that borrowing from Sunny potentially limited  his access  to 
mainstream credit as the number of loans he borrowed was likely  to have been viewed  
negatively by other lenders. And so there  was a risk that agreeing  further credit at this point 
would cause harm. It may also be the case that Mr G might  have been treated unfairly by 
other lenders. But this complaint is against Sunny and so its actions or omissions are the 
focus of my decision.  
Considering everything, I still think that the redress I set out in my provisional decision is fair.
I appreciate that Sunny  disagrees  with the way Ive reached my view. In this decision Ive 
concentrated on dealing with the main points  raised that affect  the outcome of this complaint. 
I hope that setting  out the reasons as Ive done  will help explain how Ive reached my final 
decision. 
my final decision
My decision  is that I uphold this complaint in part. In full and final settlement of this 
complaint, I order Elevate  Credit International Limited, trading as Sunny, to:-
1.Pay Mr G compensation of £150;
2.Refund all interest  and charges Mr G paid on Loans 5 to 9 and pay interest of 8% 
simple a year on such refunded interest  and charges from the date they were 
paid to the date of settlement*;
3.Remove all adverse entries  about Loans 5 and 6 from Mr Gs credit  file; and 
4.Remove all entries about Loans 7 to 9 from Mr Gs credit file. 
*HM Revenue & Customs requires Sunny to take off tax from this interest. Sunny must give 
Mr G a certificate showing how much tax it has taken off if he asks for one. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 16 April 2020.
Roslyn Rawson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7527706