K820x#14complaint
Mr W has complained that Barclays Bank  UK PLC (Barclays) mis-sold him Additions and 
Current Account Plus packaged  bank accounts. 
Mr W has also complained that his account  was changed to a fee-free account but with a 
fee-paying Tech pack added to his account without his knowledge.
background
Barclays has already  addressed Mr Ws concerns about the Additions account  under a 
different complaint. However, Barclays said that our service is unable  to consider Mr Ws 
complaint about  the Current Account Plus because Mr W had complained  too late about  it. 
And it didnt  think it had done anything wrong  when it changed Mr Ws account  to a fee-free 
account with a fee-paying Tech pack added on.
One of our adjudicators considered what Barclays had said about the Current Account Plus 
and they agreed  that Mr W had complained  too late. Mr W accepted the adjudicators 
findings, so the complaint was passed to another adjudicator to then consider Mr Ws 
complaint about  the addition of the Tech pack to his account. And they concluded that 
Barclays hadnt done anything wrong when the Tech pack was added.
Mr W disagreed  with this, so the complaint  has been  passed to me for a final decision.
As Mr W accepted that our service couldnt  consider  his complaint about  the Current  
Account Plus,  I will only address Mr Ws concerns  about the Tech pack being  added to his 
account in this decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve explained how we handle 
complaints about  packaged bank accounts  on our website. And Ive used this approach to 
help decide what  to do about this complaint.  
Mr Ws complaint  is essentially  that Barclays changed his account from the Current Account 
Plus to a fee-free account but with a Tech pack added, without his consent.
I should start by saying  that Barclays didnt sell Mr W a further  packaged account in May 
2016. It chose  to withdraw the Current Account Plus at this stage.  And Barclays  was entitled 
to do this because  choosing what products it wants to offer is a legitimate  exercise  of its 
commercial judgement. So I cant say that Barclays was wrong to have withdrawn the 
Current Account Plus account or that it had to continue providing it to Mr W.
When Barclays withdrew the Current Account Plus, it moved  all of its customers  that had this 
account on to a fee-free account  with Tech Pack added. This was because  the benefits  on 
the Tech Pack most closely matched the ones  that were on the Current Account Plus. As 
this wasnt a further sale of a packaged account,  Barclays didnt need to get Mr Ws 
agreement before making this change. What Barclays did have  to do was to notify Mr W 
about the upcoming changes to his account.
Ref: DRN74665142Barclays says that in February  2016, it wrote to Mr W to say that the Current  Account Plus 
was being removed from its range of packaged accounts and that Mr W would be moved to 
a Barclays Bank Account  with a Tech pack added for £9.50 per month.  Barclays says it sent 
a follow  up letter to Mr W in May 2016  to confirm that his account had changed.
Barclays has provided a copy of the letters  it sent to Mr W, and the letters  have Mr Ws 
correct (current) address  on them. So I think the two letters that Barclays has provided  were 
likely to have been sent to Mr W.
In his response to the adjudicators view, Mr W said that he was unaware  that the monthly 
charges related to gadgets and phones that he did not possess. However, looking at the 
contents of the letters,  Im not persuaded by what Mr W has said.  I say this because  the 
letters clearly explain that Mr Ws account will be changed from a packaged  bank account  to 
a fee-free account with a Tech pack added. It explained the differences  in cover  on the 
insurance benefits between the existing Current Account Plus and the Tech pack.  It also 
explained that the monthly fee will increase to £9.50 a month.  The letters  went  on to explain 
the options available to Mr W, including doing  nothing if he was happy with the changes  and 
what he should do if he wasnt happy with the changes  being made to the account.
Mr W has said he was ill at the time and undergoing treatment. Im sorry to hear this and I 
appreciate that dealing  with correspondence  from his bank may not have been a priority for 
Mr W at the time. But I think Barclays took reasonable steps to tell Mr W about the changes  
that were due to take place on his account and made it clear to Mr W what his options  were, 
if he wasnt happy with the changes. And I think Barclays  gave him enough time to take 
action before the changes were due to take place.
So overall I think it would be unreasonable to require Barclays  to refund Mr W the Tech  pack  
fees when it had taken reasonable steps to make him aware of the changes that were due to 
take place on his account.
my final decision
Because of the reasons  given above, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr W to accept or 
reject my decision  before 13 September  2019.  
Thomas White
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7466514