K821x#15complaint
Mr A complains that Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited applied unfair charges 
when his hire purchase agreement expired.  He further complains its collection agents  failed  
on three occasions to collect  the car. He wants the charges to be reduced and compensation 
for the inconvenience  caused by the failed collections.
background
Mr A tells us that at the end of his hire purchase  agreement he made arrangements  for the 
collection of his vehicle  with the agents appointed by VWFS, a company Ill refer to as B. 
He says on three occasions B failed to collect the vehicle on the dates arranged. Mr A says 
he had arranged for his daughter to represent  him on these occasions - and shed taken 
unpaid time off work to do so. He says he has paid compensation to his daughter  for this.
Mr A further complains that following an inspection of the vehicle, carried  out before it was 
collected, VWFS added charges including damage to four wheels, a tyre and a bumper. In 
particular he objected to the price charged  for a damaged tyre (£116.63) which he said was 
double the market price. And he said as a result  of this he didnt accept the other quotation 
for damage.  He also felt there was insufficient time between inspection and collection to 
allow for him to arrange for repairs to be done  privately.
VWFS said that Bs vehicle inspectors were fully trained and were audited  by the RAC to 
ensure inspections were  carried  out within the guidelines of the British  Vehicle Rental and 
Leasing Association  (BVRLA). It said the charges had been  applied in line with the terms 
and conditions of the agreement.
Our adjudicator recommended  the complaint should  be upheld in part. With the exception of 
one wheel she thought the damage charges had been fairly applied  in line with the BVRLA  
guidelines. And she thought that Mr A should  receive £150 compensation to reflect  the 
inconvenience caused by the three  failed collections.
VWFS accepted the view of the adjudicator but Mr A didnt.  He said he didnt think  £150  was 
sufficient to reflect the disgraceful performance  of B. As its not been possible to resolve  
this complaint an ombudsman has been asked to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Im sorry  that Mr A experienced  the upset and inconvenience that was caused  to him by the 
errors which occurred in relation to the collection of his vehicle. Although  these errors  
werent caused by VWFS  directly, they arose  from the mistakes made by its appointed 
agents. And as such VWFS (as it has acknowledged)  should  bear the responsibility in 
relation to this complaint.
Our adjudicator set out the details of the relevant BVRLA guidelines in her view - so I neednt  
repeat them.  I have seen the inspection report and photographs and I believe it depicts the 
damage for which the charges have now been  made. That is scratch  damage to three  
wheels, an unsatisfactory  repair to a bumper and a gouge to a tyre. 
Ref: DRN76609802I accept that Mr A is dissatisfied  with the level of charges and he is, of course, entitled to that 
view. But theres  nothing within the terms and conditions  of the agreement which meant  
VWFS had to have repairs carried out before  selling  the vehicle. Charges are made  to reflect  
the potential loss of value  of the vehicle when  it comes to be sold. And they include other 
aspects such as an estimate of labour charges which would otherwise have been incurred. 
And Id point out that if the sale of a vehicle was postponed - whilst repairs were  carried  out - 
it might  then result in other charges such as additional storage costs  being incurred. So its 
not just a straightforward comparison with the retail  price  of an item that needs  to be 
considered. I think the charges were properly applied  here and were  a reasonable and 
proportionate estimate  of the likely impact on the value  of the vehicle of the identified 
damage.
I dont accept Mr As suggestion  that there  was insufficient time allowed between inspection 
and the collection  of the vehicle in order to arrange repairs. He knew  when the agreement  
was due to end, the damage was visible and the amount of time required to rectify it would 
be relatively short. So I think he had a reasonable opportunity to make such  arrangements  
prior to any inspection.
I noted that Mr A referred to the adjudicators suggested award of £150 as being both a 
penalty and as derisory. I should  explain that as we are not the industry  regulator  (thats  the 
Financial Conduct  Authority) we dont impose penalties. So when we award compensation 
we dont do so to punish a business.  Our aim is to offer some measure of compensation to 
reflect the level of distress and/or inconvenience caused to a consumer if a business has 
made an error. 
Its relevant here - and our adjudicator explained this during the course of correspondence  - 
to say  that we cant award compensation for any loss incurred or inconvenience  
experienced by Mr As daughter. Shes  not the complainant. But I recognise that Mr A would   
have suffered some personal distress and inconvenience at having  asked his daughter to 
assist when things  turned out in this way. I think that is more  fairly reflected by an award of 
£250 and VWFS has now agreed with this.
In summary,  I acknowledge Mr A experienced a considerable  degree of inconvenience  over 
the collection of the vehicle. But I accept  he will be disappointed with that part of my decision 
which relates to the damage charges and which I think are fair and reasonable.
Its a matter for Mr A whether he accepts  or rejects  my decision.  But Id respectfully advise 
that whatever  option he chooses would apply  to all parts of the decision.
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above my final decision is Im upholding the complaint but only in part 
in part.
In order to settle this complaint I require Volkswagen Financial Services (UK) Limited to take 
the following  action.
1.Reduce the charge for damage  by £36;
2.Pay £250 compensation for distress and inconvenience  caused.
Ref: DRN76609803Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 October  2019.
Stephen D. Ross
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7660980