K820x#14complaint
Mrs A says her insurer, Calpe Insurance Company Limited, instructed a third party  garage  to 
repair her car following an accident. She says the garage caused further damage to the car 
and Calpe should supervise the further  repairs that are needed.
background
The investigator who looked at Mrs As complaint  didnt uphold it. Mrs A disagrees and so 
her complaint has come to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Having done so, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs As complaint. Ill explain why.
Our normal approach,  where an insurance company has arranged  for its customers  car to 
be repaired, is to say its responsible for the quality of the repairs and things connected with 
them. 
But in this case, from the information Ive got, I dont think  Mrs A claimed on her car 
insurance policy with Calpe following the accident. And I dont think it was Calpe  who 
arranged the repairs to her car. 
Looking at phone records weve  been  sent from the time of the accident,  its clear  Mrs A was 
intending to get the car repaired through a third partys car insurance. And thats what  
happened. It was the third partys insurer who arranged the repairs, and not Calpe. 
Mrs A thinks  Calpe is bound to supervise the further  repairs she says are needed. But, since  
Calpe didnt arrange the initial repairs, I dont  agree.  Although  I can understand Mrs A is 
unhappy about the further damage  she says was caused to her car, I dont think  Calpe  was 
in any way at fault for this. And that means I dont think Calpe needs  to do anything  to put 
things right.
Our investigator has explained  to Mrs A why we cant look at her complaint directly  against 
the garage (because, under our rules,  it isnt covered by our service).  I can see its confusing 
the garage network told Mrs A she could complain to us. I cant  say why it did this but I think  
it was wrong. 
Our investigator has also explained to Mrs A why we cant look at a complaint against the 
third party insurer (because, under our rules,  she isnt its customer). Ive got nothing  I can 
add to our investigators  explanations.
All I can say is I realise this will be a frustrating  and disappointing outcome for Mrs A. But, as 
Ive said, in this case, I dont think  Calpe did anything  wrong  and so theres  nothing  it needs 
to do to put things  right.
Ref: DRN71550142my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given, I dont uphold Mrs As complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 February  2019.
Jane Gallacher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7155014