K821x#15complaint
Mr H complained that he paid £250  cash into Nationwide Building Society, which has gone
missing.
Mr H said he paid in £250 cash to open  a new regular saver account,  but Nationwide didnt
credit his new account with the cash.  Instead  it transferred £250 from his current account.
background
Mr H had a 12 month  regular saver account  with Nationwide  which came to an end in June
2018. When it ended, Nationwide was offering  a new 12 month  regular saver, but it was only
available online.  Mr H doesnt do financial transactions  online, so he went to a branch to see
if he could open  one without having  to do so online. The branch agreed.
Theres a dispute  about what happened next:
- Mr H says he paid in £250 cash to open his new account.
- Nationwide said the new account  was to be set up with the money  transferred from
Mr Hs current  account.
Mr H wasnt given a receipt, and was told this was because the account was meant to be an
online account. Nationwide  has said it doesnt have a copy of any application  form or written
confirmation about the intended deposit.
On 21 June, Nationwide sent Mr H a letter. This said that Mr H hadnt paid in any money  to
his new account.  It said he needed to pay in the minimum, and if he didnt do so within the
next 14 days, the account would close on 3 July.
Mr H went straight  to the branch with the letter, and asked what  had happened to his
misplaced £250.  He was told it would be investigated and hed be called. On 29 June, Mr H
rang Nationwide to chase for an answer. He was told that his money had been found, and
the interest had been backdated  to the opening  date.
On 2 July, Mr H went to the branch again,  to pay in another  £250  cash  for his July monthly
payment. He asked  the cashier to check that the balance  on the new account  was now
£500, which it was. Reassured by this, and the phone call hed had saying the money  had
been found, Mr H was satisfied that it was all now in order. So he decided  to set up a regular
monthly transfer from his current  account  to his new regular saver account. This would be for
the monthly payments for August onwards. But when Mr H checked the balance on his
current account, he was shocked to find that the June £250 had been  taken  from his current
account. Mr H said that at no time had he authorised a transfer  of £250 from his current
account for the June payment.
Mr H complained.
In its final response,  Nationwide said that it had spoken to the cashier whod opened the
account in June. Shed said that she had forgotten to transfer the £250 cash from Mr Hs
current account to his new regular saver account.  Nationwide apologised for this, and paid
Mr H £50 compensation, and an interest  adjustment of 78p for the loss of interest. But
Nationwide said Mr H hadnt paid in any cash on the day. It said the cashiers till had
balanced that day.
Mr H wasnt satisfied and complained to this service.
Ref: DRN72801782The investigator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint.  He noted that, in a phone call between  the
investigator and Mr H, Mr H had said that the £250  cash came from his previous Nationwide
regular saver account. However, the statements showed that on maturity,  the whole balance
and interest of that account had been transferred to a different new account.
The investigator also thought the call where  Nationwide told Mr H it had found his money
had just been a misunderstanding, with Nationwide meaning that the transfer  hadnt  been
done. He thought that £50 compensation for failing to make  the original transfer was fair.
Mr H was still unhappy. He said he had definitely  paid in £250 cash  on 6 June. This hadnt
come from his previous  regular saver account,  but from an inheritance  which he kept in a
safe at home. He disagreed strongly  with much  of what the investigator had said.  He said
the £50 Nationwide had paid him hadnt  been  for compensation  for not funding his new
regular saver, but for the time hed spent on visits. He also said he had call recordings. The
investigator asked Mr H to provide these, but Mr H didnt reply  in the timescale  requested.
my provisional findings
I issued a provisional decision on Mr Hs complaint.  Before doing so, I considered all the 
available evidence and arguments to decide  what would be fair and reasonable in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
I said that I understood that Mr H is very upset about the situation. He believes that 
Nationwide hasnt treated him fairly.  Hes also been  upset  by what seem  to have been some  
difficult encounters at the branch. Those difficult encounters arent relevant to the key point I 
have to consider.  The important issue is what happened when Mr H opened  his new regular 
saver account  in particular, the £250 to open the account.
The £250  to open Mr Hs new account
Mr H and Nationwide have different versions  of what happened:
- Mr Hs version  is that he paid £250 in cash to open the new account;
- Nationwides version is that the new account  was to be opened  by a transfer from Mr
Hs current account.
In my provisional decision,  I explained  that I cant always say for certain  what  happened, 
when theres a disagreement about what happened. So, whenever evidence conflicts, I look 
at surrounding  evidence, and make my decision on the basis of whats  more  likely to have 
happened.
I listened to the call recording between Mr H and the investigator. On that, Mr H did say
that hed paid the £250 cash from his maturing regular saver  account. I recognised  that Mr H
had since said that the money came from cash in his safe at home,  but he gave a different
version in that earlier call. I checked the statements  for the matured saver account, and
they showed that the whole balance plus interest was transferred to another new account. 
This call meant that I couldnt conclude that Mr H did pay cash to open his new regular saver
account on 6 June.
I said that if Mr H would like a copy of that phone call recording,  he could get in touch with 
the investigator, who would arrange to send it to him so he could  listen  to it.
Ref: DRN72801783I also considered Mr Hs request to Nationwide for CCTV coverage for the events of 6
June. CCTV can sometimes be helpful,  but only if there happens  to be a camera  at the
exact place where  the transaction took place,  and if its been retained.  Most financial
organisations dont keep  CCTV indefinitely,  whether  they run it themselves or outsource it to
another company, and 30 days isnt unusual.  When Mr H first wrote to us, he said he
mentioned CCTV when he went to the branch after realising on 16 July that the statements
didnt show what he thought they should. So this was longer than 30 days  after 6 June, so
unfortunately its not surprising that CCTV was no longer available.
Reason for Nationwides £50 payment
Mr H also disputed the reason for Nationwides payment of £50. He said it was for his
time visiting the branch. I couldnt know what was said in person at the branch, but 
Nationwides final response letter dated 18 July 2018 said I would like to apologise for the 
oversight in setting  up your transfer and in recognition of this I have arranged  for £50 to be 
credited to your Nationwide current account, by way of apology. In addition to this I have 
also arranged for 0.78 to be credited to cover  your loss of interest.  Nationwide had sent Mr 
H a copy of this, but I said he could ask for another  copy from the investigator..
Compensation
As Ive explained above, I couldnt conclude Mr H did pay cash to open his new regular 
saver account on 6 June.  But I also considered the upset  which  Mr H had, during this
process.
It would have been a shock, and very upsetting,  for Mr H to have received the 21 June letter
saying he hadnt  paid any money into his new regular saver. Mr Hs original complaint letter
said that within the hour I attended the branch which reflects  this concern. He said the
branch manager  told him hed get a call back, which didnt happen so Mr H rang
Nationwides call centre on 29 June.
I didnt have a call recording  for that call, but it was clear there was a misunderstanding.  Mr 
H believed £250  cash had been  found,  and Nationwide believed it had explained that a £250
transfer hadnt been done but would  be put right. But I bore in mind that Nationwide hadnt 
been able to provide a copy of an application form, or a signed transfer authority for the first 
payment on 6 June.  If it had obtained  these, it would  have been able to provide reassurance 
easily to Mr H, saying but this is what you signed  on the day,  when he first went back  to 
the branch. So the matter would have been  much more easily resolved. This service doesnt  
look at a financial organisations  processes, because thats the role of the regulator, the 
Financial Conduct  Authority (FCA). But I found  that the lack of documentary
evidence made  the whole process a longer and more stressful experience  for Mr H.
So I didnt consider that £50 compensation fairly  reflected  the trouble and upset which  Mr H
had as a result of this incident. I found that £150 would be more reasonable, so I intended to
order Nationwide to pay Mr H a further  £100 compensation.
responses to my provisional  decision
Nationwide didnt reply  to my provisional decision.
Mr H was very unhappy with the provisional  decision. He said that when his previous  
account closed  in June, he took out a new 12 month account  for which  he definitely paid in 
cash, but didnt get a receipt. It was only a month later that he realised anything was wrong, 
Ref: DRN72801784when he got a letter saying no money had been  paid in. Mr H also said that Nationwides 
£50 compensation  had been for visiting the branch. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Ive taken into account Mr Hs phone  call 
response to the provisional decision.
In Mr Hs earlier call to us, he said that he sourced  the cash  for the new account  from his 
maturing regular saver  account. Ive looked again  at the statement for Mr Hs matured 
regular saver account. This clearly shows that on 6 June 2018, the money was transferred to 
another account, not withdrawn in cash.  So I cant agree with Mr H that he used this money 
to start his next regular saver account with cash.
I recognise that Mr H has later said that the cash came from a safe he had at home. But his 
original evidence is clear. In my provisional decision I offered Mr H the opportunity to ask us 
for a copy  of the phone  call recording, but he hasnt taken us up on this. 
Mr H also says that the £50 compensation which Nationwide paid him was for visiting  the 
branch. Thats not what  Nationwides  letter said, and again  Ive offered Mr H a copy of that 
letter. 
But I do still consider  that Nationwides  £50 compensation payment wasnt  enough to reflect  
the shock, upset  and distress which Mr H suffered  as a result of Nationwides  21 June letter. 
So I find that Nationwide should pay Mr H a total of £150. As its already paid him £50, that 
leaves £100 more to pay.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part.  I order Nationwide  Building Society 
to pay Mr H a total of £150 compensation for trouble and upset. Its already paid him £50, 
which leaves £100 still to pay. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 April 2020. 
Belinda Knight
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7280178