K821x#15complaint
Mr T complains Integrity Asset Management  Limited (IAM) failed to transfer his deferred 
benefits from his occupational  pension  scheme into a Self-Invested  Personal  Pension (SIPP) 
which caused him a financial  loss. 
background
In 2016 Mr T consulted an advisor  from Integrity  Asset Management Limited  (IAM) to review  
his pension arrangements.  He was a deferred member of his employers occupational 
pension scheme  (OPS). Mr T obtained  a Cash Equivalent Transfer Value (CETV) dated 
1 November 2016 of around £893,500  from his OPS. This was guaranteed for three months,  
after which it would need to be recalculated. The discharge  pack  set out the OPSs 
requirements which had to be satisfied before the transfer could proceed. 
Mr T (and his wife) met with Mr R a pension transfer  specialist from IAM on 25 November 
2016 to discuss  the possibility of taking his benefits  flexibly in retirement  rather  than be 
restricted to an annuity. He wanted  to pass his pension savings to his children  after his 
death, and perhaps  use some funds to help them buy property. IAMs role was to assess  
whether the transfer from a defined benefit  scheme  was in Mr Ts best interests, and if so, 
arrange the transfer to a suitable SIPP  provider.  At the time of IAMs appointment the CETV  
would expire in two months time (on 1 February  2017).  
IAM engaged  a firm of pension transfer  specialists (H) to obtain information  from the OPS  
and produce an initial  analysis, after which IAM would provide the final Transfer Value 
Analysis (TVAS) report meeting FCA requirements.  IAM would send the completed 
paperwork to the SIPP provider which would submit it to the OPS  before 1 February 2017, 
otherwise the CETV would need to be recalculated. 
In late January 2017 IAM told Mr T the TVAS  report wouldnt be available  before the CETV 
guarantee date.  So Mr R and H agreed in a phone call that transferring from the OPS was 
the only way to meet Mr Ts objectives. Mr R met with Mr T on 27 January 2017 so the 
paperwork could be signed.  Mr T said he went ahead reluctantly as he was warned  transfer  
values had peaked, but he says he felt uncomfortable taking such a huge  decision without 
seeing anything  in writing. 
The OPS  transfer  discharge pack listed the requirements which  had to be met for the 
transfer to proceed. One of these was an Independent Financial Advisor  Confirmation 
Form confirming Mr T had been provided  with regulated financial advice for the purposes of 
section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015. But when the time came  to sign it, the actual 
form couldnt be found and there wasnt time to obtain a duplicate  from the OPS.  So IAM 
says it provided the SIPP provider  with a letter on its headed  paper to send to the OPS 
confirming it had provided the advice.  IAM sent the completed paperwork to the SIPP 
provider by email and post on 30 January 2017  for them  to forward to the OPS.  
The OPS  says it didnt  receive the advisor  confirmation letter  in time, so on 2 February 2017 
it advised the SIPP provider the CETV  would be requoted.  Mr T was told about the new 
CETV (of around £817,500) on 22 February  2017  and he agreed to proceed at the lower 
value. The transfer to his SIPP completed  on 3 April 2017, without Mr T seeing  the TVAS  
report, although hed had a verbal  discussion and had seen Hs initial analysis (based on the 
higher CETV). This concluded the transfer  was in Mr Ts best interests, as it met his 
Ref: DRN76236962objectives of maximising the amount of allowable tax-free cash  and enabled him to take his 
benefits flexibly compared to his OPS.
Mr T was unhappy at the £76,000 loss, so IAM complained to the OPS saying it should 
honour the original  CETV and to the SIPP provider for failing to pass  on the advice 
confirmation letter to the OPS in time.  Neither  complaint was upheld. So in 2018  IAM 
complained on Mr Ts behalf to the Pensions Ombudsman (PO) about the OPS  and SIPP 
provider. The PO was satisfied the OPS didnt receive IAMs letter  until after the guarantee 
date. But whether the SIPP provider  had emailed the letter in time (or at all) was irrelevant 
as it didnt include IAMs FCA number,  so didnt meet the OPSs requirements as set out in 
the discharge pack. The PO said it was IAMs responsibility to ensure the OPSs 
requirements were met, so the complaint wasnt upheld. 
On receipt of the PO determination Mr T held IAM responsible for his loss. IAM replied that 
two months was an unrealistically short  timescale  in which  to carry out the review  of the 
transfer at a very busy time for pension transfers  which also coincided with the Christmas 
holiday period.  So it wasnt fair to hold it responsible for transfer not completing in time.  The 
TVAS is an essential  part of the transfer  process, and IAM felt under  pressure  to produce a 
favourable analysis without having  the usual amount of time in which to complete the work. 
And while they were  ultimately able to recommend the transfer they shouldnt be held 
responsible for the loss, as a recalculated CETV  could have gone in Mr Ts favour. IAM felt 
the OPS requirements  were unnecessarily  stringent as the legislation doesnt require the 
completion of a particular  form but simply confirmation the appropriate  advice had been 
given, which  its letter provided. While  omitting its FCA number had been an oversight, IAMs 
headed paper confirmed  it was authorised and regulated by the FCA and this could  easily be 
verified. And the regulations dont require the advisor confirmation to be received by the 
OPS scheme prior to the deadline, as long as they were satisfied advice had been  provided. 
IAM disagreed with the PO determination  but recognised it was binding  on all parties. So in 
January 2019  IAM provided its final response  to Mr T with referral  rights to our service. To 
resolve the complaint IAM initially offered Mr T £37,960 (half the difference  between the two 
CETVs), grossed up to £45,552  to be paid into his pension, and subsequently increased its 
offer on a commercial basis  to £47,960  to be paid in cash. Mr T declined both offers and 
referred his complaint to this service.  
One of our investigators  upheld the complaint and said IAM should  put Mr T in the position 
hed be in had the transfer completed  prior to the expiry of the original CETV. IAM disagreed 
saying the CETV had to be recalculated because the SIPP provider hadnt ensured the 
advice confirmation  letter reached the OPS by the guarantee date. It felt it was unfair and 
prejudicial  to hold IAM responsible for failures beyond its control.  
As agreement couldnt be reached IAM asked for an ombudsmans decision. 
Provisional findings 
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in December 2020, in which I agreed with 
the investigators conclusions, but set out my reasoning in more detail. Ive not reproduced 
the time line of events,  as much of it is not in dispute. 
In summary  I said:
Ref: DRN76236963This service cant comment on the PO determination or make findings  against the 
trustees of the OPS  or the SIPP provider, so the decision solely  concerns the actions 
of IAM;
Based  on the evidence its most  likely the CETV had to be recalculated  because  IAM 
failed to meet the OPSs requirements in full, which  included a compliant advisor 
declaration confirming the advice;
IAMs letter of engagement describes  the firm as pension transfer experts so should 
have been familiar  with the legislative requirement  to confirm financial  advice had 
been given;
Although IAM had been  appointed  one month in to the three-month guarantee period, 
and the Christmas holiday fell in the middle, Id seen no evidence IAM had warned 
Mr T the transaction may not complete within the time period or that the CETV might 
need to be recalculated;
IAM told Mr T the TVAS report wouldnt be available prior to the guarantee date 
expiring, but instead  of warning Mr T the CETV may need to be recalculated, it had 
committed to get the transfer done  within the deadline, arranging  a telephone 
discussion with H to ensure the transfer  was in Mr Ts best interests;
Mr T agreed  to go ahead on that basis to secure the CETV,  he didnt insist on 
delaying until the report was available;
I couldnt say how the OPSs  advisor declaration form was mislaid, but the OPS 
would have accepted a letter instead,  so long as it contained the same information as 
its own form;
The OPS discharge pack  makes clear that all its requirements must  be met in full if 
the transfer is to proceed, or the CETV  would need to be requoted; 
The advisor declaration form required confirmation of three  things, one of which is 
the advisor firms FCA number which wasnt included in IAMs letter;
The PO determination concluded  the SIPP provider hadnt  emailed the advisor 
declaration to the OPS, but it was IAMs responsibility to meet  the OPS requirements;
As this didnt happen I said on balance IAM was responsible for the CETV needing to 
be recalculated.
While  it theoretically could have  gone  in Mr Ts favour, it actually hadnt, and IAM had 
told Mr T the CETV  hed been given was quite  high, suggesting it was most likely  to 
go down;
So IAM was responsible for Mr Ts loss, and I set out what  it should do to put this 
right. 
Responses to the provisional decision 
Both parties  responded to the provisional  decision. 
Mr T accepted my findings. IAM strongly disagreed, restating  their position that the loss 
was due to the SIPP  provider failing  to forward the advisor declaration letter  to the OPS  
on 30 January 2017  by email. Had they done  that, the CETV wouldnt have needed to be 
requoted, so its unfair to hold IAM responsible for communication problems between the 
SIPP provider and the OPS. 
In support of its case IAM referred to another PO determination where  a CETV had to be 
recalculated downwards,  which was partly upheld against the provider rather  than the 
financial advisor. 
So the case had been passed back to me to issue a final decision. 
Ref: DRN76236964my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so while Ive reviewed 
everything again carefully, including the additional information received  from both parties, I 
see no reason to depart from my provisional  conclusions. Ill explain why.
In coming to a fair and reasonable outcome, Im obliged to consider the relevant regulatory  
framework, law and industry best practice.  Pension  transfers is a highly regulated  area of 
advice and not all financial  advisors  are qualified  to deal with this work, as Mr T discovered 
when he attempted  to find a suitable  advisor prior to appointing IAM. IAMs client services  
agreement stresses Mr Rs expertise and experience in later life planning and reassures 
clients that IAM will implement the necessary  arrangements  including the undertaking of all 
legal, regulatory  and compliance  requirements.  
IAMs response to Mr Ts initial complaint said they hadnt been given enough time to 
complete the work they would normally do to assess whether the transfer was in his best 
interests, as they were  engaged one month  into the guarantee period with Christmas in the 
middle. And it was a particularly busy period as transfer values were high. But I said Id seen 
no evidence IAM had warned Mr T the timescale was too tight or that the CETV might  need 
to be requoted. 
As the deadline  approached and H hadnt completed the TVAS analysis IAM could have told 
Mr T it was unlikely  the transfer would take place  within the guarantee date. And they could 
have refused to let Mr T proceed  without  seeing  the written  advice,  particularly as their 
service introduction letter says:
Once all necessary enquiries, research and investigations are completed we will then be in a 
position to present our findings,  conclusions  and recommendations.  Again these will be 
presented in writing  with full supporting information and facts.
So instead  of arranging an urgent discussion with H to ensure they were satisfied the 
transfer was the only way to meet Mr Ts stated objectives, IAM should have said the 
transfer couldnt take place without it. Although I accept they acted with the intention of 
satisfying their client and to avoid the CETV  needing  to be requoted. IAM said the CETV 
could have gone in Mr Ts favour,  but I think if Mr C really believed it was more likely than 
not the requoted CETV would be higher  and Mr T would be better off if he delayed slightly 
until the TVAS was available IAM wouldnt have rushed  to meet  the deadline. Particularly as 
strictly speaking  their failure  to provide the full analysis in writing including important 
considerations such as the critical yield breached the FCAs conduct  of business rules  
(COBs). 
So as IAM took the decision they would assist Mr T by doing  what was necessary to get the 
transfer completed by the guarantee date despite its regulatory obligations, I think  on a fair 
and reasonable basis  Mr T was then entitled  to receive the benefit of what  they had agreed 
to do. 
In other  words it would  be unfair on Mr T if IAM led him to think  the transfer  was going ahead  
within the deadline, and then when  that failed to tell him they shouldnt have helped  him 
anyway. While Mr T would likely have been  very dissatisfied and complained if IAM told him 
the transfer couldnt proceed instead of agreeing to push it through, Id be unable to criticise 
Ref: DRN76236965IAM for refusing to act against the regulatory requirements, although I might  have  made an 
award for the poor service. But having  committed to doing the transfer IAM must accept the 
consequences of it not completing  in time, if IAMs actions or inactions  were the reason the 
CETV needed to be requoted.  
The advisor declaration form
Since the provisional decision  Ive seen a copy of the OPS transfer discharge pack and the 
covering letter dated 1 November 2016.Having  reviewed this, I think its most likely the 
advisor declaration  form was included in the pack sent to Mr T. Its listed in the covering 
letter and I think Mr T would  have  noticed  if it was missing, and so would IAM at the initial 
meeting on 25 November 2016.  I dont think its relevant to determine when or how it 
became mislaid between  then and 27 January 2017  when the paperwork was completed,  
because the OPS was prepared  to accept a letter in place of the form, so long as it 
contained the same information as their own form. 
The OPS  had to satisfy the requirements  of Section 48 of the Pension Schemes Act 2015 
(further expanded  in The Pension Schemes Act 2015 (Transitional Provisions and 
Appropriate Independent Advice) Regulations  2015). These  said that prior to a paying  a 
transfer value  of more than £30,000 an OPS must ensure its member has received regulated 
financial advice. So the authorised advisor  must confirm:
oAdvice has been provided  about the transfer  
oThey have the required permission under the relevant legislation  to provide the 
advice
oThe advisor firms FCA authorisation reference number.
Ive looked at the OPS advisor declaration form from the pack, which  is headed [OPS] FCA 
Authorised Advisor Confirmation Form.  Section 1 is pre-printed with Mr Ts name and 
scheme member number. Section 2 is headed Advisor Declaration  and is the part Mr R 
would need to agree to. It reads: 
I confirm:
1. I have permission  under  Part 4A of the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000, or 
resulting from another provision of that Act, to carry on the regulated activity in article 53E of 
the Financial Services  and Markets Act 2000 (Regulated  Activities)  Order 2001 to provide 
advice on the transfer of safeguarded benefits.
2. I have given  advice to the member named above on the transfer of safeguarded benefits  
under the above plan to flexible benefits.
Section 3 is headed Advisor details and has three  boxes for completion  by Mr R which  are 
labelled Name,  FCA Registration Number and Date. At the bottom  is a section for the 
OPS administration  team to confirm the advisor  name and FCA registration number have 
been checked against the FCA register. I think its clear it was essential  all the information  in 
section 3 should have been  included in IAMs letter for it to be an acceptable  replacement  for 
the form. 
IAM admits omitting its FCA number was an oversight but I dont agree the OPS was 
unduly  stringent in requiring all its requirements to be met. I think  it was entitled to require 
the completion of its own advisor declaration form as set out in its requirements in the pack, 
Ref: DRN76236966or to specify  that the form must contain the same information to be acceptable. As pension  
transfer specialists  IAM should have realised  the need to include the firms  FCA number in 
the body of the letter, particularly as this information is not included in the footer of its 
headed notepaper. And while the OPS could simply have looked up IAM on the FCA 
register, the form (and the law) is clear that it was for the advisor to provide that information 
for the OPS to check. 
The letter dated  30 January 2017 issued by IAM 
Ive seen a copy  of the letter Mr R sent to the SIPP  provider dated 30 January  2017. Its 
addressed to the SIPP provider, not the OPS, and is headed with Mr Ts name and SIPP 
application reference number, rather than information relating to the OPS. 
It reads  I would  like to confirm  that [Mr T] has been  advised  by Integrity  Asset  
Management  Limited to transfer his retained [name  of OPS]  defined benefit pension  
scheme to [SIPP  provider].
I trust this is satisfactory,  but please  let me know  should  you require  anything  else at this 
time.
So it appears to be written to satisfy  the SIPP provider that Mr T had received regulated 
advice, rather than as a replacement to the OPS advisor confirmation form. I think if IAM had 
intended the letter as a substitute for the missing advice confirmation form it would have 
been addressed  to the OPS or made some reference to the OPSs and legislative 
requirements, even if it was first to be sent to the SIPP provider  for onward transmission. 
And IAM would have included it to meet  the OPSs requirements as set out in the transfer  
pack rather than only when asked  for it by the SIPP provider. 
This interpretation is supported by the PO determination. Point  7 of which says that on 30 
January 2017  the SIPP provider was setting up Mr Ts details on its system to request the 
transfer from the OPS.  And it emailed IAM to say that as this was a defined  benefit transfer 
it required  a letter completed by the IFA confirming that advice had been  given.  It in this 
context being  the SIPP provider itself,  rather than the SIPP  provider was checking IAM had 
satisfied the OPSs requirements. The PO determination goes on to explain  that a few hours 
later, in response  to this email  IAM sent the SIPP provider a letter and quoted the wording of 
that letter as above. 
IAM may have thought  its letter  would satisfy both the SIPP providers own requirement for 
confirmation that Mr T had received regulated advice before it was prepared  to request the 
transfer from the OPS,  as well as replacing the missing OPS advisor confirmation form. But 
if the SIPP provider  had requested that letter for its own purposes,  it makes sense it wouldnt 
have included it with the transfer pack sent to the OPS. The transfer pack was after all 
supposed to include  the OPSs completed  advisor declaration form. 
IAMs position throughout has been the CETV  was requoted due to the SIPP  providers 
failure to pass its letter  confirming it had given Mr T regulated advice to the OPS. And it 
looks as though the SIPP provider did fail to pass on that letter.  But it doesnt change the 
fact that it was IAMs responsibility  rather than the SIPP  provider, to ensure all the OPSs 
requirements were met. And that included a compliant advisor declaration  form or a letter  
including exactly the same information.  And IAMs letter to the SIPP  provider didnt provide 
that. 
Ref: DRN76236967The PO determination cited by IAM
Ive read the PO determination provided by IAM in support of its position, but it doesnt 
change my mind on this complaint. The circumstances of the two cases  are different in a 
crucial respect. 
In the PO determination cited by IAM the CETV  expired on 15 September 2018.  The 
consumers financial advisor  had applied for the transfer online on 5 September  2018 and 
had sent all the requisite paperwork to the new provider by post the following day. But the 
new provider didnt  forward it to the administrators of the ceding scheme until 20 September  
2018, so the CETV had to be requoted. The determination made clear the new provider  had 
everything it needed in good  time - theres  no suggestion the advisor declaration was 
missing, or the documentation was incomplete in any respect. The advisor had fulfilled their 
responsibilities and the new provider  accepted  responsibility for the failure, which is why it 
was required to compensate the scheme member.  
But in Mr Ts case Integrity submitted the transfer request on 30 January 2017,  very close to 
the guarantee date, and it didnt include all the requisite paperwork as the OPS  form was 
missing. And the letter it sent in its place wouldnt have met the OPSs  requirements, even if 
it had been received on time. This was a failure  on IAMs part, not the SIPP provider.
Conclusion
Having thought about everything carefully,  Im satisfied IAMs failure to ensure  all the OPSs  
requirements were met prior to the guarantee date was the reason the CETV needed to be 
requoted, and so IAM is responsible for Mr Ts loss. 
So I uphold this complaint and require  IAM to put Mr T as far as possible in the position hed 
be in without the error, which  would be to uplift his SIPP  as if the transfer  from his OPS had 
taken place on 1 February  2017  at the original CETV of £893,490.58. 
So I IAM should:
Obtain the current  notional fund value of Mr Ts SIPP as if the original CETV of 
£893,490.58 had been transferred on 1 February  2017 and invested in the same 
funds (value A);
Obtain the current  actual fund value of Mr Ts SIPP (value B)
Deduct B from A giving value C (the loss)  
Pay an amount into Mr Ts SIPP to raise the current actual  fund by value C, taking  
into account any charges  and available tax relief;
If paying into the SIPP is not possible, the loss should be paid to Mr T as a lump  
sum, first reducing it by 15%.  (The loss to Mr Ts SIPP  wouldve been  used to provide 
pension benefits,  25% of which would  be tax free and the rest would have been 
taxed. I have assumed Mr T will be a basic rate taxpayer in retirement, so the 15% 
reduction reflects this).
Provide the details of the calculation to Mr T in a clear, simple format.
 
Ref: DRN76236968my final decision
I uphold this complaint.  
Integrity Asset Management Limited  should put things  right as set out above.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 25 June  2021.
Sarah Milne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7623696