K821x#15complaint
Mr M complains that Lloyds Bank PLC has treated him unfairly  in relation to the overdraft on 
his current account.  
background
In June 2016 Mr M applied for an overdraft online for his Lloyds  current account. An initial  
overdraft of £100 was approved. Over the next two weeks Mr M made a series of further 
requests online to increase his overdraft limit. Lloyds approved  these requests. There were 
four separate limit increases in this time.  It increased to £500,  then £1,000,  then £2,000 and 
finally £2,300.  
Mr M says that shortly  after he applied for the overdraft his income  changed significantly and 
he started to get into financial difficulty.  Mr M says he suffered from a number of mental  
health problems  and his only income  was benefits.  For these reasons he says Lloyds 
shouldnt have given  him an overdraft. Mr M also feels Lloyds have discriminated against 
him and havent  made reasonable adjustments for him. 
Lloyds didnt think it had done anything wrong  in approving Mr Ms overdraft. It said Mr M 
declared an income which could sustain the level of borrowing  he was asking for and there 
was nothing to suggest he might  not be able to repay it. It said Mr M didnt tell the bank 
about his financial  difficulty until November 2017 and he didnt tell them  about his mental  
health problems  until a month  after that. 
Lloyds did agree that its communication  with Mr M had been  poor.  In particular it could  have 
managed his account better once it became aware  Mr M was struggling.  It agreed to pay 
Mr M £100 compensation for the poor service  hed received. Although  Lloyds didnt think it 
had lent irresponsibly, it did agree to refund all interest and charges on Mr Ms overdraft. 
This was because of his financial difficulties.  This reduced his outstanding  debt with Lloyds 
to around £1,600. 
Lloyds had instructed  a third party debt collector  and it asked  Mr M to get in touch with them  
to arrange a suitable repayment plan. Mr M didnt think the compensation offered by Lloyds 
was sufficient. He also wasnt  happy dealing with the debt collector. 
I sent Mr M and Lloyds my provisional decision on 29 July 2019.  I explained  why I thought  
the complaint  should be upheld. An extract of my provisional decision is copied below:
overdraft applications
Lloyds says it wouldnt have approved  any of the overdraft applications if it was aware that 
Mr M was unemployed. It says it relied on the information Mr M provided on his overdraft 
application forms which said he earnt a monthly salary of £1,600  a month. But I dont think  it 
was reasonable  for Lloyds to rely solely on what Mr M said.  
I say this because  Mr M declared that he was a homemaker on his application.  This should 
have alerted Lloyds  to a discrepancy in what hed declared. Clearly he couldnt earn £1,600  
a month  from his paid employment as he was also declaring that he wasnt employed.  
I accept someone who is a homemaker could still have other income  (other  than salary) but 
Mr M had left the other income box blank.  This means what Mr M had told Lloyds about  his 
Ref: DRN79528202circumstances didnt  make sense. This should  have prompted Lloyds to ask further 
questions before agreeing to give him an overdraft  particularly because its told us Mr Ms 
employment status was significant  to its lending decision. 
Had Lloyds asked more  questions about  Mr Ms income and employment  status  I think its 
likely it would have discovered he wasnt working. Even before asking any questions  directly 
from Mr M, Lloyds was already reasonably on notice that it was unlikely Mr M was in paid 
employment. This is because Mr Ms current account showed he was in receipt  of benefit 
payments that he was unlikely to be eligible for if he was in paid employment.
 
Ive taken into consideration that The Financial Conduct Authoritys rules at the time on 
responsible lending1 set out that lenders were required to take into account information  it 
was aware of at the time. As Mr Ms current account activity  which  showed  where  his 
income was coming  from  was available to Lloyds,  it should have taken that information into 
account. 
Lloyds says it wouldnt be practical or proportionate for it to manually review  current account 
statements for everyone that applied for an overdraft. While I agree, Lloyds did have a duty 
to take into consideration what it already knew about Mr M when assessing  his ability  to 
sustainably repay  any borrowing.  As Lloyds already had this information available,  and it 
contradicted what Mr M had told it in the application, I dont think Lloyds made a responsible 
lending decision.   
Lloyds also said Mr M appeared  to have a large  monthly disposable income which  could 
service any overdraft borrowing. But I disagree,  and I think it ought to have  been  clear to 
Lloyds this wasnt the case.  
Mr Ms account statements show he was rarely  more than £100 in credit  on his account  prior 
to the overdraft applications. When he did have  a more substantial credit  balance, this was 
quickly withdrawn in cash. And he was relatively regularly going into an unarranged overdraft 
because he didnt have  enough funds in his account. Mr M also had an existing loan 
commitment of around £90 per month  which on a few occasions he was unable to pay due 
to insufficient  funds in his account. So his account  activity clearly didnt support the notion 
that he had a significant amount of disposable income  which Lloyds was (or at least ought 
to have been) aware of. Instead,  I think it demonstrated that he either had no disposable 
income  or very little. 
Given Mr Ms overall circumstances,  I dont think it was reasonable for Lloyds to approve the 
overdraft applications.  I think Lloyds had enough  information available to it to be able to 
realise that Mr M was unlikely to be able to sustainably afford  to repay  an overdraft  of any 
amount. 
As I dont think Mr M should  have  been  given any overdraft, Ive thought about how Lloyds 
should put things right. As Mr M has had the benefit  of spending the money he borrowed on 
his overdraft, I think its fair he pays that back.  But I dont think its fair he pays  any interest or 
charges in relation to that borrowing.  But as Lloyds has already refunded all interest and 
charges, I dont think any further  refund  needs to be paid. Lloyds should now agree  an 
affordable repayment  plan with Mr M for the outstanding balance, if it hasnt already. 
1 See CONC 5.2.1R(2) (The rules as stated in June  2016 when the lending was granted. These rules  
have been updated since).
Ref: DRN79528203Because Mr M was unable to sustainably repay the overdraft debt, his current account was 
defaulted. I dont  think a default (or any other adverse data entries)  is a fair reflection of 
Mr Ms ability to manage his current account.  This is because he should never have been 
given the overdraft in the first place. So I think Lloyds should  also remove  any adverse data 
its recorded on Mr Ms credit file since the initial overdraft  application  was approved.  
address change
Lloyds and its appointed debt collector  had been  sending letters to Mr M for several  months 
which he hadnt received. This is because Lloyds didnt have his up to date address. Mr M 
says this error was down  to Lloyds. But from everything Ive seen  Im not persuaded that 
Lloyds has made any significant errors in updating  Mr Ms address. Ill explain why. 
Ive listened to the call Mr M had with Lloyds when he first raised  his complaint in late 2018. 
Mr M mentions during the call that hes recently  moved. However, he didnt ask Lloyds to 
change his address.  Whilst the call handler could have asked more questions of Mr M to see 
if he wanted his address  changed, I think there was more of an onus on Mr M to make this 
request. This is because  the purpose  of the call wasnt  about  Mr Ms address  it was so he 
could make a complaint  about Lloyds handling  of his overdraft. 
Mr M says he called Lloyds in February 2019  requesting a change  of address, but Ive not 
seen anything to verify  that this conversation took place. But in any event  it looks  like Mr M 
was able to successfully change his address a little over a week  later anyway. So even if 
Mr M did make the request slightly earlier, I dont think there  was any significant delay or 
inconvenience caused to him. 
customer service  and reasonable  adjustments
Lloyds was on notice  since December 2017  that Mr M was a vulnerable individual. So I dont 
think it treated him fairly when it decided to use a third party  business  to collect the 
outstanding balance. This clearly caused  further upset for Mr M which  could have been 
avoided. Im pleased  to see Lloyds has since decided to manage the debt in-house and has 
arranged a suitable repayment  plan with Mr M. This is what  it should have done from the 
outset. 
Mr M says that Lloyds hasnt made reasonable adjustments  for him and has unfairly asked 
to see proof  of his medical conditions. He also says the contact hes had with Lloyds has 
been poor. Lloyds  has accepted its communication with Mr M should  have been  better. But it 
doesnt agree its done anything wrong  in relation to the adjustments or asking for medical 
evidence. 
Mr M isnt required to send in any medical  evidence if he doesnt wish to do so. But 
I understand Lloyds  were  keen to get a better understanding of Mr Ms circumstances  and 
how his various conditions impact him. If they received this information they could better  
tailor their service to his needs. So I dont think Lloyds did anything  wrong  in asking for this 
information. 
Mr M did send  in a picture of the front page of a medical report but this didnt really  give any 
information about what adjustments Mr M might need.  But despite this, I do think  Lloyds 
could have done more at an earlier stage  to ask Mr M what  adjustments he needed. I dont 
think it needed any medical evidence in order to explore ways  of communicating with Mr M 
differently. 
Ref: DRN79528204I agree  Lloyds overall communication with Mr M was poor. It had agreed to move  his 
account to collections  so that it could  arrange a repayment plan with him. But it took Lloyds 
several months before it reached  out to him  and when it did, it was its appointed debt 
collector that got in touch with Mr M. So overall  I think the way Lloyds dealt with Mr M was 
poor. And I think it ought to pay him compensation for the upset and inconvenience it has 
caused him. 
However, in deciding what a fair compensation payment should be, Ive thought about all the 
wider circumstances.  This includes some of the positive steps Lloyds  did take as soon as 
Mr M told it about  his conditions  such as freezing  all interest and charges and refunding all 
previous charges and interest. And Ive also thought about the impact of Lloyds decision to 
lend to him when  it shouldnt  have.  So taking everything into consideration, I think £350  
compensation would be fair and reasonable for all the upset  and inconvenience  caused to 
Mr M. 
Mr M accepted my provisional decision and had nothing further to add. But Lloyds didnt 
agree. In summary  it said:
The income boxes  for salary and other  income are combined  on the credit risk 
system so it isnt possible to work out which  box Mr M filled in. The help text on the 
webpage told Mr M what income was allowed to be entered  and he didnt follow 
those instructions. 
If Mr M had correctly  selected unemployed rather  than homemaker, his application 
would have been declined. 
Mr Ms declared income wasnt used for assessing affordability. Instead a lower  
figure was used based on the average  account turnover in the previous 4 months. 
This was around £1,150 per month.  Expenditure was calculated by allowing £300  per 
month for essential living costs  and the existing loan commitment  of around £90 per 
month. There was no evidence of housing cost and Mr M declared zero for this also. 
This left Mr M with a disposable income of £758 per month which  was more than 
adequate for the overdraft borrowing. 
The affordability assessment was proportionate  in this case. 
Lloyds is obliged to report accurate  data to credit reference agencies.  As Mr M chose 
to manipulate his financial  information  to obtain  credit then his failure to repay it 
should be reported. 
The third party debt agency was aware  Mr M was vulnerable and had a specialist 
team that was looking after Mr M and similar customers. Although communication  
could have been better, no error was made  in asking a third party  agency  to manage 
Mr Ms debt. The debt was moved back to Lloyds  because  Mr M wouldnt engage 
with the third party, not because  he had raised a complaint. 
£200 compensation fairly reflects the distress caused to Mr M. 
my findings
Ive reconsidered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
conclusion I reached  in my provisional decision and for the same reasons. But Ill address 
the additional points made by Lloyds. 
Lloyds says its credit risk system wouldnt be able to determine  what  was entered  into each  
income box. But what its credit risk system  could  and couldnt pick up is largely  irrelevant. 
Ref: DRN79528205This is because the requirement on Lloyds was to assess Mr Ms ability  to sustainably repay 
the overdraft. It should have  had a borrower  focused assessment on affordability  not just 
an assessment of credit risk. 
It asked specific questions about Mr Ms employment status  and where his income was 
coming from. And what Mr M told Lloyds was inconsistent  and unlikely to be correct   in that 
he was earning  a regular salary  whilst  also not working. So it should  have explored this 
further before granting him credit.  And as Ive explained in my provisional decision,  had it 
done this, I think  its likely it would  have discovered  Mr M wasnt working. 
Lloyds has said how it assessed  that Mr M could afford  the borrowing. But I have concerns 
about this too. It says it used Mr Ms account  activity  over the previous four months. It says 
this showed Mr M had around £758  in disposable  income each month. This approach might 
be fine in certain circumstances, but I dont think it was enough in this specific case.  
This is because there were inconsistencies  in what Mr M told Lloyds about his income 
(which Lloyds should have questioned), and he was regularly in an unauthorised overdraft 
and rarely in credit by more than £100.  Further, the income coming  into his account was 
through a combination of transfers from another account and benefit payments. There  was 
no indication  Mr M earned an income other than from benefits.  So there was enough 
information to suggest it was unlikely  his disposable  income was anywhere  near that £758 
figure. 
Mr Ms account activity didnt demonstrate he could sustainably afford to repay an overdraft. 
So if Lloyds did use his account activity to assess the affordability of the borrowing, its 
reasonable that it should have spotted the discrepancy in what  Mr M said about his income  
on the application. 
Lloyds says it isnt proportionate  for us to manually review statements to verify the source of 
income for this type of lending. This suggests Lloyds would never conduct a manual review  
for overdraft  borrowing. While  from a business perspective (credit risk) Lloyds might not 
consider it proportionate,  I think from a borrower focused (affordability risk) perspective it 
would have been. Im not suggesting  Lloyds is required  to do this in every case, but in these 
specific circumstances, from everything  it already knew about Mr M, it should have done 
more thorough checking before granting  the overdraft. Had it done so, I think  its likely it 
would have discovered he couldnt afford the borrowing and therefore Lloyds wouldnt have 
lent to him. 
I accept that Lloyds should be reporting  accurate data to credit reference agencies.  But the 
data it records should also be fair. Given that Lloyds placed Mr M in a position  whereby he 
was always likely to fall into arrears,  it wouldnt be fair to report adverse data in relation to 
this debt. Although  Mr M didnt give accurate  information at the point of application, that 
doesnt absolve Lloyds of its responsibility to conduct an adequate assessment of Mr Ms 
ability to sustainably repay. And as Ive explained above, I dont think  Lloyds did conduct  an 
adequate assessment in this specific case. 
In principal I agree with Lloyds that it was fine for it to pass the debt on to a third party agent, 
particularly as it had a separate vulnerable customer team. However,  the way it 
communicated this to Mr M and managed the debt in the process was poor. Mr M wasnt  
notified what would happen, when and why. So he was understandably confused  and 
distressed about  being contacted by a third party he didnt know. Given Lloyds were  on 
Ref: DRN79528206notice that Mr M was a vulnerable customer, it should have managed this process much 
better. 
So taking everything into consideration, I still think £350 is fair compensation for the distress 
and inconvenience  Lloyds caused.  
my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, I uphold this complaint  and direct Lloyds Bank PLC to:
Remove any adverse  data from Mr Ms credit file in relation to the overdraft. 
Pay Mr M £350 compensation for the distress and inconvenience  caused. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 27 September  2019.
Tero Hiltunen
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7952820