K821x#15complaint
Miss A is unhappy TSB Bank plc has refused to refund the £9,750  she lost after falling victim 
to a scam  involving, what she thought was, a new business grant.
TSB says its not liable for Miss As loss because she authorised  the payments, they werent 
unusual or significant given  the previous activity on her account and she didnt exercise 
reasonable care when  making the payments.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I think  the fair and 
reasonable outcome, in all the circumstances,  would be to uphold this complaint in part.
I can see the timeline of events, each partys testimony and how the transactions were  made  
were covered in our investigators  view and I havent  repeated  everything that was said 
there. I will, of course, refer to those aspects  which  form the basis of my decision. And I can 
assure Miss A and TSB that Ive considered the file thoroughly, including what TSB said in 
response to our investigators view.
Its not in dispute  that Miss A authorised the payments  of £3,750  and £6,000. She was 
duped by the scammers into instructing  her bank to transfer those  sums  to their accounts.  
They deceived her by phone and email into thinking that she had been given a grant  to help 
set up her new business. And she needed to contribute some money herself before she 
would be given access to the grant.
Although Miss A didnt intend on giving  money to fraudsters, she did authorise the transfers 
and, under the Payment Services Regulations 2017, and the terms and conditions of her 
account, she is presumed liable for the loss in the first instance. However, taking into 
account the law, regulators rules and guidance,  relevant codes of practice and what  I 
consider to have  been good industry  practice  at the time, I consider TSB should fairly and 
reasonably:
Have been monitoring accounts and any payments made  or received  to counter various 
risks, including anti-money laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and 
preventing fraud and scams.
Have had systems in place to look out for unusual transactions or other  signs that might 
indicate that its customers were at risk of fraud (among other things).  This is particularly  
so given the increase in sophisticated  fraud  and scams in recent years, which  banks are 
generally more familiar  with than the average customer. 
In some circumstances,  irrespective of the payment channel used, have taken additional 
steps, or make additional checks, before processing a payment,  or in some cases 
declined to make a payment altogether, to help protect customers from the possibility of 
financial harm from fraud. 
With this in mind, Ive looked  at how Miss A used her account in the months preceding  the 
scam and I dont think the first payment, of £3,750, was out of character.  However, I note the 
second online payment was made soon after a transfer in and cash  deposit, the transfer was 
to a new payee and was quite a lot more than the highest of Miss As previous outgoing 
Ref: DRN72898932transactions. In the circumstances, and despite  what TSB has said, I do think  the £6,000 
was sufficiently unusual  and significant that it shouldve triggered the bank to ask further  
questions. 
Im also satisfied, if the bank had asked her about the transfer, that Miss A wouldve willingly  
explained what it was for  her contribution in order to get a new business grant. I say that 
because theres no suggestion  in this case that the scammer had given Miss A a cover  story 
or otherwise told her to lie about where  the money was going.  With this in mind,  TSB has 
said this type of grant scam is well known so I think the bank  could, relatively easily,  have  
identified and warned Miss A of the possibility she was being  scammed.  
TSB has suggested Miss A didnt exercise enough reasonable care and shouldve realised 
nobody who gives grants would expect such a large  personal contribution.  But I disagree. 
Miss A tells us she undertook some  checks to ensure the company that was administering 
the grants was genuine. Ive also seen some  of the correspondence she had with the 
scammer and can see why she didnt suspect she was being scammed. The emails are 
professional looking, include links to the companys  website, report  and accounts and a 
YouTube video. Miss A also tells me that, what turned out to be a fake, Mastercard  account  
was set up which she was able to access and view the grant money. Overall, I think this was 
a very sophisticated and believable scam, particularly for someone  in Miss As situation who 
did not  as I understand it  have  any previous  experience  about  applying for this type of 
grant.
Im satisfied Miss A had been entirely  duped by the scammers. But I dont think  it follows  that 
she would  have ignored warnings from her own bank if it had contacted her in relation to the 
second transfer. She was paying  a large  amount of money and I think  she would have taken 
seriously the warnings  from a trusted  third party. I think its more likely than not, in this 
particular case,  that TSBs intervention would have uncovered the scam and prevented the 
losses occurring in relation to the second  payment.
I think TSB could, and arguably,  should have done more in this case to protect Miss A. So, I 
think it should refund the money  she sent in the second transfer minus the £608.89 which 
TSB has already managed to recover  from the recipient bank. Miss A tells me she had to 
borrow that money from a friend and I think its also fair for the bank to pay interest  too.
TSB has already accepted that it didnt handle Miss As complaint  as well as it shouldve  and 
has paid £550  compensation  in recognition of this. I think thats a fair award in the 
circumstances.
my final decision
My final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part and instruct TSB Bank plc to:
Pay Miss A £5,391.11  within 28 days of receiving notification  of her acceptance  of my 
final decision; plus
Pay 8% simple interest per year on that sum, calculated from the date Miss A made 
the transfer to the date of settlement*. 
*If TSB considers its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off income tax from the 
interest, it should tell Miss A how much  its taken off. It should  also give her a certificate 
showing this, if she asks for one, so that she can reclaim the tax from HMRC if appropriate.
Ref: DRN72898933Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss A to accept 
or reject my decision before 4 January 2021.
Ruth Hersey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7289893