K821x#15complaint
Mrs C says Tesco Personal Finance PLC mis-sold  her a credit card payment protection  
insurance (PPI) policy.
background
This complaint is about a regular premium  PPI policy taken out with a credit  card in 2011.
Our adjudicator upheld  the complaint. Tesco disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so the 
complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Cs case.
Having done so, Ive decided to uphold Mrs Cs complaint. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Tesco had to give Mrs C clear information about it so she could decide 
if it was right for her. But, based on the evidence Ive seen, I dont think Tesco  gave Mrs C 
clear enough  information  about  the costs and benefits of the policy.
Tesco has sent us a copy of Mrs Cs credit card application  form. But I dont think this clearly 
explains the costs  and benefits  of the policy. And I dont think  theres enough  evidence  for 
me to say that these costs and benefits were clearly  explained  to Mrs C at any other point 
during the sale either.
I think this wouldve mattered to Mrs C as shes told us that she wouldve been entitled to six 
months full sick pay, followed by six months half pay, from her employer.  And that she also 
had savings she couldve used to make her repayments.
Tesco has said that Mrs C has been  inconsistent throughout the course of her complaint 
about the sick pay she was entitled  to, and it has sent us evidence of this. I accept that it 
appears Mrs C has been  inconsistent about  the sick pay she was entitled  to. But I think  its 
possible that Mrs C was able to remember more about her sick pay when it became clear it 
was more important  to the complaint.  And, based on her employer and her length of 
employment, I think its likely that she would have had the sick pay she now says.
I also dont think the amount  of savings Mrs C said she had was unrealistic given her age, 
salary and length of employment. So I think its likely  she also had the savings she says.
And so it looks like Mrs C had enough other financial protection to not really  need the PPI. 
And so I dont think she wouldve bough the policy if Tesco had given her clear  enough  
information about it and that shes lost out as a result of what  Tesco  did wrong.
Ref: DRN76593692putting things right
Tesco should put Mrs C in the financial position  shed  be in now if she hadnt  taken out PPI. 
The policy should  be cancelled  if it hasnt  been  cancelled already and:
A.Tesco should find out how much Mrs C would owe on her credit card if the policy hadnt 
been added  to it.
So, it should  remove the PPI premiums added, as well as any interest charged  on those 
premiums. It should also remove any charges that were caused  by the mis-sale of the 
PPI  as well as any interest added  to those charges.
Tesco should then refund the difference between what Mrs C owes and what she would 
have owed.
If Mrs C made a successful claim under the PPI policy, Tesco can take off what she got 
for the claim from the amount it owes her.
B.If  when Tesco works out what Mrs C would have owed each  month without PPI  
Mrs C paid more than enough to clear her balance, Tesco should also pay simple 
interest on the extra Mrs C paid. And it should carry on paying  interest  until the point 
when Mrs C wouldve owed Tesco something  on her credit card. The interest  rate should 
be 8% a year.
C.Tesco should tell Mrs C what its done  to work out A and B.
 HM Revenue & Customs  requires  Tesco  to take off tax from this interest. Tesco must give Mrs C a certificate 
showing how much tax its taken off if she asks for one.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I uphold Mrs Cs complaint.
Tesco Personal Finance PLC should  put things right by doing what Ive said above.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs C to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 July 2019
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7659369