K820x#14complaint
Mrs G complains that Barclays  Bank  UK Plc increased the limits on her two credit cards in 
2013. She believes it was irresponsible lending.  
background
credit card account ending in 4
Mrs G opened this credit card account  in 2009.  The limit increased in October 2013 from 
£3,000 to £6,000. 
credit card account ending in 1
Mrs G opened this credit card account  in 2011.  The limit increased in October 2013 from 
£4,500 to £8,500. 
Mrs G said Barclays  should have known  that she had taken out a loan in 2011 and had a 
number of other debts  which were  recorded on her credit report. She also said her credit 
card balances were not clearing quickly. Mrs G does  not believe she was managing the 
cards well at the time. 
Our investigator did not recommend that the complaint be upheld. She was satisfied 
Barclays had shown  that it made the necessary checks when it increased the credit limits. 
Mrs G disagreed, so the complaint has now been  passed to me.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, Ive reached the same 
conclusions as our investigator  and for broadly the same  reasons. Ill explain why. 
credit card account ending in 4
I am satisfied that Barclays  assessed  Mrs Gs creditworthiness and financial  situation. And I 
dont think anything on Mrs Gs credit report would  have  indicated to Barclays that it 
shouldnt offer the credit limit increase in 2013.  Barclays has shown us information on the 
checks it made. An affordability assessment was carried out. Barclays had no record of 
Mrs G missing payments on this card. Nothing  negative was identified from Barclays  search 
of the credit  reference  agencies. And the increase wasnt excluded  on the grounds of over 
indebtedness of the card.   
I can also see from the credit card statements that Mrs G was making  a payment to the 
account each  month  and typically  above  the required  minimum payment. And Mrs G was 
keeping within her credit limit; she never exceeded  it. This doesnt indicate to me that she 
didnt manage  the card well.  With all of this in mind, I dont believe this was irresponsible 
lending by Barclays. 
Barclays noted that Mrs G applied for two credit limit increases in 2015, on this credit card 
account.
Ref: DRN78446732credit card account ending in 1
I am satisfied that Barclays  did undertake an assessment of Mrs Gs creditworthiness  and 
financial situation. And I couldnt  see anything  from Mrs Gs credit record  which  would have 
indicated to Barclays that it shouldnt offer the credit limit increase in 2013.  Barclays has 
shown us details  of the checks it made. It had no concerns around affordability.  Its search  of 
the credit  reference  agencies  picked up no negative information for Mrs G. And the increase 
wasnt excluded on the grounds of over indebtedness of the card.   
The statements  show  that Mrs G was making  a payment to the account each month and 
typically above the required minimum payment. She kept within her credit limit and never 
exceeded it. Again, this doesnt indicate to me that Mrs G didnt manage the card well.  So I 
dont believe  this was irresponsible lending by Barclays. 
I can also see that Mrs G did a balance  transfer in 2013 to take advantage of a promotional 
interest rate. Such an action, suggests  that Mrs G was actively manging her finances.  And I 
note that the credit  limit on this card account was decreased in 2015.  
I would add that Mrs G didnt have to accept  the credit limit increases, she could have  opted  
out. Or Mrs G could have accepted the increases but then just not used them.  
Mrs G referred  to a loan she had taken  out in 2011.  Barclays said it couldnt see the loan 
was with them. But it reiterated that it had carried out the relevant checks concerning 
Mrs Gs credit worthiness and it confirmed that she had met the lending criteria.  
In conclusion, based on what Ive seen, I am satisfied that Barclays  appropriately  assessed  
Mrs Gs eligibility  for the credit limit increases. 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint about Barclays  Bank UK Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 17 May 2019.
Paul Phillips
ombudsman 
Ref: DRN7844673