K820x#14complaint
In 1997, Mr D bought a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy from Bank of Scotland  plc, 
trading as Halifax (Bank of Scotland). He thinks that Bank of Scotland  mis-sold the PPI 
policy to him and he wants it to give him back the premiums he paid for it, plus interest.  
background
One of our adjudicators has already looked into this complaint. The adjudicator didnt think  
that Bank  of Scotland had mis-sold  the policy to Mr D and didnt recommend that it should 
give him any money back. Mr D disagreed and asked for an ombudsman  to review his case, 
so it has come to me to make a final decision.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
what to do in Mr Ds case. Ive looked into everything that Mr D and Bank  of Scotland have 
sent us or told us about the complaint  and Ive decided not to uphold it. Ill explain why. 
When Mr D first got in touch with us, he said that Bank of Scotland had sold him a single 
premium policy at significant upfront cost . He complained that the premium  for the policy 
was added on to the loan amount and therefore  attracted  interest at the same  rate (which) 
was not made clear  on the agreement and made  the policy poor value for money. In later 
correspondence he mentioned that the policy was linked with a credit  card.  
However, Bank of Scotland has said that Mr Ds policy was linked  with a loan and that he 
paid for it with monthly premiums, rather than with an upfront charge; and that the monthly 
premiums didnt attract interest. Its also told us that the policy was linked with a loan, not a 
credit card. I have seen  some of Bank of Scotlands  records, and Im satisfied that its right 
on these points.
Mr D and Bank of Scotland have agreed that Mr D bought the policy  during a meeting at one 
of Bank  of Scotlands  branches. I assume that the main  purpose of the meeting was to 
discuss and arrange  Mr Ds loan.  Bank  of Scotland  has told us that PPI was optional with 
loans like Mr Ds and I understand that it normally  told customers that they had a choice  to 
apply for a loan with or without PPI during its meetings. However, Mr D has said that Bank of 
Scotland didnt  tell him that PPI was optional.
I havent seen  any notes from the meeting and after so many years  have passed I cant tell 
exactly what Bank of Scotland did or didnt say to Mr D. But apart from Mr Ds recollections,  I 
dont have anything  else to suggest  that Bank  of Scotland  didnt  follow its normal practice 
and give him a choice  about PPI. I fully accept  that Mr D is trying his best to remember  what 
happened, but I think its likely that Bank  of Scotland let him know that PPI was optional and 
he chose to take it.
 
Bank of Scotland has also told us that it recommended  PPI to Mr D and advised him to buy 
it. This meant that Bank of Scotland had to check that the policy was right for Mr D and tell 
him about it fairly and clearly so he could decide if he wanted  it. So Ive looked into Mr Ds 
Ref: DRN75498932circumstances when  he applied for the loan to see if it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland  
to recommend the policy to him. 
From what  Mr D has told us, he met the policys eligibility rules and he seems to have been  
able to afford to pay the monthly  premiums.  And I havent seen  anything  to make  me think 
that Mr D would have  been caught  out by any of the policys main limitations or exclusions if 
he had made a claim. Indeed, I understand  from Bank of Scotland that Mr D made a 
successful claim  during 2002. 
Mr D has told us that if he was off work sick, his employer would have paid him sick pay for 
quite a lengthy period and so he didnt need  PPI. However, the policy PPI would have paid 
out over and above Mr Ds sick pay and would have lasted for longer. It would also have  
paid out if Mr D was made redundant. Mr D doesnt seen to have had many  other  significant  
resources to help him with his loan repayment,  so I think he had a potential need  for PPI and 
it was reasonable  of Bank of Scotland  to recommend the policy to him. 
I accept that Bank of Scotland may not have explained everything about PPI to Mr D as 
clearly as it should have  done. But, Im satisfied that he was eligible for the policy,  that Bank 
of Scotland gave  him a choice, that it was reasonable for Bank of Scotland  to recommend it 
to him and that he could afford  it. So I dont  think that clearer information  about the policy  
would have stopped Mr D from buying  it. 
I dont think Bank of Scotland mis-sold PPI to Mr D. 
my final decision
For the reasons  I have  set out above, I am not upholding Mr Ds complaint about Bank of 
Scotland plc, trading as Halifax. Im not going  to tell Bank of Scotland  plc to give Mr D any 
money back. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 April 2019. 
Steve Townsley
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7549893