K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a hire 
purchase agreement  in 2006.  Mr and Mrs A says First Response Finance Ltd mis-sold them 
the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr and Mrs As case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain  why. 
Mr and Mrs A wanted to purchase a vehicle and did so at a car dealership. In order to get 
finance for the purchase, they needed to speak with First Response  over the phone. Mr and 
Mrs A say that they werent made aware that the PPI was optional  and that they were told 
that they couldnt have  the vehicle they wanted  unless they took out the PPI.
First Response has provided a script  that shows that the advisor would be prompted to point 
out that the PPI was optional  and that it wouldnt affect the decision to lend. Theres no call 
recording available, but this isnt surprising for a call that took place so long ago. And while  I 
cant be sure who closely  this script was followed,  I havent seen anything to suggest that 
First Response didnt follow its standard process  when  it sold the PPI to Mr and Mrs A.
First response  has also provided a copy of the hire purchase agreement that was completed.  
I can see that the PPI is presented as an optional  product  and that Mr and Mrs A had to 
select and sign for the policy.  This is separate to their signature for the lending. Had Mr and 
Mrs A been  told differently, I think that this agreement  makes it clear that the policy  was 
optional, and they couldve questioned this at the time. And while  I understand that they 
were in need to the vehicle, I dont think this means  that they couldnt have declined the 
policy if they didnt  want it.
So taking everything in to account,  I think First Response made it clear that Mr and Mrs A 
didnt have to take out the PPI and they chose  to take it out  although I can understand why 
Mr and Mrs A feel differently about this.
First Response recommended the PPI to Mr and Mrs A so it had to check  that the PPI was 
right for them  and based on what Ive seen of their circumstances  at the time, I think  that it 
was. For example they werent affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover 
and they seem to have  had a need  for the cover.  
Its possible the information First Response gave Mr and Mrs A about  the PPI wasnt as 
clear as it shouldve  been.  But as I think they chose to take it out - it looks  like they wanted  
this type of cover. And it seems like it would have been useful for them if something went 
wrong. It also looks like it was affordable.  So I dont think  better  information  about the PPI 
would have put them off taking out the cover. 
Ive thought about everything Mr and Mrs A has said - but these points dont change my 
decision. 
Ref: DRN74217092This means  I dont  think the PPI was mis-sold.  So First Response doesnt  need to refund 
everything Mr and Mrs A paid for it. But First Response has already offered to give Mr and 
Mrs A back  some  of the cost of the PPI. I understand First Response  has already paid this to 
Mr and Mrs A. 
my final decision
I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs A to 
accept or reject my decision  before  14 March  2019.
Claire Pugh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7421709