K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs Q complain that Bank  of Ireland (UK) plc wont refund the money that wasnt  
dispensed from a cash machine (ATM).
background
In October  2018 Mr Q tried to withdraw  £250  but the ATM didnt dispense the cash. He then 
tried again  and the money was provided.  Both transactions  were debited to Mr and Mrs Qs 
account and the Bank  of Ireland has refused to refund the failed attempt.
Bank of Ireland  says that it has investigated  and found that the cash in the ATM balanced  
and there  werent  any faults reported with the machine for that day. It wont  agree to refund 
the £250.
Our investigator thought that this complaint should  be upheld. He didnt think that Bank of 
Ireland had provided enough information  to show that the £250 had been properly 
dispensed. He said it should refund Mr and Mrs Q and pay statutory  interest at 8% p.a. 
simple on this amount.
Bank of Ireland  didnt agree. It said that it had raised the transactions with the ATM owner 
but it had said the cash  in the machine balanced  and the transactions  were  good.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
It isnt in dispute that Mr Q used  his card to try to withdraw £250 from the ATM. He has been 
very clear in saying that the machine didnt  give him the money  so he tried again. The 
second time the money was dispensed. This is supported by the evidence that Bank of 
Ireland has provided,  showing the two transactions less than a minute apart.
The ATM records show  that Mr Q then tried to withdraw £40 a few seconds later,  followed  by 
making three  balance  enquiries. Although he doesnt now recall doing  this, I think  such 
actions are consistent with being confused  because  the machine didnt give him the money 
he expected.
Bank of Ireland  has refused  to refund the disputed transaction because it has provided 
evidence that the cash in the ATM balanced that day. But it hasnt been able to provide the 
full journal listing or the purge bin reports. As our investigator has explained, the cash  would 
balance if it had been dispensed  into the purge bin rather than to Mr Q.
I have looked  carefully  at the information that the bank  has provided. I see that each  
transaction carried out has a consecutive sequence number. But the sequence number prior 
to Mr Qs first transaction is missing. This suggests that there  may have been  a problem with 
the machine.
Im not persuaded that the evidence provided  by Bank of Ireland is conclusive so I cant  
safely conclude that the cash was dispensed to that day. We would want  to see the notes 
relating to the purge bin to exclude  the possibility that the money  didnt go in there. We have 
asked the ATM provider  a number of times to provide the information  but it hasnt done so. 
Ref: DRN70203642In the circumstances, I think its only right that the Bank  of Ireland should refund the £250 to 
Mr and Mrs Qs account and pay interest  on this amount  to resolve this complaint. I consider 
this matter has also caused Mr and Mrs Q some trouble and upset so the Bank of Ireland  
should pay £100 to recognise  this. 
my final decision
My final decision is I uphold  this complaint. I require Bank of Ireland (UK) plc to:
Refund £250 to Mr and Mrs Qs account
Add simple interest at a rate of 8% per annum from the date of the transaction to the 
date of settlement*.
Pay Mr and Mrs Q £100 for the upset  they have been caused.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs Q to 
accept or reject my decision  before  16 February  2020.
Karen Wharton
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7020364