K821x#15complaint
Mr and Mrs V complain  that British Gas Insurance Limited mishandled  a home  emergency  
insurance policy.
background
Mr V was the policyholder. As it covered  emergencies at their home, I think  Mrs V also had 
the benefit of the policy.
Mr and Mrs V complained that British Gas was responsible  for poor work including  poor 
drainage work  and for causing an accident.
Where I refer to British Gas I refer to the insurance  company of that name  and I include its 
engineers and others for whose  actions  I hold that company responsible.
By a jurisdiction decision dated  13 November 2018,  I decided  that I dont  have the power to 
consider the complaints about the boiler  installed in 2013, the drainage work or the accident. 
But I can consider  the complaint about the damage to the radiator pipe.
Mr V says that on Friday  17 November  2017  they (presumably he and Mrs V) were removing 
a piece of skirting below  a radiator and caused  accidental damage and a leak from a pipe. 
Mr V stopped the leak but lost central  heating. 
He rang British Gas.  British Gas sent an engineer. He made  a temporary repair  so that 
heating could be restored  from all but the affected  radiator.
Mr V complained that he found the engineer  inconsiderate  and rude and that he had to pay 
someone else to do a permanent repair. He said this work shouldve  been carried  out by 
British Gas, under his home emergency policy. 
our investigators opinion
Our investigator didnt  recommend that the complaint should be upheld. He thought  that the 
damage of the radiator  and central heating  was accidental damage excluded  by the policy.  
He couldn't find any evidence  to prove  that the engineer  who carried  out the temporary fix of 
the radiator was rude and inconsiderate. 
my provisional decision
After considering all the evidence,  I issued a provisional decision on this complaint to Mr and 
Mrs V and to British Gas on 1 March 2019.  I summarise my findings:
The British  Gas policy did include  accidental damage to the radiator pipework and 
valve in November 2017.
I saw no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Vs statement that they accidentally  caused 
such damage. 
British Gas behaved unfairly by declining to do a permanent repair  of the damage  Mr 
and Mrs V had done.
Ref: DRN79883222Whilst I could understand  that Mr and Mrs V didnt welcome the engineer saying they 
werent covered,  I hadnt seen or heard enough detail to persuade me that the 
engineer said anything else inappropriate. 
It was only one radiator  that wasnt working.  And Id seen  a plumbers invoice dated 
28 November 2017 for £135.00. So I thought  Mr and Mrs V got the radiator  fixed 
within a couple  of weeks. 
I was minded to find it fair and reasonable to order  British  Gas to reimburse the 
£135.00 and - as theyve  been out of pocket since that date  to add interest  at our 
usual rate.
Subject to any further information from Mr and Mrs V or from British  Gas, my provisional 
decision was that I was minded to uphold this complaint in part. I intended to direct British  
Gas Insurance  Limited to pay Mr and Mrs V (jointly):
1.£135.00 in reimbursement of their plumbers invoice dated 28 November 2017;  and
2.simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from that date to the date British  
Gas reimburses it. If British Gas considers that its required  by HM Revenue & 
Customs to withhold income tax from that interest, it must tell Mr and Mrs V how 
much its taken  off. It should also give them a tax deduction certificate if either  of 
them asks for one, so he and/or she can reclaim the tax from HM Revenue & 
Customs if appropriate.
Mr and Mrs V asked  for more time to respond  to the provisional decision. They wanted to 
await a data access request. Mr and Mrs V say, in summary, that this information would 
have been favourable to support their case and demonstrate that British  Gas should have 
replaced their boiler and cylinder between 2002  and 2011 under the terms of the Homecare 
insurance.
I declined to grant more  time because I found  it unlikely  that the data request would produce 
further information relevant to the issue of the radiator pipe.
British Gas hasnt  responded to the provisional decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive seen British  Gas policy terms dated October  2015 and dated February 2017. Each of 
them contains the same  exclusion as follows:
Unless  your product  includes  accidental  damage  we wont  cover  any damage  
youve  caused .
Ive seen the British Gas policy renewal  letter to Mr V from April 2017. It said that for the 
following year he would  have a product called HomeCare Three. It covered central  heating  
including radiators, their pipework and valves. 
The letter said the following:
Ref: DRN79883223Well cover Accidental Damage. So youre  protected if you (or anyone else living  in 
your house)  accidentally breaks anything covered in your agreement
So the British  Gas policy did include accidental damage to the radiator pipework and valve in 
November 2017.
I see no reason to doubt Mr and Mrs Vs statement that they accidentally caused such  
damage. I dont think British Gas is likely to have any evidence  that someone else  not 
living with Mr and Mrs V  caused the damage.
So I find that British  Gas behaved  unfairly by declining to do a permanent repair of the 
damage Mr and Mrs V had done.
Whilst I can understand that Mr and Mrs V didnt welcome the engineer  saying they werent 
covered, I havent seen  or heard enough  detail  to persuade me that the engineer  said 
anything else inappropriate. 
Ive thought about ordering  British  Gas to pay Mr and Mrs V compensation for distress  and 
inconvenience. But it was only one radiator that wasnt working.  And Ive seen  a plumbers 
invoice dated  28 November 2017 for £135.00. So I think Mr and Mrs V got the radiator fixed 
within a couple  of weeks. 
And I think much of their distress and inconvenience was to do with having  to pay for 
something British Gas shouldve covered. 
So overall Im minded  to find it fair and reasonable to order  British Gas to reimburse the 
£135.00 and - as theyve  been out of pocket since that date  to add interest  at our usual 
rate.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, my final decision is that I uphold this complaint in part. I 
direct British Gas Insurance Limited to pay Mr and Mrs V (jointly):
1.£135.00 in reimbursement of their plumbers invoice dated 28 
November 2017; and
2.simple interest on that amount at a yearly rate of 8% from that 
date to the date British Gas reimburses  it. If British  Gas 
considers that its required by HM Revenue & Customs to 
withhold income tax from that interest,  it must tell Mr and Mrs V 
how much  its taken  off. It should  also give them a tax 
deduction certificate if either of them asks for one, so he and/or 
she can reclaim  the tax from HM Revenue & Customs if 
appropriate.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs V to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Christopher Gilbert
Ref: DRN79883224ombudsman
Ref: DRN7988322