K820x#14complaint
Mrs W says Canada Square  Operations  Limited   trading as Egg  mis-sold her a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
For the purposes of this decision, I will refer to Canada Square Operations  Limited  as Egg.
background
The policy was added  to Mrs Ws at the same time as taking out a credit  card online in 2000.
Our adjudicator didnt  think we should uphold the complaint. Mrs W disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion, so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mrs Ws case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mrs Ws complaint. Ill explain why.
Mrs W says she thinks  the policy was either sold during a telephone call or by a postal 
application. Egg says the policy was sold during an online application.  From the information 
Ive been given it looks like it was an online application. Whatever way the policy  was sold, 
Egg shouldve  made Mrs W aware she had a choice about  buying the PPI. Mrs W says she 
wasnt aware the PPI had been added.
Egg has explained the sales  process and given us screenshots  of how the PPI wouldve 
been shown to Mrs W at the time of the sale. I have no reason to think  Mrs W wouldve seen 
something different.  So Ive looked  carefully at these screenshots  and I can see Mrs W 
wouldve been given  a choice to select yes or no to buy the policy. The process  wouldve 
required an option to be selected before an applicant couldve moved on to the next section. 
And the fact the PPI was added to Mrs Ws account  makes me think its more likely she 
selected the yes option.
So I think Egg made Mrs W aware  that she had a choice about buying the PPI, and that she 
chose to take it.
The policy was taken  out over the internet, without any apparent  involvement from an Egg 
representative so I dont think it recommended the PPI to Mrs W. This means Egg didnt 
have to check it was right for her. But it shouldve made sure it gave Mrs W enough 
information to allow her to choose whether the PPI was right for her or not.
Mrs W says the terms of the PPI werent  explained  to her. Looking  at the screenshots,  I think 
the information Egg gave Mrs W about the costs,  benefits and main  limitations  of the policy 
wasnt as clear as it shouldve been.  So Ive got to consider  whether better information about  
the policy wouldve  put Mrs W off taking it out.
Ref: DRN76990912I dont think it would  have.  Mrs W doesnt  appear to have been affected  at the time by any of 
the main things the policy didnt cover  such as any existing health conditions  or any 
unusual working  patterns.
Mrs W says she wouldve  received some  sick pay benefits from her employer. But the PP 
would have paid out alongside these benefits  and would have also covered her repayments 
if she was made unemployed. She also says she didnt  have  any other means  of making  her 
repayments  such as savings. So I think Mrs W would  have  had a use for the policy.   
Taking everything into account,  even if Mrs W had been given clear information, I still think 
she wouldve bought  the policy. Which means  Egg doesnt  have to pay back all the cost of 
the PPI to Mrs W.
But Egg has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:
Egg got a high level of commission and profit share (more than 50% of the PPI premium)  
- so it should have  told Mrs W about  that. Because Egg didnt tell Mrs W, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Egg has paid back the amount of commission and profit share that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited does not have to 
pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Canada Square Operations  Limited  does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission  
and profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has 
already done this, so I dont award  any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 24 February  2019.
Claire Marchant-Williams
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7699091