K822xcomplaint
Mr N has complained that his motor  insurance  policy was cancelled  even though  he had 
given his broker County  Insurance Consultants Limited (County) correct answers to all the 
questions they had asked him when he took out the policy.
background 
Mr N had several conversations with county over the phone  before he agreed to take 
insurance through it on 20 November 2018. 
Shortly after the policy was incepted County sent Mr N a notice of cancellation which  it said 
explained Mr Ns policy would be cancelled on 4 December  2018 although. It actually stated 
the policy would cancel on the 14 December  2018.
On 4 December  2018 having received  notice  his policy would cancel on 14 December 2018 
Mr N received a text message stating his policy would cancel that day. Mr N then decided to 
cancel the policy himself.
The cancellation of Mr Ns policy was initially  requested  because  he had previously had a 
policy with the insurer voided. County hadnt  made  the insurer  aware  of the voidance,  and as 
a result the insurer wasnt willing to offer cover to him. 
Mr N argued that he had told County about  the voidance when he took out the policy and 
County contacted the insurer agreeing that Mr N had told it about this previously. In 
response to this information the insurer emailed County on Friday 30 November 2018 to 
state it would continue to offer Mr N insurance if he could provide further documentation. 
Unfortunately, County didnt act on that email before Mr N cancelled his policy.
Mr N maintains that he did tell County  about the previous policy  he had with the insurer  
being voided and had County acted on the information received from the insurer  his policy 
would never  have been cancelled. As a result,  he has had to pay more for insurance cover 
elsewhere.
County disagrees. It says that although it did make some administrative errors and told the 
insurer Mr N had disclosed his previously voided  policy Mr N never  told it about the voided 
policy, and it had told the insurer he had in error. In recognition of its errors  County  has 
offered to refund Mr N the difference between  what he paid in total for the insurance, and 
what was refunded to him when it was cancelled.
Our investigator considered Mr Ns complaint and thought the offer was fair. Having listened 
to all the call recordings provided  by County and Mr N he thought Mr N had failed to tell it 
about the previous voidance and therefore  the policy should never have been offered to him 
in the first place.
Mr N disagreed with our investigators view so this complaint has been passed to me to 
decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN75335412I have listened  to all the call recordings available from when Mr N applied for his policy  as 
these conversations are relevant and form the basis of the insurance contract.
When Mr N first called  County to take a policy on 19 November 2018 the advisor  said:
You have never had insurance refused  voided  declined or cancelled  or any special terms 
imposed? 
Mr N responded with: 
no
The policy wasnt taken out until the following day when Mr N called  back to take the policy. 
During this call Mr N explained that the previous owner of the car had a policy voided. The 
advisor went through several times with Mr N the circumstance of the previous voidance  to 
confirm it was not in Mr Ns name.
The advisor said clearly  that this wouldnt  be a problem:
As long as you have  never had insurance  refused, cancelled voided or declined.
Mr N responded with:
no no no I have never had insurance cancelled or voided
I think it is very clear from these conversations that Mr N did not disclose a previous policy 
had been voided and instead confirmed the opposite, that he had never had a policy  in his 
name voided. I appreciate Mr N feels he did tell County about the previous voidance but 
having reviewed  all the evidence provided  by him and County I am not convinced.
I appreciate that because  of County telling the insurer Mr N did disclose the previous 
voidance, the cancellation of Mr Ns policy could have been  avoided. But I also think  this was 
an error by County and the offer of continued  insurance should never  have happened.
I am persuaded that had Mr N given correct  information from the outset the insurer would 
have declined cover  from the beginning. So, while its clear County made errors when it 
carried out some of the administrative  tasks, I dont think it is fair to hold it responsible for the 
cancellation of the policy which wouldnt have been setup in the first place had Mr N 
answered their questions correctly.
I think the offer County  has made  to refund  Mr N the difference between  what he paid for the 
policy and what was returned to him, so he paid nothing for the policy,  is fair and I dont think 
it should have  to do anything further to resolve Mr Ns complaint.
my final decision
I think the offer to pay Mr N the difference between what he paid for the policy  and the 
refund he received is a fair and reasonable outcome to Mr Ns complaint and I dont require 
County Insurance  Consultants  Limited  to do anything other  than this to resolve Mr Ns 
complaint.
Ref: DRN75335413Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr N to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 May 2020.
Terry Woodham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7533541