K820x#14complaint
Mr V complains that the redress  offered to him by Hartley Wadsworth & Partners Ltd (HWP) 
in relation to loss of growth  on his pension fund is insufficient.
background
Mr V was a member of a group personal pension. After taking advice  from HWP he 
transferred his pension  to a drawdown arrangement, and took a pension  commencement 
lump sum.
Nearly a year later, it was found that the funds in the drawdown arrangement had been  left in 
cash and had not been invested in accordance with HWPs recommendations.
HWP says that it discovered the error when preparing for Mr Vs annual  review. It contacted 
Mr V at the end of November 2017  to highlight the error. And its adviser  met Mr V in January 
2018 to explain  the situation  further  and to make an offer of redress.
Following the meeting,  HWP wrote to Mr V. It said it had explained that he had missed  out 
on £6,241.81  of fund growth  due to the issue. And it said that, to resolve the matter, it would 
send him a cheque  for £4993.45. Mr V could decide either to pay this amount into his 
pension, which, together with tax relief, would give him a total of £6,241.81. Or he could 
choose to keep the money in his bank account.
Mr V chose to pay the redress into his pension fund. As Mr V was subject to a money 
purchase annual  allowance of £4,000 the money  was paid into his pension fund in two 
tranches.
Mr V subsequently complained to HWP.  He said that he felt he should receive the full 
amount of £6,241.81 plus tax relief. And he said hed lost all confidence in the business and 
asked for details of its calculations.
HWP didnt uphold  Mr Vs complaint. It said, in summary:
It had identified the error in preparation  for Mr Vs annual  review and communicated it 
to him at the earliest opportunity;
Mr V had missed out on £6,241.81 of investment growth at the point the money was 
correctly invested.  A total of £6,241.81 had been paid in. Had it paid him £6,241.81 in 
cash and Mr V had paid this into his pension fund then the total paid in (including tax 
relief) would have been £7,802.26  and Mr V would have been in profit;
Mr V had actually profited from the situation  as he now had a small additional right to 
tax-free cash caused by the new contributions which he would not have had if the 
fund had grown through investment return instead. In addition,  the contributions were 
paid into his fund at points when the unit price of the investment  was slightly  below 
that on the date the money  was first invested  in the correct fund and therefore more  
units had been bought  than the detriment calculation required;
It enclosed its detriment calculations.
Mr V wasnt  happy with HWPs response and he and his representative  referred his 
complaint to this service.  He said that he didnt  feel that HWP had reimbursed him correctly.  
And he said that he wanted HWP to refund its fee and pay him compensation for the poor 
service he had received  and for his distress. 
Ref: DRN78290572An adjudicator at this service  reviewed Mr Vs complaint and agreed that HWPs offer was 
suitable redress.
Mr Vs representative didnt agree with the adjudicators view.  She said in particular that it 
was Mr V who first raised the issue that something  was wrong. And she said that the advice 
fees paid to HWP should be refunded.
Another adjudicator  became involved in the case. He reviewed the submissions from both 
parties and was in agreement  that HWP had paid suitable redress.  In particular, he didnt 
agree that HWP should  refund its fee. And he said that he hadnt been able to locate any 
evidence to support  the view that it was Mr V who had initially  contacted  HWP about a 
potential problem.
Mr V and his representative do not agree with our adjudicators view,  and have asked for his 
complaint to be considered by an ombudsman: They say in particular:
HWP  has failed  to take ownership  and has tried to pass the blame and responsibility  
of identifying the missing funds;
Mr V paid for a service that he didnt  fully receive but hasnt  been  offered a refund of 
fees or compensation.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I agree with our 
adjudicators that HWP  has dealt with Mr Vs complaint fairly. I appreciate that this will come  
as a disappointment  to Mr V, so Ill explain why Ive reached this decision.
Once HWP identified the error, it took action to invest  the pension  funds.  This allowed it to 
calculate the total loss of growth as £6,241.81. And it was agreed that the net amount of this 
figure would be repaid  into Mr Vs pension fund. 
The purpose of the redress  was to put Mr V back into the position  he would have been in 
had the error  not been made. So Im satisfied that it was reasonable for HWP to pay the 
redress net of tax. 
The money was paid into Mr Vs pension fund in two tranches, due to legislative restrictions  
and in order to avoid an unauthorised tax charge. Again, Im satisfied that it was reasonable 
that HWP advised Mr V to do this.
HWP says that the contributions  were paid into Mr Vs fund at points when the unit price of 
the investment  was slightly  below that on the date the money was first invested in the correct  
fund and therefore more units were bought  than the detriment calculation  required. In 
addition, it has explained that Mr V will also benefit from a small additional entitlement  to tax 
free cash  as a result  of the additional contributions paid into his fund.
Having considered the circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied that the actions HWP 
took to calculate and pay the loss on Mr Vs funds were reasonable. So I dont require it to 
apply interest or pay further redress.
Ref: DRN78290573Mr Vs representative says that it was Mr V who initially contacted HWP  about  the problem. 
But Ive not seen any evidence to support this. And, although I appreciate  that Mr Vs 
representative feels that HWP hasnt  taken ownership of the error, Im satisfied that it acted  
promptly and appropriately on discovering the error.  So this doesnt change my decision.  
Mr Vs representative says that HWP should refund part or all of its fees. But, as our 
adjudicator explained, the fees were  not only for the implementation and management of the 
underlying funds but also for initial advice and associated  research. And, although HWP 
made an error in relation to investment  of the funds, by paying the redress to Mr V it has 
rectified the position. So I dont find it reasonable to require it to refund its fees. And I dont 
require it to do anything  further.
my final decision
My decision  is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr V to accept or 
reject my decision  before 15 December  2019. 
Alison Cribbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7829057