K820x#14complaint
Mr D complains (on behalf of himself and the estate of his wife, Mrs D) that Bank  of Scotland  
plc (trading as Halifax) mis-sold them payment  protection insurance (PPI).
background
Mr and Mrs D took out a mortgage with PPI in 1996.  
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold their mis-selling complaint. Mr D disagreed  with our 
adjudicator. His main complaint is that the PPI wasnt  needed and shouldnt have been  
recommended to them. Mr D says its unlikely they wouldve taken out PPI if it wasnt  
recommended.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Mr and Mrs D took out the mortgage  in joint names and they both had PPI, so Ive looked at 
both their circumstances  when the policy  was taken out.  
Ive decided not to uphold this complaint.  Heres why I say this.
Usually, Id expect the paperwork to show whats likely to have happened  at the time and 
how the PPI was likely to have been  presented. But Halifax hasnt been able to provide 
anything signed  by Mr and Mrs D from this sale. 
I dont think thats  surprising given that the mortgage  account closed many years ago. 
I wouldnt expect Halifax to have  kept records about a closed  account  for so long. And its 
completely understandable that Mr D isnt able to remember much  about the sale after such  
a long time.  
Mr and Mrs Ds mortgage was a major  financial commitment, repayable over a substantial  
number of years. Their  home wouldve been at risk if their mortgage payments werent kept 
up to date. PPI provided dependable protection. So, I can see why they mightve felt PPI 
was useful to have.  
On balance, I think its likely that Mr and Mrs D were  persuaded of the need to protect their 
home by taking out the PPI offered and they decided to buy the policy.   
Halifax says it recommended PPI to Mr and Mrs D. This means  it had to take reasonable 
steps to ensure the cover was suitable for them. 
It doesnt look as if the PPI recommendation was unsuitable for either  of them  based on 
what Ive seen of Mr and Mrs Ds circumstances  at the time. 
Mr and Mrs D were both eligible for PPI. 
PPI protected  Mr and Mrs D in the event of unemployment for up to 12 months  per claim. 
Ref: DRN71692942And the policy couldve also covered their mortgage repayments for up to 12 months each 
time they claimed  if either  of them  had an accident or was too sick or disabled  to work. Mr D 
told us he couldve depended on getting  6 months  sick pay. Mrs D was entitled  to 6 months 
full sick pay followed by 6 months on half sick pay. So if either  (or both) of them had been off 
sick the policy couldve paid out in full for longer. And the monthly benefit wouldve been  paid 
on top of any sick pay received  through work.  This couldve  been useful  particularly if they 
had extra costs  as a result of illness  or disability.  
PPI is more dependable than relying on family support. And it provides  a different sort of 
cover to a term assurance scheme. Being entitled  to redundancy benefits wouldnt have 
helped if Mr or Mrs D was off work  sick. I dont know if Mr and Mrs D wouldve always  had 
savings or investments to rely on if they couldnt work. 
Mr and Mrs D couldve made repeated claims on the policy. Having PPI meant Mr and Mrs D 
could be sure theyd  be able to keep up the monthly repayments  in order to protect  their 
home. I think  that wouldve been an important  consideration when they were  buying their 
house. So I can see why Mr and Mrs D mightve wanted PPI at the time.  
The mortgage was based on Mr and Mrs D both being in work when they took it out. So 
even though they were both in well paid jobs, I think losing one income  is likely  to have had 
a significant impact on their joint finances   and losing both incomes  wouldve put them in a 
difficult financial position. Having PPI protected their mortgage monthly repayments in the 
long term if either or both them  couldnt  work. So I find the way the benefit was split between 
them seems  reasonable.
Overall, I dont  find that Mr and Mrs Ds work  benefits or personal circumstances meant that 
Halifaxs PPI recommendation was unsuitable for them.  
They were nt affected by any of the main things  the policy didnt cover.  So, I think it unlikely 
that better  information  about the policys exclusions  and limitations wouldve affected their 
decision to take it out.
I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs D when they bought the policy. 
But they havent suggested  that they couldnt afford  the monthly premiums.  And they 
couldve cancelled the PPI at any time if they no longer wanted to pay for it or keep the 
policy running. 
Its possible there mightve been  some failings in the way this policy  was sold.  But I think 
Mr and Mrs D still wouldve  decided to buy the policy  if theyd been better informed  as the 
policy gave them useful  protection  in their particular situation. So I dont find they lost out 
financially as a result  of anything that Halifax may have done wrong.
Ref: DRN71692943my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before1  March 2019.
Susan Webb
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7169294