K820x#14complaint
Mr R and Mrs C complained that Royal & Sun Alliance Insurance  Plc wrongly settled a claim 
against Mrs Cs motor  insurance policy on a split liability basis.   
background 
Mr R was the named  driver on Mrs Cs policy. He was involved in an accident  that he said 
wasnt his fault.  So he complained on Mrs Cs behalf  when Royal  & Sun Alliance Insurance  
Plc (RSA) settled the accident claim on a split liability basis. He felt that they hadnt believed 
him or supported him. He didnt want a fault claim on his driving record and wanted RSA to 
refund the policy excess. 
The investigator didnt  recommend that his complaint should be upheld. She thought  that 
RSA had settled  the claim fairly and reasonably taking into account the evidence they had. 
Mr R and Mrs C didnt agree and so the case has been passed  to me to decide.  
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
As the investigator  explained to Mr R, we dont  decide who is at fault for causing  an 
accident, as this is the role of the courts. Instead, our role in complaints of this kind is simply 
to investigate whether  an insurer has acted fairly and reasonably, and in line with their 
policys terms and conditions when  they made their decision as regards who was 
responsible.  
Ive looked at RSAs policy and see that it says in section 6 on page 11 that RSA may:
act in his or her name and take any steps ..necessary to protect his or her rights. This may 
mean that .or RSAM defend or settle  the claim in the Insured Persons name
This is a common term in motor insurance policies, and it allows  RSA to settle any claim 
against Mrs Cs policy as they see fit, whether Mrs C or Mr R agree with it or not. Insurers  
are entitled  to make a commercial decision about  whether  its reasonable for them  to contest 
a claim or better for them to settle it without going to court. 
Mr R was adamant that he was not to blame for the accident. He gave RSA his version of 
events, and a sketch  and photographs. He said that the other driver collided with him and 
that they had admitted fault at the scene.  However the other  drivers insurer didnt accept 
liability and so RSA had no option but to consider that as part of the overall  evidence.  
RSA asked Mr R and Mrs C for their views about  whether  they should take the case to court  
or settle  it 50/50.  Mr R wanted to go to court as he wanted a judge  to hear both drivers 
evidence and decide. So he was frustrated when RSA decided  to settle it anyway on a split 
liability basis. RSA said that this was because of the conflicting circumstances and lack of 
independent witnesses. They said couldnt be sure that theyd be successful in court, and 
they thought that a judge would say it was split liability. 
Ref: DRN76239852Mr R felt that RSA had denied him the chance  to go to court,  and that they had prejudged 
the matter and found him guilty. However  a court decides lability  for a car accident on the 
balance of probabilities, and its true that a court can decide split liability too. So RSA were 
entitled to consider their prospects of success before risking the costs  involved  in court  
proceedings.  
I see that Mr R felt that RSA had already  made up their minds to settle,  irrespective of his 
opinion and wishes. But having  looked at their file I dont think  that was so. Before settling 
the claim RSA allowed  him to fully explain his account of events and they thoroughly  
reviewed this as well as the evidence from the other driver. I dont think  it was unreasonable  
for them to think that the actions of both drivers  contributed to the accident or for them  to 
lack confidence  that theyd win in court. And I think that RSA did also explain their reasoning  
to Mr R. So I think that RSA had done  all they were required to do. In the end their policy  did 
allow them to settle if they wanted, and I dont think that they were being  unreasonable  in 
deciding that. 
A split lability  decision  does mean that it will be fault claim on a persons record.  And a 
policyholder always  has to pay an excess up front, even  though in some cases it might  later 
be recoverable from the other driver.  So RSA arent  obliged to refund the policy  excess. 
I can see that Mr R feels  frustrated  by the situation, as he feels that he was in the right. But I 
consider that RSA acted fairly  and reasonably  in settling the case as they did and so I dont 
ask them  to do anything  else.  
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above  its my final decision  that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr R and Mrs C to 
accept or reject my decision  before  12 July 2019.
Rosslyn Scott
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7623985