K820x#14complaint
Mr K complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt  complete two transfers from his account  
despite being in funds  to do so.
background
In September  2018 Mr K wanted to transfer funds to his solicitors abroad. On 27 September 
he authorised two payments from his HSBC account  using  internet  banking. The payments  
totalled £46,925.44 - one for £18,326.41 and another for £28,599.03.
The first payment was completed but HSBC  said there wasnt  enough in Mr Ks account to 
cover the second.  The payment was reversed  and in doing  so, HSBC had to convert  the 
funds back into pounds. This led to an exchange rate loss of £1,240.48.
Mr K says there was enough money  in his account  for both payments and both payments 
could have been completed. He doesnt think he should have to pay the exchange rate loss.
HSBC disagreed and said there hadnt  been  sufficient  funds to cover both transfers so it had 
had to reverse the second one and this had led to an exchange rate loss. It didnt agree it 
had made  a mistake. But it acknowledged  thered been a delay in telling Mr K what  had 
happened. To resolve this it had gone back over the exchange  rates between 27 September  
( the date of the attempted transfer) to 18 October ( the date it was cancelled) to find the 
best rate and had recalculated the loss on that basis.  It had now refunded Mr K £542.02 and 
felt this was fair.
Our investigator reviewed  the statement for Mr Ks account. These showed there hadnt 
been sufficient  funds to cover  both payments and for that reason,  he didnt feel HSBC  had 
been wrong to reverse the second.
He noted that before  Mr K completed  the transfer online, hed have seen the following 
message: Please select Confirm if you like to accept  the rate above and confirm your 
payment instruction. Please  be aware  that once your payment has been confirmed it is not 
possible for it to be recalled or cancelled. Also, if this payment  cannot be made or is returned 
by the foreign bank for any reason, the payment will be reversed. If there has been 
movement in exchange rates which leads to a gain or loss, this will be passed to your 
account." He felt HSBC  had explained there could be an exchange  rate loss if the transfer 
didnt go ahead so it wasnt  unreasonable for it to pass this on to Mr K in this case. 
He agreed thered been a delay by HSBC in confirming the second transfer hadnt gone  
through but HSBC had now gone back  over the exchange rates  at the key time and had 
recalculated the exchange using the best rate available  and refunded £542.02 to Mr K. Our 
investigator felt this was fair so he wouldnt be asking HSBC to cancel  the balance.
Mr K disagreed. He felt HSBC could have contacted him before the transfer was cancelled to 
let him know  there was an issue. He asked for his complaint to be referred to an 
ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so however I wont be 
asking HSBC to do anything more as Ill now explain.
Ref: DRN72456362Ive looked at Mr Ks statement for the 27 September, the date he requested  the two 
transfers. The transfers totalled  £46,925.44 but the balance in his account  was £42,215.50 
so Im satisfied there wasnt  enough in the account  to cover both payments.
Ive seen Mr K feels HSBC could have  let him know there werent  enough funds, not least as 
it called  him to verify the transactions. Hes pointed out that HSBC lets him know  as soon as 
he goes overdrawn but didnt do so in this case.
I can understand why Mr K feels if hed known sooner, he could  perhaps  have taken  steps to 
put matter right. Having said that however I dont consider HSBC has acted  unreasonably.  
The call from HSBC was an anti fraud measure to ensure the transfers had been properly 
authorised and the caller wouldnt necessarily have known the details of Mr Ks account 
other than the transfers. And the text messages Mr K refers to are automatically generated 
when an account  goes overdrawn. But in this case the payment was reversed before it was 
completed and Mr K didnt  go overdrawn so that wouldnt apply.
And because payment  was cancelled HSBC had to convert the payment back  into pounds  
which, in turn, led to an exchange rate loss. I can see Mr K feels  this is unfair but it is in line 
with the information provided  by HSBC before Mr K completed the transfer requests. For that 
reason I cant agree  the charges are unfair.
Having said that, HSBC took almost  three  weeks to let Mr K know what had happened.  It 
seems clear  that cancelling a payment  could  have significant consequences  for the 
customer so Id have  expected it to have contacted Mr K much  sooner. But HSBC  has now 
gone back and recalculated the exchange at the best rate available and refunded £542.02 to 
Mr K. This seems  far to me and ensures Mr K hasnt  been disadvantaged by the delay.
I realise Mr K may be disappointed by my decision but for the reasons given, I consider 
HSBC has dealt with this matter fairly and I wont be asking it to do anything more.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Ks complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr K to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 May 2019.
Cerys Jones
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7245636