K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs B are unhappy with the way AXA Insurance UK Plc handled their travel  
insurance claim.
background
Mr B has an annual travel insurance policy with AXA. The policy  provides cover  for him and 
his family,  including his wife Mrs B.
In August  2018,  Mr B became unwell whilst on holiday and was admitted  to hospital due to 
having cholecystitis.  Mr B underwent emergency surgery and was repatriated home with his 
wife in September 2018.
AXA arranged for Mrs B to stay abroad with her husband whilst  he was unwell. This required  
extra accommodation that was approved and extended every few nights.
Although the claim has now been  settled, Mr and Mrs B are unhappy about the way they 
were treated  throughout  the clam,  so they requested compensation. 
In their final response, AXA agreed  they could have provided better customer service.  They  
acknowledged the wrong type of taxi had been  sent to collect  Mr and Mrs B and take them  to 
the airport. They also said they could have kept Mrs B better updated  about  the claim,  done 
more in relation  to extending the extra  accommodation Mrs B needed and made  those 
arrangements in a more  timely manner. AXA offered £400  compensation to say sorry, but as 
Mr and Mrs B didnt  think this was enough, they referred the complaint  to our service.  
Our investigator considered the complaint,  although  he didnt agree with all the complaint 
points, he did think the compensation should  be increased to £500. He highlighted the 
trouble and upset  Mr and Mrs B experienced due to the errors AXA had made.
Both AXA and Mr and Mrs B disagreed with our investigators opinion. AXA didnt think the 
increase in compensation was appropriate,  and Mr and Mrs B didnt think  the increase went 
far enough. 
The key complaint points that remain in dispute are concerns raised by Mr and Mrs B in 
relation to: 
Delays in confirming  cover 
AXAs decision to authorise accommodation a few days  at a time 
Delays in repatriating  Mr B.
The conduct of the taxi driver who transferred Mr and Mrs B to the airport
The overall distress and inconvenience Mr and Mrs B experienced, as well as their 
family members back in the UK. 
Ive therefore  considered  the complaint afresh. 
Ref: DRN78994572my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr and Mrs B have  raised several  points in response to our investigators opinion. I have 
carefully reviewed them  all, but I wont  specifically address all of them in my decision. Ill 
focus on the points I think  are central  to the outcome of the complaint.
Im sorry  to hear that Mr and Mrs B had such a difficult time when Mr B became unwell 
abroad. I can see that Mr B was very unwell and Im sure it was a worrying time for them. 
The relevant  rules and industry guidelines say that AXA has a responsibility to handle  claims 
promptly and fairly.  So I need to decide whether thats what  AXA did in the circumstances  of 
this case and whether  the compensation our investigator recommended is fair. 
I think a total of £500 compensation is fair because: 
It is unclear why Mrs B couldnt  get in touch with AXA.  She told us that she couldnt  
get the call to connect. I dont know whether this was caused  by an issue  with 
Mrs Bs signal or whether she was contacting the correct  number.  But I can see that 
AXA took a proactive  approach once  they were aware of the situation. Within  minutes  
of speaking to Mrs Bs family in the UK they contacted Mrs B by phone and sent a 
text with their contact details asking  her to get in touch. In any event I dont think it is 
central to my findings  because based on the evidence Ive seen Mr B was able to 
access the treatment  he needed  and it didnt  delay the treatment he received 
I dont agree AXA unreasonably  delayed in accepting the claim. AXA is entitled  to 
validate the claim before agreeing cover and that is standard  industry practice.  I can 
see the information on AXAs file was reviewed  straight away  by a nurse to determine 
what information was needed. AXA sent a form for Mr B to sign and return so they 
could request his medical records from the UK. Once that was received AXA were 
proactive about requesting and chasing the medical  records from Mr Bs GP. So I 
dont think this was unreasonable  particularly because the illness  from which Mr B 
was suffering can be linked to other  conditions, including  chronic conditions. And I 
can see that during  this time AXA also reviewed a letter from the treating hospital 
which needed to be translated  or reviewed  by someone who spoke the relevant  
language. So I think the claim was progressed  during this time. 
Once AXA reviewed  all the evidence they accepted the claim. I think  they did so in a 
reasonable timescale given that Mr B was actively receiving appropriate treatment, 
including surgery, and was medically stable. Mr and Mrs B also havent suggested 
there was any issue with the care Mr B was receiving  or the facility that he was in. 
Thats not to say that Mr B wasnt in pain, stressed and worried  and I dont seek to 
downplay how upsetting this was for Mr and Mrs B. But I think  AXA handled the claim 
proactively and in a way which adequately  reflected the urgency of the situation
Ref: DRN78994573Mrs B has said that if AXA had accepted the claim  faster, she wouldnt have needed 
to have arranged  and paid for extra accommodation herself. I appreciate  this would 
have been stressful  for her, but as the claim  hadnt been accepted,  I dont think  AXA 
did anything wrong. I think they took reasonable steps to assist Mrs B given the 
status of the claim  at that point in time.  For example,  they made her aware of some  
hotel options and explained theyd  refund  the cost of her accommodation  if the claim 
was accepted. Under the circumstances, this is what Id expect  them to do
I dont think AXA did anything wrong  by offering accommodation for a few days  at a 
time. I say this because  AXA didnt know  when  Mr B would be able to return  home 
and I wouldnt expect  AXA to pay for an extended  hotel stay that might not be 
needed. Mr B has said AXA should  have known  that Mr B would have needed  more  
than three nights to recover  from his surgery. But I note that the extensions  were 
based on the medical information they received.  For example, on 22 August 2018,  
AXA received  a medical report  which  updated  them as to Mr Bs condition. Following 
this, they concluded  that at least five extra days would be required,  and Mrs Bs 
accommodation was extended until 28 August 2018. So I dont think that AXA acted  
unreasonably in the circumstances
I also dont think AXA delayed Mr and Mrs Bs repatriation,  once  Mr B was 
discharged from hospital. Based on the notes, AXA informed Mr and Mrs B that they 
would arrange  for them to be repatriated  once they had reviewed the hospital  
discharge papers.  This is what Id expect them  to do, as they needed to make sure it 
was medically appropriate for Mr B to return  home. I note this documentation was 
received on 30 August  2018,  and the translated copy was reviewed on the following 
day. I dont think  this timeframe was unreasonable particularly given that Mr B was 
medically stable and continuing  to recover from the surgery
AXA accept they arranged the wrong type of car to transport Mr and Mrs B to the 
airport and that shouldnt have happened. But they couldnt  have  predicted  the 
drivers actions. And AXA wasnt  made aware of the problem  until after the transfer 
had been completed. So I cant fairly  ask AXA to compensate Mr and Mrs B, for the 
upset theyve said the driver caused  them. However,  I do note that AXA has logged 
the feedback,  which  is what Id expect  them to do 
Mr and Mrs B have  said their family members were caused distress  because they 
made calls to AXA on their behalf, when they couldnt get through.  I dont dispute 
this, but in reaching this decision,  Im only able to consider the distress Mr and Mrs B 
experienced as they are the parties who have a contract of insurance with AXA. I do, 
however, acknowledge that Mr and Mrs B may not have needed to request this 
support, if theyd received a better level of customer service from AXA.  I also 
appreciate that relying on family  members  to contact  AXA would have contributed  to 
the distress and confusion  Mr and Mrs B experienced - at an already difficult  time. 
Ref: DRN78994574compensation for trouble  and upset 
Im aware AXA has said the £400 compensation theyve offered is a reasonable resolution  to 
the complaint.  I disagree and think £500  would be more appropriate. I say this because, the 
poor communication and uncertainty surrounding  the extension of Mrs Bs accommodation,  
caused substantial  distress to both Mr and Mrs B, at an already  difficult  and upsetting time. 
This was time when  Mr and Mrs B were vulnerable and needed their insurers support.  
Once Mr B was discharged from hospital, he also experienced an uncomfortable and painful 
taxi journey. This couldve been avoided had AXA reviewed the confirmation  details and 
made sure a minivan was provided.
Mr and Mrs B should have been  able to rely on AXA, to keep  them informed and simplify an 
already distressing and complex situation. They didnt do that here,  so I think £500  
compensation is a reasonable  amount of compensation to say sorry. 
I appreciate this recommendation may disappoint Mr and Mrs B, but in reaching  this decision 
Ive needed to separate the unavoidable distress, they experienced due to Mr Bs 
unfortunate illness and the avoidable upset AXAs poor customer service caused. Having 
done so, I think  £500  is fair. 
Mr and Mrs B have  also highlighted  the size of AXA. However,  the compensation Ive 
recommended acknowledges the trouble and upset  Mr and Mrs B experienced due to AXAs  
failings in the service  provided - it isnt a punishment or a fine.  
my final decision
I uphold this complaint,  and direct AXA Insurance UK Plc to pay Mr and Mrs B £500 
compensation in total. This includes the £400  offered  in the final response letter.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs B to 
accept or reject my decision  before  10 January 2020.
Anna Wilshaw 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7899457