K820x#14complaint
Miss W says Home  Retail Group  Insurance Services Limited (HRG) trading as Argos,  mis-
sold her a payment  protection  insurance (PPI) policy when she took out a store  card in 2010. 
Miss W says she was not made aware of the policy and didnt need  it as she was entitled to 
full sick pay.
background
Our adjudicator has assessed this complaint and already provided a view that it shouldnt  be 
upheld. Miss W disagreed and so its been passed to me, an ombudsman  for a final 
decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.  
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Miss Ws complaint.
The sale took place  over 9 years  ago and unsurprisingly HRG hasnt been able to send us 
many documents relating  to the sale. But weve seen a number of very similar complaints to 
this one and weve spoken to HRG about  its sales practices from that time.  
So we now understand the processes that were typically used when selling these  policies in 
2010. This includes our knowledge of guidance - in the form of a script  which  HRG told its 
telephone staff to follow  when selling  this type of PPI cover over the phone. Ive used this 
knowledge and also what Ive been  told by the parties to help me make a decision. 
From similar HRG cases Ive seen and from the script HRG has showed us, I think  its more 
likely Miss W wouldve  been given the option to have the PPI policy with her store card.  
Shed already been granted the card and was more likely than not phoning up to confirm its 
receipt. So I think Miss W would have known the PPI wasnt something  she needed to have 
to get the card approved.  And we know HRG call-handlers were told to explain the PPI and 
get the express consent of consumers  before  adding it on. I think  Miss W is more likely to 
have agreed to the PPI and wouldve known it was being set up (rather than it be added 
without her knowledge).
HRG recommended the PPI and this means  it was under a duty to ensure it was suitable for 
her. On this occasion, I think the policy was suitable for her.
I say this because  although she told us she had some sickness  protection  already with her 
job (3-6 months worth), I think she would have found some value in having the cover 
provided by the policy. In the event of a successful claim, Miss W wouldve been able to 
have her outstanding balance  reduced by 15% each month. This wouldve been in addition 
to any means Miss W already had in place and most  likely for longer. The level of benefit, if 
she ever needed  to claim, was also higher than is normally found with this type of card.  This 
means that in the event of her needing to claim, Miss Ws balance wouldve been  paid off 
more quickly. Also, Ive seen nothing that suggests Miss W would  have found  these  monthly 
charges unaffordable.
Ref: DRN70972602So I dont  think it was unreasonable that HRG recommended PPI. I think  it was suitable.
HRG also had to give Miss W information that was clear, fair and not misleading. We dont 
have an actual recording of the call from back in 2010 (HRG used  the call to assess  the 
complaint but now cannot locate it), so I cant confirm  for sure whether Miss W was told 
everything she shouldve  been told, but this doesnt  alter my decision. 
This is because on balance I think shed have been told about the terms and conditions  of 
the cover  and asked  whether she agreed  to it. And typically, consumers were sent 
information in their regular monthly  statements about whether they were being charged  for 
PPI and how much it was costing. Although I accept this wouldve been after the point of 
sale, I think Miss W had access to this information over an extended  time period. But even if 
Miss W hadnt  been given  all of the information  she needed, I think  she wouldve still taken it 
if she had, for the reasons why I think  the policy was suitable for her. 
Its important to me that Miss W feels Ive listened  to what  shes had to say. But for me to 
uphold this case, Id need to think it was more likely that Miss W wasnt given an option or 
there were some other issue in the way the policy was sold. I dont have enough information 
in front of me to show that on the balance  of probabilities that this was the case. 
What Ive seen makes me think its more likely Miss W agreed to the PPI and the 
recommendation for it wasnt  unreasonable in her situation. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Miss Ws complaint and I dont require Home 
Retail Group Insurance Services Limited to do anything.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Miss W to accept 
or reject my decision before 19 December 2019.
Mark Richardson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7097260