K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Bradford & Bingley Plc mis-sold Mr and Mrs D payment protection 
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 1998. 
Our adjudicator said the complaint should  be upheld. Bradford & Bingley disagreed  with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint was passed to me. I reached  a different view to 
that of the adjudicator, so I sent out a provisional decision and asked for comments. I said:
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general 
approach to complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into 
account in deciding this case.
I dont currently think this PPI policy was mis-sold. I will explain  why.
The adjudicator said that it wasnt fair that Bradford & Bingley didnt tell 
Mr and Mrs D, until after they had applied  for the PPI, about  an exclusion for pre-
existing medical conditions. Instead  Bradford & Bingley wrote around when the 
mortgage started,  when Mr and Mrs D would have been busy  moving  house.  The 
adjudicator said this would have mattered  as Mr D suffered from a long term illness 
and so would be affected by the exclusion.  
I think its still quite possible the exclusion was discussed when Mr D declared  his 
medical condition.  But, in any case,  I dont  think the exclusion would have put 
Mr and Mrs D off taking the PPI. I say this because Mr D has said that his condition  
was managed with medication, and he has not had to take time off work for it, and in 
1998 wouldnt have  expected it to be the cause of a claim. So, even if Bradford & 
Bingley had drawn the issue clearly to Mr and Mrs Ds attention,  I dont think  it would 
have changed  their decision to take PPI. The other cover given by the PPI would 
probably still have  seemed  useful.
Mr and Mrs D say they thought they didnt have a choice about taking PPI. But I think  
the way the PPI was presented in the documents  made clear  there  was a choice 
about what type of PPI to take,  or whether to take it all. And I dont have  any other 
evidence to show Bradford & Bingley said it was compulsory. 
Bradford & Bingley  didnt  recommend the PPI to Mr and Mrs D as being  particularly  
suited to their individual needs.  This means it didnt have to check  if the PPI fitted 
their circumstances. It would have been  for Mr and Mrs D to decide whether it was 
suitable
 Its hard to know how well Bradford  & Bingley explained the costs and benefits  of the 
policy. But I dont anyway  think  full and clear information about the costs  would  have 
affected whether  Mr and Mrs D took the PPI.
Its possible Bradford & Bingley didnt clearly  point out the main things the policy  
didnt cover. But its unlikely Mr and Mrs D would have been affected by any of these,  
Ref: DRN76045552other than the one about pre-existing medical conditions.  And theyd be paying for it 
monthly, so they could  cancel it at any time without further cost if their situation 
changed.
This means  my current view is that Bradford & Bingley  doesnt  have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. But Bradford & Bingley has had to pay back  
some of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D because: 
Bradford & Bingley  got a high level of commission  and profit  share (more than 
50% of the PPI premium)  - so it should have  told Mr and Mrs D about  that. 
Because Bradford & Bingley didnt  tell Mr and Mrs D, that was unfair. 
To put that right, Bradford & Bingley has basically offered to pay back  the 
amount of commission and profit share that was above 50% of the PPI 
premium - and I think that offer is fair in this case.
My current  view is that the PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley  Plc 
doesnt have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. But that Bradford 
& Bingley Plc does  have  to pay back to Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already 
done this, and so I wont  be awarding any further  compensation.  
I didnt receive any comments on my provisional decision. 
my findings
Ive again considered all the available evidence and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
I confirm my provisional decision.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Bradford & Bingley Plc doesnt  have to pay back  all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mr and Mrs D. But Bradford & Bingley Plc does have to pay back  to 
Mr and Mrs D any commission and profit share  it got that was more  than 50% of the PPI 
premium. I understand  it has already done this, and so I wont be awarding any further  
compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs D to 
accept or reject my decision  6 October  2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7604555