K822xcomplaint
Mr Ls complaint is that A J Bell Management Limited should not have accepted  the transfer 
of a final salary pension into his SIPP. 
background 
Mr Ls complaint was looked  at by an investigator.  It was his view that the complaint should 
not be upheld.  
He said that before accepting the transfer  AJ Bell had confirmed that Mr L had obtained 
regulated advice.  It had checked what the advice was and on finding that Mr L had been  
advised not to transfer, it required Mr L to sign an indemnity.  The  wording of the indemnity 
made very clear to Mr L what he was losing by transferring the pension and the 
consequences of doing so.  Mr L signed  the indemnity  and the transfer went ahead.
The investigator also considered the investments in the SIPP  - shares listed on the main 
market of the London Stock Exchange - and could see no problems with the holding of these 
shares.  So his conclusion was that A J Bell had done nothing wrong in accepting  Mr Ls 
pension transfer.
Mr L did not agree and asked for the case to be reviewed by an ombudsman.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.   Having done so, I have reached the 
same conclusions as the investigator and for the same reasons.
SIPP operators have  regulatory obligations to their customers.  They must treat them fairly 
and act in their best interests.  Principle six of the FCAs Principles for Business  says:
A firm must pay due regard to the interests of its customers and treat them fairly
The FCA rule book  (COBS 2.2.1) says:
A firm must act honestly, fairly  and professionally  in accordance with the best interests of 
its client.  (the client's best interests rule)
On the other hand it is an underlying principle of financial services  regulation,  as set out in 
section 5.2 (d) of the Financial Services and Markets Act 2000 (FSMA),  that consumers 
should take responsibility for their own decisions.   
This service will, on occasions,  conclude  that a SIPP  operator  should not accept a pension 
transfer.  Situations where this might be the case could include:  
Where it appears that the investor  has been  given unsuitable advice  perhaps  by an 
unregulated introducer.
Where there are issues with the investment intended to be held within  the SIPP,  for 
example the investment is not secure  and there  is risk of fraud
Where there is a risk that the transfer  could be part of a pension  liberation scheme.
Ref: DRN74527782In this case, apart from Mr L, the only third party  involved  in the transaction was the 
regulated financial  adviser  who advised Mr L not to transfer.  The investments to be held 
within the SIPP were  standard  investments  shares  listed on the London Stock Exchange.   
The shares were all chosen by Mr L.  The losses suffered  by Mr L arose from his own 
investment choices.
A J Bell gave Mr L a very clear warning, in the indemnity, about the benefits he was losing 
by transferring his pension.  These  included the following:
In most cases people who transfer  out of a final salary scheme are likely to be financially 
worse off, regardless  of whether their employer has given them  an incentive to transfer;
The current and prospective benefits  provided  by my transfer value  may represent a 
reduction in the value  of my current benefits under the transferring arrangement;
Following the transfer, the benefits  payable from my pension fund will no longer be 
linked to my salary. The value of my benefits  will depend on the amount transferred 
from the final salary scheme,  the value of any additional payments I make to my 
SIPP, how well the investments I choose  perform, annuity rates at the time I take 
benefits and the level of any fees charged to my SIPP. 
If the amount  paid into my SIPP or investment  performance is insufficient, or charges  
are high,  this may reduce the level of benefits  I can receive,
Final salary schemes typically offer some protection  against the effects of inflation.  
Your SIPP will not offer any such protection.
Mr L has said that he was not asked to provide a copy of the advice he received.  A J Bell 
said they received  a copy but have not been able to find it.  However,  I dont think whether 
this was received  or not makes a difference.  The key thing is that Mr L told A J Bell that he 
had received advice and had been advised not to transfer.  So I dont  think  the detail of the 
advice is relevant to the outcome.  
For these reasons I am satisfied that in accepting Mr Ls pension transfer A J Bell did 
nothing wrong.
A J Bell has offered Mr L £200  for the delays in handling his complaint.  If he wishes to 
accept this offer he should contact A J Bell.
 
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr L to accept or 
reject my decision  before 30 April 2020.
Michael Stubbs
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7452778