K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs P complain  that Bank of Scotland Plc trading as Halifax  (Halifax)  didnt act 
fairly or reasonably when dealing with their mortgage application. They want  compensation.
background
Mr and Mrs P had a mortgage with Halifax. They  wanted a new mortgage  product in place 
before their mortgage  moved onto the standard variable rate (SVR)  in November 2018. 
Mr and Mrs P said that they applied  in good  time and said it was Halifaxs  fault that they did 
go into the SVR for a period of time.  They wanted the extra  interest paid refunded as they 
said two weeks was enough time to arrange  a new mortgage product.
Mr and Mrs P complained to Halifax. It said as part of the application, it had to check the 
income details and repayment plan,  which took time to complete.  Halifax said that when 
Mr and Mrs P contacted it to arrange  a new product in October 2018, they were told that it 
was unlikely the new product would be in place in time to avoid going onto the SVR.
Mr and Mrs P complained to us. The adjudicators  view was that Halifax  wasnt at fault. He 
accepted that the meeting  with Halifax was delayed by three days  (at Halifaxs  request), but 
said Halifax acted fairly and reasonably in carrying out the necessary checks. The 
adjudicator noted  that this wasnt Mr and Mrs Ps first new product application to Halifax,  and 
all took more than two weeks; he said that this meant they shouldve known more time was 
needed.
Mr and Mrs P disagreed.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Lenders are required to ensure that new lending  is affordable, which includes the situation 
when existing mortgage customers apply for a new mortgage product. This means that its 
fair and reasonable for the lender to carry out checks. And it takes  time anyway to arrange a 
new product, and more  than two weeks is very common  within the industry.  Halifax  allows  
applications to be made in the final three months  of a product, and sent Mr and Mrs P a 
reminder about a month before their product was due to end.
In Mr and Mrs Ps case, I can see that this isnt the first time theyve taken  out a new product 
with Halifax. On each  of the previous  occasions,  it took more  than two weeks. I think  its fair 
and reasonable to think Mr and Mrs P were aware more than two weeks was needed,  apart 
from what they mayve been told in October  2018  when  they made the application (which I 
cant confirm as I wasnt present). I also can see from the evidence available  to me that 
Halifax did carry out a number of checks and dealt  with the application fairly and reasonably  
in my view.
And the product offer in 2016  told Mr and Mrs P when the mortgage would move  onto the 
SVR. Its fair and reasonable for lenders to expect consumers to note that information in 
such an important document; any marketing letters sent later dont over-ride the fact that the 
date is set out in the offer letter.
Ref: DRN71131032I cant see that Halifax has made a mistake  or is at fault, and dont uphold  the complaint.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold the complaint. Under the rules of the Financial 
Ombudsman Service, Im required to ask Mr and Mrs P to accept or reject my decision 
before 10 November 2019.
Claire Sharp
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7113103