K821x#15complaint
Mr D has complained about Liberty  Mutual  Insurance Europe SE. He isnt happy  that it 
increased the excess on his mobile phone insurance  policy  without telling him.
background
Mr D made  a claim under his mobile phone insurance policy and was surprised when Liberty 
charged him an excess of £125 as it was £80 when he took the policy  out.
Liberty said that it had sent a message (SMS) to the insured mobile phone outlining  the 
change in excess in November 2017. But Mr D says that the text wasnt received and as far 
as he was aware the excess remained  at the amount  when he first took the policy out (£80).  
As Liberty  wouldnt change its position  he complained to this service.  
Our adjudicator looked into things for him and upheld his complaint. She didnt think it was 
fair for such a significant change to only be communicated by SMS. She asked Liberty to 
refund the additional excess and to pay £50 compensation for the stress and inconvenience 
caused.
As Liberty  didnt agree the matter has been  passed to me for review. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so I think that the complaint 
should be upheld.  Ill explain  why.
When Mr D took out the insurance policy for his phone in October 2016 the excess was £80 
which is what he expected to have to pay when  he made a claim. Liberty increased the 
excess to £125  in November 2017  which it is entitled to do. So the only thing for me to 
decide is whether  it communicated the change, which was significant, in a clear and 
unambiguous way.
This service generally expects significant changes to be clearly  communicated  to 
consumers. So that they can make an informed  choice about whether they wish to continue 
with cover or take their business elsewhere.  And so they are fully aware at claim stage (and 
generally) of what their cover provides. 
In this instance Mr D had taken out cover for his grandson and so any SMS  would  have 
gone to the user of the phone. Mr D says that an SMS wasnt received. And Liberty says one 
was sent and if it had bounced back they wouldve sent notification by post. Its policy 
documentation says that it will communicate  any significant change, giving 30 days notice, 
to the current contact details they have. It feels that an SMS message is sufficient and is the 
best way to communicate such  a change.
But, given the particular circumstances of this case and the significant change  in the excess 
charged, I cant be sure that Mr D, or his grandson,  wouldve  received the SMS. And given 
the significant uplift in excess involved I think it shouldve been  communicated  to Mr D in a 
more durable form using the current  contact details of Mr D, as opposed to just an SMS.
Ref: DRN70268852So, the fair and reasonable  thing  to do, in the particular circumstances of this case, is for 
Liberty to refund the additional excess payment  charged  and to pay Mr D £50 compensation 
for the clear stress and inconvenience caused.
my final decision
It follows, for the reasons given above,  that I uphold this complaint. I require Liberty Mutual 
Insurance Europe SE to refund Mr Ds additional £45 excess  charge and pay him £50 
compensation.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr D to accept or 
reject my decision  before 8 February  2019.
Colin Keegan
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7026885