Complaint
Mr B complains  he was the victim of a binary  options investment scam and Lloyds Bank Plc 
didnt do enough  to recover his money.
Background
I recently issued my provisional conclusions setting out the events  leading up to this complaint, 
and how I thought best to resolve  it. Ive attached a copy  of my provisional decision, which 
forms part of this final decision. 
I invited both parties to let me have  any further  comments they wished to make in response  to 
my provisional conclusions. 
My findings
Ive considered  all the available evidence and arguments to decide whats fair and reasonable 
in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Response to my provisional findings
Mr B responded and accepted my provisional conclusions. Lloyds didnt respond to my 
provisional conclusions. In light of this, I see no reason to depart from the resolution I proposed 
in my provisional decision.  
My final decision  
For the reasons Ive explained  here and, in more detail  in my provisional  decision,  my final 
decision is that I uphold  this complaint. In full and final settlement of it, I require Lloyds Bank 
PLC to:
Refund all the payments made to the merchant from Mr Bs Lloyds account, less the 
£2,000 paid to Mr B by the merchant;
Pay 8% simple interest on the above amount from the date Mr B requested a 
chargeback in November 2017  until the date of settlement. If Lloyds  deducts tax from 
the interest element  of this award, it should provide Mr B with the appropriate tax 
deduction certificate;
Pay Mr B £300  compensation in addition to what it has already paid to recognise the 
trouble and upset  this matter caused him.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7219465Copy of provisional  decision
Complaint
Mr B complains he was the victim of a binary options investment scam and Lloyds Bank Plc didnt do 
enough to recover his money.
Mr B has been helped with his complaint  by a representative, but for ease of reading, Ill refer to all 
submissions as having come  from Mr B himself.
Background
Below is the list of relevant  transactions made from the debit card linked to Mr Bs current  account with 
Lloyds:
Date Event Amount
21 December 2016 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £250
21 December 2016 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £2,250
3 March 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £5,100
7 March 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £10,000
9 March 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £10,000
31 March  2017 Payment from Merchant  (VISA debit) £2,000 (credit)
3 April 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £20,000
5 April 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £10,000
10 April 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £9,000
13 April 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £10,000
21 April 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £10,000
21 April 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £10,000
24 April 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £10,000
25 April 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £10,000
K800x#10
Ref: DRN721946525 April 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £10,000
25 May 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £1,000
19 July 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £4,000
31 July 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £5,000
31 July 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £8,000
1 August 2017 Payment to Merchant  (VISA debit) £5,000
Total: £149,600
What Mr B has said
Mr B, a pensioner, came across the merchant via an internet link which  advertised how people had 
invested relatively small amounts of money and made good profits.  He left his contact details with the 
merchant and was contacted by a broker.
Mr B said the broker told him how the merchant used technical data and other information  from the 
media to invest money on behalf  of customers leading to really  good profits.
Mr B explained it was difficult for him to understand as he had no knowledge  of how to trade. He said 
the broker convinced  him that all trades were  made using their experts and guaranteed success  and 
the security of his investment. The broker  advised that in order to use the expert service, Mr B would  
need to upgrade his account to gold and then platinum  and the only way that could happen would be 
through large investments. Mr B said he was then told that if he made investments of specified  
amounts during the merchants reporting season, he would have access to exclusive rates.
Mr B said the broker told him to watch a series of videos that he states were to convince him of how 
safe the service was. The broker also advised that the merchant  works with all the card schemes and 
he could make  his deposits  using his debit card  which offered him protection. He felt persuaded by 
the broker  to continue.
Mr B said the broker built up his confidence over a period of four months by encouraging him to invest 
large sums. He also said he invested  further funds  with the merchant  with another of his banking  
providers (Bank B). Mr B invested just under  £60,000 with the merchant from his Bank B account.
Mr B said he was told and shown - via his trading  platform  - that he was making a profit.  And when he 
tried to withdraw money he was initially  given  a credit of £2,000.  He said this gave  him confidence  to 
continue.
Mr B said the broker then advised him that he had allegedly lost £33,400. The broker advised that she 
had spoken to her manager and they had come up with a new strategy related  to a bonus scheme.
He said she convinced  him that the only way to recover his lost funds was to invest more  money and if 
he did, the merchant would  give him free trade capital. But he says this didnt happen. When  he tried to 
withdraw his investment, the broker said he couldnt.
Ref: DRN7219465Mr B stated that during the month of August  2017, he was in a state  of shock  when he had come  to the 
realisation that he had been defrauded. From September  2017, he researched  how others had also 
been defrauded by the merchant.
Mr B contacted Lloyds to attempt a chargeback claim in November 2017.  Mr B said Lloyds declined to 
take his chargeback claim forward because the time for raising  a chargeback  had lapsed. Mr B 
contacted Lloyds again and stated Lloyds  should have recognised that as a vulnerable pensioner,  the 
monies paid to the merchant  were out of character  for Mr B.
Mr B received no further response and contacted Lloyds a final time in January  2018 when  he formally 
complained.
On 21 March 2018, Lloyds  issued a final response to explain that it wouldnt be processing a 
chargeback because it had no grounds to.
Mr B referred  the matter  to this service for review. He highlighted that Bank B processed chargebacks  
and recovered almost  £50,000 of the Bank B loss. But they were disputing the remaining  monies  as a 
separate complaint with Bank  B as they didnt  feel Bank B appropriately  processed chargebacks for this 
remaining amount.
What Lloyds  have said
Lloyds acknowledged that Mr B was initially given  incorrect information  that his chargeback was out of 
time. For this, Lloyds paid Mr B £150  to recognise the poor service it had provided.
Lloyds stated that when a chargeback claim  for misrepresentation is made, its required to follow the 
VISA regulations.  For a chargeback to be processed, VISA has a set of criteria that needed to be met. 
This included  reviewing the merchants  terms and conditions.
Lloyds stated that because the merchants terms and conditions did not accept any liability  for any loss, 
it wouldnt be able to assist  with a chargeback claim.
Lloyds further stated  that it would usually have 120 days from the date of the transaction or the date on 
which a service was due to be provided to raise a dispute. The dispute would  also have to be raised in 
any case within 540 days of the transaction date. Lloyds explained that the service was an ongoing one 
which meant,  Mr B was within the 540 days allowed to raise a chargeback. But although  Mr B was 
within the VISA time limit, Lloyds said it was unable to help.
My provisional findings
Ive looked  at all the information from the parties involved in this complaint to decide what is fair and 
reasonable.
Ive considered whether  Lloyds:
Dealt with Mr Bs request to raise  a chargeback  fairly;
Ought  to have suspected that Mr B had fallen victim to a scam sooner  than his report;
Adequately recognised  the impact  of the incorrect  information it provided to Mr B.
Ref: DRN7219465In deciding whats  fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of a complaint, Im required to take into 
account relevant: law and regulations; regulators rules, guidance and standards; codes of practice; the 
scheme providers rules; and, where  appropriate, what I consider to be good industry practice at the 
time.
In broad terms, the starting position at law is that a bank  is expected  to process payments  and 
withdrawals that a customer authorises them  to make, in accordance with the Payment Services 
Regulations (in this case the 2009 regulations) and the terms  and conditions of the customers account.  
That was the case from December 2016  August 2017 (the period of dispute), and remains so now,  
and Ive taken this into account when  deciding whats fair and reasonable in this case.
But that is not the end of the story:
Regulated firms  like Lloyds are also required  to conduct its business with due skill, care and 
diligence (FCA  Principle for Businesses 2) and to pay due regards to the interests of its 
customers (Principle 6).
Firms  are required  to comply with legal and regulatory anti-money laundering and countering 
the financing of terrorism requirements. During  the period of dispute,  those requirements 
included maintaining proportionate and risk-sensitive  policies  and procedures to identify, 
assess and manage money laundering risk  for example through customer due diligence  
measures and the ongoing monitoring of the business  relationship (including through  the 
scrutiny of transactions undertaken throughout the course of the relationship).
Firms  like Lloyds have a longstanding regulatory duty to take reasonable care to establish 
and maintain effective  systems and controls for compliance with applicable requirements and 
standards under the regulatory system and for countering the risk that the firm might be used 
to further financial  crime (SYSC  3.2.6R, which has applied since 2001). Over the years, the 
FSA and its successor the FCA have published a series of papers setting out non-exhaustive 
examples of good and poor practice found when reviewing  measures taken by banks to 
counter financial crime. In 2012, the FSA issued thematic  review paper  Banks defences 
against investment fraud  Detecting perpetrators and protecting victims (the 2012 paper).
oThe 2012  paper focussed on investment  fraud and examples of good practice 
outlined in the 2012 paper included: real time payment screening against a 
well formulated  watch list; transaction monitoring  rules designed to detect 
specific types  of investment fraud (providing boiler room fraud as an 
example); banks actively contacting  customers if they suspect  investment  
fraud is taking place; banks placing  material  on investment fraud on their 
website; work to detect  and prevent  investment fraud  being integrated  with a 
banks vulnerable  customers initiative.
oThe contents of the 2012 paper are now reflected in FCG 4.2.5G and 
previously in the FSA/FCA publication Financial Crime  a Guide for Firms.
In addition, as a matter of good industry practice during the period of dispute, I consider firms should in 
any event have  taken proactive steps to:
Ref: DRN7219465Identify and assist vulnerable  consumers and consumers  in vulnerable circumstances, 
including those at risk of financial exploitation (something also recognised by the FCA in 
recent years and by the British Bankers  Associations February 2016 report  improving  
outcomes for customers in vulnerable circumstances)
I appreciate Mr Bs stance that Lloyds  ought  to have recognised he was vulnerable at the time of the 
transactions and flagged the transactions on that basis. But Ive not seen anything  that leads me to 
believe Mr B was a vulnerable consumer or in vulnerable circumstances.
Taking all of this into account,  I consider that through the course of Mr Bs payments to the merchant, 
Lloyds should fairly and reasonably:
Have been monitoring  accounts and any payments made or received  to counter various risks,  
including anti-money  laundering, countering the financing of terrorism, and preventing  fraud 
and scams.
Have had the systems in place  to monitor transactions, with a particular  focus on identifying 
potential victims and perpetrators of investment fraud and have actively contacted  customers at 
risk. This is particularly so given the increase in sophisticated investment fraud and scams in 
recent years, which banks are generally more  familiar with than the average customer.
Binary options  and the merchant
The FCA describes Binary options as a form of fixed-odds betting.  Typically, a trade involves predicting  
whether an event will happen or not (for example, will the price of a particular  share  or asset go up) and 
the outcome is either yes or no.
If the investor is correct,  they win and should see a profit  on their investment; if theyre wrong, they 
lose the full amount invested. The FCA noted  its concern about  binary options in a note that was first 
published on 14 November 2017, where it highlighted;  Binary option consumers  typically lose money, 
and these losses  can be significant.
But this wasnt the first-time  concerns about binary  option operations  were publicised. Regulators,  
police enforcement  agencies and news reporters from countries within the European  Economic Area 
(EEA), along  with non-EEA countries, expressed concerns around fraudulent binary  option merchants 
in the years leading up to the period of dispute  which  stemmed  from customer  complaints.
The sale of binary  options has been  banned in the UK from 1 April 2019.  Prior to that a temporary ban 
was in place  in the UK and during the period of dispute the sale of binary  options was regulated by the 
UKs Gambling Commission.
There is limited information  now available  about  the merchant as it is no longer in operation. But from 
the information I have located, the merchant was based outside of the UK and didnt fall under the 
regulation of the UKs Gambling Commission.  The merchant is linked to a parent company and for the 
purposes of this decision  Ill refer to that company  as (C). C is regulated by The Cyprus  Securities and 
Exchange Commission (the regulator).
A passport enables an authorised  firm to provide financial products or services, set up a base,  or run 
its permitted activities in another country in the EEA.  This includes where a firm
Ref: DRN7219465regulated in another EEA country passports into the UK. C was permitted to provide certain  services  to 
the UK through  a passport   which  included investment  services. C however, appeared  to have 
delegated the advice  and sale of binary  options to the merchant  which  during the period of dispute 
was unregulated and unlicensed. C obtained registration for the merchant in August 2018 (after the 
period of dispute).  The merchant was permitted  to passport to the UK from this time.
During the period of dispute, the merchant had several warnings issued by regulators  in different 
countries.
Ive noted that C was fined  by the regulator  in November  2017. To summarise, the regulator found that 
C did not:
Effectively supervise ortake reasonable steps toprevent any unjustified 
deterioration in operational risk when  it assigned  activities to third parties;
Information sent to clients and prospective clients through its website marketing materials  
were not, at all times,  precise clear and not misleading.
From the information available about the merchant,  C and general information  in the public domain 
about binary option operations, Im satisfied that during  the period of dispute Lloyds  ought to have 
reasonably had the capability to recognise:
Misrepresentations made by a merchant advising and selling  binary options  identified through  
a consumers testimony or through information from the merchant directly;
A binary options merchant operating  without regulation or a license;
The likelihood of a binary options merchant operating fraudulently.
In this case, Im satisfied  that Lloyds ought to have been reasonably  concerned that all 3 bullets could  
be identified about the merchant  during the period of dispute.
Could Lloyds have prevented Mr Bs loss?
From Mr Bs testimony, he had been groomed over several months to trust the merchant and
he believed his money was safe. When he began to lose money  on his investment, he also trusted that 
the merchant  would do as it promised and get his money back  for him.
Whilst I accept  there is a balance to be struck between identifying payments that could potentially be 
fraudulent  and then responding appropriately  to any concerns  and ensuring minimal disruption to 
legitimate payments,  I do not think that means Lloyds  acted fairly and reasonably in Mr Bs case. I also 
do not think  that given the circumstances in this case as a whole  including  the environment created 
by the increase in sophisticated fraud and scams in recent years  that Lloyds  ought  not to have done 
more.
How Lloyds  chooses  to configure its fraud detection  systems given those competing concerns, is 
ultimately a matter  for Lloyds to decide. But the question  I need to consider here is: based  on all the 
circumstances of this complaint, whether Lloyds ought fairly and reasonably to have done more in Mr 
Bs case   whether its fraud prevention systems detected the payments  or not. And taking all of the 
above into account,  and what Ive already said about  this, I am satisfied  that Lloyds - during the period 
of dispute - should fairly and
Ref: DRN7219465reasonably have had systems  in place  to look out for signs  that might indicate that its customers were  
at risk of investment fraud.
What is a sign depends  on the overall  circumstances. But there are some common patterns  that appear 
with transactions  to binary option operations  that should make them identifiable, along  with other 
factors that ought to flag potential concerns with a bank, these include:
Merchant category codes used to process payments  for the advice  and sale of binary options.
The value of the transactions when  considering the customers normal spend.
The geographical locations of the payments commonly used by fraudulent binary option 
operations.
The transactions being  made  in card not present environment.
Adverse information available about  the merchant  named on the transaction.
The patterns of the transactions commonly starting small and increasing  over short periods of 
time.
All of the above bullets were factors during  the period of dispute and I think  Lloyds ought to have had 
concerns from the third transaction  - as payments  to the merchant started  to increase.
Based on everything Ive outlined, I think there was enough information present in Mr Bs case for 
Lloyds to have been concerned that he could have fallen victim to investment fraud.  Sufficiently so to 
warrant Lloyds taking additional steps,  or making additional checks, before processing  the payments.
So, taking everything  into account to decide what is fair and reasonable in this particular case, Im 
satisfied that as a matter of good practice, given the circumstances of the transactions, Lloyds  should 
have made  enquiries  before  putting the payments from transaction  three through.
Im not suggesting  Mr B should  have been subject to an interrogation  merely, in the circumstances, a 
basic level of questioning designed to disturb or unearth a potential fraud and establish that Mr B was 
not at risk of financial harm.
So, Ive thought  carefully about whether the kind of questions that I believe  ought fairly and reasonably 
to have been asked by Lloyds would  have  made a difference. When  Mr B reported the matter to 
Lloyds, it said the following  about most instances of trading, binary options and the merchant;  they  do 
not accept liability for any loss, therefore we are unable  to raise  a Chargeback for the transactions.
Whilst I think Lloyds was incorrect on this point  which Ill expand upon later.  Its clear  that Lloyds held 
the position  that chargebacks could not be raised for most binary options disputes. As this was its 
stance, it would not have been unreasonable  for Lloyds  to flag this position  to Mr B. It also would not 
have been out of place for Lloyds to suggest that Mr B thinks very carefully  about depositing more 
money based  on its stance  that it could not recover any payments for him through  the chargeback 
scheme.
Ref: DRN7219465Lloyds ought  to have been  in the position to flag general concerns  about fraudulent binary  options 
merchants and how they operate. This was during the period of dispute, and remains today, a common 
and sophisticated scam.
I accept that its a possibility that even if Lloyds  had taken those steps  as I consider  it should fairly 
and reasonably have done   that Mr B would  have  proceeded with the payments. I consider this to be 
the case  because from transaction three, Mr B had been persuaded  by the merchant that he was 
earning profits and that his money was safe. I do think that if Lloyds had explained that fraudsters 
commonly restrict access to funds  through onerous terms buried in their written terms and conditions  
published on their website.  And further explained  that the written and published terms may differ  to the 
verbal promises  made by the merchant; then Mr B would have,  at the very least, read through  the 
terms and conditions available on the merchants website  to carefully locate the restrictions.  I more  so 
find this to be likely because Mr B was investing his pension income.
Im satisfied  in those circumstances  that Lloyds could be in a position  to compensate Mr B for his 
losses on the basis that it ought to have  flagged the transactions.
I did find it curious that Mr B was given a credit of £2,000 by the merchant during the period of dispute.
I find that this credit,  early  on in Mr Bs relationship  with the merchant, was no more  than a tactic used 
by the merchant to prove the profits he was seeing on his trading platform  were  in fact real, in turn, 
legitimising the perception of its operation to Mr B. I find this is a common tactic used by unregulated 
and unlicensed merchants  to provide  assurances to consumers that they will see returns  on their 
investments. This also acts as an inducement  for the consumer to deposit more money. And in Mr Bs 
case, he did just that, and didnt see any further returns.
Im mindful of the law relating to contributory negligence and the impact  a finding of contributory 
negligence may have to reduce the damages recoverable by a claimant in court  proceedings.  And I 
have considered whether Mr B was himself blameworthy in some way, but I am not persuaded  that his 
actions were unreasonable in all the circumstances. Im satisfied Mr B was simply  the unwitting and 
blameless victim of a highly sophisticated fraudulent operation.
Mr B was presented with a sophisticated investment platform that appeared legitimate and genuine, 
along with a broker that appeared  very knowledgeable  and was trained to overcome objections and 
provide false  promises.  During  the period of dispute Mr B was led to believe he was making  profits  and 
when he did suffer some losses, he was reassured the merchant would recover this for him through  its 
expertise. I also find that Mr B placed a lot of trust in the payment method he used  his debit card. And 
felt reassured by the merchants insistence that they worked in conjunction with the card scheme. So, I 
would need to first find that Mr B ought to have reasonably had no confidence in the payment system 
he used before he began to mistrust the merchant. Mr B said he thought  making payments  this way 
was safe and I can appreciate  through the course of an elaborate deception, he felt assured of this.
Overall, on balance, I havent  seen anything that persuades me this was anything  other than a situation  
where Mr B was expecting to pay a genuine  investment firm. And, not unreasonably, believed the 
sophisticated website of the merchant and the knowledge of the broker  as would most consumers, 
unfamiliar with the sophisticated techniques of
Ref: DRN7219465investment fraudsters. I do not think it was unreasonable that Mr B did not recognise the risk, of this 
type of scam, or that there was a possibility that he might  unwittingly fall victim to a fraudster  if he didnt 
first consult the terms and conditions  carefully. Im not persuaded  Mr Bs actions here amount to 
contributory negligence  or that it would be fair in all the circumstances  to reduce  the compensation  
Lloyds should be required  to pay.
Whilst Im satisfied Lloyds  ought to be liable from transaction three to Mr B for not identifying  the fraud 
earlier, which  could have resulted in Mr B not depositing further funds with the merchant, I do think Mr 
B had a clearer recourse through the chargeback scheme. Had Lloyds pursued this appropriately, I 
think on balance, it would have recovered all of Mr Bs losses  and Ill explain  why.
Chargeback
The chargeback process  is relevant here. A chargeback  is the process  by which payment settlement 
disputes are resolved between card issuers and merchants, under  the relevant scheme  rules. What this 
means is that Lloyds can, in certain circumstances, ask for a payment Mr B made to be refunded. One 
of those circumstances is where the goods or services arent  supplied  or as described by the merchant 
Mr B paid.
A chargeback isnt guaranteed to result in a refund.  There needs to be a right to a chargeback under  
the scheme rules. And under those rules the merchant can defend  a chargeback  if it doesnt agree  with 
the request.  If a chargeback is defended, the card issuer (in this case  Lloyds) can make a second 
presentment of the chargeback by providing  further supporting evidence. If it is still defended by the 
merchant, it can ask the card scheme provider to decide whether  a refund should be given. This, final 
part of the chargeback  process,  is called  arbitration.
There is no obligation for a card issuer to process a chargeback when a consumer asks for one. But we 
would consider it good practice for a chargeback to be attempted where the rights exist and there is 
some prospect of success.
When it comes to second presentment  and arbitration, there  is also no obligation  for a card issuer to 
take these  further steps  if the initial  chargeback is defended.  But if the defence from the merchant is 
weak or the consumer  is able to produce further  strong supporting evidence, we would consider it good 
practice for the chargeback process to be pursued further. Ive thought  about this when  considering 
whats fair and reasonable  in this case.
Lloyds acknowledged the chargeback request was made in time but declined to process a chargeback 
claim for Mr B.
Lloyds quoted the terms and conditions  of the merchant  as a reason  for not processing  a chargeback 
claim:
Neither the Company nor its directors, officers,  employees, or agents shall be liable for any losses, 
damages, costs  or expenses,  whether  arising  out of negligence, breach  of contract, misrepresentation 
or otherwise,  incurred  or suffered by you under this Agreement .
Lloyds ought  to have been  aware that regardless  of the terms  and conditions not accepting  liability  for 
any claim, it had grounds to process a chargeback  under services not as described  otherwise  known 
as, misrepresentation.
Ref: DRN7219465I say this because  on 26 October 2017, VISA  issued  an update to its card issuers and merchant 
acquirers. The update highlighted that from 14 October 2017, issuers could use the code for services 
not as described  to address cases whereby  a binary options  (or forex) merchant has imposed 
obstacles to prevent cardholders from withdrawing funds.
The note went on to highlight merchants operating unregulated trading  platforms prone  to manipulation 
by controlling entities and recognised  to gain consumer confidence, binary options merchants may use 
sophisticated terminology  to emulate legitimate broker/dealers . It went  on to recognise  concerns 
brought to it by law enforcement and highlighted the risks of identity theft through consumers providing  
personal and sensitive information to the merchants.
The note importantly recognised that:
Evidence of a sales contract signed or acknowledged by the cardholder will not, on its own, be a 
defence for the acquirer  or the merchant.
Overall, Im satisfied Mr B did sufficiently evidence, through  his testimony and evidence  about  the 
merchant that he was more than likely  told to sign up to the merchants website  as a way of earning  a 
guaranteed income  and would  be able to freely access his deposits.
Taking everything into account, I do not think Lloyds  acted fairly  in dealing  with Mr Bs chargeback 
claim. This is because I think  it ought to have processed one.
Its now not possible  for Lloyds to process a chargeback or take the dispute to the card scheme  for 
arbitration. So, I have to make a decision on what I think was likely  to have happened. I mentioned in 
the background to this complaint that Mr B also invested money  with the merchant through his account 
with Bank B. Whilst, that complaint will be considered independently, its relevant to discuss the actions 
of Bank B.
Bank B did process  chargebacks for most  of Mr Bs transactions and the chargebacks did succeed  on 
the basis  that the merchant or merchant acquirer  did not defend them. So, I think  its reasonable to 
conclude that if Lloyds had processed a chargeback for Mr B, it would  also have likely succeeded on a 
similar basis.
As I think the chargeback  would more  likely  than not have succeeded had Lloyds  processed one, I 
think it should  now refund  £149,600 to Mr B. It should also pay 8% simple  interest per year on that 
refund from the date it declined the chargeback  claim to the date of settlement.  This is because Mr B 
has been deprived of the use of these monies.
The reason  I have made an interest award  from the date Lloyds declined to process  a chargeback 
claim and not from the third transaction is because this is the date that Im persuaded Lloyds action 
would have made  the most difference to the recovery of all Mr Bs funds. I think  its likely, but I cannot 
be certain Mr B would  have stopped investing money with the merchant had Lloyds spoken with him 
after the third transaction because he was convinced the merchant was genuine.  It could also be 
argued that the merchant may have been regulated as it had connections  to C - which was regulated at 
the time.
And whilst I empathise  with Mr Bs shock when  he realised he had fallen victim to an investment scam 
in August 2017, I do have to consider that it took him until November 2017 to report  this matter  to 
Lloyds. So, in order to be fair to both Lloyds and Mr B, I think the date Lloyds first declined to process  a 
chargeback claim is the appropriate date to make a finding  on the interest element of the award.
Ref: DRN7219465K822xCustomer service
Ive considered whether  Lloyds  should pay Mr B compensation for the trouble and upset hes 
experienced as a result of Lloyds actions. In considering this, Ive specifically thought  about the 
impact of Lloyds actions, rather than the impact of the merchants actions.
Lloyds failure to act has had an impact  on Mr B not least because he has been
facing the very real possibility  for some time that he would not get his money  back. As Ive 
explained, Lloyds had the opportunity to assist Mr B by processing chargeback claims.
Lloyds acknowledged it provided incorrect information to Mr B when  he initially  requested  assistance 
with a chargeback and paid £150 to recognise this. Ive found that Lloyds went on to provide further 
incorrect information to Mr B when it said it couldnt assist him with his chargeback claim a second 
time.
For these  reasons, Im satisfied Lloyds should  pay Mr B a further £300 for trouble  and upset. And to 
be clear, this is in addition to the £150 it already paid him.
My provisional decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im intending  to uphold  this complaint against Lloyds Bank PLC  and 
to direct Lloyds Bank PLC, in full and final settlement of this complaint, to:
Refund all the payments  made to the merchant from Mr Bs Lloyds account, less the £2,000 
paid to Mr B by the merchant;
Pay 8% simple interest on the above amount  from the date Mr B requested a chargeback in 
November 2017 until the date of settlement. If Lloyds  deducts tax from the interest element of 
this award, it should  provide  Mr B with the appropriate tax deduction certificate
Pay Mr B £300 compensation in addition to what it has already paid to recognise  the trouble  
and upset  this matter caused him.
Dolores Njemanze
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7219465