K820x#14complaint
Mr H is unhappy with the terminal bonus  added  to his endowment policy. He says this 
doesnt match what he expected based  on what  he was told at the point of sale by Aviva  Life 
& Pensions  UK Limited.
background
Mr H took out his endowment in August 1980. The policy came with a sum assured of 
£5,000 as well as a term assurance for £13,700 and accident benefit of £20,000. The policy 
was for 38 years and matured in 2018 with a value of just over £16,000.  
Mr H was unhappy with the surrender value and said this was half of what  was predicted.  So 
he made a complaint to Aviva. Mr H added that he felt the salesperson failed  to make him 
aware of the possibility  of the fund performing  like it did. He also wanted  information on the 
performance of the fund and said the maturity  sum shouldnt be paid into his account. 
Aviva paid Mr H the maturity sum on 2 August 2018  and investigated the complaint. On 
4 September 2018 it issued its final response  letter.  Aviva  said it was reasonable to assume 
the salesperson  used  a product brochure when explaining how the policy  would work  and 
that the policy bonus wasnt guaranteed.  So it said it didnt think it had mis-led  Mr H in 
relation to the potential surrender value of his policy. It added that investment returns had 
significantly reduced since the date of sale which meant the earnings of the policy  had been 
lower than the sales illustration. 
Mr H remained  unhappy and continued to write to Aviva after the final response letter. He 
then brought his complaint to this service. Our investigator reviewed the complaint but didnt 
think it should be upheld.  He felt it was likely Mr H wasnt told the fund would be high 
performing and that Mr H had enough information  to decide whether the policy  was right for 
him. 
Mr H didnt agree with our investigator  so this complaint  has now been  passed to me to 
decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Where the evidence is incomplete,  inconclusive, or contradictory, I have  to make my 
decision on the balance  of probabilities  that is, what I consider is more  likely than not to 
have happened  in the light of the available evidence and the wider  surrounding 
circumstances. 
Mr H has provided a lot of information  for our service  to consider. Id like to assure him that 
Ive read it all, but I wont be commenting  on everything that hes mentioned. Ill be 
concentrating on what I think is important to the outcome of this complaint.
Mr Hs policy  was sold before the provision  of advice to take out such investment products 
became regulated in 1988.  Because the events that Mr H complains of occurred a long time 
ago its inevitable that any evidence that would inform my decision is likely to be old, 
incomplete or missing  entirely. Its also not in dispute that the regulatory framework that 
governs the sale of mortgage endowment policies and the economic climate  has changed 
Ref: DRN75524242substantially since Mr H was sold his investments. Its only fair that I consider any mis-sale 
of Mr Hs policy against the rules as they stood at the time.
Its clear Mr H is unhappy with the performance of the fund. He has mentioned that it hasnt 
kept up with inflation, the FTSE 100 and house  price growth. But poor performance of an 
investment on its own doesnt  necessarily  mean  the policy was mis-sold. In order  to decide 
whether Mr H was mis-sold this policy I need  to be satisfied the policy  was inappropriate for 
Mr H and the advice  given was with reasonable care.  
The policy in question  here was a with-profit endowment.  That meant it was a contract under 
which the business had to pay a basic sum assured (£5,000). But Mr H feels  he was led to 
believe he could receive up to £30,000 - £40,000  when the policy matured.  
While Mr H may have  been given projections about  the funds future performance.  These 
arent the same as providing a legally binding guarantee. Mr H mentions that he was given 
various projections and it was sold as an impressively performing and secure investment. 
I note that these type of policies and mortgage  endowments at the time (which Mr H says he 
also had) were performing  well, with some policies meeting their target amount with an extra 
lump sum on top at maturity. But I dont think discussing  various projections at the point  of 
sale based on past performance  meant this policy was inappropriate for him.  
As this was a with profits investment it was still susceptible to some  risk. This means  the 
bonus wasnt guaranteed  (a point  Mr H accepts)  and the performance of the fund could go 
up and down. I note its performance did sometimes perform well. As Mr H says, the annual 
bonus for this policy paid out £348.31 in 1990  which he says represented 173.6% of the 
premiums he paid that year. But I believe Mr H was aware there was a risk with these type of 
investments. He has said that he asked a lot of questions of the sales advisor  to make sure 
he was happy  with how the value  growth  was fairly distributed.  And I can see he was given 
the option to review the sales information with the right to cancel if he wanted   which is 
what I would  expect  Aviva to do.  Mr H was happy with the answers he received and decided  
to take the plan out. So I dont think  on balance  - the plan was inappropriate  for him at the 
time or that by discussing projections the advisor didnt take reasonable care.   
I note Mr H is unhappy with the terminal bonus which has been added  and the performance 
of the fund. However, the amount of the terminal bonus which Aviva decided  to add to the 
fund is a commercial one. The same can be said in relation  to Aviva not releasing 
information about the management costs of the fund and shareholder pay outs.  This service  
also cannot ask Aviva to release this information  due to it potentially being commercially  
sensitive. So this isnt something Im able to consider here.  
Mr H was unhappy when  Aviva paid him the funds  in August 2018  despite him asking them 
not to. I accept why he was disappointed Aviva didnt accept his request to hold the 
payment. But this was his money and Aviva  had to pay it to him as a result of the 
endowment maturing. It also didnt stop him from questioning the figure  or raising  a 
complaint about  the sale. So I dont think Aviva did anything wrong or treated him unfairly 
here. 
I can see Aviva told Mr H it was working  on getting  some information to him in relation to his 
fund and that this hasnt  been received. Im sure this is frustrating  for him. I note Aviva has 
apologised to him and said feedback will be given  to its staff about  the way it handled his 
complaint. I think thats enough in the circumstances, so I wont  be asking it to do more.  
Ref: DRN75524243my final decision
For the reasons  given  above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 January 2019.
Mark Dobson
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7552424