K820x#14complaint
Miss G is unhappy that her home  insurance  policy with Lloyds Bank General Insurance  
Limited (Lloyds) was automatically renewed.  She says this happened without her 
knowledge and consent.
background
Miss G took out a home  insurance policy with Lloyds to start on 2 September 2016.
On 31 July 2017 Lloyds sent a renewal pack explaining that the policy would automatically 
renew on 2 September 2017.  Miss G didnt contact Lloyds to say that she didnt want to 
renew the policy so it was automatically renewed.
A similar renewal  pack was sent to Miss G on 31 July 2018 and the policy  automatically  
renewed on 2 September 2018.
In January 2019 Miss G stopped her direct debit  payments. She complained to Lloyds that 
the policy had been renewed  without her knowledge.
Lloyds issued a final response rejecting the complaint. It said the renewal pack  advised  that 
the policy would automatically renew unless it was cancelled. Lloyds said it had no record of 
Miss G requesting to cancel the policy and that it was still active, which  was why it had sent 
letters advising of arrears  and a default notice.
Miss G brought the complaint to this service  where it was looked at by an investigator.  She 
didnt think the complaint  should be upheld because she was satisfied that Lloyds had sent 
appropriate correspondence to tell Miss G that the cover was going to be renewed and how 
she could prevent this.
Miss G didnt  agree so Ive been asked  to make a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Id like to assure Miss G that Ive thought carefully about everything shes said. But having 
done so, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint. Ill explain why in more detail.
Ive reviewed the renewal  packs  which were  sent to Miss G on 31 July 2017 and 31 July 
2018. I can see that these were  sent to Miss G at her usual address. Miss G has said that 
she moved house in June  2018 but that she still had access to her old address. Im satisfied 
that she wouldve  received the renewal packs.
The renewal  pack says that the policy will automatically renew. It also says that if you dont 
want to renew your policy you should contact Lloyds. Theres  also information about  
cancelling the policy.
Im satisfied that all of the necessary information about automatic renewal and cancellation is 
clearly set out. In particular, I think it was made  clear  to Miss G that if she didnt want the 
policy to automatically  renew she needed to tell Lloyds.
Ref: DRN75807632The renewal  packs were  issued over a month before the policy was due for renewal. I think 
this gave Miss G a reasonable time to decide whether or not she wanted to continue  the 
policy. Miss G has said that she didnt receive the renewal pack for 2018  until September.  
Im satisfied that the pack was issued on 31 July 2018 so it seems  likely that Miss G would 
have received it a short  time after this . But even if Miss G didnt receive the pack  until 
September, she couldve cancelled at that time.
Miss G has said that she didnt sign and return the credit agreement in September 2018. 
Shes also said that the letter which came  with the credit agreement didnt say that the 
insurance would continue whether she signed  it or not. Miss G feels that because  she didnt 
sign and return the credit agreement she didnt give permission for payments to be taken 
from her account.
Ive thought about this. The policy had already automatically renewed on 2 September 2018,  
so this wasnt affected by whether Miss G signed the credit agreement or not. The credit 
agreement only relates to how the policy  is paid for. I wouldnt expect Lloyds to have 
cancelled the insurance simply because Miss G didnt sign and return  the credit agreement. 
In relation to continuing to take monthly  payments, Lloyds is obliged  to obtain a signed credit 
agreement at the inception of the policy but not every time the policy is renewed. I can see 
that Miss G signed the credit agreement in September 2016. By not cancelling  the policy,  
Miss G agreed to the credit agreement continuing  for another  year.
I appreciate that Miss G feels that the letter which came  with the credit agreement was 
misleading because  it gave her the impression that she had to sign and return  the credit 
agreement in order for the insurance  to continue. Ive looked at the letter but Im unable  to 
agree with Miss G that its misleading. The credit  agreement  doesnt say that it must be 
signed and returned in order  for the insurance  to continue.  It says that if it isnt returned, 
Lloyds can ask for payments as a single  premium.
Based on everything  Ive seen, Im satisfied that the renewal pack made  it clear  to Miss G 
that the policy would automatically renew unless  she contacted Lloyds to cancel it. I cant  
see anything in the letter or the credit agreement  which suggest that the policy would be 
cancelled if Miss G didnt return the credit  agreement. Because of this, I dont think  Lloyds 
acted unfairly in renewing the policy and I wont be asking it to do anything.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given Im unable to uphold the complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Miss G to accept 
or reject my decision before 1 July 2020.
Emma Davy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7580763