K820x#14Complaint
Mr M says Canada  Square Operations Limited  (CSOL), trading at the time as Egg, mis-sold 
him a payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy when he took out a new credit card in 2001. 
Ill refer mainly to CSOL throughout my decision for consistency.
Background
One of our adjudicators looked  into this case in detail and didnt think Mr M had been mis-
sold the PPI policy.  He disagreed and asked that an ombudsman  makes a final decision 
about his complaint.
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold the complaint.
Mr M cant remember much about the sale but CSOL sent us its computerised  records  which  
show the card was taken  out over the internet. We know quite a bit about these sales 
because weve seen  a few of them and weve spoken in considerable detail  to CSOL  about  
how they were normally  carried  out.
CSOL also sent us an example of the type of web-based  form it thinks  Mr M would have 
used during his online  credit  card application. It says he would have been  presented  with a 
yes / no choice about having  PPI with his new card. CSOL says he would have had to 
choose one of the two options to be able to continue his way through  to the next stage of the 
application and that he must have chosen  the yes option on the screen  for PPI to be added.
Theres no dispute Mr M was sold PPI. So I think hed have selected the yes option and 
then also started to see the PPI charges appearing on his monthly statements over quite a 
long period of time. I also think Mr M would have been sent a welcome letter  explaining the 
PPI because Ive seen other very similar  cases where this was done. CSOL  has also 
provided us with a library copy of what this letter would have been like in 2001.
So, on this basis I think its much more  likely  Mr M asked  for the cover to be added and 
would have been able to see it was optional. I think if he hadnt agreed, he would have 
wanted to know  what the letter was for and why the charges were occurring.
CSOL didnt  provide an advised sale because I think Mr M would have made  his own way 
through the on-line application in his own time and without any direct help from CSOL.  
CSOL needed only to provide him with enough  information so he could decide for himself 
whether or not he wanted PPI and whether it was right for him. As a non-advised sale,  this 
was his decision.
I can accept CSOL might not have done everything  right. But the application process 
contained an electronic link to information about  what the PPI covered. The cost of the 
Ref: DRN74012602cover was also shown  beside  where he was invited to make  his choice. I therefore think hed 
have had enough information on which to base his decision.
I also dont think Mr M was caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to see in these 
policies. And because it cost £0.69  for every  £100  outstanding on his monthly credit card 
balance, I think it would  have been affordable for Mr M. In the event of a successful claim on 
the PPI policy, Mr M would have also been  able to have his outstanding balance  reduced by 
10% each  month for up to 12 months.  
Looking at his overall situation, I think this is probably why he chose the PPI on his 
application  I think he wanted the cover at the time although I accept  he may not remember 
this now.
My final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Canada Square  Operations Limited doesnt have to pay 
back the cost of the PPI to Mr M. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr M to accept or 
reject my decision  before 18 October  2020.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7401260