K820x#14complaint
Mr A is unhappy with the quality of the mortgage valuation that Charter  Court Financial 
Services Limited (trading  as Precise Mortgages) instructed. 
background
Mr A is unhappy that the mortgage  valuation  didnt highlight some of the issues hes since  
found with the property  he bought  namely  cracks in the walls and electrical issues. Hes 
told us that if hed known about  them before,  he wouldnt have paid the price  he did, or 
maybe wouldnt have  bought it at all. 
Precise Mortgages didnt  agree with Mr As complaint. In summary,  it said: 
Its customer information booklet explained that the valuation  was for its benefit  to 
confirm that the property  is good security, and that Mr A shouldnt rely on it. 
The declaration  signed by Mr A also confirmed that the valuation  was to assess  its 
security, and that it was Mr As responsibility  to obtain an independent  valuation  
before proceeding.
The mortgage offer that accompanied the valuation report again confirmed the limited 
inspection of the property. 
The valuation report was carried out by Royal Institute of Chartered  Surveyors  
(RICS) qualified surveyor, and they did what Precise Mortgages asked for. 
Our investigator didnt  find that Precise Mortgages  did anything wrong. Mr A disagreed,  so 
the complaint  has been passed to me to make  a decision. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ive reviewed the information Precise  Mortgages gave Mr A about the valuation. The 
declaration he signed  to apply for the mortgage had a section on the second page  titled  
Valuation that explained [we] will obtain a valuation only to enable us to assess the 
amount of the Loan  You acknowledged  it is your responsibility to obtain  an independent 
valuation or advice before you proceed
The mortgage offer Mr A then received explained on page  six of nine under the heading 
OFFER CONDITIONS: 
Your attention  is drawn  to the contents of the Property Inspection Report  for 
mortgage purposes. This Property  inspection has been undertaken with the sole 
purpose of assisting us with the decision to make  a formal Mortgage  Offer and may 
not reveal any problems  with the fabric of the Property or any services. We strongly 
recommend that you obtain a more comprehensive survey report before entering into 
any commitment  to proceed.
A similar message was given in the Customer Information Booklet which  helped  explain the 
mortgage offer. 
Ref: DRN78584342Ive taken on board Mr As point that people  dont read all the details in paperwork.  But this 
wasnt buried in the small print of one document   instead, Precise  Mortgages told him in 
several key documents. And given the significant nature of this transaction, I dont think  its 
unrealistic or unreasonable to expect someone to look into the details of the deal theyre 
getting into. 
So, in all, Im satisfied Precise Mortgages was clear with Mr A about the nature of the 
valuation  and that it was his responsibility  to obtain more detailed  advice.  
Ive also thought about whether Precise Mortgages  can be held responsible  for the contents 
of the limited report that was obtained. And I dont think it can be. Having reviewed it, while  
its on a Precise Mortgages  headed  paper, its clear from the valuers  details on the first 
page that it was a done by an independent  company. And given that the valuer  was a 
member of RICS, I think  Precise Mortgage fulfilled its obligation in instructing a competent  
surveyor. It follows that any concerns over the contents should instead be directed to the 
company that completed it, which I understand Mr A has done.  
I realise Mr A is in a very frustrating position,  in that there are more issues  with the property 
than he expected. But after careful consideration, I dont think Precise Mortgages are to 
blame that these  problems didnt come to light sooner.   
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I dont uphold Mr As complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr A to accept or 
reject my decision  before 3 June 2019.
Emma Szkolar  
ombudsman 
 
Ref: DRN7858434