K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a monthly  premium payment protection  insurance  (PPI) policy  taken 
out in 1994. Mr G says The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc (RBS) mis-sold him the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mr G case.
Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold because:
I think RBS made it clear that Mr G didnt have to take out the PPI and that he chose to 
take it out. Ive seen  a copy of the application  form and it shows Mr G would have had to 
specifically select PPI if he wanted  to take it out
RBS didnt recommend the PPI to Mr G so it didnt have to check if it was right for him. 
But it did have to make  sure Mr G got the information he needed to decide if it was right 
for him. 
Its possible the information RBS gave Mr G about the PPI wasnt as clear as it shouldve 
been. But he chose  to take out the PPI - so it looks like he wanted  this type of cover. 
Based on what Ive seen  of his circumstances at the time it doesnt  look like he was 
affected by any of the exclusions  to or limits  on the PPI cover  - so it would have been 
useful for him if something went wrong.  It also looks like the PPI was affordable. So I 
dont think better  information  about  the PPI would  have  put him off taking out the cover. 
Which means RBS doesnt  have to pay back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But RBS has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mr G because: 
When the policy was sold,  RBS got a high level of commission and profit share (more 
than 50% of the PPI premium) - so it should  have told Mr G about that. Because  RBS 
didnt tell Mr G, that was unfair. 
To put that right, RBS has paid back the amount  of commission and profit share  that was 
above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
Ive thought about everything Mr G has said - including  what hes said about his existing  
repayment means at the time of the sale.  But these points dont change my decision.  Mr G 
has told us that he would  have been  entitled to up to six months full pay from his employer. 
However, this policy would have paid out in addition to employee sick pay and would have 
paid out for 12 months. It would have paid out in the same way if Mr G was made redundant.
Mr G has also told us he had an income protection policy which would have  included  a 
monthly benefit if he was unable  to work  because  of disability. However, as already 
mentioned, RBS didnt  recommend PPI to Mr G. This means RBS didnt  have to take into 
account Mr Gs existing  repayment means  when selling  him PPI. Instead it would have been 
up to Mr G to decide if he wanted PPI despite  his existing means.   In any event, I havent 
Ref: DRN76615932seen evidence which shows  me that this policy was in place at the time the PPI was sold.  
Even if it was, its unlikely the policy wouldve  replaced all of Mr Gs income  and so Mr G 
could have used  his PPI policy to meet the repayments on the credit card while  the income 
protection policy could have  taken  care of Mr Gs other living  expenses. And the income 
protection policy didnt provide like for like cover. For example, it didnt include cover for 
unemployment which the PPI policy provided.
So, having  taken everything into consideration, I dont think  the policy  was mis-sold.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so The Royal Bank of Scotland  Plc does not have to pay 
back all of the cost of the PPI to Mr G.
But The Royal Bank of Scotland Plc does  have to pay back to Mr G any commission and 
profit share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium.  I understand it has already 
done this, so I dont  award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 29 August 2019.
Navneet Sher
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7661593