K822xcomplaint
Mrs H complains that Barclays  Bank  UK PLC didnt handle her chargeback  claim efficiently 
and rejected her claim under Section 75 Consumer Credit Act 1974  in respect of a holiday.
background
Mrs H booked an overseas family  holiday with a company I will call J. The hotel booked had 
several advertised facilities which Mrs H says werent available. She says the adult only sun 
terrace and swimming pool had children  using both. She also says the teen zone was 
overrun with small children and the rule that no towels were to be laid on sun loungers was 
ignored by other guests.  In addition the rooms she booked were not available. More  broadly 
she and her family didnt  have the relaxing time they were  seeking and expected  from the 
holiday as advertised.
I gather  the local representative offered them alternative accommodation, but at extra  cost 
which they declined  and the hotel  staff were ineffective in addressing  their complaints.
On their return Mr H made a complaint to J, but this was to no avail. Mrs H then raised  it with 
Barclays. For the avoidance of doubt  Barclays is the bank responsible  for Barclaycard which  
Mrs H used to pay for the holiday. She contacted Barclays on 15 August  2017.  It says that 
the relevant information was provided  in September and a chargeback  was raised  in 
December for the whole holiday as opposed to the hotel element. This was rejected by J.
It also rejected the Section 75 claim on the basis it couldnt identify any breach of contract  or 
misrepresentation. It said there was no evidence of the failings  claimed by Mrs H. However, 
it offered her £152 which was the price  difference between the room  they wanted  and what 
they were given. They also offered an additional  £98 for loss of enjoyment. The bank 
accepted it hadnt handled  the claim as well as it could and also paid her £50 for poor 
service. 
Mrs H brought her complaint to this service where  it was considered  by one of our 
investigators who didnt  recommend  it be upheld. She didnt think  that there was clear 
breach of contract or misrepresentation.  Nor did she think the handling of the chargeback  
had a material effect on the outcome. Mrs H didnt agree  and said the delay  by Barclays had 
affected her ability  to take action against  J. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Because Mrs Hs transaction with J was financed  by credit supplied  to him by Barclays, 
Section 75 of the CCA1974 is a factor that needs to be taken into account when dealing  with 
his complaint. In simple  terms, section 75 gives Mrs H an equal right to claim against 
Barclays or J for a breach  of contract  or misrepresentation  by J. 
Mrs H and her family chose a family friendly hotel which offered an adults only area.  It 
seems this wasnt properly policed and during their stay children made  use of the adult only 
areas. I think  that was unfortunate, but I do not believe I can hold J, and therefore Barclays,  
responsible for the hotels failure to police the area more effectively while Mrs H and her 
family were there. I gather it was busy time and this may have been cause of the problem. 
Ref: DRN72121472That said it did affect their enjoyment and I think it is reasonable that Barclays has offered 
them compensation for lack of enjoyment. 
In complaints of this nature this service takes  into account all that is provided  under the 
contract. That would  include  for example flights,  accommodation, food, transfers etc. In short  
J said we will provide  you with all of these elements and that is what  it did. So while one 
element of the holiday failed to meet their expectations they had the use of the other 
facilities. As such it would  not be right to refund the whole cost of the holiday.
They have also been recompensed for the rooms which didnt meet  with their wishes.  I also 
note the representative of J offered to move them to another hotel, but at an extra cost of 
£200. 
As for the handling of the claim I can see that Barclays has accepted  it failed to meet  its 
standards and it made some errors in pursuing the chargeback.  I have to consider whether 
this had any impact on the success or otherwise of that claim. My conclusion  is that it had no 
effect. 
It may help if I explain the chargeback system. Chargeback doesnt mean there is joint 
liability on the card company. It is a voluntary scheme administered  by the card provider, not 
Barclays. The consumer makes a claim to their bank  and it puts a request to the merchants 
bank. But there  are no guarantees the consumers bank will be able to recover  the money 
through chargeback, or that the merchant will accept that the claim is justified. 
I am satisfied that the claim was rejected on its merits  rather than it being due to delays by 
Barclays or because of how it was formulated.  J had already  rejected Mrs Hs claims and I 
can see no reason why it would change its stance  when a chargeback was made. Nor do I 
think Mrs J or her husband were prevented from taking further action against J.
Barclays has already  made  an offer to pay £250 to settle the complaint. Mrs H should 
contact Barclays directly  if she now wishes to accept this.
my final decision
I dont think Barclays needs to do anything to settle  the complaint. Under the rules of the 
Financial Ombudsman  Service,  Im required to ask to accept  or reject my decision before 
28 June 2019.
Ivor Graham
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7212147