K820x#14complaint
Ms J complains on that Lloyds Bank Plc (Lloyds) mis-sold her a single premium payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy.
background
During a meeting in 1997 Ms J took out a personal  loan with Lloyds. At the same time she 
took out a single premium PPI policy to protect her loan repayments.  The policy wouldve 
covered her loan repayments if she was unable to work because  of accident or sickness for 
the duration of the loan and for up to 12 months if she lost her job. 
Our adjudicator didnt  think the complaint should  be upheld. She thought the policy wouldve 
been presented  as optional and wouldve suited her needs.
Ms J disagrees. She says the PPI was never  explained to her and she didnt need it. 
So the complaint has come  to me for a decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Ive decided not to uphold  Ms Js complaint.
Ms J applied for a loan during a meeting at a branch of Lloyds. Lloyds had to make  it clear to 
Ms J she had a choice in taking the PPI. Ms J said this wasnt  done but she hasnt  given 
much detail about why she thinks this. And because of the length  of time that has passed  
since the sale Lloyds  hasnt been able to provide any of the paperwork for the loan. So I 
dont know exactly what was discussed. 
But Lloyds has provided a sample  of a loan agreement from the time which I think is likely to 
be the same  agreement used when Ms J took out her loan. So to help me reach my decision 
Ive considered what Ms Js said and looked at the sample loan agreement Lloyds have 
given us together with what we know about its sales  process.
From what  I understand of the sales process  its likely that there wouldve been  a discussion 
between the sales  adviser and Ms J about  PPI and if PPI was required it wouldve been  
included on the loan agreement.
I can see from the sample loan agreement the PPI cost is set out separately  from the loan 
cost and has YES and NO boxes next to the heading OPTIONAL LOAN PROTECTION. 
I think because Ms J had PPI the yes box wouldve been selected on her loan agreement. 
And because Ms J wouldve been required  to sign just below  the yes and no boxes on the 
agreement, I think  its likely she wouldve seen them  and if she hadnt agreed to take the 
policy I think she wouldve raised  this with the sales adviser.
Ref: DRN75473922So I think it wouldve been clear  to Ms J at the time she took out the loan that the PPI was 
separate from the loan and optional, because it is described as optional  and she could say 
yes or no to taking PPI. And based  on what Ms J has told us I cant say its likely Lloyds did 
do things to make Ms J think the PPI wasnt optional.
Lloyds advised  Ms J to take the policy. What  this means is that Lloyds not only had to 
provide information  about PPI in a clear, fair and not misleading way so that Ms J could 
make an informed choice  about buying PPI. It also had to make  sure that if it were to 
recommend PPI that the policy was suitable to her needs and circumstances.
I dont know if Lloyds  did take all the steps they shouldve. But I think  the PPI was a suitable 
recommendation for Ms J for the following reasons:
She was eligible for the PPI and it doesnt  look like she wouldve been caught by any 
of the main exclusions in the terms and conditions of the policy which  couldve made 
it difficult to make a successful claim. 
At the time of sale Ms J says she was entitled  to some sick pay but had no other  
means of making her loan repayments  if she couldnt work or lost her job. But a 
successful claim  on the policy wouldve paid out on top of her sick pay and covered 
her repayments for the duration  of the loan if she was unable to work  due to accident 
or sickness and for up to 12 months if she lost her job. 
So I think the PPI wouldve  provided  a useful  benefit to Ms J in her circumstances. 
There was nothing  to suggest that the PPI wasnt affordable to her at the time. I note 
that if she cancelled  the policy she wouldnt have received a pro-rata refund. But 
theres nothing to suggest at the time of sale she wouldve needed the flexibility to 
cancel the policy  early.
I also need to consider  whether Lloyds  gave Ms J information in a way which was clear,  fair 
and not misleading so that she could make  a proper choice about whether or not she wanted 
to take the PPI out. I can see that the interest charged on the PPI isnt shown on the loan 
agreement so I dont  think Lloyds did give all of the information as it shouldve. 
But for the same reasons  that the PPI was suitable  and based on what  Ms J has told us 
about her circumstances at the time,  I think  she wouldve still taken out the PPI if shed  been  
given all the proper  information.  
This means  Ms Js isnt any worse off as a result of any wrong doing by Lloyds.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, I do not uphold Ms Js complaint  against Lloyds Bank  Plc.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Ms J to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 March  2019.
Ref: DRN75473923Caroline Davies
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7547392