K820x#14complaint
This is a complaint  that Leeds Building Society  mis-sold Mr C payment protection  
insurance (PPI).
background
This complaint is about a monthly  premium PPI policy taken out with a mortgage in 2002.
Our adjudicator said the complaint shouldnt be upheld. Mr C disagreed with the 
adjudicators opinion and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  this case.
The sale of the PPI took place a long time ago and none of the original documents from the 
time are now available  only basic records exist of dates and amounts paid. Also I wouldnt 
expect someone to recall  in detail everything  that happened about  17 years ago when the 
application was made.
Ive borne in mind these difficulties in the evidence when considering the case.  As with all 
cases, Ive still had to decide whats most  likely to have happened, based  on what  evidence 
there is. In a case such as this, the balance in finding the fairest  outcome can be difficult.
Ive taken all this into account. Ive also considered the comments  made in response  to the 
adjudicators view of the case.
However, Ive decided not to uphold this complaint. I will explain why.
Mr C says he has a very vague  recollection of the sale as it was back in 2002. He says he 
believes it was made by someone  acting through the estate agency. He also says I believe 
at the time that the insurance was sold to me as a must have in order  for the mortgage to 
proceed. However this isnt very strong evidence by itself.  So it wouldnt be fair for me to 
conclude that the sales adviser put pressure on Mr C to take the PPI, or didnt make clear  he 
had a choice.  Mr C himself has said he has only a vague recollection,  and I dont have 
separate supporting evidence. 
Its unclear whether Leeds recommended the PPI to Mr C. It has said it did, although  it has 
also said that it wouldnt have given a recommendation if Mr C is right and the sale was 
made by an introducer. But even if a recommendation  was made,  it doesnt  look as if it was 
unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of Mr Cs circumstances at the time. Being  unable to 
pay a mortgage  can lead to significant difficulties. The PPI would have paid benefits if Mr C 
was off work  sick  and he says he wasnt entitled  to employer sick pay, and didnt have 
savings to fall back on. Also the PPI would  have paid unemployment benefits in addition  to 
Ref: DRN75712112any redundancy pay. So this all would  have put Mr C in a more  secure  position,  if he lost 
income due to sickness or unemployment.  
Its hard to know how well Leeds  explained  the costs and benefits  of the policy. And Mr C 
says the terms of the PPI werent  properly  explained to him by the person who sold him the 
policy on behalf of Leeds. But, even if this is the case, I dont think, given his circumstances, 
full and clear information  about the costs  would have affected whether Mr C took the PPI.
Its possible Leeds didnt  clearly point out the main  things the policy  didnt cover. But its 
unlikely Mr C would have  been affected by any of these. 
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, Im not upholding this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  10 May 2019.
Timothy Bailey
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7571211