K820x#14complaint
Mr H says PDL Finance Limited (trading as Mr Lender) irresponsibly lent to him.
background
This complaint is about three instalment  loans,  Mr Lender provided to Mr H between  
October 2014 and June  2015. The loan amounts were between £350  and £450  and they 
were due to be repaid  in 6 instalments. Some of the loan information is as follows:
Loan 
number Start date Loan amount (£) End date
1 08/10/2014 350 27/01/2015
2 27/01/2015 440 05/06/2015
3 07/06/2015 450 09/08/2016
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Hs complaint  as she didnt think Mr H had been treated 
unfairly. Mr H disagreed and so the complaint has been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  short-term lending - including all of the relevant rules, guidance and good 
industry practice - on our website. 
Mr Lender needed  to take reasonable steps  to ensure that it didnt lend irresponsibly. In 
practice this means  that it should have  carried out reasonable checks  to understand whether 
Mr H could repay his loan in a sustainable manner. These checks  could take into account  a 
number of different  things,  such as how much was being lent, the repayment amounts and 
the consumers  income  and expenditure. With this in mind, in the early  stages of a lending  
relationship, I think less thorough checks might be reasonable and proportionate.  
Generally, we think its reasonable for a lenders checks to be less thorough  in terms of 
how much  information  it gathers and what it does to verify that information  in the early  
stages of a lending relationship. 
But we might think it needed to do more if, for example, the consumers income  was low or 
the amount lent was high. And the longer the lending relationship goes on, the greater the 
risk of it becoming unsustainable  and the borrower experiencing financial difficulty. 
Ref: DRN77297202Mr Lender says before it agreed to lend any of the loans, it asked Mr H about his monthly 
income and normal  living costs. From the information provided, I can see that Mr H declared  
his income as £1,650 throughout the lending  relationship and his expenses  varied from £626 
(for loans 1 and 2) to £701 (for loan 3). Mr Lender has also provided information to show that 
it searched Mr Hs credit  file. Mr Lender  hasnt provided a detailed result  of its searches but 
from the summary it has provided,  there  were  no adverse entries such as defaults or county 
court judgements (CCJs)  recorded on Mr Hs file.
Its important for me to say that the checks Mr Lender needed to make werent prescriptive 
but they had to be customer-focussed and proportionate to the circumstances of the lending. 
Mr Hs loans were  taken  in early stages of a lending relationship and as stated above, less 
thorough checks at this stage arent  unreasonable.
So Ive thought about whether Mr Lenders  check  went  far enough here.  Looking  at the 
circumstances around loans 1 to 3, I think Mr Lender did enough. At this stage in the lending  
relationship, I think it was reasonable for Mr Lender  to rely on the information  Mr H provided 
about his circumstances. And from that information, Mr H had sufficient income  to 
sustainably repay  both loans.
I appreciate that the information  available to Mr Lender at the time may not have been a full 
reflection of Mr Hs true financial circumstances but it was the information  Mr H chose to 
provide. And while Mr Hs true financial position might have shown that he couldnt afford the 
loans, this wasnt something Id have expected Mr Lender to know  from what I consider to be 
proportionate checks.
There was an outstanding balance on loan 3 and the debt was transferred to a third party  
debt collection agency. I understand Mr H isnt happy that this happened  but lenders can 
choose to pass  on debts to third parties and I cant say Mr Lender  has done something  
wrong by passing  on his debt. If Mr H feels the third party debt collection agency has treated 
him unfairly  then hell need to raise that directly with the debt collection agency.
Im sorry  Mr H has had a difficult  time financially and I know that he feels  strongly about his 
complaint, I can assure him that Ive taken his concerns seriously and I hope  that my 
explanation helps him understand why I dont think Mr Lender did anything  wrong  here.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold Mr Hs complaint  and I make  no award against
PDL Finance  Limited.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 31 August 2019.
Oyetola Oduola
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7729720