K821x#15complaint
Mr H has complained on behalf of company S that Zurich Insurance  Plc (Zurich) turned 
down a claim he made on the companys  residents association directors  and officers liability  
insurance.
background
I issued a provisional decision on this complaint in July this year.  An extract follows:
Mr H is the director  of S which is a lease management company. He said that in 2016 one 
of the lessees brought a claim against S in relation to a service  charge dispute. S settled the 
claim and was reimbursed by Zurich. Mr H said S settled this claim without admitting liability-  
and purely on a commercial basis.
The same lessee brought a further  claim against  S in 2018 but Zurich refused  to cover it. 
Mr H complained to Zurich saying the two claims were similar but it didnt change its 
decision. It said the policy doesnt  cover  breach of contract disputes which is what the 
disputed service charges  would fall under. It also said it wouldnt pay any compensation for 
distress; claimed by the lessee in the 2018  claim;  and asked for further documentation and 
for confirmation that service charges were being properly calculated  by S. It also said its 
consent shouldve  been sought before  settling  any claim.
Mr H complained that Zurich didnt  take into account Ss reasons for settling the second 
claim and also that its communication was poor. He says its relying on a minor and 
undefined part of the policy to turn the claim down. 
Mr H then complained  to us and asked for Zurich  to reimburse the cost of the second  claim 
which came  to £995.00. He also offered to sign a confidentiality agreement should  the 
matter be resolved that way.  
Our investigator didnt  think the complaint should be upheld. He agreed with Zurich that the 
allegation of the overpaid service charges relates  to a breach of contract which is excluded 
under the policy.  He said the 2016 claim was in relation to a miscalculation of service  
charges which  is why it was covered.
Mr H didnt agree. He said that:
The 2018 claim included seven separate heads of damage and Zurich  hasnt explained  
why they would all amount  to breach of contract. 
Section two of the policy says Zurich will cover claims for financial loss in respect of a 
claim made  against  the insured. It also says that Zurich will indemnify S for the financial 
loss of an insured  person in relation to a claim made against  them  to the extent that S 
has indemnified  the insured person. 
The corporate liability section  (part of section three) which is the one Zurich is relying on 
normally relates to criminal  matters.  
S had legal advice  which said that all the expenses the lessee was challenging were 
rightly categorised as service charges. Also the other  20 leaseholders didnt object to 
this.
Our investigator didnt  change his mind so Mr H asked for an ombudsmans decision.  
Ref: DRN77993132Before I went ahead  with my decision I asked for Zurichs comments  and also for Mr H to 
provide copies of both sets of proceedings which he did. Zurich  repeated  some  of its earlier 
claims but also said that section two of the policy doesnt apply because it only applies to 
insured persons i.e. Mr H and to not the corporate entity i.e. S.  
I responded to tell Zurich that I agreed that section two doesnt apply for the reasons it gave. 
And I also asked Zurich a number of questions including the following:
Whether it had seen a copy of the lease to see which parts  had been breached.
What the differences were between the 2016  and the 2018 claims and why one was 
covered and the other not.
The lessee argued that S was in breach of its statutory duties (including breaches of the 
Landlord and Tenant Act 1985) as well as the lease. Did it consider  the merits of those 
claims and is it arguable S wouldve been liable under statute in any event? The 
exclusion it is relying on says there  is cover  for breach of contract as long as S wouldve 
also been liable in the absence of a contract.
Why did it feel the claim  for distress  wasnt  covered? I havent seen any specific 
exclusion in the policy relation to this. What did it consider a reasonable amount to be?  
Zurich said when Mr H notified  it of the 2018 claim he said there was no merit to it but 
because of its low value  and the fact that proceedings had been  issued he wanted it settled. 
Zurich says it felt at that point that the breach of contract exclusion would apply. It also told 
us:
It wasnt provided with enough information to decide whether there were any merits to 
the statutory claims.
In its experience the terms  of the lease  tend to be more  onerous than the statutory 
provisions in any event.  
It told Mr H that cover  hadnt been  confirmed and it needed further information. It couldnt  
make this decision without a copy of the lease. It also wasnt able to consider whether 
the payment for distress  was reasonable and proportionate. 
Mr H independently  decided to pay the claim before  coverage  had been  confirmed. It 
says it still doesnt have all the information  but in any event as Mr H settled the claim 
before cover was confirmed its not obliged to indemnify him. 
my provisional findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
the policy
The policy is broadly  there to cover claims made  against S which  may include  demands for 
compensation or damages,  civil proceedings for compensation or criminal proceedings for 
any wrongful act. 
A wrongful act includes  actual,  alleged or attempted  breach of duty,  breach of trust, 
neglect, error by an insured person or the insured. 
The insured in this case includes S as well an insured person which  can be an 
employee or director i.e. Mr H. 
The policy also provides  cover for financial loss which includes damages,  judgments, 
awards or settlements for a wrongful act that the insured is liable  to pay, as well as defence 
and investigation  costs. It doesnt  include taxes or fines. 
Ref: DRN77993133There is also specific cover for corporate liability, and it covers financial loss in respect of 
any claim made against the insured.  There are exclusions that apply to this section,  which 
Zurich is relying on, and they include any payment for financial loss in respect of a claim 
made against the insured  for:
any breach  of any contract or agreement except to the extent  you would have been liable 
in the absence of the contract  or agreement
the claims
Ive now seen copies  of the court claim forms for the 2016 and 2018  claims. 
The 2016 claim was in relation to overcharged service charges which resulted from the 
miscalculation of another flats service charges. Zurich agreed to cover this claim,  it says, 
as a goodwill  gesture.  From what Ive seen, Zurich had told Mr H that it wouldnt be cost 
effective for it to instruct solicitors to give advice (as the value of the claim was only 
£221.03).
The 2018 claim was in relation to a defective  lease  that had to be corrected. The lessee 
said the cost of rectifying this error had been  passed on to him and this is why he was 
making a claim. He was also claiming  a refund for what  he claimed were overcharged 
management charges  which he calculated at £668.20. He was also claiming  £250  for the 
distress he suffered as a result  of S allegedly trying to persuade  him to give up his legal 
claim. 
did Zurich act fairly and reasonably in turning down the 2018 claim?
I asked for copies of the 2016  and 2018  claim forms to compare the two claims. As I said 
above they both include claims for overcharged service charges.  
Zurich turned the 2018 claim down because  it said service  charges are agreed as part of the 
terms and conditions of the lease and so the claim related to a breach of contract.  
I appreciate that Zurich  says it settled the 2016 claim as a goodwill gesture but I cant  see 
that it made  it clear  to Mr H at the time that this was a claim that wouldnt have  been  
ordinarily covered  under the policy- because of the breach of contract exclusion. So I can 
understand why Mr H is unhappy one claim was covered but not the other. 
I also still think that Zurich  hasnt provided  enough for me to say that the breach of contract 
exclusion does apply  to the 2018 claim.  Thats because- and Zurich accepts this- it hasnt 
shown me that S wouldnt have been liable in any event, even in the absence of a contract 
i.e. under statute. 
Zurich said it wouldnt have covered the 2018 claim in any event because Mr H settled it 
before it could confirm  cover and because he didnt provide  all the relevant documents. 
I accept that Zurich may turn a claim down if it was settled before it had time to fully 
investigate it or before  it could confirm cover. But for us to agree that it acted fairly and 
reasonably in doing so, it must  show that this (the early settlement) put it in a worse position 
than the position it wouldve otherwise been  in. 
Ref: DRN77993134From what  Ive seen, Zurich hasnt shown  that Ss actions  put it in a worse position.  It is 
arguable that Mr Hs decision to settle the 2018 claim at an early stage was beneficial to 
Zurich in that it prevented legal or other  costs  from escalating.  
I note Zurich doesnt think the £250 distress award claimed by the lessee was warranted. As 
I told Zurich I havent  seen that the policy excludes  such claims. Also the lessee said this 
claim was also brought under statute and Zurich hasnt shown me that this claim wouldnt 
have been successful either. 
For these reasons I think the way forward would be for Zurich to now fully assess the claim 
under the policy  terms, subject to Mr H providing  it with all the relevant information and 
documentation it requires  to do so. If Zurich finds that S wouldve been  liable  under  statute  in 
any event I dont think the breach of contract  exclusion would apply.  
my provisional decision
For the reasons  above, I am considering  upholding this complaint in part and requiring 
Zurich Insurance  Plc to assess Ss claim subject to the terms and conditions of the policy 
once Mr H and S provide  it with all the relevant documentation and information  it requires to 
do so. 
If Zurich decides  the claim wouldve been  covered but that it shouldve  been defended it 
must also assess what the likely costs (including legal fees) wouldve been in order to do so. 
If the costs  would have  been more than the £995  S paid to settle the claim it should  
reimburse S for those costs in full. If not, it should pay S what  it wouldve cost it to 
successfully defend the claim.   
developments
Mr H accepted my provisional  decision on Ss behalf. 
Zurich didnt agree with my provisional decision. It said that it made it clear that when it 
settled the 2016 claim  this was done for commercial reasons  and on a without prejudice 
basis. It also said it told Mr H at the time that this didnt mean  that if he made  similar claims 
in future  these would  also be accepted and that it would review those on a case by case  
basis. 
In terms of the present claim Zurich said its not the intention of the policy to cover  a claim 
where the leaseholder is refusing to pay a service  charge. And that there  was a contract in 
this case because there is a lease so whether S wouldve been liable or not in the absence  
of a contract  isnt relevant.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  
I dont think the parties and especially  Zurich  have raised anything that I hadnt considered in 
my provisional decision. For this reason  I have  decided not to change  any of the findings I 
made in my provisional  decision.
Ref: DRN77993135I appreciate Zurich says it was a commercial decision  to settle the 2016  claim; but as I said 
in my provisional decision I couldnt  see that it told Mr H at the time that the 2016 claim 
would normally be excluded under the policy- because it relates to a service  charge dispute- 
due to the breach of contract exclusion.  I said for this reason  I appreciated why Mr H would 
think that both claims shouldve been covered. 
In terms of whether  there was a contract or not, I agree that it is very likely that there  is a 
lease (and therefore  a contract). As I said in my provisional decision the policy  excludes  any 
payment for financial loss in respect of a claim made against the insured for:
any breach  of any contract or agreement except to the extent  you would have been liable 
in the absence of the contract  or agreement
I think this means Zurich wont cover claims made for breach of contract except to the extent 
that S wouldve been liable even if there hadnt been a contract  or a lease in this case. As I 
said in my provisional decision the claim made  against S also contains  allegations  for breach 
of statute. So there are allegations that S wouldve  been liable even in the absence of the 
lease or contract. So I dont think Zurich can rely on the breach of contract  exclusion without 
showing that S wouldnt have been liable under statute. It hasnt done so, so far, and for this 
reason I think it needs to go back and reassess the claim.   
my final decision
For the reasons  above, I am upholding this complaint in part and requiring  Zurich Insurance 
Plc to assess Ss claim subject to the terms and conditions of the policy  once Mr H and S 
provide it with all the relevant documentation and information it requires to do so. 
If Zurich decides  the claim wouldve been  covered but that it shouldve  been defended it 
must also assess what the likely costs (including legal fees) wouldve been in order to do so. 
If the costs  would have  been more than the £995  S paid to settle the claim it should  
reimburse S for those costs in full. If not, it should pay S what  it wouldve cost it to 
successfully defend the claim.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H on behalf  of 
S to accept  or reject  my decision before 2 September 2019.
Anastasia Serdari
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7799313