K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about mortgage payment protection insurance  (MPPI)  sold by 
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  at the time as Cheltenham & Gloucester (C&G). Mr and Mrs H say 
this cover was mis-sold  to them.
For consistency Ill refer mainly to C&G  in my decision.
background
These events took place  a long time ago and relate to four MPPI policies that were sold 
alongside mortgages. Mr and Mrs H took out an initial C&G mortgage in the 1990s.  But they 
borrowed more money  further advances - on many more occasions  after that. On four of 
the borrowing  occasions (but not all of them)  - in March 1998, January 1999, September 
1999 and April 2001  they took out MPPI  policies  which covered Mr H against  losing his job 
or being unable to work. Mrs H wasnt covered by any of the policies.
One of our adjudicators looked  into this case and said the complaint about these four 
policies shouldnt be upheld.  But Mr and Mrs H disagreed with this and so the complaint has 
been passed to me for a final decision.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case.
Having done this, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. 
Ive seen the many C&G mortgage sales from around the time periods  in question. My 
general experience  is that consumers were usually  asked  to choose whether or not they 
wanted MPPI with their mortgage when they completed their mortgage application. It was 
also quite common that they were  invited to complete a separate MPPI application as well. 
This went in to more  detail about the type of protection  they wanted and who should be 
covered.
Weve been sent a lot of information about Mr and Mrs Hs many mortgage  sales. But 
perhaps not surprisingly, we dont have the complete documentation sets in respect of each 
one. As the first of these  is now over 20 years ago and businesses  arent  required to keep 
records indefinitely, this isnt unusual.
However, Mr and Mrs H central point of complaint is that these four MPPI policies were 
added without their authority or consent. In fact, theyve categorically said they werent even 
aware the policies  existed. I accept hat may be their honest belief now, but Ive seen quite  a 
lot of things that show me this isnt very likely. I actually think  they would have been made 
aware of the policies  at the time, although I can understand  if they dont remember  after so 
long.
Another feature  of this case is the number  of sales were talking about.  To uphold Mr and 
Mrs Hs complaint on the points being put forward, Id need to think that on four separate 
Ref: DRN78892632occasions, a C&G  adviser added these MPPI policies in clear  contravention of the rules. Im 
afraid I consider  that scenario quite unlikely too.
did Mr and Mrs H agree to the cover?
I began by looking at the March 1998  mortgage advance.  I see Mr and Mrs H both signed a 
specific application form for the MPPI.  This form gave them a clear  choice about having 
MPPI. It also offered  a choice about who was covered and for the first applicant (Mr H) it 
said I wish to be covered for 100% of our mortgage  costs. As well as signing the 
application, both Mr and Mrs H signed a direct debit  to authorise the transfer each month,  of 
the MPPI  premium, from their bank account.
Mr and Mrs H were also sent a document which was entitled  Payment  Protection  Plus 
Insurance Policy  Schedule. This explained what theyd  bought.
So I think this is all very strong and comprehensive evidence  that Mr and Mrs H asked for 
MPPI in respect of Mr H. I think its clear they wanted and sought out this type of protection.
Im going  to summarise  the information we have for the other three  sales Ive mentioned 
above. This is because  Im satisfied very similar processes were followed and I think  C&G  
got the appropriate consent to add the cover. 
I say this because  for the January 1999  sale, Ive been sent another  signed MPPI application 
form, another policy schedule and a welcome  letter  which  says:  Dear Mr [H], you will be 
pleased to know that we have made the change you recently  requested to your C&G 
Payment Protection  Plus Insurance Policy.  We have enclosed  a new policy schedule 
showing this change.
The September 1999 and April 2001  sales follow a very similar pattern too. In respect of the 
latter, for example,  we have sight of a letter saying: Dear Mr [H], thank you for your recent 
request to amend your C&G Payment Protection Plus Insurance.  Weve enclosed  a new 
policy schedule showing this change, please  check its correct and keep it in a safe place, as 
it replaces your old schedule.
So in my view there  is very strong evidence indeed that Mr and Mrs H applied  for these 
policies and they would have been  fully aware  at the time that they had been  set up on their 
mortgage account. I also firmly believe they would have known they didnt need to have this 
type of cover  if they didnt want to by virtue  of them having other mortgage  borrowing without 
any PPI. I therefore find that Mr and Mrs H consented to the cover  on all four occasions.
was the cover suitable for Mr and Mrs H.
Its not disputed  that the MPPI  was recommended  each  time to Mr H as part of advised 
sales. This means C&G  had a duty to ensure the MPPI was suitable  for him.  I think  it was.
Mr H was eligible for the cover and not caught by any of the major exclusions we tend to 
see in these types of policy.  The cost of the MPPI also seems affordable on each  occasion,  
given the protection the policies offered  him. 
Mr and Mrs H later sent in some details about having other forms of protection. They  also 
said they had sickness protection with their jobs. Ive looked very carefully at everything 
theyve sent in. 
Ref: DRN78892633Some of the detail related to Mrs H, but of course,  she wasnt  covered by the MPPI. I also 
take note of some other forms of insurance  protection Mr H says he had. I understand the 
point being made, but Im afraid it doesnt  necessarily mean the MPPI wasnt  of use. The 
mortgage(s) were secured against  their home and so the consequences of not being able to 
make the repayments  couldve  been  serious.  In the event of a successful claim, the MPPI 
wouldve paid out a monthly sum for up to 12 months.
I dont know why Mr and Mrs H decided to operate their finances  in this way, where some 
borrowing was protected,  and some  wasnt. But the evidence is very strong in my view that 
Mr and Mrs H engaged  with all these  sale events and wanted an element of mortgage 
protection. And having other forms of cover  essentially covering different eventualities  
doesnt make MPPI of no use. I dont  think  C&G recommending MPPI was unreasonable 
and I think the cover  was suitable for Mr H.
were they given enough information?
C&G also had to provide information  that was clear,  fair and not misleading. I obviously cant 
confirm what wouldve been said to Mr and Mrs H on each of the occasions they met with 
C&G and its possible C&G  could  have done  a better job in explaining some things. But from 
what Ive seen, I think the disclosure of information  looks quite comprehensive on each of 
the four occasions they were sold MPPI.  Its clear  they met with a mortgage  adviser  each 
time and the records show they assessed their financial situation. I also think its highly likely  
Mr and Mrs H wouldve  known the costs  of the MPPI on all these occasions. 
Finally, they were clearly  given accompanying documents explaining the terms and I was 
sent copies of these.  So I think they had enough  information on which to make an informed 
choice about what they wanted  to do.
Im sorry  to disappoint Mr and Mrs H but I think theres very strong and reliable evidence that 
the policies were not mis-sold.
my final decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr and Mrs Hs complaint. And I dont direct  
Lloyds Bank  PLC, trading  as Cheltenham & Gloucester,  to do anything  to put matters right.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mr and Mrs H to 
accept or reject my decision  before  20 April 2019.
Michael Campbell
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7889263