K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs O complain that Skipton  Building Society mis-sold them  a payment protection  
insurance (PPI)  policy.
background
This complaint is about PPI taken out with a mortgage  in 2007. It protected  Mr and Mrs Os 
mortgage monthly repayments in the event  of unemployment and they shared the policy  
benefits between  them. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr and Mrs O disagreed with the adjudicators  
opinion.
Mr and Mrs O mainly told us that they wouldn't have  wanted PPI and didn't know it was on 
the mortgage. They felt that the other means they had to rely on, including  money from 
endowments due to mature  less than 4 years after their mortgage started, meant they were 
mis-sold the PPI. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
this case. 
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr and Mrs Os complaint. Ill explain why.
Ive looked at some of Mr and Mrs Os mortgage paperwork. 
I can completely understand if theyve forgotten some of the details of a sale that took place 
so long ago. But it looks like they had a discussion with a Skipton Building Society mortgage 
advisor who identified  that Mr and Mrs O had a need for unemployment protection. 
On their mortgage application, in the section dealing with PPI, there were various tick boxes 
with different PPI options. I think it was clear that it was up to Mr and Mrs O to say if they 
wanted to have PPI. If Mr and Mrs O hadnt wanted  PPI they couldve ticked  the 
No cover required box  this is left blank. The Unemployment only box is ticked  on the 
form Mr and Mrs O signed   reflecting the outcome of their talk with the advisor about their 
needs and circumstances. Mr and Mrs O both signed the completed application confirming 
that they agreed with the information on the form.  
 
I dont know exactly what the advisor told them about PPI. And it wouldnt be reasonable to 
expect Mr and Mrs O to recall exactly what was discussed at the time.  I must take into 
account all the information Ive got and decide  what I think is most likely. 
On balance, I think its more likely  that Mr and Mrs O agreed to take out the policy knowing it 
was optional. 
Ref: DRN74305652Mr and Mrs O said Skipton  Building Society  didnt recommend the PPI. Skipton Building 
Society says it did advise Mr and Mrs O to have PPI  and it looks to me like it did as it wrote 
to them  recommending them to have unemployment cover. So Im going to treat their 
complaint as an advised sale. This gives their complaint the best chance  of succeeding 
because it means that as well as giving them clear information, the advisor  had to take 
reasonable steps to make  sure the PPI recommendation was suitable for Mr and Mrs O.
I think PPI was suitable for them based  on what Ive seen of their circumstances at the time.  
Mr and Mrs O were both eligible for the PPI policy. And as they were both earning and 
contributing to the mortgage the shared  benefit split looks reasonable to me.
In Skipton Building  Societys notes it appears  that Mr and Mrs O told the advisor  that they 
needed to be able to rely on both their incomes  to cover their planned  expenses. The policy  
gave them each  cover  for unemployment for up to 12 months per claim. It provided  
Mr and Mrs O with protection over the mortgage  term as repeat claims were possible. 
Ive taken into account that Mr and Mrs O had some  savings. But I dont know  if they 
wouldve always had savings to depend  on if theyd needed to make a claim. And it looks  
like they preferred not to spend  their savings at the time, or they had other  plans for that 
money, since they took out this mortgage rather than invest all their savings in buying the 
house. Having  PPI meant they could keep  savings intact to provide financial security for the 
future or spend  the money on other  things  they may have been  saving up for. 
Ive also thought carefully about the endowments  Mr and Mrs O mentioned  given that 
I understand they used this money  to clear their mortgage balance around  4 years after the 
mortgage started.  
Skipton Building  Societys notes indicate that when they were arranging this mortgage it was 
important to Mr and Mrs O to keep to a budget for the next few years until their endowments 
matured and debt was reduced. And Im mindful  that they chose not to cash in the 
endowments before  the end of the terms to reduce  the amount they borrowed on their 
mortgage at the outset.  It looks  like Mr and Mrs O were able to clear their mortgage  using  
the endowment  money to make  lump sum repayments  towards  the mortgage from time to 
time  in line with their financial plans. So having unemployment cover gave Mr and Mrs O 
security and peace of mind that I think wouldve been important considerations for them  at 
the time.  
The policy provided  more  dependable protection than relying  on others to help out in the 
event of money problems.  
And although Mr and Mrs O also mentioned death in service  benefit, this wouldnt have been  
something they couldve depended  on if they lost their jobs unexpectedly and were out of 
work. 
So I think PPI was suitable for Mr and Mrs O. 
It doesnt look as if Mr and Mrs O were affected by any of the main conditions  that mightve 
limited the policys benefit  to them.  So, even  if these things werent mentioned,  I dont think 
this wouldve  made any difference to Mr and Mrs Os decision to take the policy out. 
Ref: DRN74305653I dont know if the PPI cost was made  clear to Mr and Mrs O before they decided to buy the 
policy. But, from what Ive seen, they chose to take out PPI when they didnt have to - so it 
looks as if Mr and Mrs O were happy  to pay for the cover at the time. Mr and Mrs O couldve 
cancelled the policy at any time if they didnt want to keep on paying for it.
Overall its possible there  may have  been  some failings  in the way this policy  was sold.  But 
I think Mr and Mrs O still wouldve decided to buy the policy  if theyd been better informed as 
the policy gave  them useful protection in their particular  situation.
Despite what Mr and Mrs O say in response  to our adjudicators view this doesnt  affect  my 
decision. I understand that what Ive said will come as a disappointment.  But I hope that 
setting out the reasons as Ive done  will help explain how Ive reached my decision. 
my final decision
For these reasons, I dont  uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs O to 
accept or reject my decision  before  8 April 2019.
Susan Webb 
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7430565