complaint
Mr A isnt happy  because  he says Mortgages  Direct Limited mis-sold him a permanent 
health insurance policy.
background
Mr A took out a mortgage in 2007. He also took out a permanent health insurance  policy.  He 
says he was mis-sold the policy  because he thought hed got PPI. And hes also said he 
didnt know hed taken  out the permanent health  insurance policy. Hes raised concerns 
about other policies  and the sale of the mortgage which are the subject of other complaints
at our service.
Our investigator looked into what happened. He didnt think the permanent  health insurance 
policy was mis-sold. He was satisfied  Mortgages Direct made it clear he didnt have  to take 
out the policy and that it had been  recommended on the basis of the answers  Mr A gave  
during a review  of his overall circumstances. So he didnt uphold the complaint.
Mr A didnt  agree. He says the policy was mis-sold because he didnt know  it would end 
when he was 65 and it doesnt include life insurance.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide whats fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The relevant  rules and industry guidance  say that Mortgages Direct  have  a responsibility to 
ensure the policy  was right for Mr A. This is because they provided  him with advice about the 
permanent health  insurance policy. I dont  think the policy  was mis-sold because:
 I think Mr A chose to take out the cover. I can see key facts document  explained
Mr A didnt  have to take out any insurance  products through the mortgage provider or 
Mortgages Direct. I can also see that Mr A signed the fact find form which confirmed 
he was happy  with the recommendations  the advisor had made
K820x#14
Ref: DRN7796066K820x#14 During the fact find Mr A said he didnt have any existing policies or employee  
benefits. He also confirmed he didnt have any other policies,  investments  or 
savings. The advisor noted hed be unable  to pay his mortgage  or bills if he couldnt  
work.
Mr A said hed want  to be able to protect  his mortgage payments if he couldnt 
work due to accident, sickness or unemployment. The fact find document  does 
say he wouldnt want to maintain his lifestyle in the event  of critical illness  and he 
wasnt concerned  about  protecting his mortgage  payments in the event of long 
term ill health. However, the advisor  noted  that Mr A would have difficulty in 
meeting repayments  if his income  significantly decreased. I also note Mr A said he 
wasnt in good  health. So Im satisfied,  on balance, he did have a need for the 
cover provided by this permanent health insurance policy
 Mr A has said he thought he had a PPI policy. Mortgages Direct has confirmed  
he did have a PPI policy with another provider and his permanent health 
insurance policy was designed to complement  this (as it would provide a benefit  
after 52 weeks). So I dont think theres been  a duplication of cover as the 
advisor had ensured Mr A had short term protection from the PPI policy  whereas 
this policy offered longer term protection
 Based  on the evidence Ive seen I think its most likely the duration of the 
permanent health insurance policy was linked  to the term of the mortgage,  rather 
than Mr As age. This meant cover was in place for the expected  duration of the 
mortgage, which I think was reasonable
 Mr A has mentioned  another policy which is a life assurance policy.  The 
information Ive been provided with suggests this is most likely to have been a 
decreasing term policy. It did include sickness cover but I note that this would have  
only covered the cost of the premiums for the life assurance policy. There was no 
element of income protection in the policy. So I think its unlikely the life assurance 
policy duplicated the cover offered by the permanent health insurance policy.
my final decision
Im not upholding Mr As complaint. Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman 
Service, Im required to ask Mr A to accept  or reject  my decision  before 27 April 2019.
Anna Wilshaw
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7796066