K820x#14complaint
Mr T complains that Nationwide Building  Society  failed to amend a joint account into his sole 
name. Hes now discovered his credit report shows he has a financial association with the 
joint account holder  and he says this is because the joint account wasnt removed from the 
account.
To settle  matters hed like Nationwide to change the account into his sole name.
background
Mr T had a joint account with Nationwide. Around  four years ago he says he and the joint 
account holder  completed paperwork to remove the joint account holder from the account. 
He says he took the paperwork to his local branch for them to complete.
He recently found  out when he was checking his credit reports that it shows  he has a 
financial association with the joint account  holder. Mr T says this is because Nationwide  
didnt remove the joint account holder from the account as hed asked.
Mr T asked  Nationwide why it hadnt  removed the joint account holder previously. 
Nationwide said that after a thorough search of its records  it hadnt received his request  to 
remove the joint account holder from the account. Nationwide said that any amendments  to 
the account would have  been confirmed in writing.  And it noted  that account  statements 
issued for the last six years were in joint names.
Because Mr T explained  he was no longer in touch with the joint account holder, Nationwide 
explained his options were limited  as it wouldnt be possible to arrange  for another removal  
of account holder form to be completed. It explained that it would be able to close  their 
linked e-Savings  account and then close the joint FlexAccount as theyd  been  opened so 
either party could  sign. However, Mr T would  need to open  a new current account before the 
existing account  could be closed. Mr T was worried  that opening  a new account might  
impact his credit file.
Unhappy with Nationwides response  Mr T referred  his complaint to our service. Our 
investigator didnt  think  Nationwide had done anything  wrong.  The investigator couldnt say 
whether or not Nationwide received the instruction to change the account from a joint 
account to a sole account. However,  on the balance of probability  he thought Nationwide 
wouldve actioned his instruction had they received it.
Mr T disagrees with the investigators view and has asked for an ombudsmans  decision. Ive 
summarised his concerns  below.
he says he has no recollection  of being  told that hed receive written confirmation  
when the account  was amended;
he says weve underestimated  his frustration at having to close  the account and open 
a new one. If he opens a new account  this will have  impact his credit  score;
over the past four to six years hes the only person who has used the account; and
he remembers filling the form in. Hes concerned that Nationwide  should keep 
documents so there should be some  proof.
Ref: DRN71509532my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
The facts  in this complaint  are disputed. Mr T says he and the joint account holder 
completed a form to remove the joint account holder from the account. Nationwide, however,  
says it didnt receive a request to remove the joint account holder from the account.
In cases like this I have  to reach  my decision based  on the available  evidence.  Evidence can 
take many  forms but it carries more weight  if it is in documentary form or where it can be 
verified. Ive taken account of what Mr T has said but Im unable  to verify it because neither  
he nor Nationwide  has any information  to show the form was given  to Nationwide  to 
complete.
I have no way of knowing  for certain whether or not Nationwide  ever received the request to 
change the account from a joint account  to a sole account. In situations  like this I have to 
decide which version of events  is most likely taking into account  the available information 
and documentary evidence.
If Mr T had asked  Nationwide  to remove the joint account Id generally  expect  it to have 
some record  of this. Nationwide has told us that after a thorough search  of its records it 
didnt receive this request.
Mr T says he clearly  remembers filling the form in but equally I havent seen anything to 
suggest Nationwide received the form to remove the joint account holder.
On balance I think its more likely  than not that Nationwide  never  received the form. I say this 
because Mr T says he asked Nationwide to remove the joint account holder  about four years  
ago. Since  the time Mr T says he asked  Nationwide to remove the joint account  holder from 
the account, Nationwide has provided copies of account statements which  appear to be 
properly addressed to Mr T. The statements clearly  show that the account is in the joint 
names of both account holders.
It was clearly important to Mr T that the joint account  holder should be removed from the 
account and in these circumstances I would  have expected him to notice that the statements 
issued by Nationwide showed the account was still held in joint names  and that the joint 
account holders  name hadnt been  removed.  This isnt intended as a criticism of Mr T 
because we all lead busy lives but Ive taken the statements into account in forming  by 
opinion about  what was most  likely  to have  happened.
As Ive made a finding  that Nationwide more likely than not that Nationwide never received 
the request I cant say its treated  Mr T unfairly.
Im sympathetic to Mr Ts concerns that closing one account and opening another may have 
on his credit score. But I think Nationwide  acted fairly because  its options were limited  after 
Mr T explained that he was no longer in touch  with the joint account  holder and so couldnt 
get the relevant form re-signed.
In the circumstances I think Nationwides alternative suggestion of closing the existing 
account and linked savings account and opening another account  was fair and reasonable. 
It follows that I wont be asking Nationwide to do anything further.
Ref: DRN71509533I realise this isnt the outcome Mr T was hoping for but I hope  he finds my explanation  
helpful.
my final decision
My final decision is that I do not uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr T to accept or 
reject my decision  before 21 November  2019.
Michelle Hayward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7150953