K820x#14complaint
Mrs Rs complaint is about the handling  of a claim made under her central heating insurance  
cover with British Gas Insurance Limited.
background
On 30 January 2019, Mrs R made a claim under her policy with British  Gas as her boiler  was 
cutting out. An engineer  attended and got the boiler  working again  by topping up the 
pressure. However, the boiler cut out again  the next day. Mrs R was going on holiday that 
evening but British Gas refused to attend  until the following day (1 February  2019). As Mrs R 
was away, her mother attended the appointment. The engineer  replaced  the boiler pump 
and the boiler  was working again.  However,  when Mrs R returned from holiday on 12 
February 2019, she found the boiler not working.  
British Gas sent another engineer out that night. He said the same part needed replacing 
again but he didnt have  one with him, so would have to return on 13 February 2019 to fit it.
The pump was replaced  again and the boiler  was left working. However, Mrs R says that 
around a week later,  it stopped working again.  Mrs R says the pressure was dropping on the 
boiler gauge. 
British Gas came out again on 2 March 2019  and said the pressure relief valve needed to be 
replaced and there was a leak outside,  from a frozen outlet tap. This was apparently  done on 
5 March 2019.
Mrs R is very unhappy with the handling  of the claim. She has made a number of 
submissions, which I've summarised below: 
She knows her boiler well and knew the initial problem was not related to the 
pressure. She told British Gas this. If he had done more to investigate why the boiler 
was cutting out on that occasion  all the other trouble would have been avoided.  
British Gas refused  to send anyone out on 31 January 2019  as an emergency  even 
though it was below zero outside.  She was going on holiday that night and could not 
leave her house without any heating on. The engineer had also said on 30 January 
2019 that someone would come out the next day as an emergency, if his repair  didnt 
last. 
She got an independent  engineer to look at the boiler on 31 January 2019 and he 
told her a part needed to be replaced.  She told British Gas this but it was not passed 
on to the engineer that attended  on 1 February  2019. He just happened  to have the 
right part on the van anyway.
When she called on 12 February  2019 British Gas would only say it would send 
someone out that night, it didnt offer anything else, even though  the house was 
freezing. 
On 13 February 2019, one of her children was ill and she had to take the day off work 
(having arranged for the engineer to come  and fit the new part after work) which  she 
says is because they returned from a warm climate  abroad  to a freezing  cold house. 
The pump that was initially installed was faulty and had to be replaced again, this 
was avoidable . 
The burst pipe outside was a direct result  of the lack of heating  while  she was on 
holiday during  sub-zero temperatures. 
Ref: DRN73472562The seal on the window above  the burst  pipe is now damaged with condensation and 
will have  to be replaced. None  of her other windows are damaged and it is more than 
coincidence that it is this window that is affected. 
The whole experience was horrible. She was unable to enjoy the first few days  of her 
holiday, worrying about what was happening at home. 
There was an automatic assumption  that someone would be home whenever the 
engineers arrived.
She lost a lot of time from work, on the phone  to British Gas, looking after her ill child, 
attending appointments. Her elderly  mother incurred fuel costs travelling to attend 
appointments for her and had to sit and wait in a freezing house. 
She pays high premiums for help in emergencies such as this and British  Gas let her 
down. 
British Gas says the first engineer tested the boiler  on and off several times and he says that 
if the pump was faulty at that stage, it would not have worked at all. The second engineer 
took the pump to the appointment, which  had been ordered following Mrs R telling it this was 
needed. He says he didnt know why this had been  ordered at the time he picked it up. 
British Gas says the issues  with the boiler were different each  time and could  not have been 
diagnosed at the outset.  However, it sent Mrs R £190 compensation for the inconvenience  
caused, particularly  in relation to the faulty  wiring.  
One of our investigators  looked into the matter. He didnt recommend that it be upheld.  The 
investigator said that British Gas was entitled to rely on the evidence of the engineer as the 
expert and he took the course  of action he believed would best fix the problem; and each  
visit was to address  a different issue  and was not part of the same  repair. The investigator  
therefore thought the £190 already offered by British Gas was reasonable and didnt 
recommend any further compensation.  
Mrs R does not accept  the investigators assessment, so the matter  has been referred to me. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mrs R says that on 30 January 2019, the pressure  on her boiler  was low but it was still at a 
level that would mean  the boiler  would  work  normally. And the fact the engineer said she 
could call someone out again  the next day if it failed again means he was not confident  he 
had fixed the problem. Mrs R is adamant that more  should have been  done on that occasion 
to investigate what was wrong with the boiler. 
The engineer recorded that he topped  up the pressure and tested the heating and hot water, 
and the boiler  was working properly. I am not persuaded that the engineer  was obviously 
negligent or acted  wrongly in doing what he did at that appointment.
British Gas then came  out again on 1 February  2019. This was an inconvenient time for    
Mrs R as she had gone on holiday the night before and so she had to make arrangements  
for her mother to be at her home.  I can understand  why she was upset British Gas didnt go 
out on 31 January  2019, before she left for holiday  but it still attended within  a reasonable 
time overall.  British Gass  engineer at that appointment  agreed  with Mrs Rs engineer  that 
the pump needed to be replaced.  The heating was restored  and Mrs R says her mother 
checked again a day later and the heating was still working properly.
Ref: DRN73472563However, by 12 February 2019, the heating  had failed again  apparently  because  of a faulty 
wiring harness connected to the pump. I am unable to make any finding about whether this 
was avoidable  or not. I do not have  any evidence that the engineer  that fitted the first 
replacement pipe should have known about  the faulty wiring, or caused it. I can understand 
how difficult it would have  been to return from holiday to having  to deal with this again. The 
pump was replaced  again the next day. So again,  it was dealt with relatively promptly  and I 
am not persuaded that British Gas could or should  have  done anything more  at the time. 
There was then a further problem  with the pressure relief valve and a leak from an outlet 
drain, apparently as a result of it freezing.  Mrs R says this happened solely because her 
house was not heated while she was away. However, theres  no convincing evidence  that 
the problem with the pressure relief valve or the outlet drain was related to the initial  problem 
or was caused by anything done by British Gas. 
For the reasons  given  above, I am not persuaded it has been  established  that the heating 
failed again while Mrs R was away solely  due to anything done  wrong  by British Gas. In 
addition, even if this had been proven, there is no convincing  evidence that the problem with 
the valve and outlet pipe were due to there not been any heating for a period of time. I 
understand outlet  pipes  can freeze anyway, even  if the boiler is working, as they are outside  
the property; and there has not been  shown to be any link between  any other issues and the 
faulty pressure  relief valve. 
Given this, I am not persuaded that I can reasonable hold British Gas responsible  for the 
seal on a double glazing unit, or for Mrs Rs child being ill on 13 February 2019. There  is 
simply no convincing evidence that established that these events were  a direct result  of 
anything British Gas did wrong. 
Overall, it took five visits to resolve  all the issues with the heating and I can understand this 
was a difficult time. However, each occasion  a problem  was reported, British  Gas attended 
within reasonable time and restored the heating and hot water  relatively  quickly.  Someone 
would have to be at the property to allow each visit by an engineer but however inconvenient 
this was for Mrs R and her mother,  this inconvenience was not a result of any wrongdoing by 
British Gas. And for the same reasons, I do not consider that any compensation is warranted  
for the time Mrs R spent reporting issues to British  Gas. Having taken everything into 
account, I consider  the payment already made  of £190 to be reasonable and do not intend to 
ask British Gas to pay anything more.
my final decision
I do not uphold  this complaint against  British Gas Insurance  Limited,  as I consider it has 
already made an offer that is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of the complaint.  
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs R to accept or 
reject my decision  before 20 August 2020.
Harriet McCarthy
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7347256