K820x#14complaint
Mr H says The Royal Bank  of Scotland Plc mis-sold him a payment  protection  insurance 
(PPI) policy.  
background
This complaint is about a credit  card PPI policy taken out in 1997.  The policy was added  to 
Mr Hs credit card account when he applied for the card.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint. Mr H disagreed with the adjudicators opinion so 
the complaints been passed to me.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Weve set out our general approach  to 
complaints about  the sale of PPI on our website and Ive taken this into account in deciding 
Mr Hs case.
Where the evidence is incomplete  or inconclusive I need to decide what I thinks  most likely  
to have happened, based on the information  I have.
Ive decided not to uphold  Mr Hs complaint. Ill explain why.
 RBS no longer has copies of the paperwork that Mr H completed when he applied for 
the credit card. I dont think thats  surprising or unreasonable, given that this was so 
many years ago. Mr H had told us that he wasnt aware that the PPI was an optional  
product, and could  have  been refused. But I cant fairly conclude,  based purely on what 
Mr H says, that RBS didnt make it clear  to him that he had a choice about whether to 
take the cover.
 Ive also borne in mind that Mr H has told us it was recommended  that he take the PPI 
during the application, but he wasnt aware  it had been added  to his account.  But the 
premiums for the PPI were shown on Mr Hs monthly credit card statements. Hes told 
us he noticed them, but assumed they were a form of interest. But from the statements 
Ive seen, the PPI premiums were shown separately  from interest, and were clearly 
labelled as Cardholder Protection Plan. I dont think its likely that Mr H would have 
thought that this was a reference to interest.  And if he didnt want  the PPI, or didnt 
know what the payments were for, Id have expected  him to contact RBS to query 
them. Ive seen nothing to suggest  that he did so. 
 Taking everything into account,  I think its more  likely than not that RBS made it clear 
to Mr H that the PPI was optional, and that he decided to take it, knowing that he had a 
choice. But I can understand how he may no longer remember  this, so many years  
later. 
Ref: DRN70352392 RBS no longer has a record of how Mr H applied for the credit  card.  Mr H says he 
thinks he applied for it over the internet.  And he says RBS advised him to take the 
policy. If Mr H did applied for the card online, I think its unlikely that hed have had any 
direct contact with RBSs staff, or that advice would have been given. But in the 
absence of any firm record of how the policy was sold, Ive assumed for the purposes 
of this decision that advice was given.  Thats to Mr Hs advantage, as it means  that 
RBS had a responsibility  to make sure that the policy  was suitable  for him. But it 
doesnt look as if it was unsuitable, based on what Ive seen of his circumstances  at the 
time. 
 Mr H has told us hed have been entitled  to statutory  sick pay from his employer. And 
he says hed have  been entitled to some redundancy pay. But the policy  would have 
paid out in addition to any payments Mr H received from his employer. So he could 
have used those  to meet other  day-to-day  expenses. Whats  more, the policy  would 
have helped with his monthly credit  card repayments for up to 12 months per 
successful claim  for accident  sickness or unemployment. Its likely that thats  
considerably longer  than Mr H would have been entitled to receive any payments from 
his employer for. So I think it could have been  useful to Mr H, especially given that hes 
told us that aside from payments from his employer, he didnt have any other  means 
he could have  fallen  back on if hed been  off sick, or if hed lost his job.
 Its possible the information RBS gave Mr H about the PPI wasnt as clear as it should 
have been. But based on what hes told us about  his circumstances at the time, Mr H 
wasnt affected by any of the main things the policy didnt cover (such  as provisions 
concerning unusual working arrangements  or existing medical conditions). Ive also 
borne in mind  that the policy  was competitively  priced, and I havent seen anything to 
suggest that Mr H couldnt afford it. So I think its unlikely that better information would 
have put Mr H off taking out the policy.
Ive taken into account Mr Hs comments,  including what hes said about  never  having  taken  
out PPI, and about it having been instilled  in him from a young age that he should never take 
out PPI. Hes also commented that hes received refunds  for other  policies, and doesnt 
understand why this one should be different. But we assess each complaint on its individual  
facts and evidence.  And these points dont change my conclusion  that  for the reasons Ive 
set out  I cant fairly conclude that the policy was mis-sold.
my decision
For the reasons  set out above, I dont uphold Mr Hs complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr H to accept or 
reject my decision  before 19 October  2019.
Juliet Collins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7035239