K820x#14complaint
Mr F complains that a car he acquired  through a Hire Purchase Agreement  with RCI 
Financial Services Limited  (RCI) isnt fit for purpose.  He would like to reject the car, to get a 
refund of all monies  he has paid to date and for any record  of the agreement to be removed 
from his credit file.
background
Mr F says he took out a Hire Purchase  Agreement with RCI for a new car in May 2018. He 
says within  a few days he identified problems with the speakers. He says it took three  
attempts to resolve the problem this problem. But he says he then had problems with a 
dashboard vibration rattle which meant  another two trips back  to the dealership.
He says the problem with the dashboard rattle still hadnt been  resolved by November 2018 
so at this point he asked to reject the car. But RCI wouldnt allow  him to do this. He says RCI 
put the rattle down to his own installation of a dashboard  camera, the removal  of the 
glovebox and bolts. Mr F feels this is unfair. He denies he ever removed  the glovebox  and 
says he only removed  one bolt. He says there  has been no independent  inspection  of the 
car. 
RCI said its technical experts reviewed images of Mr Fs car and concluded the diagnosis  by 
an approved dealer  was correct. That was that missing bolts would lead to a rattle and the 
dashboard camera installation would have  likely  involved work in that area. It couldnt 
conclude why and who removed the bolts.  But felt the problem could be resolved by 
inserting the bolts. Mr F didnt agree to that being  done. 
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold Mr Fs complaint. He noted Mr F had raised  issues with the car 
within the first 30 days of having  it however  as Mr F had allowed  the car to be repaired he 
didnt feel it was reasonable to allow Mr F to now reject the car.  
He didnt feel there was any firm evidence that Mr F removed the bolts whilst fitting the 
dashboard camera. But did feel felt the modifications Mr F made  for example unclipping 
the trim and placing the wires - could  have caused the vibrations. 
RCI accepted  this view but Mr F didnt.  
Mr F said that, as yet, nobody has examined  the car in relation to the vibration under the 
dashboard and around the instrument  panel. He pointed out the inconsistency  between RCI 
saying removal of the bolts and glovebox was the most likely cause of the rattle.  And the 
adjudicators view that this wasnt the case but the most likely cause was the removal  of a 
cover on the passenger side footwall. Mr F said was a flexible piece of plastic  with no load 
bearing on the dashboard. He didnt  feel this was a reasonable conclusion.  He felt without a 
full examination of the car it was impossible for either RCI or the adjudicator to decide  what 
the problem was.
Our adjudicator considered these points  but didnt change his view. In response  to Mr Fs 
points he said that car had been inspected multiple times by the dealership with the issue  
being identified  as the glove box and installation of the dashboard camera.  He said the 
dealership was confident  it could resolve this by inserting the missing bolts but Mr F refused 
to allow  this as he wanted to reject  the car instead.
Ref: DRN76642072In terms of his view that removing part of the passenger side panelling  might  have caused 
the vibration our adjudicator explained  that he couldnt definitely say if the missing  bolts were  
due to Mr F installing the dashboard camera or not. But based  on the evidence he felt 
removal of the side panelling may have caused  the rattle.
.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Mr F feels strongly  about this so I appreciate he is going to be disappointed as Ive reached 
the same  conclusion as our adjudicator.
I dont think there is any dispute that Mr F had some  issues  with his car  specifically a 
problem with the speaker and an ongoing  rattling noise, that he fitted a dashboard camera  
himself to the car, that some bolts were found to be missing, that it took some  time to 
evidence the rattle or that when offered a repair to resolve the rattle Mr F asked to reject the 
car instead..
With regard to the speaker whilst I appreciate  its frustrating it took some  attempts to resolve 
this but it was finally resolved.  When problems arise with vehicles, depending on individual 
circumstances, we usually  think its reasonable that a repair  is attempted.  As repairs  
resolved the speaker issue I dont think I need to consider that any further.
The main  issue Mr F had was with the ongoing rattle around the dashboard  and instrument 
panel.  I can see that Mr F raised some issues with the speaker, the gears and a front 
passenger door rattling on 14 May 2018  just days after he got the car.  It seems from a 
worksheet I have seen  these issues were investigated on 15 June 2018  but no faults were 
found. Some weeks later Mr F said there  was a severe vibration/rattle which was so bad he 
packed T shirts on the underside of the dashboard to alleviate the problem.
On further investigation it was felt Mr F wouldve had to remove the glove box to insert  the T 
shirts. Mr F has denied he ever removed the glovebox .Im not sure if I can reasonably  
conclude that he did nor not. But what isnt in dispute is that at in this investigation some 
bots were fount to be missing. Mr F has said he removed one bolt underneath  the glove box 
but not the two found missing in this inspection. RCI concluded it couldnt be sure if the bolts  
had been removed, and if so by whom, or if they werent present at the point of sale.  That 
seems a reasonable conclusion to me.
It seems  on further inspection in November 2018  during a road test a slight vibration was 
noticed. RCI says its confident  this could be resolved by repair. But Mr F didnt want  to do 
this. Instead at this point  he asked to reject the car instead.
I am conscious Mr Fs Hire Purchase Agreement was for a brand  new car. As such  I think  he 
could reasonably have expected it to be fault free. I am also conscious when there are 
problems within the first six months  of having  a car the onus  is on the business to show  the 
faults werent present or developing  at the point of sale.
Mr F has made  the point  that his car hasnt been  independent inspected. I was surprised it 
hadnt been given the ongoing issue of the rattle, so I asked RCI for more information about 
this. 
Ref: DRN76642073RCI said an independent inspection was never thought to be necessary. It said it felt the 
evidence provided  by the manufacturer and dealership showed the rattle  was only reported 
after Mr F fitted he dashboard camera. It said had there been a manufacturing defect it 
would have expected Mr F to report an issue  in the weeks  just after getting  the car but Mr F 
didnt do this. And that Mr F never  showed  evidence of any manufacturing issue whereas 
there is evidence of Mr F doing work  around  the dashboard area and of missing  screws. 
Finally that Mr F had been asked to take the car in to insert  the missing  screws which  it was 
confident would resolve the issue. But Mr F had chosen not to do so.
Ive seen Mr Fs complaint  email  to RCI dated  21 November 2018 which states the latest 
problem was a rattle which  had been ongoing  for a couple of months. So I agree with RCI 
that it took some time to identify this. I am not entirely sure when  Mr F fitted the dashboard 
camera. 
But I would agree with Mr Fs point  that without an independent inspection its hard for RCI, 
our adjudicator or myself to definitively know if the modifications Mr F made  to the car 
contributed or  caused the rattle or not.
However its clear that Mr Fs car has been inspected  several  times by an approved dealer. 
And RCI did refer the matter to its technical  experts. Had the problem been a potentially 
more serious one I would  have  expected RCI to arrange an independent  inspection.  But if 
the rattle could  be resolved by simply inserting some missing bolts I dont think  it was 
unreasonable to suggest  doing  that in the first instance. 
Whilst I understand Mr Fs frustration with an ongoing issue  I think its unfortunate he didnt 
allow the missing bolts  to be inserted. Had he done  so that might  have resolved the issue.  
Had it not then I think  he could reasonably have expected an independent  investigation.
I understand Mr Fs Hire Purchase Agreement has now been ended  due to non payment. So 
I dont think the matter of rejection is now relevant. But I dont feel I couldve reasonably 
asked RCI to allow rejection of the car or that I can now ask RCI to refund the payments Mr 
F made. Nor do I think its reasonable to  ask RCI to remove all reference  to the Hire 
Purchase Agreement from Mr Fs credit file. I dont  feel the suggested insertion of some  bolts  
was unreasonable suggestion  as it might have  resolved the problem with the rattle.
my final decision
My final decision is that I dont uphold this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 6 March 2020.
Bridget Makins
ombudsman
Ref: DRN76642074
Ref: DRN7664207