K822xcomplaint
Mr G complains about how Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax dealt with his request for 
money to be returned  to him from an account he had opened  for someone else.
background 
Mr G opened a Halifax junior ISA in 2016 for his then girlfriends daughter. He says he 
contributed most of the money in the account and wanted the money back when he split up 
from his girlfriend. Mr G says he was initially told he could  receive  the money back before 
being told he couldnt. He also says he was upset by receiving mail addressed  to the child.
Halifax accepted  giving  Mr G conflicting information but says it checked  the position  and 
says the money  legally belonged to the child and not Mr G. Halifax paid £35 compensation 
and £10 for Mr Gs call costs.
Mr G brought his complaint to us and our investigator accepted  that Halifax had made a 
mistake by telling  Mr G he could receive  the money back. The investigator thought Halifax  
should have managed Mr Gs expectations far better and recommended Halifax increase its 
compensation offer by £50 to a total of £95.
Halifax agreed to pay that further compensation and has done.
Mr G also agreed  with that recommendation but then went  back  to Halifax  to raise  these 
issues again with it. He says Halifax should  be paying for its error and for his call costs.  Mr G 
says hes unhappy  Halifax got his hopes  up that he would receive the money  back and says 
it should pay further compensation. He also says hes considering other options.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so Ive come to the same 
overall view as the investigator that Halifax has paid a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation. I realise Mr G will be disappointed by my decision.
Im satisfied that as an ISA was opened for the child,  then the money legally  belonged  to her 
and not Mr G. So I dont  think Halifax made  a mistake by telling Mr G that and I can see that 
in any event Mr G doesnt suggest that Halifax made  a mistake  about that issue.  But I accept  
that it gave Mr G incorrect information and initially led him to believe he would receive the 
money back. I appreciate that incorrect information  would have caused  Mr G some  
inconvenience and I accept that he spent  some time speaking to Halifax about this.
But Im satisfied that Halifax has paid what I think is a fair and reasonable amount of 
compensation and has also fairly paid for Mr Gs call costs. I think  that compensation  award 
fairly reflects the level of inconvenience Mr G was caused and that he was given the correct 
information within a relatively short period of time. Im also satisfied that apart from those call 
costs Mr G hasnt  lost out financially as a result  of being given the incorrect information.
I can see that Mr G accepted the second compensation offer but now says that isnt enough. 
It may be the case that Mr G didnt  realise that Halifax agreed to pay the compensation to 
him based on the recommendation  made  by the investigator, that it shouldnt have told him 
Ref: DRN74552192he would  receive  the money back.  For the reasons Ive explained I cant  fairly order Halifax  
to pay any further  compensation.
my final decision
My final decision is that Bank  of Scotland plc trading as Halifax has paid a fair and 
reasonable amount of compensation and I dont  require it to do anything further in the 
circumstances of this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr G to accept or 
reject my decision  before 14 July 2019.
David Singh
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7455219