K820x#14complaint
Mrs F has complained that Ageas Insurance Limited  didnt  properly investigate  a claim she 
made under her car insurance policy. Shes  also unhappy with the total loss settlement it 
paid her for her car. 
All references to the underwriter Ageas in my decision include its agents.
background
In October  2018 Mrs Fs car was damaged in an incident caused by debris  from another 
vehicle. She made a claim  to Ageas. Ageas settled the claim by paying Mrs F the market 
value for her car as it said it wasnt economical to repair it. 
Mrs F complained to Ageas. She said the valuation it paid was too low. She said Ageas  
hadnt asked for her details of how the incident  happened or tried to contact  the driver of the 
vehicle which she said debris had fallen from. She said Ageas had failed to update her when 
her car had been  written off and it failed to provide her with a courtesy  car for the first seven 
days while the approved repairer decided if her car was repairable.
Our investigator thought Ageas had acted reasonably.  It paid a total loss settlement a week 
after Mrs F reported the incident. The amount was within the range  of the main motor trade 
guide valuations  for the make and model  of Mrs Fs car. Ageas  requested  a copy of the 
police report to investigate liability. Mrs F was only entitled to a courtesy car if her car was 
repairable. 
Mrs F didnt  agree. She believes the service  she received from Ageas was poor and the 
valuation it paid was too low. So shed  like an ombudsman to decide.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  Having done so, I dont intend to uphold 
it. Ill explain why.
Its inevitable that a customer will experience some inconvenience as a result of having  to 
make a claim. Fortunately it isnt something  that happens every  day. I understand that its 
upsetting to be involved in an accident.  Ive considered whether Ageas dealt with Mrs Fs 
claim reasonably and in line with the policy up until November 2018  when  she asked us to 
look at things for her. 
Mrs Fs policy with Ageas  says that the most  it will pay in the event of a claim is the market  
value of the policy. It defines market  value as; the cost of replacing the car with another  of 
the same  make,  specification, model,  age, mileage and condition  as the car immediately 
before the loss or damage happened.
We dont decide  a valuation. But we look at whether  an insurer reached its valuation in a fair 
way. We have a long standing approach to valuation complaints. We think its generally 
reasonable to rely on the main motor trade guides.  They provide valuations  based on likely 
selling prices for a car similar to Mrs Fs in the month of loss. 
Ref: DRN74595912Mrs F has provided  adverts for similar cars which were for sale for more than the valuation 
Ageas paid her. Ageas paid Mrs F £2,735 as the average of two valuation guides of £2,930  
and £2,540. They were based  on the retail transacted valuation and not the trade valuation  
as Mrs F thought. In other words, the price Mrs F  or any other customer  might 
reasonably expect to pay for a similar  car from a retail  garage. They take into account the 
mileage, age, make and model of Mrs Fs car. The guides take into consideration the 
condition of the car. The fact that Mrs F had recently  replaced  some of the tyres will be 
factored into the valuations for a car thats in roadworthy condition. 
Mrs F said she obtained a further  consumer  valuation  from one of the trade  guides  which  
came to £2,805.  So she believes Ageas hasnt paid her a fair valuation.  Even  if Ageas had 
considered this valuation, it brings the average of the three valuations to £2,758.  This makes  
a difference of £23. It therefore  shows that the total loss settlement Ageas  paid Mrs F was 
within the range of reasonableness. 
Ageas policy  says it will provide a courtesy car if Mrs Fs car is repairable. Ageas took a 
week to make a decision  that Mrs Fs car wasnt economical to repair. I appreciate  that 
Mrs F believes this timescale was unacceptable. But I cant agree.  I think  Ageas reached its 
decision to write off Mrs Fs car within a reasonable period of time. 
Mrs F brought her complaint to us two weeks after the incident. I dont think Ageas caused 
undue delay in the handling of the claim up until this point.  
I understand Mrs F will be disappointed with my decision. But overall I think  Ageas acted 
reasonably. So Im not asking it to do anymore. 
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive given above,  my final decision is that I dont uphold  this complaint.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs F to accept or 
reject my decision  before 5 December 2019.
Geraldine Newbold
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7459591