K820x#14complaint
Mr and Mrs M say St Andrews Insurance plc (St Andrews) mis-sold them  a payment 
protection insurance (PPI) policy. 
background and summary to complaint
Mr and Mrs M bought the policy in 2003  about  four months after taking  out a mortgage. They  
say they applied for the PPI policy by filling out a leaflet, but due to the time that has passed  
its not possible to confirm this. 
The policy provided  cover  for Mr M for accident,  sickness, and unemployment subject to its 
exclusions and limitations. It offered to repay  £383.38 a month towards  Mr and Mrs Ms 
mortgage balance  in the event of a successful claim. At the time,  it cost £23.24 a month. 
At the time,  Mr M was employed as a headteacher. He has told us he was entitled to sick 
pay and redundancy pay, although the exact  benefits he has said he had are not in line with  
those laid out in the standard  terms and conditions of the teaching  profession.  I think  its 
likely he was entitled to six months  full sick pay and six months half sick pay and less than 
a years salary in redundancy pay. Mr M has told us about a stocks and shares investment 
which sounds like it was planned as a repayment vehicle for his mortgage. I dont know  how 
much this was worth  and I think its likely it was intended to grow  to pay off the capital of his 
mortgage at the end of the term some  years later. Mr M has said he was in good  health at 
the time of the sale. 
St Andrews  has sent us evidence to show that the mortgage account opened in October 
2002 and closed in November 2005.
Mr and Mrs Ms representative  has made  lengthy and substantial  representations on their 
behalf.
 
I will not restate them all here, but I have  read and considered  them all carefully. In 
summary, Mr and Mrs Ms representative says:
St Andrews failed to meet the sales standards which applied  at the time. In those 
circumstances, applying  the regulators rules and guidance for businesses  on 
handling PPI complaints  under  DISP  App 3, it should be presumed Mr and Mrs M 
wouldnt have taken  out the policy and the complaint should be upheld.  Mr and Mrs 
Ms representatives believe there  to be no evidence to rebut  that presumption;
The policy excluded or limited claims for back pain and stress,  which  are some  of the 
most common reasons people  are off work. This significantly reduced  the value of 
cover;
The true costs including interest  and the fact it was unlikely you could make  a 
successful claim  meant the policy was of inherently poor value as shown by the low 
claims ratio. The common law duty of utmost good  faith means St Andrews should 
have told Mr and Mrs M about  the poor value; 
The common law duty of utmost good faith also means St Andrews should have 
explained the significance of the exclusions and limitations of cover to Mr and Mrs M 
and the impact they would have had on Mr Ms chances of making a claim;
Ref: DRN70464002The policy only protected payments for the short-term, whereas a mortgage is 
generally someones biggest  ever long- term transaction  cover would stop at the 
time it would be most needed; and
The information Mr and Mrs M received was misleading. These policies were 
promoted as providing peace of mind, but the number of exclusions and limitations 
on the scope of the cover meant  this was untrue.
Our adjudicator didnt  uphold the complaint  both parties have seen and provided their 
responses to the adjudicators opinion. Mr and Mrs M disagreed with the adjudicators 
opinion. 
As the complaint couldnt be resolved informally, it has been passed to me for a final 
decision.
my findings
Although I have only included a summary of the complaint, I have read and considered  all 
the evidence and arguments  available  to me from the outset, in order to decide what is, in 
my opinion, fair and reasonable  in all the circumstances of this complaint. 
relevant considerations
When considering  what is fair and reasonable, Im required to take into account: relevant law 
and regulations; relevant regulators rules, guidance  and standards;  relevant codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. The Financial Ombudsman Service has set out its general approach to PPI complaints 
on our website and published  some example final decisions that set out in detail how these 
relevant considerations may apply to PPI sales like Mr and Mrs Ms. I dont intend  to set that 
out in much detail  here but Ive taken this into account in deciding Mr and Mrs Ms complaint.
The credit agreement itself was with a third-party  and not St Andrews. That means  the 
unfair relationship provisions set out in s.140A of the Consumer Credit Act, the Supreme 
Court judgment in Plevin about s.140 of that Act and the rules and guidance made  by the 
FCA about the handling of complaints about  the non-disclosure of commission in light of the 
Plevin judgment, arent  applicable.
This sale took place  in 2003 before the sale of general insurance products like this became 
regulated by the FSA in January 2005.  So the FSAs and the FCAs overarching principles 
for businesses and insurance  conduct rules (ICOB and ICOBS) are not applicable to this 
complaint; nor is the FCAs Perimeter Guidance (PERG). 
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
Ref: DRN70464003The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from firms, like St 
Andrews, selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Under the transitional provisions which continue to apply to complaints like this about acts or 
omissions before 1 December 2001,  Im also required  to take into account  what 
determination the relevant former  scheme   in this case the Insurance  Ombudsman  Bureau 
 might have been expected to reach in relation to an equivalent complaint. I note that under 
the Insurance Ombudsmans terms of reference the Ombudsman was required  to decide 
complaints by reference to what was, in his opinion, fair and reasonable in all the
There were a number of industry codes in existence  at that time, which I am satisfied are 
applicable to my consideration of what is fair and reasonable in the circumstances of this 
complaint. In particular,  The General Insurance Standards Councils General Insurance 
Code for private  customers   the GISC Code. 
This sale was made during a period  of industry  self-regulation by the General Insurance 
Standards Council (GISC).  It published the GISC Code, which  set out minimum standards  of 
good practice for its members to follow when selling  insurance, including  PPI. 
The Association of British Insurers (ABI) also published a number of codes, which  I consider 
to be indicative of the standards of good industry practice expected from intermediaries, like 
St Andrews,  selling insurance at this time:
The Association of British Insurers General Insurance Business Code of Practice for 
all intermediaries (Including  Employees of Insurance  Companies) other  than 
Registered Insurance Brokers  The ABI Code. 
The ABI Code was supplemented by:
Guidance on the application of the ABI Code
The ABI Statement  of Practice for Payment Protection Insurance
The ABI General Business Code of Practice for Telephone Sales, Direct 
Marketing/Direct Mail and the Internet
The Resume for Intermediaries  
Ref: DRN70464004While not all intermediaries  who sold PPI at the time were a member of the ABI or GISC, I 
consider these publications to be indicative of the standards of good practice expected  of 
intermediaries like St Andrews at the time.  So Im satisfied I should take these codes into 
account when  deciding, what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable in the circumstances of Mr 
and Mrs Ms case.
There was also the Mortgage Code which was a voluntary code followed by subscribing 
lenders and mortgage intermediaries. While predominantly about  mortgage related matters, 
it also included some insurance related commitments. 
Ive also taken account of relevant law in reaching my decision, including:  the law relating to 
negligence, misrepresentation and contract  (including the express  and implied duty on 
professional advisers  to give advice with reasonable skill, care and diligence); the law 
relating to the duty of utmost good faith; and the law relating to causation and remoteness.  
Im also mindful of the evidential provisions and guidance set out at DISP App 3, first issued 
by the FSA in 2010, which sets out how firms should handle complaints relating  to the sale 
of PPI. 
key questions
Taking the relevant considerations into account,  it seems to me that the key questions I need  
to consider in deciding  what is in my opinion fair and reasonable in all the circumstances of 
this complaint, are:
-If St Andrews gave advice, whether it advised Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care 
and skill  in particular, whether the policy was appropriate or suitable for them, 
given their needs and circumstances. 
-Whether St Andrews  gave Mr and Mrs M sufficient, appropriate and timely 
information to enable them to make an informed  choice  about whether to take out the 
policy, including drawing to their attention and highlighting  in a clear, fair and not 
misleading way  the main provisions of the policy  and significant  limitations  and 
exclusions. 
-If, having considered  these questions,  I determine the complaint in favour of Mr and 
Mrs M, I must then go on to consider whether and to what  extent Mr and Mrs M 
suffered loss or damage and what  I consider  would amount to fair compensation for 
that loss or damage. 
Having carefully considered the above and the information provided by both Mr and Mrs M 
and St Andrews, Ive decided not to uphold Mr and Mrs Ms complaint. Ive set out my 
reasoning below. 
did Mr and Mrs M know they had a choice?
St Andrews  had to make  it clear that the PPI policy was optional. Mr and Mrs M dont 
suggest they didnt know they had a choice. Their  mortgage had been up and running  for a 
few months by the time they bought the PPI, so they would have known it wasnt a condition  
of the mortgage  to have it. Taking  everything  into account, I think  its more likely that Mr and 
Mrs M knew  the policy was optional and they agreed to take it out without undue pressure. 
Ref: DRN70464005did St Andrews provide  advice?
St Andrews  says it would  have provided  Mr and Mrs M with advice about the PPI.
This means  St Andrews had to advise Mr and Mrs M with reasonable care and skill, in 
particular whether the policy was appropriate  or suitable given their needs and 
circumstances.
the advice
I dont know what steps St Andrews  took to establish whether the policy  was a suitable 
recommendation for Mr and Mrs M. It seems Mr and Mrs M cant  remember  clearly  what  
happened and there is no record of what the adviser discussed  in relation to the policy. Mr 
and Mrs M say that they were filling out a leaflet in February 2003 when they were sold the 
PPI. The adviser may have had some limited  information  about Mr and Mrs Ms financial 
circumstances, but there is no specific evidence to show  the adviser took steps to establish 
whether Mr M would have  been  caught by the significant exclusions and limitations which  
might have meant the policy  did not fully meet their needs. For example, there is nothing to 
suggest St Andrews considered whether Mr M had any pre-existing medical conditions.
Overall, on the balance of probabilities Im not persuaded St Andrews did all it should  have  
done to determine whether the policy was suitable for Mr and Mrs M given their 
circumstances. So Im not persuaded St Andrews advised with reasonable care and skill.
While Im not persuaded St Andrews did all it should have done to make  sure the policy  was 
suitable for Mr and Mrs M, I do think its more likely than not that the policy was ultimately 
suitable for them. In reaching that conclusion  Ive taken into consideration:
-Mr M met the eligibility criteria for the policy.
-Mr and Mrs M had a need for the policy  it seems likely that Mr and Mrs Ms ability 
to continue to meet their mortgage  repayments  would have been  put under strain  if 
Mr M was not working for an extended  period  of time  even allowing for the 
redundancy benefits and sick pay benefits he says he would have been entitled  to.
-The monthly cost of the policy appears  to have  been affordable for Mr and Mrs M. 
-The exclusions and limitations didnt make the policy unsuitable  for Mr and Mrs M. 
There was nothing  about Mr Ms employment  or occupation which would have made  
it difficult for him to claim. And he hasnt told us about any pre-existing medical 
conditions that could affect his ability to claim.
-While  the policy would  only pay benefits  for a maximum of 24 months for each claim, 
it still provided useful  cover given Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances.
-While  there were  limits to the cover provided  by the policy  (including:  the any similar 
job condition and the fact the policy would only pay benefits for a maximum of 24 
months for each  claim), the policy still provided  valuable cover given:
Mr Ms circumstances,  including his employers sickness  and redundancy 
provisions (which  he might expect to provide an income during the policys 
Ref: DRN7046400630-day qualification period) and the limits  to those provisions, which  mean the 
policy could play an important role after those provisions were exhausted; and
The fact the policy protected  the mortgage  repayments relating to their home  
and the potential consequences  should  Mr and Mrs M be unable to make the 
repayments on loans  secured against their home.
Ive also considered whether, when providing  advice,  St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs M 
sufficient information  about the cover provided  by the policy  to enable them to understand 
what St Andrews was recommending to them and make an informed decision about 
whether to follow that advice and take out the policy.
the information
Im satisfied its more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M were given a broad description of 
what the policy was intended to cover  (that is that the policy  would protect their payments if 
Mr M was unable  to work through accident,  sickness or unemployment)  and of the 
approximate costs. I have  reached this conclusion because I think its unlikely  Mr and Mrs M 
would have taken  out the policy  without any sense of what the policy  was for and of how 
much the premium might be.
But the evidence  from the time of sale doesnt tell us whether  St Andrews gave sufficient  
information about the actual monthly benefit, the actual cost or about  the exclusions or 
limitations before Mr and Mrs M agreed to take out the policy.  
Overall, having considered the parties  representations about what  happened,  while Im 
satisfied the policy was a suitable recommendation for Mr and Mrs M Im not persuaded St 
Andrews did enough to present information about the policy  it was recommending  in a way 
that was fair and reasonable to them. Im not persuaded  St Andrews gave Mr and Mrs M all 
of the information they needed about the policy to make an informed decision about whether 
to follow  the recommendation and take it out.
Ive considered how my findings interact  with the FCAs  list of significant failings in its 
guidance for firms handling  PPI complaints  set out at DISP  App 3. And for the reasons set 
out above, I am persuaded there  were  significant  failings in this case.
In addition to the failings  Ive highlighted above,  Mr and Mrs Ms representative has raised  a 
number of general points in regard  to the requirements on a business when providing 
information in PPI sales. It suggests these points apply to all PPI complaints, like Mr and Mrs 
Ms. Ive considered these  carefully  and summarised them as:
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  should have 
explained the low claims ratio  what Mr and Mrs Ms representative considers to be 
poor value   and the fact that much of the premium went  to the business rather than 
the insurer. 
-The common law duty of utmost good faith means the business  shouldnt have just 
told Mr and Mrs M about the limitations and exclusions, it should  have  gone  further  
and explained  the significance of them  to them. 
Ref: DRN70464007Im not persuaded by Mr and Mrs Ms representatives views on this. The duty of utmost 
good faith in insurance law imposed a duty on both parties to the contract to disclose 
material facts and not to make material misrepresentations.  While I cant be certain what a 
court would say  I think its unlikely a court would find that this extended to the insurer  
having to disclose the claims ratio information or explaining the significance of the limitations 
and exclusions in the way Mr and Mrs M have suggested. And taking into account the law, 
industry codes and standards of good  industry  practice applicable to this complaint,  I dont  
think its fair and reasonable to conclude that St Andrews ought to have done either. 
what effect did St Andrewss shortcomings  have on Mr and Mrs M? To what extent  
did Mr and Mrs M suffer loss or damage  as a result?
Ive found that St Andrews didnt do all it should  have done when it sold this policy to Mr and 
Mrs M. So I have  gone on to consider whether it would be fair and reasonable to conclude 
Mr and Mrs M suffered loss and damage  as a result.  To answer this, I must decide whether  
or not Mr and Mrs M would  have  still taken out the policy,  had St Andrews done  things 
properly. 
While Im not persuaded St Andrews took the steps it should have done to establish whether 
the policy it recommended was suitable  for Mr and Mrs M, I have found  that the policy was 
ultimately suitable for them.
In those circumstances it seems to me that, whether  or not Mr and Mrs M suffered loss or 
damage in this case primarily depends  on whether, if St Andrews had explained things  
properly, Mr and Mrs M would  have acted differently, or whether they would  have taken out 
the policy in any event.
Mr and Mrs M say they wouldnt have taken it out and believe  I should presume this to be 
the case given  the significant failings identified above. Ive considered the representations  of 
both sides and the evidence relating to this carefully.
Deciding whether  to follow advice to take out insurance requires the consumer to weigh up a 
number of factors before  deciding  whether to proceed. Effectively the consumer has to 
weigh up the advice to take out the policy, the cost of doing so given the benefits offered in 
return and the potential consequences they will suffer if they do not have insurance, should 
the risks come  to fruition.
The evidence in this case suggests that Mr and Mrs M had some interest in taking out 
payment protection insurance. By this I mean when St Andrews advised them that there 
was a suitable product they could  buy that would protect their mortgage payments in the 
event Mr M was unable to work because of accident, sickness and unemployment, they 
concluded they wanted that product. But they made that decision based  on incomplete 
information, meaning what they thought  they were getting is not exactly what they got. 
As I explained earlier, Im satisfied from the evidence about  Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances  
at the time of the sale that the policy was not fundamentally wrong or unsuitable for them.
But information about aspects of the policy, such as the cost,  benefit, limitations and 
exclusions wasnt as clear  as it should have been.  
Although I consider it more likely than not that Mr and Mrs M knew  they would have to pay 
something for the policy, it doesnt appear St Andrews told them  the exact premium at the 
Ref: DRN70464008point Mr and Mrs M applied  for the policy. Having said that, it seems likely Mr and Mrs M 
would have been told the cost before the policy started and they paid for the policy for a 
number of years, so if the costs were  significantly at odds with their expectations  at the point 
of sale, its likely they would have raised  that with St Andrews at the time, or reconsidered 
their decision. The cost and benefit  were set out clearly in the insurance schedule Mr and 
Mrs M received as the policy commenced  and where their right to cancel the policy  was 
clearly set out. 
Overall, Im not persuaded Mr and Mrs M would  have  found the cost unacceptable if they 
had been given the exact figure during  the meeting in which  they agreed to the policy.
In addition, Im not persuaded  St Andrews made clear at the point of sale exactly  what  Mr 
and Mrs M would get back in return in the event they made a successful claim. But I think its 
unlikely Mr and Mrs Ms expectations about what the policy would pay in the event of a claim 
(an amount  sufficient to meet  their mortgage payment) were significantly different to what the 
policy actually did  if anything, it is more likely than not that the policy  actually paid more in 
the event of a claim than they would have  expected  as there  was an additional cash  
payment.
Possibly the most significant differences between what Mr and Mrs M thought they had 
bought and what they actually bought  were  the following:
The policy excluded claims relating to medical  conditions that Mr M knew  about 
before the start date of the policy; 
The policy contained limitations on claims relating to back and mental health 
conditions placing more onerous evidential requirements to support a claim  on those 
grounds;
The requirement that in order to be eligible for a disability claim  Mr M be unable  to 
do his own job, a similar job or any paid work  which his experience, education or 
training reasonably qualified him to do;
The policy protected payments for up to 24 months, rather  than the remaining term of 
the mortgage.  
I do accept there is a possibility the limitations and exclusions  above might well have caused  
Mr and Mrs M pause for thought  and may well have  caused  them  to conclude the policy  
wasnt as good  as they thought and they might have  decided not to proceed.  The limitations 
on the cover, when  coupled with the other  shortcomings in this sale,  might  have dissuaded  
some consumers in slightly different circumstances from Mr and Mrs M from taking out the 
policy. 
But, the evidence  about Mr and Mrs Ms circumstances at the time of sale shows that the 
policy wasnt fundamentally wrong  or unsuitable  for them.  Mr M was eligible for its benefits  
and it provided cover  that, despite  its limitations and exclusions, couldve proved valuable  to 
them should  the insured  risks have become a reality. I also havent seen any evidence  to 
suggest Mr M wouldve  been caught  by any of the significant  exclusions  Mr M didnt have 
any pre-existing medical conditions. So, I still think he had some good  reasons to take the 
policy out.
I accept back pain and mental health conditions are common problems and the steps 
required to make a disability claim for these conditions were  more onerous than Mr and Mrs 
M might reasonably have  expected. But its unlikely  he would have expected to be able to 
make a disability claim without having  to provide some  evidence to support that claim. And 
Ref: DRN70464009while this limitation  might  have dissuaded  some consumers in slightly  different 
circumstances to Mr and Mrs M from taking out the policy, Mr and Mrs M, in their 
circumstances, still had some good  reasons to take it out.
If Mr and Mrs M had known Mr M could only claim for disability if he was unable  to do both 
his job and any similar job which in the insurers  view he might  reasonably  be qualified for, it 
might have played into their thinking  about what they would have done. And I accept it may 
have given them pause for thought  although  its possible  they may not have been overly  
concerned given that if Mr M was unable (through  disability) to carry on his own occupation 
the chances that he would be able to take up a similar occupation would also,  in all 
probability, be limited.
St Andrews  may not have told Mr and Mrs M that any claim Mr M made would be limited to 
a 24-month period. This may have differed from what they expected and might have hoped 
for. But 24 months was a longer period than Mr M would have received full sick pay for and 
his redundancy  entitlement was also significantly  less than 24 months  income. 
In those circumstances, I consider it likely  Mr and Mrs M would still have thought a policy 
that paid up to 24 monthly mortgage payments would have been of benefit  to them and 
would help them manage the consequences  should Mr M be unable to work in the 
circumstances covered by the policy. The policy allowed for multiple claims to be made, it 
could help reduce their outgoings at a difficult and uncertain time,  ensure their home was not 
placed at risk and might  potentially help preserve Mr Ms sick pay or redundancy money for 
other use.
Having considered all of the evidence  and arguments in this case, I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would still have taken  out the policy. The policy  was suitable for 
them, was sufficiently close  to what its likely  they thought they were  getting and provided 
benefits that would help them manage  the consequences if Mr M was made redundant, or 
unable to work through accident  or disability. In the circumstances I consider it more likely 
than not Mr and Mrs M would have taken  out the policy in any event notwithstanding the 
limitations on cover.
Mr and Mrs Ms representatives  say the rules about how to handle  PPI complaints (DISP 
App 3) make it clear that, where a significant  failing is identified, it should be presumed the 
consumer wouldnt have  taken out PPI, unless  there  is evidence  to outweigh  the 
presumption. They say we should follow this other than in exceptional circumstances.
That guidance is for firms,  but it is a relevant  consideration  so I take it into account along 
with many other things  when I decide  what is in my opinion  fair and reasonable. Considering  
the purpose of the guidance, I dont  think it was ever intended to be at odds with the 
approach I have taken.  
Ive thought about what outcome applying the FCAs guidance to this complaint might lead 
to. In the language of DISP App 3, Ive found it would be reasonable to conclude there were 
substantial flaws in the sales process. In those circumstances,  DISP  App 3 says it should be 
presumed Mr and Mrs M would not have bought  the PPI they bought unless, in the particular 
circumstances of the complaint, there  is evidence  to rebut the presumption. 
Im satisfied, applying DISP App 3, its reasonable to conclude the presumption is rebutted in 
the particular facts and circumstances of this complaint. Taking  into account Mr and Mrs Ms 
circumstances as detailed  above, I consider it reasonable to conclude  the position  Mr and 
Ref: DRN704640010Mrs M found  themselves  in as a result  of the sale was the same position  they would have 
been in had the breach  or significant failings not occurred. 
Mr and Mrs M believe the presumption may only be rebutted when the flaws  in the sales 
process were immaterial, that the flaws  in this case were highly material and we have  failed 
to give proper weight  to the evidence   including their own comments that they would not 
have taken out the policy. I am not persuaded by these arguments. 
Even if I am ultimately departing from the guidance  for firms  set out at DISP App 3 (which  I 
dont consider I am), I am only doing so because  I do not consider, in this case,  that it would 
represent fair compensation to put Mr and Mrs M in the position they would  have been  in if 
they had not bought the policy.  
That is because,  while I accept it is possible that they would not have taken  out the policy,  I 
am satisfied  that of the two possibilities, its more  likely than not that they would still have 
taken out the PPI had they been  given clear, fair and not misleading information about the 
policy they were buying. So Im not persuaded it would be fair and reasonable in those 
circumstances, to conclude St Andrews  should pay Mr and Mrs M compensation, as that 
would put them in a better position than they would have been  in if everything had happened 
as it should have done. 
Im also aware that Mr and Mrs M think St Andrews misrepresented the terms of the policy  
in how it described  the PPI.  While  I accept  there  is a possibility a court  might conclude  some 
of St Andrews statements misrepresented the contract, in my opinion the reason why St 
Andrews failed to act fairly and reasonably was not because of what  it did or didnt say in 
the information it provided  but because the overall information St Andrews gave  Mr and 
Mrs M, in the way it did, was insufficient to meet the standards I consider it fair and 
reasonable to expect  it to have met in 2003  when  providing information  about an insurance  
policy. 
Ive also thought about the approach Mr and Mrs Ms representative says a court  might take 
if it were to find St Andrews  negligently misrepresented the contract to Mr and Mrs M and 
about the remedy a court might award  if it were to find that St Andrews  had been  in breach 
of its duty of utmost good faith. But this doesnt persuade me to alter my conclusions  about 
what is fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of the complaint  including  what  I think 
is fair compensation in the circumstances  of this case. For the reasons Ive already set out I 
dont think it would be fair and reasonable to put Mr and Mrs M in a better  position  than if 
everything had happened  as it should have done. 
my decision
Overall, having considered all the evidence and arguments to decide what  is, in my opinion, 
fair and reasonable in all the circumstances  of this complaint and for the reasons I have set 
out above, I dont  uphold  this complaint. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr and Mrs M to 
accept or reject my decision  before  21 October  2020.
S.Allbeury
ombudsman
Ref: DRN704640011
Ref: DRN7046400