K821x#15Complaint
Mrs C is unhappy with the response of Ikano Bank AB (publ) (Ikano), following a claim  
against it under section  75 of the Consumer  Credit Act 1974  (CCA).
Background
In early 2015 Mrs C was approached by a company, Ill refer to it as S, that supplied and 
installed solar panel systems. Following  a meeting, Mrs S agreed to enter  into a contract 
with S for it to supply and install a solar  panel  system at her home. To pay for this, Mrs C 
also agreed to enter into a 10 year fixed sum loan agreement  with Ikano.
After the first year, Mrs C contacted S as the feed-in-tariff (FIT) payments she was receiving 
were significantly  lower  than S had led her to believe. S made a payment to Mrs C for the 
shortfall in FIT payments and said it had fixed the issue. Mrs C has said that she has 
continued to receive  significantly less than she was promised in her contract.
In 2018, Mrs C arranged  to have a SMART meter  fitted to her home. When  her energy 
provider arrived, it couldnt  fit the SMART meter due to some concerns with the installation of 
the solar panel  system. Following a further  visit, the installation  was deemed unsafe  and 
condemned. 
Mrs C attempted to contact S to resolve  the issue. As S was no longer trading, Mrs C 
contacted Ikano to make  a claim under section 75 (s75) of the CCA. When Mrs C hadnt 
received a response from Ikano, she referred her complaint to this service. 
One of our investigators  looked into what had happened. Considering the report from Mrs 
Cs energy provider, she recommended that Ikano  arrange for the solar panels  to be 
removed from Mrs Cs home, to have all payments made towards the panels returned to her, 
minus any benefits she had received, make good and repair any damage to the roof and 
remove any record of the loan from Mrs Cs credit file.
Mrs C accepted the investigators view of her complaint. Ikano didnt and came back with a 
counter offer.  The last offer that Ikano  made  was to repair the damage  to the system and 
refund Mrs C just over half the cost of the solar panel system, around £3,000. 
Mrs C didnt accept the offer from Ikano, and as an agreement couldnt be reached,  the case 
has been passed to me to review.
Since the case has been passed to me, an inspection of the solar panel system has taken 
place. This identified that the repair work could be completed and that the production  from 
the system was lower  than what should  be expected from a solar panel system  of its size. 
Following this report Ikano has offered to repair the system and compensate  Mrs C for any 
lost benefits from the system. Our investigator remained of the view that her original 
proposal was fair and reasonable.
 
My findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ref: DRN75101932I am required to determine this complaint  on the basis of what I consider to be fair and 
reasonable in all the circumstances. When considering what  is fair and reasonable, Im 
required to take account of relevant law and regulations;  regulators  rules, guidance and 
standards, and codes  of practice;  and, where appropriate, what  I would consider to have 
been good industry practice at the relevant time.
In this case the relevant law includes  s75 of the CCA, which provides protection  for 
consumers for goods or services bought using credit. It states:
If the debtor  under  a debtor-creditor-supplier  agreement falling within  section 12(b)  or (c) 
has, in relation to a transaction financed by the agreement, any claim against the supplier in 
respect of a misrepresentation or breach of contract, he shall have a like claim against  the 
creditor, who, with the supplier,  shall accordingly be jointly and severally liable to the debtor.
As Mrs C paid for her panels with a fixed sum loan agreement,  Ikano agrees that s75 applies 
to this transaction. This means that Mrs C could claim  against  Ikano   the creditor  for any 
misrepresentation or breach of contract  by the supplier in the same  way she couldve 
claimed against the supplier. So, Ive taken s75 into account when deciding what  is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Ikano agrees that the poor installation of Mrs Cs solar panel system is a breach of contract, 
but it disagrees with how the breach of contract  should be remedied. Ikano has said that it is 
willing to repair the system and compensate  Mrs C for any lost benefits.
To consider whether  the offer from Ikano is fair and reasonable, Ive reviewed the report 
provided by the energy provider that condemned the solar panel installation  and the 
subsequent report  that has been carried out on behalf of Ikano.
The report  from 2018, when the system was disconnected and condemned, listed  several 
issues with the installation. It says:
Particular issues which caused concern were:-
Live exposed terminals in PV isolator.
Illegal  access had been gained to Mains  fuse.
Illegal  access had been gained to meter.
Incorrect size meter tails installed.
o25mm tails removed  and replaced with 16mm tails
Incorrect isolator fitted.
o3 phase isolator  fitted instead  of single phase isolator
Reverse Polarity in customers consumer unit.
oDouble pole switch  wiring incorrectly in consumer unit feeding PV.
It goes on to say that the system  has been  disconnected on the grounds of safety.
The subsequent report, that was completed on behalf of Ikano, agrees with the points raised 
above. It also goes  on to say:
As the system is not connected, its impossible to test the inverter  and enphase system 
thats installed, however the PV systems  production is very poor for this sized  system, so 
there may be a fault with the PV side, but this can only be checked once the repairs to the 
AC side of the system are carried out.
Ref: DRN75101933Having considered both reports, it is my finding that this isnt a case  where  there are simple  
installation issues that can be resolved.  The installation of Mrs Cs solar panel system  posed 
a significant health and safety risk through exposed  terminals,  which  the Ikano report  says 
may have  led to a fire, as well as being  illegally  fitted.  
Alongside this, Mrs C has said that the system  has continually underperformed compared  to 
the returns she was promised in her contract  with S. This is supported by the second report  
which raises that the production is very poor for this sized  system. So, even if Ikano carried 
out the repairs there is no guarantee that there arent further problems with the solar panels  
which will require further work and lead to more  inconvenience to Mrs C.
Considering the evidence,  I have  discussed above, Im not persuaded that Ikanos offer to 
repair the solar panel  system and compensate Mrs C for any lost benefits is fair and 
reasonable in this case. There is no guarantee that there arent further  issues  with the solar 
panels and, understandably, Mrs C no longer wants the solar panels  due to the health and 
safety issues that were  highlighted  by both reports.
Fair compensation
Im satisfied the poor quality of the installation was a breach of the contract that Mrs C had 
with S. As Ikano is equally  liable for this breach of contract under s75 Im satisfied that it 
should put things right.
Taking into account the particular circumstances of this complaint Im satisfied that the fair 
and reasonable outcome is for Ikano to remove the solar panel system from Mrs Cs home 
and refund any payments she has made  towards the system, together  with 8% simple 
interest per annum from the date of payment to the date of settlement.  I will allow Ikano to 
take account of the benefit  that Mrs C has received  from the system. It should also write off 
any outstanding  balance and remove all records of the loan from Mrs Cs credit file
To do this is should use all available FIT statement to calculate how many  kWh have been 
generated by her solar panels.  It should  then use the FIT scheme from the date of 
installation to calculate the potential  savings and income to Mrs C. To calculate electricity 
savings, Im satisfied that Ikano should  use a self-consumption rate of 37% and a default 
electricity price of 15p per kWh.
Ref: DRN75101934My final decision
My final decision is that this complaint should be upheld. In full and final settlement of it, 
Ikano Bank  AB (publ) must:
(a)arrange for the system to be removed from Mrs Cs property and make good any 
damage caused at no cost to her,
(b)refund  all payments  made towards  the system, minus any benefits  Mrs C has 
received,
(c)add 8%* simple interest to the above from the date the payments were  made  until the 
date of settlement;  and,
(d)write off the outstanding balance of the loan, removing all record of the loan from Mrs 
Cs credit  file.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mrs C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 12 July 2020.
Michael Fisher
ombudsman
*If Ikano Bank AB (publ)  considers  that its required by HM Revenue & Customs  to take off 
income tax from that interest, it should tell Mrs C how much  it has taken off. It should  also 
give Mrs C a certificate showing  this, if she asks for one, so she can claim the tax back from 
HM Revenue & Customs.
Ref: DRN7510193