K820x#14complaint
This complaint is about a payment protection insurance (PPI) policy  taken out with a credit 
card in 2004. Mrs W says Capital One (Europe) plc mis-sold her the PPI.
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  what is fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Weve set out our general approach to complaints about the sale of PPI on our website and 
Ive taken this into account in deciding  Mrs Ws case.
Having done so, Ive decided the policy wasnt mis-sold. Ill explain why below.
When selling  the PPI, Capital One had to make  it clear to Mrs W that she had a choice about 
it. But Mrs W says she never asked  for the PPI and didnt know  it had been added.
Capital One has sent us a copy of Mrs Ws application  form for the credit  card.  This included 
a section on PPI, with yes and no boxes  to be ticked to show  whether she wanted  to take 
it out. And the yes box has been  ticked.
Mrs W says she didnt tick for the PPI, but I dont think  theres enough evidence for me to 
say that the box was ticked against  Mrs Ws wishes.  If Mrs W didnt want  the PPI she could 
have ticked the no box. And if Mrs W didnt agree with what was on the application  form, 
she shouldnt have  signed it.
Based on the evidence  I have, I think Capital One did make  it clear to Mrs W that she had a 
choice about the PPI. And that Mrs W chose to take it, knowing she didnt have to.
I havent seen  clear evidence that Capital One gave  Mrs W any personalised advice about 
the PPI. So I dont think it recommended it to her. This means  it didnt have to check if the 
PPI was right for her. But it did have  to make sure she got the information she needed  to 
decide if it was right for her.
Its possible the information Capital One gave Mrs W about the PPI wasnt as clear as it 
shouldve been.  But, based on what Ive seen of her circumstances at the time,  it doesnt 
look like she wouldve been affected by any of the exclusions to or limits on the PPI cover.  
The policy couldve  paid out for longer than shes told us she wouldve been entitled to sick 
pay. And Mrs W told us she didnt have any savings or other means she couldve relied on to 
make her repayments if she wasnt earning. So the PPI would have been useful for her if 
something went wrong. It also looks like it was affordable. So I dont think better information 
about the PPI would have  put Mrs W off taking it out.
Which means Capital One doesnt have to pay back  all of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Capital One has paid back some of the cost of the PPI to Mrs W because:
Capital One got a high level of commission and profit share  (more than 50% of the PPI 
premium) - so it should have told Mrs W about  that. Because  Capital One didnt tell Mrs 
W, that was unfair.
Ref: DRN71116742To put that right, Capital One has paid back  the amount of commission and profit share 
that was above 50% of the PPI premium - and I think that is fair in this case.
my final decision
The PPI policy wasnt mis-sold  so Capital One (Europe) plc doesnt have to pay back all of 
the cost of the PPI to Mrs W.
But Capital One (Europe) plc does have  to pay back to Mrs W any commission and profit 
share it got that was more than 50% of the PPI premium. I understand it has already done 
this, so I dont award any further compensation. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  I am required to ask Mrs W to accept 
or reject my decision before 27 March 2019.
Alan Millward
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7111674