K820x#14complaint
Mr C complains that HSBC UK Bank Plc didnt do enough when his childs bank account 
was subjected to fraudulent  activity by an unknown third party.  Mr C brings the complaint on 
behalf of his child (H).
background
Mr C has a child (H) aged under 18. H has a current account  and debit card - with HSBC. 
Mr C said that between  early January 2018 and late March 2018 persons unknown  to him 
purchased services such as video  games  via a third-party digital distribution service (DDS) 
to the value of around £100. H receives  bank statements  through  the post and wasnt 
registered for internet banking. 
Mr C said that H did purchase  a video game for around £4 in late 2017  and another  about 
three months later for around £15. He said that neither of these two games had in-app 
purchases. However, in the first three  months  of 2017 there were around 40 other purchases 
through the DDS,  totalling  around £100. Again, these purchases are to a number of video 
game companies via the DDS. Mr C said that H didnt have an account  with the DDS even 
though H had purchased  some video games through them. 
Mr C was adamant that, other than the two games  H had purchased, the other  40 or so 
transactions hadnt been authorised by H. So, they contacted HSBC and reported fraudulent 
activity on Hs account. They  were advised  by HSBC to contact the DDS service  provider  
directly and to remove Hs card from the DDS  account to prevent further use. HSBC 
cancelled the card and sent H a new one. 
Mr C wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he complained. He thought HSBC should  
have completed a chargeback request. He felt that the transactions  were not in line with Hs 
usual spending  patterns,  and that HSBC  should have noticed this and stopped the 
payments. He wasnt happy that HSBC told him to contact the DDS himself.  
HSBC didnt uphold  Mr Cs complaint. HSBC said that H mustve had an account with the 
DDS, as otherwise  H couldnt have purchased video games through  the DDS. HSBC  
referred to the DDSs terms and conditions which stated that parents are liable to manage 
the childs account. 
HSBC said they couldnt raise  a chargeback as there hadnt  been a breach from the retailer  
and they didnt have any details about Hs DDS  account. HSBC said that for a chargeback  to 
succeed they needed supporting documentation  and evidence. They said that the activity on 
Hs account didnt  mirror  current  fraud trends.  HSBC explained that if a fraudulent 
transaction doesnt mirror  current fraud trends  then the transaction  may be authorised. 
Mr C wasnt happy with HSBCs response, so he brought a complaint to our service. Mr C 
said that he felt that HSBC had not taken  into account  that H was a child. One of our 
investigators looked into the matter.  Our investigator didnt  uphold  Mr Cs complaint.  She 
thought that it was more likely  than not that H had authorised the disputed transactions.  
Mr C didnt accept the investigators view. He said that it couldnt  have been H, as H goes to 
bed at 9pm and some of the transactions happened  after midnight. And H isnt allowed 
electronics in the room at bedtime. Mr C said that H is under the age of legal responsibility. 
Ref: DRN73612542Our investigator informed  Mr C that the Payment Services Regulations 2017 dont have any 
age restrictions.  
As Mr C didnt  accept the Investigators view,  the matter was passed to me to decide. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.  As part of this Im required to take into 
account relevant:  law and regulations; regulators' rules, guidance and standards;  codes of 
practice; and, where appropriate, what I consider to have been good industry practice at the 
time. 
I wont set out all the relevant sections of the Payment Services  Regulations 2017 (PSRS) 
here. But in summary  they say that a payment out of someones account  can only be 
authorised if the payer has consented  to it. Generally, if the payer hasnt authorised the 
transaction, then they wont be liable, unless the payer hasnt met certain obligations under 
the PSRs. Where there is a dispute about what happened, and the evidence is incomplete 
or contradictory, I reach my decision on the balance of probabilities  in other words, on 
what I consider is most likely to have  happened  in light of the available evidence.
Having carefully considered everything  that both sides have  said and provided, I dont think  
its unreasonable for HSBC to conclude that H authorised the transactions.  Ill explain why. 
authorisation 
Generally, HSBC can hold H liable for the disputed transaction if the evidence  suggests that 
its more likely than not that H made or authorised the transactions. No chip and PIN was 
used to make the disputed transactions. So, I need to think  about whether the evidence 
suggests that its more  likely than not that H consented to the transactions being made. 
Mr C said that H doesnt  have a DDS account. I have researched this matter  and Im 
satisfied that H couldnt  have purchased video games via the DDS without an account. I 
have looked at the timings of the disputed transactions.  None  appear  to happen when H is at 
school. Some are after midnight, some  are early evening, some are at weekends. There are 
a number of transactions that take place during the day, on weekdays. However,  these were  
on days when the schools were on holiday.  I have found that around 12 of the disputed  
transactions took place after midnight. All these were completed on either weekends or 
when the schools were  on holiday.  Whilst I appreciate that Mr C said that H doesnt have 
electronics in the bedroom after 9pm and would not be awake after midnight. I think  its more  
likely than not that H did authorise  the disputed transactions, given that I think  he did have a 
DDS account and I dont  agree that H couldnt  have  made these transactions. 
Ref: DRN73612543Over a two-day period,  around a month before the complaint to HSBC there are five debits 
for a total of around  £17 for video games  via the DDS. H now disputes  those  five 
transactions. On the second day a payment  for £3 is declined  in a store  due to insufficient  
funds, but a payment of £1 is authorised in the same store shortly afterwards. This would 
have made  it clear to H that the balance on the account was only around £1. However,  H 
didnt raise any concerns  at the time. I havent  seen  that H disputed these instore 
transactions, which would suggest H made  them and that H wasnt  surprised  that 
transactions were  being declined due to insufficient funds. This again persuades me that H 
most likely made the disputed transactions. 
should HSBC  have attempted a chargeback
Mr C says that H didnt authorise around 40 transactions between January  and March  2017 
for around  £100  in total. So, I understand why he contacted HSBC. HSBC  could  raise  a 
chargeback which if successful, would have got Hs money back. 
Chargeback is a process whereby a bank will assist  a customer  when theres a dispute
between the customer  and the merchant  (DDS). The bank  asks the customer for evidence  to 
back up the claim and if they think a chargeback  could be successful, the bank will submit a 
claim to the card scheme.  Banks  dont  have to raise a chargeback  if its clear  it would  fail.
Based on the evidence  Ive seen I dont think that a chargeback wouldve had a reasonable 
prospect of success.  HSBC wouldve needed  details of Hs DDS account in order to process 
a chargeback. As H was adamant that they didnt have an account, HSBC couldnt  attempt a 
chargeback. 
Mr C wasnt happy that HSBC asked him to contact the DDS directly. However, as HSBC  
didnt have any documentation or details  of any account held by H with the DDS, I dont think  
is was unreasonable for HSBC to decline to attempt a chargeback. So, Im satisfied that 
HSBC acted reasonable when they asked Mr C to contact  the DDS  directly. 
Mr C said that the spending  wasnt in line with Hs normal spending patterns, and that HSBC  
should have noticed this and stopped  the payments. Ive considered this and I dont agree 
with Mr C. I dont  think  it would  be fair or reasonable to expect HSBC  to monitor  payments of 
such a low value. In all just over £100  was spent  over three months  across  around 40 
transactions. Most  of these transactions were  for a couple of pounds.  Whilst the transactions  
may have  been  unusual  for H, the fact that HSBC didnt pick up these transactions  I dont 
think is unfair given their value and that they are spread across a three  months period. 
I havent lost sight  of the fact that H is a child. However, I dont think  it would be fair and 
reasonable for HSBC to accept full liability for the management of Hs account. They have  
provided H with an account,  and it is for H and their parents to manage that account in the 
manner that was agreed in the terms and conditions.  Being a child does  not in itself absolve 
H or their parents from any responsibility  in the management of the account.  And of course,  
HSBC has a duty to follow  its customers mandate. In broad terms, the starting position in law 
is that a bank is expected to process  payments  and withdrawals  that a customer authorises 
it to make,  in accordance with the Payment Services Regulations and terms and conditions 
of the customers account. And because Im persuaded H made  these transactions,  I think  
HSBC was entitled to debit Hs account.  
Ref: DRN73612544I know that H and Mr C will be disappointed.  Based on everything Ive seen,  I think  its fair 
and reasonable for HSBC to refuse to refund because, overall,  I think its more likely than not 
that H made or authorised  the transactions that are disputed. 
So, I dont agree that I should be asking HSBC to do more.
my final decision
For the reasons  Ive explained, Im not upholding this complaint and I dont require 
HSBC UK Bank Plc to do anything further.
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 4 April 2020.
Anthony Coyne
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7361254