K822xcomplaint
Mr C has complained about the delays hes experienced as a result of the way Ageas 
Insurance Limited (Ageas) has handled his claim for damage caused to his property by an 
escape of water from a newly installed boiler.  
background
In June 2017 Mr C found water  leaking  from the boiler in his kitchen. He emailed the 
company that had installed the boiler and asked them to refund the full cost of the boiler,  
install a new kitchen worktop and boiler  housing cupboard unit, and redecorate  the kitchen.
A month later the company asked Mr C to contact his insurers  about the claim because of 
the extent of the damage. He emailed his insurers who accepted  the claim under the escape 
of water terms, and they sent a loss adjuster to visit the property.
In December 2017 Mr C complained to Ageas about  the delays hed experienced in having  
his claim settled. Ageas sent him a scope of repair in January 2018 and offered £750 in 
compensation for the delays, which Mr C accepted. However, Mr C continued to experience 
delays in having the claim settled, and the works  were finally completed in May 2018. 
Mr C asked Ageas to cover costs  totalling £13,686.71 which he said were incurred as a 
result of the delays. The compensation claim hes made is comprised of the following:
1.cost of the boiler: £3,270.00; 
2.insurance excess: £250.00; 
3.distress and inconvenience: £2,000.00;
4.time taken from employment:  £3,239.30;
5.cost of additional calls on his mobile  phone:  £50.00; and
6.loss of rental income: £4,877.41.
Ageas didnt accept  responsibility for the costs Mr C claimed, so, in August  2018 he brought  
his complaint to our service. Our investigator looked into the complaint and issued her view 
on 14 June 2019,  upholding the complaint and recommending a further £250 compensation 
be paid to Mr C for the inconvenience. 
In response to our investigators view, Ageas offered £500 compensation to Mr C, on 19 
June 2019. This offer was passed  on to Mr C, by our investigator on 28 June 2019, but Mr C 
declined the offer on the basis that he felt the consequential losses hed set out were 
reasonable. The complaint was then passed to me for a decision to be made. 
my findings
Ive considered all the available  evidence  and arguments to decide  whats  fair and 
reasonable in the circumstances of this complaint.
Any settlement  of an insurance  claim for damage to property will usually cause some 
inconvenience and there are a number of factors that can lead to delays in claims being finally 
resolved. Before I can award compensation to Mr C for the costs hes claimed, I need to be 
satisfied that the losses  hes claiming for were  due to avoidable delays caused by Ageas. 
Ref: DRN75082472On 5 January  2018, Ageass complaint handler  issued a final response letter to Mr C, saying 
that the main  delay  appears to have  come about through the inability of contractors to 
undertake full strip out works in a timely manner. He offered Mr C £750 compensation for the 
way the claim had been handled up to that point in time. 
On 6 January  2018, Mr C confirmed he was minded to accept the offer of £750  but subject to 
satisfactory completion of the works and no further  damage being caused by the contractors. 
He also reserved his right to raise  a further  complaint  and request compensation if the works 
werent completed to his satisfaction. Mr C then raised a further  complaint about  the delays 
that took place  after this time, which are the subject of this decision. I will therefore only be 
considering the delays  that took place after 6 January 2018 in this decision.
The case  file indicates that from early March  2018  until early May 2018,  Ageas agents were 
trying to source a replacement carousel  corner unit from a supplier in Germany. On 7 May 
2018, Mr C provided information  to Ageas  agents to help them obtain the kitchen unit, which  
was finally  obtained  by 15 May 2018. The works  were completed on 21 May,  Mr C listed the 
property for rent the following day and a tenant  moved into the property on 2 July 2018. 
the cost of the boiler
Mr C has claimed  £3,270 for the cost of the boiler,  so Ive first considered whether the policy  
terms and conditions provide cover  for the replacement. The list of landlords contents, which 
are covered  by the policy, does not include a boiler. And cover  for a replacement  boiler  
doesnt appear in any other section of the policy. As the policy doesnt provide cover  for 
damage to this item, I dont agree that its reasonable to require Ageas to pay Mr C the costs  
hes claimed for the boiler.
excess payment of £250
Mr C has also claimed the £250  excess due under the policy  terms and conditions. Ageas 
agreed to pay this to Mr C once it had been  collected from the company  that installed the 
boiler. Ageas have  now confirmed that the excess has been returned to Mr C. 
mobile phone calls
On 26 April 2019 our investigator requested evidence from Mr C for the costs  he claimed for 
mobile phone calls. She again requested this evidence in the view issued on 14 June 2019, 
however no evidence has been provided. I can consider making  an award for compensation 
for costs incurred where evidence of those costs  has been provided to us. But, as Mr C 
hasnt provided  any supporting  documentation  for the £50 claim for these  calls,  I wont be 
awarding compensation for those costs.
time taken  from employment
Mr C believes  compensation  is due to him for the time taken from employment to deal with 
his claim.  However,  despite being asked  by our investigator to provide evidence of the time 
spent, and what it was spent on, Mr C has not elaborated on this. So, Ive considered the 
evidence on the case file which refers to Mr C missing time from work. The available 
evidence indicates  that Mr C had to spend  some time waiting at the property for contractors 
to arrive. And it also suggests Mr C had to do some research to help locate a supplier of the 
kitchens corner cabinet. Having thought about  this evidence carefully, although it 
demonstrates Mr C has suffered some  inconvenience, I dont think  the inconvenience was 
significant enough for us to ask the business  to pay any compensation.
Ref: DRN75082473loss of rent
Mr C has told us that he objected vehemently to residing at the property following the 
damage to, and removal of the kitchen. He says the kitchen was hazardous  owing to the fact 
the sink was propped up on stilts. Mr C did confirm to our investigator  that he was able to 
cook in the property. He also said Ageas would only cover one nights accommodation,  so, 
he had to stay at the property, and at his mothers home while  the claim was being settled. 
Mr C moved into a new property on 2 February 2018  but said he couldnt  list the property for 
rent until the kitchen  works were  completed  in May 2018. And, during that time he had to 
cover the mortgage  payments while it was vacant.  
In considering this compensation  claim, I note that Mr C hasnt made  a claim under his policy 
for loss of rent, so that isnt something Ageas have specifically commented on. I also note 
the policy terms and conditions provide cover for loss of rent, where a house is damaged  so 
it cannot be lived in. The terms also say that a copy of the tenancy agreement would need  to 
be provided in support  of any claim.  As Mr C was able to live in the property during the time 
the damage was being repaired and as no tenancy  agreement was in place at any time 
during the period that the claim was being settled, it seems unlikely that Ageas would have 
accepted a claim for loss of rent under the policy  terms. However,  Ive thought  about  the fact 
that Mr C listed the property for rent, the day after the works were completed, and a tenant 
was found two months later. So, Ive considered  below whether any avoidable delays on the 
part of Ageas have caused Mr C inconvenience.
distress and inconvenience
It took Ageas approximately ten weeks to source  and obtain  a unit needed  to repair  the 
kitchen, from Germany. I understand that Mr C required the exact  unit to be replaced, so its 
arguable that the time spent sourcing and obtaining the parts  was unavoidable. However, 
ten weeks seems to me to be a long period of time to source and obtain a unit from 
Germany. So, I think there was likely some element of avoidable delay  here, on the part of 
Ageas. However,  I think that the £500 compensation offered by Ageas is sufficient to fairly 
and reasonably compensate Mr C for any inconvenience hes suffered by that delay and 
settle his complaint. So, my decision is that Ageas should pay Mr C the £500 compensation 
theyve offered, to fairly settle his complaint about the way theyve handled his claim.
my final decision
Ageas Insurance Limited has offered  to pay Mr C £500 to settle the complaint and I think  this 
offer is fair in all the circumstances. 
So, my decision is that Ageas  Insurance Limited  should pay Mr C £500. 
Under the rules  of the Financial Ombudsman Service,  Im required to ask Mr C to accept or 
reject my decision  before 9 April 2020.
Carolyn Harwood
ombudsman
Ref: DRN7508247